SUPREME COURT.

LESSEE oF EFFIE COONS, AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERBOR,
VS. CHARLES P. GALLAHER, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
It is not sufficient to give the Supreme Court jurisdiction in the case of a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of a State, tiat the question as to the construction of an act of
Congress, might have been raised and might have been decided, and was involved in
the case. It must appear either in diret term§, or by necessary intendment, that it
was in factbrought to the notice of the Court, and decided by it.
The case of Crowell v. Randall, 10 Peters, 398, cited.

WRIT of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, to
reverse the judgment of that Court.
The original action of ejectment was brought in the Court of
Common Pleas of Clinton county, and taken thence by appeal
to the Supreme Court; where it was tried, and a verdict and
judgment given for the plaintiffs, at May term, 1833. Afterwards, a new trial was ordered; and on a case stated, a judgment
was rendered by the Court in favour of the defendant. The
plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued, on the werits, by Mr. Leonard, for the
plaintiffs; and by Mr. Buck, for the defendant.
The decision of the Court having been given on the question
of jurisdiction, those arguments are omitted.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case arises upon an action, of ejectment, which was decided in the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, for the county
of Clinton; and being brought here from a State Court, we have
no authority to revise the judgment, unless jurisdiction is given
by the 25th section of the act of 1789.
The land is situated in what is usually called the Virginia
military; district, and, at the trial, both parti2s derived title under
the act of Congress of March 2, 1807, whidh was passed for the
purpose of extending the time for locating Virginia military land
-Warrants, between the Little Miami and Sciota rivers.
The plaintiffs M~ade title as heirs-at-law of Thomas J.M'Arthur.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

19

[0oons et al. v. Gallager.]

who obtained a patent for the lands in question, in 1823, upon
an entry and survey made for him in that year, as assignee of
part of a military land warrant granted to John Trezuant.
The defendant, who was in possession of the land, claiming it
as his own, in order to show title out of the plaintiffs, offered in
evidence an entiy in the name of John Tench, assignee of part
of the aforesaid warrant to Trezuant, made on the 8th of August,
1787; and a survey pursuant to the said entry, on the 7th of
March, 1794, which was recorded, June 24, 1796.
The plaintiffs having produced a complete legal title, as above
stated, the prior survey of Tench, was no bar to their recovery,
unless it was made so, by the act of 1807, before referred to.
The first section of that act contains the following proviso:
" That no locations as aforesaid within the above mentioned tract,
shall, after the passing of this act, be made on tracts of land, for
which patents had been previously issued, or which had been
previously su'veyed; and any patent which may nevertheless
be obtained for land located contrary to the provisions of this
section, shall be considered as null and void."
It seems to have been admitted in the State Court, that this act
of Congress intended to protect those surveys, only, that were
made by lawful authority; and that the survey of Tench was
no defence, unless it appeared that he was, in truth, the assignee
of a portion of Trezuant's warrant. No assignment was produced at the trial, but evidence was offered by the defendant,
from which the Court may have presumed an assignment; and
testimony was also introduced on the part of the plaintiffs to
rebut that presumption. The controversy in the State Court
turned, it would seem, mainly on this point, which was decided
in favour of thd defendant. And the decision of that question
certainly did not involve the construction of the act of 1807;
and furnishes no ground.for a writ of error to this Court.
Another point has been raised in the argument here, on the
part of the plaintiffs in error. It is contended that the proviso
in the act of 1807, applies only to conflicting patents and surveys, made under different warrants from the state of Virginia;
and that it does not extend to a case like the present, where the
-controversy arises upon assignments made by the same individual,
upon the same warrant.

20

SUPREME COURT.
[Coons et al. v. Gallager.]

Undoubtedly such a point might have been raised and decided,
in the State Court, upon the case presented by the record; and
if it had appeared, that such a questi6n, upon the construction
of the act of Congress, had been raised, and had been decided
against the plaintiff, it is very clear that the judgment could have
been revised in this Court.
But the record -does not show that this point was raised by
the plaintiff, or decided by 'the Court. It is not sufficient that the
point was involved in the casei and -might have been raised, and
might have been decided. It must appear either in diract terms,
or by necessary intendment, that it•'was. in fact brought to the
notice of the Court, and decided by it. This is the rule settled
in the case of Crowell vs. Randall, 10 Peters, 398; in whijch all
of the former cases upon the subject Were reviewed and considered.
In the aspect in which the case comes before us, there was no
controversy in the Ohio Court, in relation to the construction of
the act of 1807; arid it'would seem, from the record, to have
been conceded on all hands, that Tench's survey was a good defence, if the assignment from Trezuant could be established.
Indeed, if there was any point raised, and deided upon the construction of the act of Congress, the decision appears to have
been in favour of the right claimed, and not against it. The
,plaintiffs in error, at the trial in the Stae Court, produced a complete legal title; and the survey.of Tench, as we have already
said,.would have been no defence to the action, unless i was
made so by the act of 1807. 'It was the defendant, therefore,
and not the plaintiff, who invoked the aid of the statute, and
claimed the right under it. The decision was in. his favour,
and by that means a mere equitable title, which, upon general
principles of law, would have been no defence against the legal
title produced by the plaintiffs, was adjudged to be a good and
valid defence, undet and by virtue of this act of Congress. The
decision, therefore, was in favour of the right claimed, and not
against it; and if the construction of the statute is, upon this
account, to be regarded as drawn in 'qubstion, the judgment
given would afford no ground for the jurisdiction of this Court.
In either view of the subject, therefore, the writ of error must
be dismnis-ed, for-want of jurisdiction.

