SUPREME COURT.

COLIN MITCHEL

AND

OTHERS,

APPELLANTS,

v.

THE UNITED

STATES, APPLLEES.

Construction of the decree and mandate of the Supreme Court, at.January term, 1835,
in the case of Colin Mitchel v.The United States; reported in 9 Peters, 711.
A claim to the land, up to the walls of the fort of St. Marks, in Florida, and to the
land covered by the fort, rejected.
The Superior Court of Middle Florida, having, in obedience to the mandate of the
Court, proceeded to make the inquiries directed thereby, decided that the extent of
lands adjacent to forts in Florida, where such were usually attached to such forts, was
determined by a radius of fifteen hundred Castilian varas for the salient angles of
the covered way, all around the walls; and on there being no cQvered way, from the
extreme line of the ditch. The Superior Courtlecreed the extent of the land rserved for the United States, round the fort of St. Marks, in conformitv with this
opinion. The decree was conifirmed, on the appeal of the claimants.
The case of Sibbald, 12 Peters, 493, and the case in 10 Wheaton, 431; cited; and the
principles decided and applied, in reference to the construction and execution of the
mandate of the Supreme Court, affirmed. "To ascertain the true intention of the
decree and mandate of this Court, the decree of the Court below, and of this Court,
must be taken into consideration" "The proceedings in the original suit, are always
before the Court, so far as to determine any new points between the parties.",
According to the principles settled by the Supreme Court, in numerous cases arising on
grants, by North Carolina and Georgia, extending partly over the Indian boundary,
the grant is good, so far as it interfered with no prior right of others as to whatever
land was within the line established between the State and the Indian territory.
Danforth v.Wear, 9 Wheat. 673. Patterson v. Jenckes, 2 Peter 216, cited.

ON appeal from the Superior Court of the Middle District of
Florida.
In the Supreme Court, at January term, 1835, 9 Peters, 711,
the case of Colin Mitchel, and others, appellants, against the
United States, was argued and determined; on an appeal from
the Superior Court of East Florida.
It was a claim to lands in East Florida, the title to which was
derived from grants from the Creek and Seminole Indians, ratified by the authorities of Spain, before the cession of Florida to
the United States. The claim was confirmed by the Court, with
the exception of so much of the tract conveyed between the
rivers Wakulla and St. Marks, conveyed to John Forbes and

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

53

[Mitchel et a]. v. The United Stateo.]

Company, in 1811, as includes the fortress of St. Marks, and
the territory directly and immediately adjacent and appurtenant
thereto; which was reserved to the United States.
On the 30th day of January, 1836, Colin Mitchel, and others,
the appellants in the Supreme Court, filed in the Superior Court
of Middle Florida, the decree and mandate of the Supreme Court,

as follows:
"This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Superior Court for the middle district of Florida, and
was argued-by counsel; on full consideration whereof, this Court
is unanimously of opinion, that the title of the petitioners to so
much of the lnds in controversy, as is embraced within the.
lines and boundaries' of the tract granted by the deeds, grants,
and acts of confirmation to Panton, Leslie & Co.' in 1804 and
1806; also to the island inthe river Appalachicola, ceded, granted, and confirmed to John Forbes, in 1811; also .the lands and

islands at and west of the mouth of said river, which were
ceded, granted, and confirmed to John I orbes & Co., in 18111is

valid by the law of nations, the treaty between the United
States and Spain, by which the territory of the Floridas were
ceded to the former, the laws and ordinances of Spain, under
whose government the title originated, the proceedings under
said treaty and the acts of Congress relating thereto; and do
finally order, decree, and determine, and adjudge accordingly. And this Court doth in like manner order, adjudge, determine',
and decree, that the title of the petitioner to so much of the
tract of land which lies 6ast of the first mentioned tract -between
the rivers Wakulla and St. Marks,.which was conveyed to John
Forbes & Co., in 1811, as shall not be included in the exception
hereinafter made, is valid by the laws, treaty, and proceedings As
aforesaid; with the exception of so much of the lastimentioned tract
as includes the fortress of St. Marks, and the territory.directly and
immediately adjacent and appurtenant thereto, which are hereby
reserved for the use of the United States. And it is further
ordered and decreed, that the territory thus described, shall be
that which was ceded by the Indian proprietors to the crown of
Spain, for the purpose of erecting the said fort, provided the
boundaries of the said cession can be ascertained. If the boundE.2

SUPREME COURrI .
[Mitchel et *L.r. The United Sftfs.]

aries of the said cession cannot now be ascertained, then the adjacent lands which were considered and held by the Spanish gaverument, or the commandant of the post as annexed to the
fortress for military purposes, shall be still considered as annexed
to it, ind reserved with it for the use of the United States. If
no evidence can now be obtained'to designate the extent of the adjacent lands, which were considered as annexed to St. Marks as
aforesaid; then so much land shall be comprehended in this exception as, according to military usage, was attached generally
to forts in Florida, or the adjacent colonies.- If no such military
usage can be proved, than it is ordered and decreed, that a line
shall be extended from the point of junction between the rivers
St. Marks, and Wakulla, to the middle of the river St. Marks,
below the junction, thence extending up the middle of each river
three miles in a direct line, without computing the courses thereof; and that the territory comprehended within a direct line, to
be run so as to connect the points of termination on each river,
at the end ofthe said three miles up each river; and the two
lines to be run as aforesaid, shall be, and the same are hereby
declared to be the territory reserved as adjacent and appurtenant
to the fortress of St. Marks, and as such reserved for the use of
the United States. To which the claim of the petitioner is. rejected; and as to w ich, this Court decree that the same is a
part of the public lands of the United States.
The decree of the Court below is therefore reversed and annulled in all matters nd things therein contained, with the exception aforesaid; and this Court, proceeding to render such
decree as ,said Court ought to have rendered, do order, adjudge,
and decree that the claim of the petitioner is valid, and ought to
be confirmed, and is, and remains confirmed by the treaty, laws,
and proceedings aforesaid, to all the lands embraced therein,
except such part as is herein above excepted. And this Court
does further order, adjudge, and decree, that the clerk of this
Court certify the same to the surveyor-general of Florida, pursuant to law, with directions to survey, and lay off the land
described in the petition of the claimants, according to the lines,
boundaries, and description thereof in the several dveds of
cession, grant, and confirmation by the Indians, or governor of
West Florida, filed as exhibits in this cause, or referred to in the

JANUARY TERM, 1841

55

[Mitchel et al.
v. The United States.]

record thereof, excepting, nevertheless, such part of the tract
granted in 1811, lying east of the. tract granted in 1804, and
1806, as is hereby declared to be the territory of the United
States, pursuant to the exception hereinbefore mentioned; and to
make return thereof according to law, as to all the lands qomprehended in the three first herein mentioned tracts. And "asto
the tract last herein mentioned, to survey in like manner, lay off
the same, so soon as the extent of land herein excepted and
reserved for the use of the United States, shall be ascertained in
the manner hereinbefore directed.
And this Court doth further order, adjtidge, and direct, that
the extent and boundaries of the land thus excepted and reserved, shall be ascertained and determined by the Superior'Court of the middle district of Florida, in such manner, and by
such process as is prescribed by the acts of Congress relating to
the claims of lands in Florida, and to render thereupon such
judgment .or decree, as to law shall appertain."
Subsequeatly, Colin Mitchel and others Med a bill in the
said 'Court, wherein they laimed.the lands to the walls of the
fort of St. Marks, on all sides; and prayed confirmation thereof
to the said walls of the fort as aforesaid, to be held, as it was,
under the dominion of Spain, according to the treaty of cession,
and the proceedings under it in other cases.
On the 14th of February, 1838, they filed an amended petition
in the same Court, in which they assert the fee in the land on
.which the fort of St. Marks is erected, to have been and now
to be in themselves, whilst they admit the right of the government of the United States, for the purposes of a fort; and they,
therefore, prayed that the fee of the land covered by the fort, as well
aq that adjoining and appurtenant, should be decreed to them,
whilst the use thereof, for the purposes of a fort, might be reserved,
by a decree of that Court. to the government of the United States.
On the 14th of February, 1838, the attorney of the United
States, for the district of Middle Florida, filed his answer to the
bill and amended pptition - in which, although he denied the facts
and allegations therein set forth, he alleged, on the part -of the
United States, that the matters which were to be ascertained and
deeided by the Court, did not arise out of said petition, and
amended petition, and that it should iot be governed or regulated

56

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et aL.v. The United States]

in the investigations to be made thereby; that the power and
authority of the Court to hold cognisance of the case, after their
former final decree therein, was not in anywise founded upon
the filing of said petition, but entirely and exclusively derived
from, and founded upon the decree of the Supreme Court of the
United States, at January term,-1835; by and in which the Court
were directed to ascertain certain questions of fact; and the said
petition and amended petition being, therefore, supererogatory,
it was not necessary for the said United States of America to
finally answer the same, or create any issues of law or fact
thereupon.
The attorney of the United States, therefore, prayed that the
said petition and amended petition might be dismissed; and that
the Court would proceed to decide the questions referred to itby
the Supreme Court, according to, and in pursuance of, the four
alternative rules prescribed inthe same,'without reference to the
petition and amended petition.
On the 30th of June, 1838, the.Superior Court for the middle
district of Florida, decreed, on the proofs taken, and after argument, that the boundaries of the territory, ceded by 'the Indians
to Spain, for'the purpose of erecting the fortress of St. Marks,
cannot now be ascertained; that no evidence can now be obtained
to designate the extent of the adjacent lands, which were c6nsidered as annexed to said fortress, by the crown of Spain, or the
commandant of said post. But that there is sufficient evidence
of the military usage of Spain to determine the extent of land
artjacent to forts in Florida, which were usually attached to said
forts; that the extent of such reservations was determined by a
radius of fifteen hundred Castilian varas from the salient angles of
the covered way, all roiind the works, or, there being no covered
way, from the salient angles of the exterior line of the ditch.
The Court, therefore, decreed, that the lands adjacent to the
fortress of St. Marks, to be reserved to the use of the United
States, and as part of the public land of the same, shall be ascertained, described, and determined, as follows, viz., from the
eastern point of that part of the exterior line of the ditch which
is in advance of, and parallel with, the northern face of the bastion, and opposite the shoulder of the same, a line will be drawb,

at right angles with that face of the bastion, fifteen hundred

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

57

[Mitchel et aL. v. The United States.]

Castilian varas from the same point of beginning; two other
lines, of fifteen hundred varas in length, will be drawn and extended to points on the margin of the two rivers, St. Marks and
Wakulla, respectively;- from the central one of these three
points, lines shall be extended, connecting the terminations of
these three radii; and thence, extending in the same lines, to
the centre of the two rivers, St. Marks and Wakulla; abd all
the land comprehended within these lines, and the middle of
each river, from their terminati3n to the donfluence of the two
rivers below the fort of St. Marks, shall be the land reserved to
the use of the United States. The "var-" to be used in this survey to be the "Castilian," or "judicial vara of Spain," five
thousand of which make a league, and are eqtial in length to
four thousand six hundred and thirty-five English yards.
And they further ordered, that the clerk should certify the
decree to the surveyor-general of Florida, pursuant to law, with
directions to survey and lay otf the lands thus reserved to the
United States, according to the lines, boundaries, and descriptionf thereof, in the decree.
From this decree, the present appeal to the Supreme Court
was prosecuted by Colin Mitchel and others.
The case was argued by Mr. Ogden and Mr. Webster, for the
appellants; and by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General, for the United
States. A printed argument, by the lateMr. Joseph M. White,
for the appellants, was also submitted to the Court.
Mr. Ogden; after referring to the case of Colin. Mit Jel and
others, in 9 Peters, 761, and reading the decree and mandate of
the Court in that case; stated, that the question which was referred
to the Superior Court of Middle Florida, was, what Was the extent
of the fort of St. Marks, and the ground around the same; to
which under the decree and mandate of the Supreme Court, the
United States were entitled?
It is contended that all the United States are entitled tct is the
ground covered by the fort St. Marks, and the ditch surrounding
the same, if entitled to any land there. The whole territory
was originally held by the Indians, whose grant to those under
whom the appellants claimed, was the whole land, without any

S8

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel etal. v.The United States.]

reservation of the fort of St. Marks. No mention of the fort is
made in the first grant. Afterwards the fort was recognised in
the negotiations with the Indians; and this Court considered that
a grant of the fort had 'been 'made by the Indians, or was
reserved by the government of Spain out of the grant to John
Forbes and Company.
The government of the United States are bound by the limits
of the exception, as they claim under the exception.
It was under this view of the rights of the United States, and
of the parties claiming under John Forbes, and Company, that
the decree of this Court proceeded. The Court of Florida was
to ascertain the extent of the fort of St. Marks.
For this purpose the testimony of persons who were piofessionally acquainted with the subject under inquiry was taken. The
evidence of Mr. Murat, and of Mr. Morris was procured. This
evidence circumscribes and limits'the right of the United S ates to
the ground on which the fort is placed, and to the ground for the
ditch around the fort. The adjacent and surrounding lands are
not to be occupied by buildings, so as to prevent the full use of
the cannon of the fort; but this does not give the rigfit of property
in the land so adjacent, to the sovereign or government holding
the fort. For the purposes of-cultivation, an ownership may
exist in the lands about a fort, and does constantly exist. This is
the law of Spain. It has been the practice of Spain to grant
lands up to the Spanish forts standing upon them. This was
the case at Pensacola and at New Orleans.
By the laws of Spain, houses cannot be built near the walls
of forts, but if buildings a greater distance than three hundred
paces from a fort are destroyed by the fort, they shall be paid
for by the king. Recopelacion de las Indias. Madrid, 1755.
Book 3, title 7, law 1.
The printed argument of Mr. White was as follows:
This is a pi-t of the same controversy litigated between the
same parties several years ago, and relates to that portion only of
the case remanded for further investigation by the District Court.
The' original sale by the aboriginal Indians, as a compensation
for debts contracted, and indemnity for depredations committed
upon the house of Forbes and Company, and the ratification of

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

59

(Mitchel et aL v. The Ushed State&]

the Spanish government, called for the St. Marks river as the
.eastern boundary of the cession and grant. This Court have
decided that the sale and ratification constituted aTull and absolute title in the house of -Forbes and Company, which was regularly transferred by deed to the appellants, Colin'Mitchel and
others. There islherefore no question arising inder these plead-,
ings as'to the legality of that sale and the confiimation of it.
At the junction of the St. Marks and Wakulla rivers there was
an old Spanish fortification, built of soft limestone and mud, as
a defence of the Spanish garrison against the Indians. It does
not enter into or form any part of the system of maritime defence
projected by the.United States. engineers for the seaboard. The
nature of the h.rbour, the small -epth of water on the bar, and
the impossibility of any armed vessel passing.up to or above it,
renders its abandonment for all military puinoses unavoidable.
The garrison has long since been removed, and its few rooms
occupied as storehouses. It appears from some official correspondence in the large record that, in 1787,. after the treaties
between the Spanish Government and the Lower Creek and
Tallapuehee -Indians, some of-the officers of his Catholic Majesty obtained the assent of the Indians to construct a fort., 'The
title had bean admitted by those treaties 'to be in the-ndians;
the government reserving only a pre-emptive-right to the ultimate
fee in the soil, and alsothe right of assenting to or rejecting any
sales made by the Indians. No formal 'cession, transfer, deed,
or treaty, is to be found in the archives. The assent of the
Indians was probably obtained in council, in the same nanner
that the Spaniards obtained permission to erect a fortification at
the Walnut Hills and Chickasaw Bluffs,- on the Mississippi.
However this may be, the fort, such as it is, was erected prior to
the title given by the conjoint act of the Indians and Spanish
government to Forbes and Company.
The only question, theni. presented by this record is, whether
there is in fact any and what reservation, either by. Spanish law
or usage, appurtenant to. such a fortification, which annihilates
or controls the title thus given.
The appellants show a sale and confirmation of the land without reservation, which, to all the remaining tract, has been
admitted to be unimpeachable. This cession and ratification, in

60

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et al. v. The United Stat]

the absence of all proof, upon well established principles of law
recognised by the Court in numerous other cases, creates a presumption in favour of the appellants, and imposes upon the
United States the onus probandi of showing whether any and
what reservation was made. The United States, by their
agents, has nowhere attempted to show that the laws of Spain
created such a teservation as to control and destroy the grant.
The only law produced 'bythem proves incontestably that no
such law existed. It appears that (by law 1, title 7, book 3 of
the Recopelacion de las Indias) it was directed that the ground
about fortresses should be unoccupied, and gave power to demolish buildings within three hundred paces, by "paying from
our royal treasury to the owner the amount of the lost he may
sustain." It follows from this law that the Spanish government
recogfhised the ownership of lands to the walls of forts, with
what might be called a servitude, by which the government
could so far control individual property as to prevent the erection
of buildings which might be prejudicial to defence. It is clear
that this servitude c~n only exist as'long as the fortification is
occupied for the puiposes of national'defence. No proof has
been made that any portion of land was ceded by the Indian
proprietors for the construction of the fort. The presumption
is, from the very imperfect information in the record, that if any
were ceded it was the site only; and this is confirmed and
strengthened by the fact, that the Indians sold the land without
reservation to the house of Forbes and Company, and the
Spanish authorities acquiesced- in and ratified the sale to this
land without reservation, which was approved by the CaptainGeneral, the highest judicial and administrative functionary of
the crown of Spain having jurisdiction over the Floridas. This
concession and approval must be regarded as res adjudicata, so
far as the rights of Spain are involved; and, as the United
States only succeed to the rights of Spain by a cession of the
vacant land, it follows that it is equally conclusive upon them.
This Court have directed that if the boundaries of the cession
cannot be ascertained, " then the adjacent lands, considered and
held by the Spanish government as annexed to a fortress for
military purposes, shall be reserved." The United States hold
the affirmative of the proposition, that there was by law or usage

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

61

v. The United States.]
[Mitchel et al.

such a reservation of soil, but they have utterly failed to 15rove
it by any thing in this record. Can such a mere allegation,
without proof, stand against an Indian sale for the land in question, recognised and approved by the Spanish government? It
has been shown that the only law quoted or relied upon, gives to
the government simply the right to demolish houses when they
maybe prejudicial to defence. (See White' Compilation, pages
36 and 92.) So far, therefore, as a question of law is involved,
it is against the pretensions 9f the United States.
The next question is as to the military usage in Florida and
the adjacent colonies. Upon this branch of the subject, the
question is even clearer in favour of the appellants than upon
the laws of Spain. Beginning at Pensacola, where there is the
largest fortification in the two Floridas, commonly known as that
of St. Carlos de Barancas, grants were made up to the walls of
the fortification, and confirmed by the United Stiates commissigners, whose reports were approved by an act of Congress.
(See the claim of Don Fernando and Francisco Morino, whose
title was ponfirmed and afterwards purchased by the United
States for military purposes; see, also, the title of Don Vincento
Pintado, No. 10, recognised and purchased by the United States
for the same purpose.) This proves that the exetutive and
legislative branches of the government have admitted, confirmed, and purchased of individuals such titles; and it will be seen
by the act of Congress, as well as the decision of this Court in
the case of Arredondo, that one of'the rules of decision by the
judiciary will be the extent to which the'Legislature have gone
in the admission of puch titles; and it was further decided, in
the case of Garcia ind Lee, that the opinions of the executive
upon the construction of treaties would be regarded by the
Court as conclusive. This too was a case in which every member of the Court must have been satisfied, by the perusal of the
documents, thht if they had been at liberty to consider the question upon the proofs in the record, the United States had no just
or legal tfile to the territory in dispute before the Florida treaty
of 1819. But to proceed with the military usage. A fortifica-,
tion was erected upon the high grounds above Pensacola, called
the fort of St. Michael, and regularly garrisoned up to the period
of the negotiation of the Florida treaty. There were grautcd,
VOL. XV.-F

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et aL v. The United StatesJ

immediately adjacent to the fort, lands confirmed to William
King, Rowland Clapp, Pawline Rivers, and others.
It appears also that various grants were made and confirmed
adjacent .to the fortification of St. Augustine, and that of Mobile,
the site of which was also granted by the Spanish government.
These concurrent acts of both governments, in regard to all the
fortifications in the Floridas, are conclusive as to .the military
usage in the provinces. There was, neither by law nor custom,
any other than a reserved right to the servitude, whicH ceased
with the abandonment of the fortification. The title; therefore,
of Forbes and Company, transmitted to Colin Mitchel and
others, was as perfect as that to any other portion of the grant;
with the single exception, that they could not build within the
range of the shot, so as*to be prejudicial to defence. There is
nothing in the laws-or usages of Spain to prevent their cultivation
up to the walls.
It will be seen, also, that in all the other Spanish provinces,
Forts Chartres, Kaskaskia, St. Louis, New Orleans, New Madrid,
and Baton Rouge, similar granfs were made, confirmed by commissioners, and ratified by Congress.
As the Indian sale, and Spanish ratification, run to the forks
of the river, the appellants took the whole title abisolutely, except
at'that point, and sub modo as to that. The abandonment of
the fart must give them the same title which they had to other
.portions of the giant. The question .appears to he too plain and
obvious for "furtherargument or illustration.
Mr. Gilpin, the Attorney General of the United States, contended:
1st. That the decree -ofthe -Supr.,me Court, at January term,
1S35, ascertained, absolutely, thertitle nd right of the United States
to a tract of land embracing the fortress of St. Marks, and a
certain extent of territory around it; that their title to the whole
of this is as perfect and complete as that by which they hold any
part- of the public domain; and that the appellants had and
have no right to any portion of it.
2d. 'That, for the purfose of ascertaining that extent of territory
around the fortressthey directed the boundaries thereof should
be determined by the-Superior' Court of Middle Florida, in the

JANUARY TERM, 1S41.

63

[Mitchel et al. v. The United States.]

manner prescribed by that decree; but that they conferred by
their mandate no other authority on that Court.
3d. That the decree of that Court is warranted by law, and
the facts proved; and is a complete and faithful exedution of the
mandate of the Supreme Court; and ought, therefore, to be
affirmed.
Elaborate as have been many of the discussions, and anxiously
contested as have been many of the cases that have received their
final award from" this Court, it may be doubted whether any
one has surpassed, in these respects, that which is now to receive
its conclusive decision.. The vast extent of territory that has
been involved, gives a magnitude to the controversy, before
which the ordinary discussions about land titles dwindle into insignificance. It far exceeds, in extent, one of the'sovereign states
of this Union; and it equals, if it does not also exceed, another.
It embraces within its limits a fertile land, and a climate of unsurpassed salubrity-the -ery spot'where the cavaliers of Spain
sought for the fountains of perpetuai health. But, besides these,
it has also -fine rivers, a sea-coast, harbours, and islands, every
thing that was wanting to constitute a princely domain.
The contest to secure it has been proportioned to its magnitude.
Eight years of uninterrupted legal-controversy brought it, at last,
to this tribunal. Five of the present judges know the result. The
great ability of the counsel; the laborious researches into the
Spanish laws; the despatch of special agents by the government
of the United States to Cuba; the thorough ransacking of the
Spanish archives; the deferred and prolonged arguments; all
presented the subject: to this Court with a fulness and perfect
acquaintance with law and fact that have no equal, perhaps, in
its judicial history.
* The opinion delivered at January term, 1835,. shows 'the
minuteness with which every point of the case was considered;
and the decree, is drawn up with a care and a determination to
leave no point doubtful, which it might be thought would have
been successful. It declared, 9 Peters, 761, the grant to the
claimants to be valid; and that their title embraced the'whole
tract claimed by them, "4,except so much of the tract as included
the fortress of St. Marks, 9 nd the -territory directly and imme-

64

SUPREME COURT.

[Mitchel et al. v. The United States.]
diately adjacent and appurtenant thereto ;" and that, they expressly reserve, as being the property of the United States. To that
they reject the claim of the petitioner; and decree that it is a part
of the public lands of the United States. They then order their
decree to be certified to the Superior Court of Middle Florida;
and they direct that Court to have the two tracts surveyed, viz.,
1. That decreed to the claimants; 2. That decreed to the United
States. They direct that as to the first, the lines in the deeds
of cession, from the Indians to' the claimants, shall be followed.
As to the second,, they also direct that the lines of the cession to
the Spanish government shall be followed, if they can be ascertained; but if not, theh, in the first place, the boundaries of the
lands held at that fortress, by the Spaniards, as annexed to it.
If these cannot be ascertained, then the boundaries of so much
land as, according to military usage, was generally attached to
forts in Florida, or in the adjacent colonies, are to be taken. In
default of proof of any of these, they decree to the United States,
a tract extending from the point of junction of the St. Marks and
Wakulla rivers, three miles up each river, and bounded by a
straight line there drawn from one to the other.
It is this decree, which the Superior Court of Middle Florida
has proceeded to execute. It has declared: 1st, That the lines
of the Indian cession for the fortress cannot be ascertained.
2d, That the boundaries of the territory, held by the Spaniards,
as annexed to it, cannot be ascertained. 3d. That the extent of
territory held by military usage, in Florida, as annexed t& a
fortress, can be ascertained; and that if is, that within a line
drawn at the distance of 1,500 Castilian varas, from the salient
angles of the fortress.
The Court, therefore, directed the Surveyor General of Florida
to lay off that boundary.
At this stage, the claimants interpose: declaring that this
decree of the Court is wrong, that there is no military usage in
Florida, which annexes any land to a fortress beyond its walls,
and that if any land at St. Marks belonged to the United States,
it was confined within a line running along the walls of the
fortress; but that, in fact, they were entitled to no land there,
whatever, as they had abandoned it as a fortress; and it was

JANUARY'TERM, 1841.

65

[Mitchel et aL v. The United States.1

contended that such ought to have been the decree of the Superior Court of Middle Florida, in obeying the mandate of this
Court.
It is thus evident, that two questions present themselves
1. What were the extent and meaning of that p6rtion of the
judgment of this Court, at January term, 183 ,which was in.
favour of the United States? 2. Is the decree made by th
Superior Court of Middle Florida a faithful execution of the
mandate of this Court; or would its order have been truly performed by a decree such as the claimants required?
I. In proceeding to examine the first question, it is proper to
advert to the principles by which we are to be gukied, in considering how far an inferior Court has properly executed the
mapdate of the Court above. "1To ascertain," say this Court in
Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Peters, 493, "'the true intention of the
decree and mandate of this Court, the decree of the Court below,
and of this Court, and the petitioners title, must be takezi into
consideration." In the case of the Santa Maria, they say: "The
proceedings in the original suit are always before the Couit,
so far as to determine any new points between the parties."
10 Wheaton, 431.
Adverting then to the original decree, and the proceedings on
which it was founded, it is contended, on the part of the United
States, that the Supreme Court ascertained absolutely the title
and right of the United States, to a tract of land embracin*g the
fortress, and a certain extent of lauid around it; that their title
to the whole of this territory was as perfect and complete as
that by which they hold any portion of the public domaiD ; and
that the claimants had and have no right whatever to any portion of it.
The original proceedings in the case, were instituted by the
claimants, to recover the whole of the vast territory in question.
Ther filed their petition under the sixth section of the act of
the 23d of May, 1828. In that petition, they claimed to hold
the entire one million two hundred thousand acres, under deeds
from the Indians, confirmed by the Spanish authorities.
The United States, in reply, denied, first, that they had any
valid title from the Indians and Spanish authorities, to any part
of the land; but, secondly, if they had to a part, they had not
r2
9

66

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et aL v. The United Stateo.]

to that portion of it which embraced, and was appurtenant to
the fortress of St. Marks.
The correctness of the first position, is not now a matter of discussion. The validity of the title of the claimants to the large
body of land ceded to them by the Indians, was affirmed by this
Court; and forms, at present, no subject ok controversy. But as
to the second, the right of the claimants to the fortress, and its
appurtenant territory, the Whole series of evidence adduced on
the original trial, in the Superior Court of Middle Florida, is
conclusive against them.
[The Attorney General then reviewed, in detail, all the facts
connected with the privileges and cessions granted to Panton,
and his successors. from the 3d of September, 1783, when. the
Floridas were retroceded to Spain, by England, until the 25th
of August, 1825, when Forbes presented his petition to the
Governor General of Cuba, for a certificate of the cessions. From
this review, he regarded it, as clear, that the first title of the
claimants to any portion of this land, was acquired only in 1806;
that all which was then acquired lay on the west side of the
Wakulla; that in 1811, they bought from the Indians such
right only as they then had to the land between the Wakulla
and St. Marks; that in 1825, when they made'their application
to the Governor General, they did not regard their own claim,
derived under this last pfirchase, as embracing the fortress of St.
Marks; and that the claim thereto was first set up in 1828.
The Attorney General then examined, in the same detail, theevidence adduced on the original trial, which proved the acquisition and establishment by the Spanish government, of a fortress
at St. Marks; even before the transfer of Florida to *England,in
1763; the early and express recognition by the Indians of their
undisputed possession and sovereignty; the severance from the
Indian domain, not only of the post itself, but of the quantity of
land around, necessary for its protection, and the " circle of the
jurisdiction of a fortified place ;" the construction of the present
military work, in 1787; the subsequent maintenance of it, at a
great cot; and its distinct and special delivery to the United
States, on the cession of the Floridas to them.]
Thus, then stood the case, on the evidence before the Superior
Court of Middle Florida. A clear title in the government of

JANUARY- TERM, 1841.

67

[Mtchel et aL. v.The United States.]

Spain, and derived from them to the United States, to this fort,
and the circle of necessary jurisdiction, founded on conquest, direct grant, forty if-not sixty years' possession, and legal prescription. A title in the claimants, admitted to commence less than
ten years before the cession of Florida to the United States; in
its terms excluding the fortress and its appurtenances; but, if it
did not, being totally inconsistent with the previous right of the
opposite party. Is it surprising that the judge, in alluding to the
pretence, that the Indian grant to Forbes should cover this,
spoke of it as "1manifestly extravagant and unjustifiable ?"
The decree of that Court, however, being adverse to the whole
claim of Forbes, came entirely on the appeal, before the Supreme
Court. But it does not appear that the claimants ventured,'before this tribunal, to set up a title to this part of their original
claim. On the contrary, the counsel for the claimants admitted,
in his argument, that "the Indian title for the site of the fort of
St. Marks, had been extinguished by a negotiation made by the
Governor of West Florida." Wherj, therefore, the Court came
to pass on he -Qalidity of the claim, they scarcely adverted to
the original, pretension et up to this portion of the land, considering it as unequivocally abandoned. "As to the land," say
they, 19 Peters, 733, #.coveed by. the fort and appurtenances to
some distance. around it, it becomes unnecessary to inquire into
the effect of the deeds, as the counsel for the petitioners have in
open Court disclaimed any preteisions to it." The Court; however, were satisfied of the validity 'of the Indian grants, and of
the title of the claimants, to all the land that they derived under
them; as much as they were of the title of the United States to
all that was held by the Spanish government. Their decree was,
therefore, carefully made. It declared that the title of the petitioners to the land claimed, was valid and complete, except to so
much of it "as includes the fortress of St. Marks, and the territory directly and immediately adjacent and appurtenant thereto ;"
and they declared that the claim of the petitioners to this latter
tract "was rejected, and that the same is a part of the public
lands. of the United States." They then proceeded, 9 Peters, 763,
to declare the mode in which their decree should be executed.
They ordered the Surveyor General of Florida to survey and lay
off-the lands decreed, to belong to the petitioner, "excepting,

68

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et aL v. The United Stat s.]

nevertheless, the part declared to be the territory of the United
States." To fix the boundaries of this excepted territory, they
ordered the Superior Court of Middle Florida to ascertain:
1. The territory which was ceded by the Indians to the crown
of Spain, for the purpose of erecting the fort.
2. If the boundaries of this could not now be ascertained, then
to ascertain the extent of the adjacent lands which were considered and held by the Spaniih government or the commandant of
the fort, as annexed to the fortress for military purposes.
3. If this could not be done, then to ascertain the extent of
land generally attached to forts in Florida, or the adjacent coloniesaccording to military usage.
4. If this could not be done, then to extend a straight line
across from the St. Marks to the Walkulla, at'the distance of
three miles above, their point of junction, embracing within it
the territory which was to be considered as adjacent and appurtenant to the fortress.' Finally, they directed the Surveyor General to survey and lay off for the United States, the land thus
declared to belong to them.
It will be seen, from the careful manner in which this decree
was framed, that the Supreme Court left no question of title
unsettled; that they explicitly decreed what belonged to the
two parties who were claimants-what belonged to Forbes, and
what belonged to the United States; that -they absolutely and
totally rejected the claims of tha one party or the other to certain
portions of the soil; that no title, perfect or imperfect; past, present, or future, was recognised as existing in either party to any
other portion of the land in controversy, than that which was
assigned to him by the decree. To Forbes was given all he
claimed, except a tract previously granted to the Spanish crown.
To that tract they declared he possessed no right whatever, perfect or imperfect; but that it belonged, in absolute title, to the
United States. If its boundaries were known, the survey was
to be made according to them. If its boundaries were unknown,
they were then to be a line embracing all the territory that military usages or military purposes ever considered as appurtenant
to a Spanish fort. The nature of the title was not left to depend
on these usages; but merely the extent of boundary. The title
was declared in terms to be absolute; wherever the boundary

JANUARY TERM, 1s4±.

69

[Mitchel et al.
v. The United States.]

was, the land was public land up to that boundary; the claim of
Forbes, of every sort and to every inch of it, was absolutely
rejected, as completely as if he had never held any grant whatever. The only reason for failing to direct the Surveyor General
to lay off the boundary line of the tract decreed to the United
States, was the ignorance of the Court on a single point of fact;
and that fact they directed the Court below to ascertain.'This that Court has done. They have, by a formal
judgment,
declared that there is no evidence either of the boundary fixed
by ,the Indians at the time of conveyance; or of that claimed by
the Spanish government or commandant at St. Marks; but that
it was a well settled military usage, to extend the appurtenances
of a fort to the distance of fifteen hundred Castilian varas from.
-its salient angles; and they decree therefore that the boundary
of the .territory of the United States shall be a line so drawn,
between the rivers Wakulla and St. Marks.
It is from this decree, that the present appeal is taken. It is
alleged to be erroneous, and this Court is called to set it aside.
Two inquiries present themselves. 1. Is the fact found by the
Court correct; and was it a well gettled military usage to extend
the appurtenance of a fort to a distance of fifteen hundred varas
from its salient angle. 2. If so, was the decree of the Court, that
the same should be surveyed as the boundary of the public land
belonging to the United"States, also correct.
I. By the law of Spain, as Well as by that of most nations,
(Merlin, Repertorie 2, 309, Fortifications,) a space is reserved
around all fortified places; and by the established military usage
of that country the reserved space around a fort certainly extended
to fifteen hundred varas, or thirteen hundred and ninety English yards. In the Recopilacion, (b. 3, t. 7,1. 1,) it is declared that
the ground about castles and fortresses shall be clear and unoeupied ; and if a house be erected within three hundred paces,
(which is equal to two hundred and eighty English yards,) it shall
be demolished. In the same work, (b. 4, t. 7, 1. 12,) no houses
are to be built within three hundred paces of the walls of new
towns. Similar to this is the evidence taken in the present case.
At the instance of the claimants, the testimony of the director
of engineers at Havanna was taken by order of Tacon, the
GovernorGeneral. This officer states, that "when castles, forts,

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et al. v. The United States.]

or fortificalions are established, a radius is determined from the
salient angles of the covered way of fifteen hundred varas all
around the fortification, in which s)ace is promnbited the construction of dwellings." This is the opinion of a director of
engineers in the Spanish army, as to the distance of the line from
the fortress-the point of fact to be ascertained. Again; a concession of Governor White is produced, where a person applies
for three acres of land at Macariz. The chief engineer reports
them to be within fifteen hundred varas of the fort, and therefore a mere right of temporary cultivation was granted. There
were several witnesses 6xamined at the trial, who, although
unacquainted with the military usage of Spain in particular, and
differing as to the exact extent of ground thus reserved around
forts, concur in a reservation being necessary, to an extent sufficient to permit the use of artillery. Colonel Achille Murat states
that the distance kept free from permanent structures, on the
lacis 'or esplanade of a fortress, is determined by a radius from
the salient angles of the covered way of seventeen hundred
toises, about three thousand four hundred yards. Colonel Gadsden says that he does not know the military usage of Spain on the
subject, but that, when, General Jackson took possession of the
Spanish forts in Florida, he directedi that the adjoining grounds
should also be taken posiession of, to the extent of point blank
range of heavy ordnance; such being the usage of the Spanish
government; he adds, that 'no fortress is defensible unless it
has command of the ground around, to the extent of point
blank range. Major Vinton says the point blank range of a
thirty-two pounder is eight hundred and fifty yards. To complete the testimony on this point, we have that of Colonel Butler,
who says'lxpressly, that the woods had been cltdred away by
the authorities at St. Marks, to a distance of a mile and a half
from its walls; and that of Mr. Crane, one of the claimant's
witnesses, who says no buildings were erected outside of the fort
before 1827, and then by permission of the United States. This
point then is clearly established, that the extent of soil, for fifteen
hundred varas from the fort, was appurtenant to it.
II. This fact being established; the remaining inquiry is, whether the Court erred in deereing, that "the Surveyor General

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

71

EWtdhel et aL v. The United States.]

should lay off the land up to this line, as being reserved to the
United States, and forming part of the public lands."
This is the main point of the case, on the part of the appellants in their present proceeding. They deny that this part of
the decree is right, upon -wo grounds, which were elaborately set
forth in what are termed their petition and amended petition, filed
in the Court below. The first of these grounds was taken on the
30th January, 1836, when, in the shape of a petition to the
Court below, they asserted that they were the original proprietors
of the soil as grantees of the Indians; and that, by'the law of
the Indies and the usage of Spain and her colonies, they possessed the absolute and useful dominion of it up to the walls of the
fortress, and were only limited and restrained therein, so far asto be prevented fromi erecting any permanent buildings that
might interfere with the defence of the place; and they therefore contended that the decree of the Court below should make
the walls of the fort the boundary of their claim. The second
ground was taken on the 14th February, 1838, when. in what
was called an amended petition, they asserted a still broader
right; they alleged.that the ground on which the fort itself stood,
being originally granted by the Indians for the purposes of a
fort alo e, a mere use and occupancy passed to Spain for military
purpose., leaving the feo in the Indians and their assignees; that
such use or right of possession only passed to the United States;
that they.had abandoned the place as a military possession; thatall their title thereto had ceased from such abandonment; and
that the whole plade, within the walls of the fort as well as without, now belongs absolutely to them as the grantees of the
Indians. They therefore, contended that the decree of the Court
below should declare, that "the fee of the land covered by the
fort" was vested in them.
To the grounds thus boldly taken, it is answered, that there are
no such laws or Spanish usages as the appellants allege, which
are applicable to this case; but that, on the contrary, they vest
the absolute title in-the. United States, as far as the line ascertained by the Court; that if there were any such law- or usage,
it is controlled in this case by a prior and absolute grant from
the Indians to the crown of Spain; that had it not been so expressly granted, it has been so held.by an undisputed possession

72

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et a]. v. The United States.]

of more than half a century; that, besides this, the right of the
United States to the extent claimed by them, was solemnly
admitted without qualification by th6 appellants; and that, if it
were not so, the question now raised has been finally and irrevocably settled by the decree of this Court, and could not be
mooted or acted upon by the Court below, as the appellants
demand.
1. By the law and usages of Spain, where a fortress was
erected in a country conquered from the Indians, the absolute
dominion and title to the soil remained vested in the Spanish
crown, not merely of the fortress itself, but of the land necessarily
appurtenant thereto. This results directly and incontestibly
from the whole system of Spain, in regard to countries discovered
by her, or conquered from the Indians. Spain denied, absolutely,
all right of the Indians to the conquered soil, except such as was
allotted to them; to that only did she admit any right or title
whatever. No nation ever framed so full and complete a system
in regard to her discovered or conquered territory. 1 Robertson's
America, 52. 102. 2 Rob. 208.230. Note 69. The "Recopilacion
de Leyes de los reynas de las Indias" contains this system in a
digested and written form. It includes the Floridas, not merely
by its general terms, but by its express language. B. 2, t. 15,1. 2;
b. 5, t. 2, 1. 1. 2 White's New Rec. 57. Every part of this
work shows that the King of Spain claimed the absolute title in
alllands within the Americain dominions, and did not recognise
atfy right of the Indians, except in regard to such tracts as were
expressly left in their possession. He asserted (b. 3, t. 1, 1. 1 ;
b. 4, t: 1, 1,1 ; b. 4, t. 2, 1. 1 ;1b. 4, t. 12, 1. 14. 2 White's New
Rec. 32.'48. 52) his absolute dominion to the soil'ot the Indies,
by donation of the Holy See. Unlike the Anglo-Americans,
Spain never made a single treaty to, acquire the soil. Their own
settlements, with lands for grazing and hunting, were left to the
Indians. These they were permitted to alienate and devise,
under certain regulations, as Spanish subjects were permitted to
do, with lands granted to them; but if they occupied lands beyond
this, or refused to relinquish those granted to the Spaniards, they
were removed. B. 4, t. 7, 1. 23. "2 White's New Rec. 48. 0.
They were not permitted to change their settlement, or fesidence,
without leave'of the Spanish authorities. B. 6, t. 1, 1. 27; t. 3,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

73

[Mitchel et al. v. The United States.]

1. 1. 13. 18, 19, 20. In the treaty of 1784, with the Florida
Indians, 10 Waite's Am. St. Pa. 123, which was made after the
long war, and when it was most desirable to attach them to
Spain, and dissolve their growing connexion with the English
colonies, by means of the promise of certain commercial intercourse, they were yet expressly subjected to these Spanish laws;
and, even as regards their own settlements, nothing was guarantied to them beyond their actual possessions, to the extent to
which they were recognised by the laws of the Indies. These
doctrines-the right of absolute do.minion, which conquest gives
over an Indian territory-have been so often recognised by our
Courts, that they are no longer open to discussion; and they have
been applied as well -o the American as to the Spanish intercourse with the original inhabitants of this continent. As early
as 1805, the executive department of our government; in its
official correspondence, laid down these principles, 12 Waite Am.
St. Pa. 311; and in the case of Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 543,
the whole question was elaborately argued and thoroughly
examined in this, the highest branch of our judicial department.
In delivering the opinion of the Court, the Chief Justice went at
large into the subject. He clearly showed that discovery was
the original foundation of titles to land on the American continent, as between the different European nations, by whom conquests and settlements were made here; that the European
governments asserted the exclusive right of -granting the soil to
individuals, subject only to the Indian right of occupancy, which
those governments were exclusively to extinguish; that thesame
principlq was recognised in the wars, negotiations, and treaties,
between the different European powers; and that, since the Revolution, it had been adopted by'the American states,-the exclusive
right of the British government, over lands occupied by the
Indibns, having passed to the governments of the states or of
the Union, as the case may. be'.. The Supreme Court of New
York, in the case of Jackson v. Goodel, 20 Johnson, 693, examined, after an elaborate discussion, the same general question,
and, without any knowledge of the case pending in*this Count;
came to the same result. So far, then, as the general quesfioai
is concerned, in regard to the right of the government of a nation,
by -whom the conquest or discovery is'nA&de, lo 4ke possession
Vo.Ty XV.-G10".

74

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et a].
v. The United States.]

of Indian lands, we need look no farther to ascertain the principles which have governed, not only Spain, but other European
nations, as well as ourselves. Even in the particular case out
of which the present appeal arose, this Court, 9 Peters, 745,
having reference especially to the rights of the Spanish crown in
Florida, has declared, that, subject to a possessory right under
which the Indians might enjoy their actual settlements, "the
ultimate fee was in the crown and its grantees." If this view
of the law, as applicable to the rightsof sovereignty enjoyed by
conquerors or discoverers, be correct, who can doubt that they
might appropriate to their use the territory they desired for
public works? To deny it would be in the face of every principle thus established; and it may well excite surprise, at this
day, that the right, either of the British, the French, or the
Spanish settlers of America, to hold land sufficient for a fortress,
in the country the' had acquired, should be questioned.
If a doubt could exist, it will be removed by examining the
attempt made by the appellants to sustain their doctrine. After
a search the most laborious, they rest it upon the opinions of two
or three military officers, and a few grants in Florida and Louisiana, supposed to be somewhat analogous. The first of these
opinions is not that of a Spanish lawyer, or a person acquainted
with the public land sy.stem. It is from "a director of engineers,"
whose name even is not given. After describing the distance of
fifteen hundred varas to be that which is attached to a fort, for,
military purposes, he says "Within this it is prohibited to build
houses, or rebuild those already in existence, but leaving the
owners in full possession of their direct and useful domain of said
landp ; permitting only the construction of such edifices of wood
as are necessary for their cultivation, and, of course, easily destroyed in case of a siege. This," he remarks, "is done for the
purpose of showing due respect to the sacred rights of property,
and to save the government 'from the immense expense that
would other~vise be necessary for the indemnification of the
proprietors whose lands were thus taken." He,then concludes
by saying, "From what he has exposed, and from the evidence
underlhis eye, it results that St. Marks has not occupied, and
ought not to occupy, more than the land within the line of the
ditch." Now, of ihis opinion, beyond the part *hich gives the

JANUARY TERM, 1s41.

75

[Mitchel et aL v. The United States]

distance of the line of reservatiofi according to military usage, it
may be remarked, that it is *entirely gratuitous-no opinion on
any other point was asked. But is it surprising that itshould
have been thus volunteered by an ex parte and anonymous
witness, when it was evidently introduced to his notice as an
important part of the claimant's case? The evidence on which
he founded it was, as e remarks, under his eye;'that evidence
could only be such as related to the claimant's title; it could not
come officially before the "director of engineers ;" it could only
be brought by them specially to his notice.
But admitting the llekposition," though not the "1result" of the
"director of engineers," yet it -does not establish a position it is
necessary to deiy, It establishe only this, that a resulting fee,
or a right to the usufruct of the soil, in and around forts, existed
when, on the establishment of a fortress, the existing title of the
owners, for purposes of economy, was only partially condemned,
or a partial tkse not interering with thai for which it was taken,
was allowed; or when, after the establishment of a fortress,
qualified grants vyere made around it, which became strengthened
by a proscription that, on the abandonment of the fortress, grew
into an absolute right. Admit these principles, and in ivhat respect
do they sustain the ground that the government cannot take the
absolute property;- much more, it may be asked, how can they
be construed to prevail against the absolute right to the soil and
domain acquired by conquest, and always *explicitlydeclared ?
In no case could this latent and resulting interest exist without
the agreement of the crown; and in the case of a fortress built
-on Indian land, the idea of such an agreement is preposterous.
These views are applicable to every case cited in the record, of
grants made up "to the walls of fortresses. The case of Labatut
was one where, after the "fortification was erected, lands were
taken from a person to whom they had beet* granted, on some
change in the works. The cases of confirmed claims are the
same; no one can doubt but that the governmeit might, if it
saw fit, grant lands under conditions more or less rigid, in. such
situations. The..present case has no principle in common with
these.
If it be said that the right of the king was limited to the fort,
and. did not extend to the appurtenances, the answer is that he

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et al. v. The United States.]

would not take and occupy less than was necessary tor the purposes contemplated; his right was the same to one as the other;
excl iding the Indians from it, all would be set apart that the
public service required. It is shown to be as necessary to the
fort as the land within the walls; it is an appurtenance, which,
in a general grant, would pass with it.
2. But had there been such a law or usage existing in any
territory, acquired by Spain from the Indians, it would not avail
the claimants in this case, because the Indians, under whom they
claim, recognized the absolute title of the Spanish government
at least five-and-twenty years before the purchase from which
the claitiants derive their title. This has been already adverted
to. It is apparent, in the evidence of Governor Folch,'on whose
confirmation of their title the claimants depend. His e ridence
is adduced by themselves. He says, that in 1787 " all the lands
necessary for the establishment of the fort" were reserved in the
presence of the Indians, "1with great ceremony." Calderon, an
officer there at the time, says that the quantity of land needed
to preserve the fort, and all within "thle circle of jurisdiction of a
fortified place, was taken." Evidence stronger than this, from
the lips of the witnesses of the claimants could not be adduced,
to establish the nature and ext~nt of the Spanish title. This is
corroborated by the terms of the second deed of the Indians,
which includes the land between the Wakulla and St. Marks,
where they speak of the grant as conveying ' all the right" they
had "retained in the land to that time."

3. The governments of Spain and of the United States have
had uniform and uninterrupted possession for at least fifty years,
probably for seventy. This is in direct proof, in the evidence of
Caro, Calderon and'Doyle, agents of the Spanish government
and of the claimants, as to the period from 1787 to 1821. It
was taken possession of in 1821 by General Jackson, for the
United States, in pursuance of.the second article of the treaty
with Spain; which expressly and separately cedes "all public
edifices, fortifications, barracks, and other buildings which are
not private property." The plssession thus taken, extended, at
the time, to the territory around tbp. fort, as well as within the
walls. The forest was cleared aWav from the earliest times; no
building, however irifling, was erected there till 1827; General

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

77

(Mitchel et al. v. The United States.)

Jackson took possession as far as the point blank range of a
thirty-two pounder. Under the well recognised Spanish law,
this possession would give a prescriptive title. That title, by the
Spanish law, was absolutely vested and accrued long before the
Indian deed to Forbes. Institutes of Azo, 4. 2. 21. 1 White's
New Rec. 347.
4. But supposing that the title of the Tnited States, thus
derived, were not perfectly clear, it is made so by the express and
explicit disclaimer of the appellants to this fortress and its appurtenances. This disclaimer was distinctly made, in argument,
in this Court, by their counsel. It was so understood by the
Court, and so stands recorded in their opinion. In that opinion
(9 Peters, 733) it is said: "As to the land covered by the fort,
and the appurtenances to some distance around it, it becomes
unnecessary to inquire into the effect of the deed, as the counsel
of the petitioners have in open Court disclaimed any pretensions to it." It might be thought that a relinquishment of
even a pretension to this land, so explicit, would have preeluded the -present claim. Far from this, however, the appellants
now seek to disclaim their disclaimer. They seek to represent
it as a sacrifice of part to secure the residue; as a compromise.
But it was no compromise. How could they compromise with
this Court? It was an admission of a fact that could not be.
denied; and one which, if persisted in, would have injuriously.
affected their entfre claim. Throughout the whole proceedings
in that case there is not a "pretension" set up to the land now
in controversy; and the evidence which shows its fallacy, if
any were wanting, proceeds, uncontradicted and unexplained,
from their own witnesses.
5. Supposing, however, all these views to be erroneous; and
supposing this Court does not sustain the correctness of one of
these positions; does this. afford ground for setting aside this
decree? It' does not. If the judgment of the Court were
wrong in assigning to. the United States this property as "public
land," that is an error of the Supreme Court: the Court below
could not inquire into it: it could not grant any part of the
prayer of the petitioners :.it had the limited duty to perform of
executing the decree of the Court, not of examining questions
connected with the merits of that decree. It is an answer to
G2

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et aL v. The United States.]

every ground of objection to say, that it is one with which the
Court below had nothing to do. Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Peters,
492. The decision of the Supreme Court in 1835,. was final on
every point now sought to be raised, in regard to the title to the
fort of St. Marks and its appurtenances. The sole question, then.
left open, was the extent of those appurtenances. By what
authority could the Court below have decided, as the claimants
require, that there was no land appurtenant to the fort; when the
Supreme Court had expressly said,.that the "territory adjacent
and appurtenant to the' fortress is reserved for the use of the
United States?" By what authority could the Court below have
declared that the 'fort and its appurtenances bad been abandoned
by the United States, and had reverted to the claimants; when
the Supreme Court, after having before it the same evidence of
abandonment which the Court below had, declared that, so far
from reverting to the claimants, it was still a part of "the public
land" of the United States? The object of the Supreme Court,
in remitting the proceedings to the Court below, was merely to
carry into effect its decree; -and to inquire into a single fact necessary to the proper execution of that decree. It was not to
review what the Supreme Court had done; to examine rights
already examined by this tribunal; to ascertain facts already set
forth in the record they had before them; to decide upon- conflictfng and intricate questions of title. Had the Court below
done any of these things, as the appellants demanded it should
do, then indeed it would have erred. The duty of a Court below,
to whom a decree of this Court is sent, is limited solely to the
duty of executing that decree.
It is submitted, therefore, that unless it has been shown (as it
certainly has not) that a distance of fifteen hundred varas is
incorrectly stated to be the extent of the appurtenances of a
Spanish fort; then the decree of the Court below, directing the
Surveyor General to lay off the land to that extent, was correct;
and there is no ground for this appeal.
Mr. Webster, for the appellants.
The writers on public law declare that the range of a cannon
shot fron' a fort shall be the territory appurtenant to a fort, so.
as to prevent the erection of buildings, or any obstacles to the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

79

(Mitchel et al. v. The United States.]

uses of the fort. ,The Court below, were therefore wrong, when
they gave the right to the soil within the range of a cannon shot;
unless the mandate of this Court gave to the United States the
right to the soil, instead of the ordinary uses of it, connected with
the fortification; the eminent domain of the United States was in
the land on which the fort was placed; this was essential to the
property in the fort, but no more than this; and the Court did not
intend to go any further than to secure to the United States the
full use of the fort of St. Marks. Why should the Court give a
right to the soil of the surrounding land, when the servitude of it
was all that is necessary; and it is all that in similar cases
has been claimed and used by the Spanish government, and all
that the government of the United States have required?
It is contended, that the whole object of the decree was to
have ascertained what was necessary for the common and convenient use of the fort. The. Court, in the first instance, intended to secure the fort to the United States; other than the
right of soil in the fort, the Court did not propose to determine.
The construction now contended for by the Attorney General,
would give to the United States jurisdiction. over all lands around
a fort, within the range of a cannon shot, near the forts of the
United States. Thus, the cities of New York. of Philadelphia,
and Baltimore, would be under the jurisdiction of the United
States. This has not been the understanding or practice. Jurisdiction over the forts has only been exercised, or asserted.
The mandate to the Superior Court of Middle Florida, directed
that Court, in the first place, if there had been any grant from
the Indians, or any proceeding of the Spanish govenment, which
definitely and accurateiy fixed the extent of the fort, and of the
reservation of the adjacent ground, to ascertain and determine
the same. No grant, and no such proceedings were found.
It was authorized, secondly, to ascertain the extent of the use
of the ground,rofind the fort, by the Spanish authorities. This
could have been ascertained: evidence to this, was taken by the
order of the Court, and it is abundant on the record. That
evidence fully sustains the claim of the appellants; and the
Court should have decided the boundaries of Fort St. Marks,
and the extent of "adjacent lands, which were considered held
by the Spanish government, or the commandant of the fort,

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et at. v.The United States.]

as annexed to the fortress for military purposes," according to
that evidence.
When the Spanish government confirmed the grant to John
Forbes and Company, no reservation was made of Fort St.
M.rkn. This is conclusive on the United States, and should inducd'this Court to decide this case in favour of the appellants.
The evidence of the commandant of the fort, while it was under
the Spanish government, is, that 'the land belonged to John
Forbes and Company.
What are the laws of nations, on this subject. Cited, Burlemaqui, part 3, sect. 25-29. Puffendorf, b. 8, ch. 5, sect. 7.
The true position of this case is this: When the confirmation
was made of the Indian grant, no reservation of the fort was
made, and the appellants stand on the original grant; and the
grantees having acquired the whole of the land, they rest on
their rights thus acquired. It is admitted that after the grant by
the Indians, Spain had a right to establish on the lands, and did
establish, the fort of St. Marks, on the same. Spain is, therefore,
bound to show the extent of her invasion of the land of the
grantees of the Indians; -and. now, the United States, having
come in under Spain, is bound to the same.
The reference to the Superior Court of Florida, by the Supreme
Court, did not impose on that Court the duty of ascertaining to
whom the land circumjacent to the fort belonged. The command
was to determine how much adjacent land was required for the
use of the fort. As has been said, the uase of the ground around
the fortress was all that was required for the fortress; and this
did not necessarily carry with it the right in the soil.
Mr. Justice WAYNn delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case arises upon the mandate of this Court on the case
of Colin Mitchel and others v. The United States, reported in
9 Peters, 711.

In that case, it will be seen, that the lands claimed by the plaintiffs were in different tracts, and that this Court, in confirming
the title of the plaintiffs, excepted from one of them the fortress
of St. Marks, and "the territory directly and immediately adjacent and appurtenant thereto," which were reserved for the
United States. The Court further decreed, that the territory

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

81.

rMitchcl et al. v. The United States.]

thus described, shall be that which was ceded by the Indian proprietors to the crown of Spain, for the purpose of erecting the
said fort: provided the boundaries of said cession can be ascertained. If the boundaries of the, said cession cannot now
be ascertained, then the adjacent lands, which were considered
and held by the Spanish government, or the commandant of the
post, as annexed to the fortress, for military purposes, shall be
still considered as annexed and reserved with it, for the use of
the United States. If no evidence can be obtained to designate
th extent of the adjacent lands, which were considered as annexed to St. Marks, as aforesaid, then so much land shall be
comprehended in this exception, as, according to military usage,
was attached generally to forts in Florida, or tle adjacent colonies. If no such military usage can be proved, then it is ordered and decreed, that a line shall be extended from the point
of junction between the rivers St. Marks and Wakulla, to the
middle of the river St. Marks, below the junction, thende extending up the middle of each river, three miles in a direct line,
without computing the courses thereof; and that the territory
comprehended within a direct line, to be run so as to connect the
points of termination on each river, at the end of the said three
miles up each river; and the two lines to be run as aforesaid,
shall be, and the same are hereby declared to be the territory
reserved, "as adjacent and appurtenant to the fortress of St.
Marks;" and as such reserved for the use of the United 'States.
To which, the claim of the petitioner is rejected; and as to which,
this Court decree, that "the same is a part of the public lands 6f
the United States."
The Court then reverses the decree of the Court below, declaring it to be reversed and annulled in all matters therein contained, Wth th , exception" aforesaid; and proceeding to render
such decree as the Court below ought to have rendered, decreed
the claim of the petitioners valid, to all the land claimed, except
to such part as it had excepted. The clerk of this Court is directed to certify its decree to the Surveyor GenerM of Florida,
with directions to survey and lay off the lands described in the
petition of the claimant, according to the lines, boundaries, and
description thereof in the several deeds of cession, grant, and
confirmation by the Indians or Governor of West Florida, filed

82

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et el. v. The United State&]

as exhibits in the cause, or referred to in the record thereof; excepting, nevertheless, such part of the tract granted in 1811, lying
east of the tract granted in 1804 and 1806, as is hereby declared
to be the territory of the United States, pursuant to the exception
hereinbefore mentioned, and to make return thereof, according
to law, as to all the lands comprehended in the three first herein
mentioned tracts; and as to the tract last mentioned, to survey,
and in like manner to lay off the same, As soon as the extent of
the land excepted and reserved for the use of the United States
shall be ascertained in the manner directed. And the Court
directs that the land excepted and reserved, shall be aseertained
and determined, by the Superior Court of the middle district of
Florida, in such manner and by such process as is prescribed by
the acts of Congress, relating to the claims of.lands in Florida;
the Court rendering thereupon such judgment or decree as to
law shall appertain.
This mandate was filed by the plaintiffs in the Superior Court
of Middle Florida. They afterwards filed a bill, claiming from
the Court a confirmation of their title to the land excepted, up to
the walls of the fort of St. Marks; assert this claim, upon the
ground of the laws, usages, and military practice, -in the various
colonies of Spain;'and then, in an amended bill, they ask the
Court to decree to them, the fee in the land covered by the fort,
as well as that adjoining and appurtenant, because they say the
laild on which the fort is erected was oiginally obtained from
the Indians, for the purpose of erecting a fortification, to be occupied and used as such, for that express purpose and no other.
The attorney of the United States filed exceptions and an answer
to the bills of the plaintiffs, alleging, among other things, that all
the points in dispute between the-United States and the plaintiffs,
concerning the land they claimed, had been settled by the decision and'mandate in the original case; and that the only object
of this Court, in referring the mandate to the Court below, was,
that it might ascertain the extent and boundaries of the tract of
land which includes the fortress of St. Marks, and the territory
adjacent; to which the claim of the petitioner had been rejected,
and which had been reserved for the use of the United States.
On these pleadings, and the evidence taken in it, the cause
-was tried. The Court expresses the opinion, that the boundaries

JANUARY :TERM, 1841.

83

[Mitchel et al. v. The United State&]

of the territory ceded by the Indians to Spain, for the purpose
of erecting the fortress of St. Marks, cannot now be ascertained;
that no evidence can now be obtained to designate the extent of
the adjacent lands which were considered as annexed to the fort,
by the crown of Spain, or the commandant of the post; but declares there is sufficient evidence of the military usage of Spain,
to determine the extent of ]and adjacent to forts in Florida,.
which were usually attached to said forts. The Court proceeds
to say the extent of such reservations was determined by a
radius of fifteen hundred Castilian varas, from the salient angles
of the covered way all round the works; or, there being no
covered way, from the salient angles of the exterior line of the
ditch. A decree is made by the Court, conformably with this
opinion, from which the plaintiffs appeal.
It is urged for the appellants, that as the sale from the Indians
to Forbes and Company calls for the St. Marks river as- the
eastern boundary of the cession and grant; and as the title to the
land was in the Indians, with only a pre-emptive right to the
ultimate fee in the soil in the King of Spain, with the additional
fight of assenting to, or rejecting sales, by th Indians; that if no
formal cession, or transfer of the land, upon which the fort is
erected, can be found from the Indians to Spain, before the sale
to Forbes and Company, confirmed, as it was, by the authorities
of Spain, without any exception of the site of the fort' or land
appurtenant to it, that the adjacent land up to the walls of the
fort belongs to the claixqants, and the site of the fort also, in the
event of its abandonment as a fortification; that the right to the site
would have been consummated in the cfaimants, in virtue of the
sale by the Indians, if it had been disused as a fortress by Spain
before Florida was ceded to the United States; and that the
latter could only hold it for the same use, or as Spain held it; and.
now having been discontinued by the United States as a fortress,
that the claimants were entitled to it in fee. It was also said,
that the Spanish g6vernment recognised by its laws the ownership of lands to the walls of forts; and that military usage, in
Florida, and the adjacent colonies, permitted it.
The case before us does not require any discussion upon the
nature and extent of the property held by the Florida Indians
in these lands under Spain. That was satisfactorily done in the

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et al. v. The United States.]

decision given by this Court in the original case, 9 Peters. It was
then shown, that the Indians "held under Great Britain and
Spain, a right of property in these lands, which could not be
impairedwithout a violation of the laws of both, and the sanctity
of repeated treaties." 9 Peters, 756. "That Spain did not consider the Indian right to be that of mere occupancy and perpetual
possession, but a right of property in the lands they held under
the guaranty of treaties; which were so highly respected, that in
the establishment of a military post by a royal order, the site
thereof was either purchased from the Indians, or occupied with
their
permission, as that of St. Marks." 9 Peters, 752.
1These
extracts present the claim of the appellants under
their
Indian title, and confirmation of it by Spain, in its strongest light.
The last of them is particularly applicable to th e point in controversy.
It is then to be determined whether the Court below, in its
judgment, has rightly apprehended and executed the mandate
of this Court. The meaning of the mandate may be ascertained from the
instrument itself; but the reasons which induced the Court
to make it, are to be found in the. evidence contained in the
original record. The Court will now do what it did in the case
of Sibbald, 12 Peters, 493. It said, "To ascertain the true
intention of the decree and mandate of this Court, the decree of
the Court below, and of this Court, and the petitioners' title, must
be taken into consideration." In 10 Wheat. 431, this Court
says, "The proceedings in the original suit are always before
the Court, so far as to determine any new points between the
parties."
From the evidence then adduced by the claimants in the
original.case, it appeared that when the Floridas were retroceded
to Spain, by England, September, 1793, that Panton, an English
merchant, resided at St. Augustine, and traded with the Indians
in East Florida. Rec. 114. In 1784, Governor Mero, finding it
necessary to cultivate trade with the Indians, gave permission to
one Mather to bring two vessels from London, direct to Pensacola
and Mobile, laden with goods of British manufacture, to supply
the Indians. In July, 1784, Panton applied to Governor Zespedes for leave to remain in the province, with permission to

JANUARY TERIM, 1841.

85

.[Mitchel et al. v. The United States.]

import from Great Britain such articles as the Indian trade requirbd, and to export peltries received in payment. Rec. 157.
A royal order was passed on the 8th May, 1786, (Rec. 160,)
allowing Panton and his partners to remain in Florida, on their
taking the oatli of alliegance, and permitting them to trade with
the Indians. They were allowed to send a ship, annually, to
Pensacola, with-British goods, and to take back peltries. Rec. 118.
In 1787 or 1788, (Rec. 162. 304,) they were allowed to erect a
storehouse on the river St. Marks, to collect their peltries; and
the vessel frorf Pensacola was permitted to go there to load
them. In 1789, Panton. was intrusted with the exclusive trade,
(Rec. 118. 250;) and in 1791, received a special royal license..
The year after, an 'attack was made by the Indians, underBowles, on Panton's store, on the river St. Marks, and- much
property taken away. -The same kind of outrage was repeated
.in 1800, with heavy loss to Panton and his associates. The
Indians algo owed them a laige sum for goods. Forbes sicceeded
Panton in the trade which the latter began with the Indians,
and *as the assignee of his claims.upon the .Indians. In January,
1801, (Rec. 56,) he informs the Marquis Casa Calvo, that he had
been negotiating with the Indians to cede lands in payment of the
debt, and in satisfaction for the outrages committed by them on
the store at St. Marks. -The Governor countenanced the negotiatibn. In 1804, Inverarity, an agent of Forbes, informed
Governor Folch that the Indians had agreed to sell the land, and
asks his consent to complete the purchase. The consent was
given. On the 25ih May, a deed was made, and in August, in
.a full Indian council,'held at St: Marks, the Governor being present, the sale was ratified. This was Forbes's first purchase. It
embraced the land between the Appalachicola and Wakulla,
extending several miles up the rivers. The boundaries of this
first purchase were run and fixed by the Indians, in 1806. All
the surveys being completed ivithin that year, Governor Folch
confirmed the' grant, and gave the grantees possession. Rec. 618.
622. 74. In January, 1811, a-new negotiation was made with
the Indians, and they agreed to sell additional strips of land on
the western, northern, and eastern sides of the first purchase;
but the cession was of "all the right the Indians had retained
in the land until that time.' The eastern addition embraced
VOL. XV.-H

86

SUPREME COURT.
[Mitchel et al. v. The United State.]

the land from the Wakulla to the St. Marks, and down the latter
to the sea; thus including the point between the two rivers.
This second cession was also confirined by Governor Folch, in
June, 1811. Thus matters stood, the cession .being known as
Forbe's's land; and the fort of St. Marks continuing to be garrisoned by Spain until it was surrendered to the United States,
under the treaty. The history of the grants to the claimants
having been traced, it is here necessary to give that of the fortress of St. Marks, as it is to be collected from the evidence in the
original case.
In the record, 123, a *despatch from the Marquis of Casa
Calvo shows that during the possession of Florida by the English, the fort of St. Marks had been a military post; though it had
been abandoned, and suffered to go to decay. Shortly after its
retrocession fo Spain, the latter extended the jurisdiction of West
Florida,-so as to include the site of the fort. Rec. 189. In
May, 1785, Count Galvas issued an order to repair the old fdrt
at St. Marks, and a detachment 9 f troops was ordered to it from
Pensacola. - Rec. 306. This detachment was cut off, or driven
away by the Indians. Rec. 582. But in the spring- of 1787,
(Rec. 19s. 366,) a royal order was issued, directing the permanent establishment :of the fort. "It is notorious and public,"
(Rec. 233,) says Governor Folch, the principat witness of the
claimants, and the person who gave them possession of their
whole pirchase, "that at the establishment of the fort of St.
Marks, at Appalachia in the year 1787, all the solemnity and
requisites were observed to obtain from the Indians in sale, the
lands necessary to that object." Benigno de Calderon, who was.
then an officer of the Spanish government, twice refers to the
-fact, that not merely a Ymilitary post itself, "but the quantity of
land needed to preserve it;" and what he calls " the circle of.
jurisdiction of a fortified 14ce;" was severed froffi the Indian
land, and vested in the government of Spain. Rec. 570. 582.
Immediately after'the sale of which Governor Folch speaks,
the fort was constructed by Spain, at a heavy expense. So
were the public stores. The evidence of the claimantsshows
at least two hundred thousand dollars were expended upon these
works. Calderon says there vas a regular Spanish ganison
there from 1787 to 1818. Caro says the Governor exercised

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

87

[Mitchel et al. v. The Uhited States.]

both civil and military jurisdiction. When 'Florida was ceded
to the United States, St. Marks was given up as a military fortress of*the King of Spain. Such is the history of the fortress
of St. Marks, taken from the testimony and the witnesses of the
claimants in the original case. Is it surprising then, that the Court
in its mandate should have excepted the fort and land directly
adjacent to it from its confirmation of the claimant's title to the
lands bought by them from the Indians? The king's royal order
to establish a fort at St. Marks, the occupancy of the fortress for
more than twenty years before any grant was made to Forbes,
tyenty-five years before the grant was made, which includes it,
and forty years occupation of it with the use of the land adjacent; seemed to the Court to be inconsistent with the idea that
ii was intended to be included in the sale by the Indians, or by
the confirmation of that sale by Governor Folch. It must be
remembered, also, that when Governor Folch gave possession
of the land to the grantees, that the fort was retained, and that
the land, to the extent at least of what is termed the circle of
military jurisdiction had been clearedi and that the grantees,
though living by permission for protection of .themselves and
their trade, within-that circle, never exercised by cultivation or
otherwise any acts of ownership over any part of it. Besides,
the Court was advised, when the decision in the original case
was made, that by the laws of the Indies, reservations of lands
were made appurtenant to forts, though the extent of such reservations was not known. It was then, however, a subject of
inquiry, and would.no doubt have been fully investigated; if the
counsel for the claimant had not admitted in his argument, that
the Indiah title for the sale of the fort of St. Marks, had been
extinguished by a negotiation made by the Governor of West
Florida. In the opinion of the Court, given by Mr. Justic6
Baldwin, is found, the following paragraph: "It'is bbjected that
the grant of 1811 is invalid, because it comprehends the fort of
St. Marks, then actually occupied by the troops of the king. 'It
is in full proof that the site of St. Marks and ihe adjacent country was within the territory claimed by the Seminole Indians.
Rec. 12. 131. 603-607. 618.. It is not certain, from the evidence, whether it was purchased from the Indians, or merely
occupied by their permission; there seems to be no written evi-

88

SUPREME COURT.
CMitchel et aL v. The United States.]

dence of the purchase, butno witn6ss asserts that possession was
taken adversely to the Indian claim, and it is clearly proved to
have been amicably done. Rec. 2 2. 306. 581. Whether the
Indians had a right to giant this particular spot then or not, cannot affect the validity of the deeds to the residue of the lands
conveyed in 1811. The grant is good so far as it interfered with
"noprior right of the crown, according to the principles settled by
this Court, in numerous cases, arising on grants by North Carolina
and Georgia, extending partly over the Indian boundary, which
have uniformly been held good, as to whatever land was within
the line established betdeen the state and the Indian territory.
Wear v. Danforth, 9 Wheat. 673. Patterson v. Jenckes, 2 Pet.
216 ; and Winn and Patterson, decided by the Supreme Court
of the United States. As to the land covered by the fort and
appurtenances, to some distance around it, it became unnecessary to inquire into the effect of the deeds, as the counsel of the
5etitioners have in open Court disclaimed any pretensions to
it." It is not, however, upon this disclaimer of the claimants'
counsel, that the Court relies to sustain the judgment of the
Court below upon the mandate. It is cited only to them to show
that the subject matter of the present'controversy was considered by the Court. That the Court, not knowing at that time
what should be the reservation appurtenant to the fort of St.
Marks, directed it to be ascertained, and excepted it absolutely
fromn the grant of the claimants; declaring it to be a part of the
public lands of the United States. The object of the Court, was
to put these claimantsin respect to the lands which they claimed,
in the dondition they would have been, if Florida had not been
ceded to the Uniied States. It was the intention of the Court,
in the language of.the treaty, to put them in possession of the
lands, to the same extent tifat the same grants would be valid,
if the territories had remained under the dominion of his Catholic
Majesty. Can it be supposed for a moment, when the king, by
his royal order, -directed' the Intendant General of Cuba, to
inquire into the subject of the indemnity which should be made
to the house of Panton, Leslie, and Company, for services to the
crown and for Indian depredations, that he would have sanctioned, or that the Intendant General would have ventured to
propose a cession of land, including public stores and a fortress,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

89

(Mitchel et aL v.The United Statem]
which had been buili at a great expense, at an important point
on the coast, which was essential to control and keep the Indians
in subjection, and all-important to resist external attack.Does any one believe, when Governor Folch sanctioned the
purchases, confirmed and gave possession of the lands to Forbes!
and Company, that he would have done either, if he had thought
he was giving to thein a title to the fort of St.'Marks, and its
circle of military jurisdiction, against theking; or that the Captain General of Cuba, to "whom Governor Folch *reported his
proceedings in this matter, would have approved and declred
that the king would confirm them; if he had supposed that he was
permitting the Indians to sell a.fortress, then garrisoned by the
troops of Spain, fnd'which had been so for more than twenty
years? Is it not certain nothing of the kind was intended, when
it is remembered that Governor Folch, who superintended the
sale of the land, marked out its boundaries, and gave possession
of it to the original grantees, says: "It is notorious and public,
that at the establishment of the fort of St. Marks, at Appalachia,
in. the year 1787, all the solemnities and requisites were observed,
to obtain from the Indians in sale, the lands necessary to that
object ?"'
We will not enter into the question;how far the appropriation
of the land for a fortress, by order of the government, extinguished the Indian title. It might be done successfully, upon the
positions taken by this Court in respect to the rights of European
-monarchs to Indian lands in North America,.in Johnson and
M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. We are inclined to put this case upon fapts
disclosed by the claimants'.evidence in the former cause, and *the
inferences and arguments which may be drawn from them, because the Court did not do so, in its decision, in cdisequence of
the admission of counsel, "that the -land covered by the fort
and appurtenances, to some distance around it," were not contended for.
In addition to what has been said, however, in respect to Si.
Marks, and the appurtenant land, not being within the granit
from the Indians to the claimants, we remark, that the subject
may be satisfactorily disposed of, by a reference to the second
article of the treaty with Spain. "His Catholic Majesty cedes to
the United States, in full property and sovereignty, all the terH2
12

90

SUPREME COURT.
[Mithel et al. v. The United States.]

ritories which belong to him, situated to the eastward of the
Mississippi, known by the name of East and West Florida; the
adjacent islands dependent on said provinces ; all public lots, and
squares, vacant lands, public edifices, fortifications, barracks, and
other buildings, which are not private property." In the construction of this article, it will be admitted, that the last member
of the sentence cannot refer to any of the enumerated cessions,
notorious as public property, or that it must be confined to the
terms, "1other buildings in connexion with it." The treaty then
secures to the United States the fort of St. Marks, and so much
land appurtenant to it as, according to military usage,was attached
generally to forts in Florida, or the adjacent colonies. Was there
any sudh psage, and has it been established by sufficient testimony to sustain the judgment of the Court below? We think
there was, and that the proofs are sufficient. At the instance of
the claimants, the testimony of the director of engine rs was
taken by order of the Governor General Tacon. His evidence on
the record before us, is that, " a radius of 1,500 Castilian varas, is
measured from the salient angles of th'e covered way, all around
the fortification." That such was the rule, is confirmed by a document introduced by the claimants, 'as evidence in this case.
In 18o i a petition was presented to Governor White, for a grant
of land at Macariz. He referred it to the chief engineer. The
engineer .reported it to be within one thousand five hundred
yards of the castle, "that it cannot be cultivated in corn, nor
can ditches, or thorn fences be allowed; that plants of a low
growth, and vegetables may be permitted to be cultivated, and
it may be allowed for the security of the produce to erect simple
post and rail fences, which may be sufficient to prevent animals
from breaking in." Under these restrictions, it was granted; -o
that it could only be used in such a way, as could not interfere
with the defensive and offensive power of the castle. Several
witnesses were examined on this point: all of them concur in
saying a fortress cannot be defended, unless it has the command
of the ground around it, to a considerable extent. Colonel
Murat gives as 14e.usage of the European armies, that from the
salient angles ot the covered way, a radius of three thousand,
four hundred yards. s marked, in whiich it is not permitted to
erect any permanent buildings, or embankment, or stone fences, or

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

91

EMitchel et al.
v. The United Star±.]
ditches. We know it, also, to be the usage of all civilized nations,
to assert such rights over the ground adjacent to fortifications, in
a time of war. It is reasonable, then, to conclude, that European
monarchs, in the construction of permanent fortifications, in the
new world, upon Indian lands before it had been granted by
'the sovereign, or permitted to be alienated ly the Indian, intended to appropriate so much of the land adjaceni to a fortification as was necessary to defend it. That it was so intended in
the instance of St. Marks, is strongly corroborated by the testimony of Col. Butler, who says the woods had been cleared away
by the authorities at St. Marks, to the distance of a mile and a
half Ifrom the walls. Another witness says, no buildings were
erected outside of,thefort, before 1827, and then, by permission of
the United States. It is hard to resist the conclusion, that such
a clearing before the sale by the Indians, without the cultivation
or occupancy of any part of it, by the grantees, from the time
of the Indian sale, to the surrender of the fort to the United
States, does not indicate an intention upon .the part of the authoiities of Spain, to reserve some land adjacent to the fort for
military purposes; and the acquiescence of the purchasers, that
though withi the boundaries of the grant,. the fort and land attached to it by military usage was not intended to be conveyed.
Nor can we admit, as it was argued by the counsel of the appellants, that the instances cited in the record of grants of land, up
to the walls of fortifications, by the Spanish authorities in Florida
and Louisiana, disprove the existence of a military usage to reserve land adjacent to forts in them. Those instances are exceptions out of the military laws of Spain, as contained in the royal
ordinances; which declare that "a radius of one thousand, five
hundred varas is measured from the salient angles of the covered
way." We do not think it necessary to remark further upon the
opinion given by the chief engineer, in respect to the manner in
which such titles were acquired to land adjacent to fortifications,
or the extent of the military jurisdiction over them, than to observe the fact of certain reservation being declared by him, as a
fact;$we require something more than his conclusion or inference, that there was no reservation according to the military
usage and orditiances of Spain, in the instance of St. Markf.

92

SUPREME COURT.
[?itchel et a. v. The United State.]

Our opinion is, that the Court below has fully apprehended and
executed the judgment of this Court; and its judgment is accordingly affirmed.
This case camd on to be heard, on the transcript of the record
from the Superior Court of the middle district of Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and
decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said Superior Court
in this caue be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

