SUPREME. COURT.

CHARLES

GRATIOT,

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, V. THE

UNITED

'STATES, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
The United States instituted a suit against Charles Gratiot to recover a balance alleged
to be due by him for money paid to him as "Chief Engineer in the service of the
United States," as shown by two Treasury transcripts. The claims of General dratiot against the United States, as offsets to the demand against him, which had
been exhibited to the accounting officers of the Treasury, were for'commissions on
disbursements of public money at Fortress Monroe and Fort Calhoun, being two
dollars per day during the times of the disbursements; and which two dollars per day
were charged, ieparately, for each day; and for extra services in conducting the civil
works of internal improvement, carried on by the United States. In the Circuit
Court, the evidence offered to prove the set-off claimed by the defendant, was rejected.
Held, that unless some law can be shown establishing clearly and unequivocally the
illegality of each of the items of set-off, and no such la7 exists, the refusal of the
Circuit Court to admit the evidence cannot be supported. It was competent and
relevant evidence, and proper for the consideration of the jury, as conducing to the
establishment of the facts.
Certain requisitions had been paid to General Gratiot on account of Fort Grand Terre,
and other public works, as stated in a transcript of the Treasury of the United States;
and it was contended that this transcript was not evidence in an action against "the
Chief Engineer," as the transcript did not state the money to have been paid to him
in that capacity. Held, that the balance claimed in this action from the defendant,
was upon a transcript from the Treasury including those items, which had been
charged to him as Chief Engineer; and as there was no distinct charge on the transcript objected to, the refusal of the Circuit Court to sustain the objection was proper.
The United States possess the general right to apply all sums due to an officer in the
service of the United States for pay and emoluments, to *theextinguishment of any
balances due to them by such officer, on any other account; whether as a private
individual, or an officer of the United States. It is but the exercise of the common
right which belongs to every creditor to apply the unappropriated moheys of his debto"
in his hands, in the extinguishment of the debts due by him.
It is wholly immaterial whether the claim to set-off against the United States be a
legal or an equitable claim: in either view it constitutes a good ground of set-off or
deduction. It is not sufficient that these items ought to be rejected, that there is no
positive law which expressly provides for, or fixes such allowances. There arc
many authorities conferred on the different departments of the government, which,
for their due execution, require services and duties which are not strictly appertaining
to, or devolved upon, any particular officer, and which require agencies of a discre-o
tionary nature. In such cases, the department charged with the execution of the
particular authority, business, or duty, has always been deemed incidentally to
possess the right to employ the proper persons t perform the same, as the appropriate means to carry into effect the required end ; and, also, the right, wherm the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

337

[Gmtiot v. The United States.]
service or duty is an extra service or duty, to allow the person so employed a suitable compensation.
Cited: The United States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheat. 135. The United States v. Ripley,
7 Peters, 18. The United States v. M'Daniel, 7 Peters, 1. The United States v.
Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 28.
The act of Congress of the 16th March, 1802, which provided for the organization
and establishment of the corps of Engineers, never has been supposed to authorize
the President of the United States to employ the corps of Engineers for any other
duty except such as belongs either to military engineering, or to civil engineering.
Assuming, that the President possessed the fullest power under the act to employ
from time to time, every officer of the corps in the business of civil engineering, still it
must be obvious, that as their pay and emoluments, were or would be regulated with
reference to their ordinary military and other duties, the power of the President to
detach them upon other civil services would not preclude him from contracting to
allow such detached officers a proper compensation for any extra services. Such
a contract may not only be established by proof of some positive regulation, but
may also be inferred from some practice and usage of the War Department in similar cases, acting in obedience to the presumed orders of the President.
The regulations of the army of the United States, which were sanctioned by the President in 1821, art. 67, and in 1825, art. 67, which allow two dollars pe: diemnot to
exceed two and a half per cent. on the sum disbursed, to the agents for disbursing
money at fortifications, do not limit this allowance to the Engineer superintending
the construction and disbursing the money, as agent for fortifications, to a single per
diem allowance of two dollars for all the fortifications for whicl a distinct appropriation has been made; when he is employed at. the same time upon several
fortifications, each requiring separate accounts of the disbursements to be kept on
account of there being distinct and independent appropriations therefor. It would
be unreasonable to suppose that these regulations intended to give the same amount
of compensation to a person disbursing money upon two or more distinct fortifications, that he would be entitled to if he were disbursing agent for one only; although
his duties might be thus doubled, and even trebled.
A claim of set-off was presented for thirty seven thousand two hundred and sixty-two
dollars and forty-six cents, for extra services in conducting the affairs connected with
the civil works of internal improvement. Held, that, upon its face, this item has no
just foundation in law; and the evidence offered in support of it, if admitted, would
not have sustained it. Upon a review of the laws and regulations of the government, applicable to the subject, it is appirent that the services therein alleged to be
performed, were the ordinary special duties appertaining to the office of Chief Engineer, .
and which the Chief Engineer was bound to perform; and without any compensation beyond. his salary and emoluments as a Brigadier General of the Army of the
United States, on account of such services.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Distri& of MissourL
An action was instituted in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Missouri, by the United States against
VOL. 'V"" 2 F
43

338

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v.The United State]

Charles Gratiot, late Ch* f Engineer, to recover a sum of money
alleged to have been received by him, "as Chief Engineer," to
the use of the United States. The defendant pleaded non assumpsit, and a set-off; and the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff for thirty-one thousand and fifty-six dollars and ninety-three
cents, under the charge of the Court. The defendant tendered
four bills of exceptions, and prosecuted this writ of error; a judgment having been given by the Court for the amount of the
verdict.
The plea ot set-off was as follows: the defendant says the
United States ought not to have and maintain the action against
him, b.ecause at. the commencement of the suit, and still, the
United States were and are indebted to him a large sum of
money, exceeding. the amount claimed by them, for work,
labour, care, diligence, and responsibility by him before the
commencement of the suit, done and performed, in and about
the affairs of the plaintiff, at the request of the United States,
and for performing the duties of agent for fortifications at Fortress
Monroe and Fort Calhoun, two fortifications of the United
States, for ten years; and for disbursing and expending in the
construction of the fortifications to the amount of three millions
of dollars; and for receiving and disbursing a large sum of
money in and about the repairs and contingencies of fortifications; and for work and labour, care, diligence, skill, and responsibility, done and incurred about the civil works of internal
impr.vement of the United States, not pertaining to his ordinary
and regular duties as Chief Engineer of the United States.
The evidence offered to the jury by the plaintiffs, was two documents, purporting to be "Transcripts of the Treasury," and duly
certified, the last of which exhibited a balance charged against
the defendant, of twenty-nine thousand, two hundred and ninetytwo dollars, and thirteen cents. This transcript also contained
a statement of the claims of the defendant against the United
States, whicl had been presented to the Treasury, and disallowed.
Among the claims so presented, and in part disallowed, were the
following:
For disbursing $603,727 42, on account of Fort
Calhoun, from the 13th November, 1821, to 30th

September, 1829, being 2879 days, at $2 per day,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

339

[Gratiot v. The United States.]

being. less -than two and a half per cent. on the
amount disbursed, as allowed by the regulations
of the army, to an officer disbursing at a fortification,
For disbursing $848,718 80, on account of Fort
Monroe, during the same period, 2879 days, at
$2 per day,
.

$.5,758

5,756

11,516
For disbursing $33,447 26, on accQunt of contingencies of fortifications at 21 per cent., as authorized by regulations above referred to, .
836 18
This sum for extra services, in conducting the affairs
connected/with the civil works of internal improvements carried on by the United States, and
referred to the Engineer Department for execution,
and which did not constitute any part-of his duties
as a military officer, from the 1st day of August,
1828, to the 6th day of December, 1838, inclusive,
ten years and one hundred and twenty-eight days,
at $3,600 per annum, that being the pay granted
to John S. Sullivan, David Shriver, James Geddes,
and Nathan S. Roberts, Esqrs., civil engineers,
employed under the act of 30th April, 1824, entitled, "an act to procure the necessary surveys,
plans, and estimates upon the subject of roads
and canals-"
.
$37,262 46
The said transcripts showed, that of the two first items of claim
above mentioned, the sum of five thousand seven hundred and
fifty-eight dollars was disallowqd by said accounting officers, and
that the like sum of five thousand seven hundred and fifty-eight
dollars was allowed.to said defendant, for the said disbursments,
at the rate of one dollar per day, for each of said forts, Monroe
and Calhoun, for the time. specified in the defendant's claim.
After the plaintiffs had closed their evidence, the defendant
(relying on the plaintiff's evidence to show the claims he had
presented to the Treasury Department, as matters of set-off, and
which had been disallowed by said Department,.so as to let in
his evidence as to the pay) was proceeding to offer evidence in

SUPREME COURT.
EGratiot v. The! United States.]

support of the cleirns presented and disallowed, as above specified, when the District Attorney, on the part of the plaintiffs,
moved the Court to exclude all evidence which the defendant
might offer in support of the items of claim above specified and
disallowed; which motion was by the Court sustained: and the
Court refused to permit the defendant to give any evidence in
support of the disallowed items of claim above specified. The
defendant excepted.
The transcripts also showed the'objections, by the auditor, to
the charge of thirty-seven thousand two hundred and sixty-two
dollars, and forty-six cents. They were:"This is a new claim, now for the first time presented by
General Gratiot.
Lieutenant Colonel Gratiot, of the .orps
of engineers, was made a full colonel on the 24th May, 1828,
and on the 30th of July, 1828, assumed his station, as chief of
the corps of engineers, at the seat of government, as required by
the general regulations of the army, of 1825. Art. 67, par. 887,
directs "that the chief of the corps of engineers shall be stationed
at the seat of government, and shall direct and regulate the duties
of the corps of engineers, and those also of such of the topographical engineers, as may be attached to the Engineer Department, and shall also be the inspector of the Military Academy,
and be charged with its correspondence."
888. "The duties of the Engineer Department comprise reconnoitring and surveying for military purposes, and for internal
impro.vements, together with the collection and preservation of
topographical and -geographical memoirs and drawings referring
-to those objects," &c. "Also the superintendence of the ,execu-.
tion of the acts of Congres in relation to internal improvements,
by roads and canals, the navigation of rivers, and the repairs
and improvements connected with the harbours of the United
States, or to the entrance into the same, which may be authorized
by acts of Congress, with the execution of which the War Department may be charged."
By these regulations, it is made the express duty of the chief
of the corps of engineers to superintend the execution of the acts
of Congress in relation to all works of internal improvement, and
it does not appear in these or any subsequent regulations, or in
any of the acts of Congress authorizing works of internal im-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

341

[Gratiot v. The United States.]

provement, that any extra allowance was ever made, or contemplated to be made to the chief of the corps. of engineers, for extra
services, nor can the services here charged f6r, be deemed extra,
when, by the regulations in force before and at the time of his
assuming the duties of his office, were in part the very duties he
was, by his appointment, directed to perform; and, further, on
the 26th March, 1829, Col. Gratiot received a brevet of brigadier
general, to take effect fron the day that he received his promotion as colonel, on the 24th May, 1828, and with it all .the pay
and emoluments of a brigadier general, besides' dof'ble rations
allowed to him, in consequence of his promotion and residence
at the seat of government. The brevet rank was unquestionably
conferred upon Gen. Gratiot in consequence of his new command
as chief of the corps of engineers, to whom was confiaed the
superintendence of all works of internal improvement, as appears
by the regulation before mentioned; and in that way was he
compensated for all the duties he was required to .perform. On
the 30th June, 1831, the Secretary of War established a separate
bureau for the topographibal departmen'., and directed a transfer
from the office of the Chief Engineer, of the correspondence connected with the topographical, department, to that bureau; thus
relieving the chief of the Engineer Department from the direction
and superintendence of ail that portion of duty which, by the
regulations of 1825, above recite., he was charged with.
The cases cited by Gen. Gratiot, of pay granted- to John S.
Sullivan, David Shriver, James Geddes, and Nathan S. Roberts,
civil engineqrs, are by no means analogous to his claim; they
were civil engineers, appointed by the Secretary of War, in virtue of an act of Congress, and charged with the performance of
certain specific duties, and for which they .were paid, out of an
appropriation for that purpose, a compensation fixed by the
Secretary of War.; they held no military rank', nor received
compensation from the Government, in any other capacity, or
for any other service. Not so with Gen. Gratiot- he was an
oficer of the army, exercising a position as chief-of the corps of
engireers, and in virtue of which had received the brevef rank
of brigadier general, and the pay and emoluments of his brevet,
besidd double rations. It is fair to presume that the brevet was
'conferred, in part, in consequence cf the increased number of
2 r2

SUPREME COURT.
[Grafiot v. The United States.]

persons and the importance of the works under his charge, produced in a great measure by the appointment o Civil Engineers
and their attendants; besides, the ttci of the 3d March, 1835, expressly prohibits any extra allowalee whatsoever, to any officer
of thp army. See act entitled "an act making additional appropriations for the Delaware breakwater, and for certain harbours,
and removing obstructions in and at the mouths of certain rivers,
for the year 1S35."
The defendant's second bill of exceptions, was to the refusal of
the Court to charge the jury, that the United States were not
'entitled to recover in the action, for any public money received
by the defendant, in any other capacity or office, than that of
"Chief Engineer;" and secondly, that three items in one of the
Treasury transcripts, charged against the defendant, as "General
Charles Gratiot," were not evidence of money had, and received by the defendant, to the use of the plaintiff. 'They
were:
To requisition No. 4,476, dated 17th November,
- $20,000 0b
1835, on account fort at Grand Terre, December,
21st
To requisition No. 4,575, dated
30,000 00
1835, on account fort at Grand Terre,
To requisition No. 4,728, dated 26th January,
.1836, on account Fort Columbus, and Castle
. 3,000 00
.
.
.
Williams,
.
47,956 62
.
-.
Fort at Throg's Neck,
$100,956 62
The Court refused the instructions; being of opinion "that the
defendint is charged by the declaration, with moneys received
by him, while acting in the capacity of chief engineer, but the
United States have not introduced any evidence, save the two
Treasury transcripts, to sustain the declaration. By these, it
appears that the sums claimed of the defendant, were placed in
his hands as Chief Engineer, in 1835, to be expended in works at
Grand Terre, in. Louisiana; about thirty thousand dollars "of
which had been retained. The balance due from the defendant,
when he was appointed Chief Engineer, was carried to his account, at and after that date, and became part thereof; and wss afterwards extinguished,and he fully credited; that is. in 1838. The

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

343

[Grztiot v. The United States.]
instruction asked, was therefore refused; because there is no
subject matter growing out of the plaintiffs evidence, to which
the instruction could apply, if given."
The defendant's third bill of exceptions was to the refusal of
the Court to allow evidence offered by him to be given to the
jury, being the depositions of witnesses, with the documents
annexed to the same respectively, (which depositions, and doca•ments are hereinafter set out,) for the purpose of proving, that
he had rendered services to the United States, over and above
t:ie ordinary and regular duties of his office; and the value of
such extra services, and the established usage and practice of the
government, in allowing to engineers, and other officers, their
claims for extra compensation for like services; to the reading
of which, in Lvidence, the District Attorney,, on behalf of the
United States, objected, alleging that the same was incompetent
and irrelevant; and waived all objection to the regularity of the
taking of said testimony, the same having been taken by the
consent of parties; and it being admitted by the defendant, that
the services renrdered by him for the United States, which he intended to prove, by said depositions and documents, and for
which, he claimed extra compensation, were the same services
for which he claimed an allowance, by the accounting officers
,f the Treasury Department, which claims ha& been presented
and disallowed, as appears by the Treasury transcripts given in
evidence by the plaintiff, and made part of the -first bill of exceptions. Which objection so made by the District Attorney,
was sustained by the Court.
The defendant's fourth bill of exceptions was, that the defendant moved the Court to instruct the jury that: 1-2. The Treasury transcripts given in evidence, were defective and illegal, and
did not prove the plaintiff's demand, as stated in the declaration ,
and put in issue.
3. That the items charged against the defendant as Chief Engineer, in the Treasury transcript, marked A, which has been given
in evidence and stated as follows, (which see in said transcript:)
"1829, Aug. 18. To balance on settlement, No. 8,879,
- $8,086 61
on account of fortifications,
continOn account of repairs and
11 6322 44
..
gencies, .

344

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

1829, Aug. 22. To balance on settlement, No. 8,903,
on account of Fort Calhoun, - 42,751 13
On account of Fort Monroe, = = 12)604 12"
being charges in gross, without the items, going to show said
balances are not competent evidence to charge the defendant in
this action.
4. That the plaintiff cannot recover in this action against the
defendant, in any character or office, other than that of Chief
Engineer.
5. That the defendant is not chargeable in this action, with
any public moneys received by him in any other capacity than
as Chief Engineer; and the accounting officers of the Treasury
Department ought not to blend in the same account charges
against him as Chief Engineer, and as an engineer officer superintending the construction of Forts Monroe and Calhoun; and
that the said accounting officeis had no legal right, without the
consent of the defendant first had, to extinguish the balance re-.
ported against him in the account now before the jury, on account ,of his superintendency of the construction of said Forts
Monroe and Calhoun, by setting off against that reported balance,
the amount due to the defendant for his pay and emoluments as
a general of the army, and while he was. Chief Engineer, the
payment of which pay and emoliments hadbeen stopped; but
that he has now the right to claim it as a credit upon, or set-off
against the claim preferred against him as Chief Engineer, if it
appear on the Treasury transcript aforesaid, before the jury, that
the pay and emoluments aforesaid have been allowed or credited
to him by the accounting officers of the Treasury, but never actually paid to him.
The Court refused to give the first, third, and fifth instruction
as moved for; gave the second instruction as moved, and also
gave the fourth instruction, with a qualification in the following
words in writing: "Given with .this explanation, that it appears
from the account A, that the indebtment, the defendant is charged
yith, is for moneys received by him as Chief Engineer." The
defendant excepted.
The case was argued by Mr. Brent, and Mr. Jones, for +he
plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General, for
the United States.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

345

[Gratiot v. The United States.]
For the plaintiff in error it was contended,
1st. That the Court erred in refusing to allow the items set-off
in the appellant's account, and disallowed by the accounting
officer of the treasury, to go to the jury, as proper matters of setoff to the plaintiff's demand; as pleaded by the appellant in his
plea of set-off, on which the plaintiffs took issue.
2d. That there was error in the refusal to allow the appellant
to give evidence in support of his claims as a set-off; and which
claims had been presented to, and disallowed by, the proper
accounting officer of the Treasury.
3d. That there was error in permitting certain items nzfmed in
the second bill of exceptions to be given in evidence by the
United States in this suit; and, also, in refusing to instruct the
jury, that the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover moneys received by the appellant in another capacity or office than that of
Chief Engineer.
4th. That the Court erred in rejecting the evidence contained
in the third and fourth bills of exceptions.
5. That there was error in not giving the first, third, and, fifth
instructions; and in giving the explanation and qualification in
the fourth exception, asked by the plaintiff in error.
6th. That there was error in admitting the Treasury transcripts
in evidence; the same not being such as the law requires to make
them evidence for the United States.
Mr. Brent and Mr. Jones, for the plaintiff in error, contended
that the services required by law from the Chief Engineer, were
different from those required from officers of the army. 7 Laws
U. S. 487. 575. 8 Laws U. S. 575. 338. 288. 492, 493. 635. 811.
9 Laws U. S. 98, 99. 248.
Having shown that by no laws of the United States the duties
perforrmed by General Gratiot were required, aid that the services were extra official; they contended that there were no army
regulations which imposed upon that officer those duties. The
army regulations did not apply to the Chief Engineer.
If any of those regulations can be construed to apply -to the
Chief Engineer, they were never sanctioned by the President of
the United States. They were violations of the Constitution,
which gives to Congress, alone, the power to establish army regulations. They could not, therefore, be valid.
44

346

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

The reasoning of the Auditor, whoa he rejected the claims of
General Gratiot, was not warranted by the facts in the case;
nor by the facts alleged by him on *'vhich he drew his conclusions. The brevet rank bonferred on General Gratiot, had no
connexion with the services performed by him. If the reasons
for the rejection of the claim, and the facts on which they rest
are not correct, the claim should be sustained.
The evidence which was offered on the part of the plaintiff in
error, in the Circuit Court, was entirely proper. It went to show
the equitable circumstances under which the claim for compensation was made, and the general practice of the department to
make such allowances. This course has been sanctioned by
this Court; in the cases of The United States v. M'Daniel; The
United States v. Fillebrown; and The United States v. Ripley,
in I Peters.
The irregularity of the transcript, as evidence, to charge General Gratiot with money paid to him not as Chief Engi leer, is
shown by the decision of this Court, in the case of The United
States v. Orr, 6 Peters, 375.
The question under the exception to the regularity of this
evidence, is, primarily, one of variance between the proof and the
declaration. The declaration charges the receipt of money to
General Gratiot in a particular capacity, as Chief Engineer.
The money was not so received, and is not so charged in the
second transcript. It could not, therefore, be evidence.
The principle of law is well established, that although an
averment may not be necessary, yet, when it is made, it must
be fulfilled. This is the law; while it would have been different
had there been a general averment, yet, when a particular one
is made, it must be supported by evidence.
The proposition of the Attorney General is, that if the services,
for which charges are made by General Gratiot, were extra, all
that, he did was part of the duties attached to his office as Chief
Engineer. If this is correct, the allowances which have been
made at the department to engineers and officers of the topographical corps, must be declared incorrect. So, too, allowances
which have been made to the highest officers of the government;
as to the Attorney General of the United States, when performing the duties of Secretary at War. Evidence of these allow-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

347

[Gratiot v. The United States.]

ances was offere,., but was excluded by the ruling of the Circnit
Court. Cited 4 Story's Law.s of the United States, 2372. P-404,
as to extra compensation for repairing roads by the military.
As to the claims for compensation for disbursements at Fortress
Monroe, and Fort Calhoun, the counsel contended that the
establishments were distinct; the services were distinct; and the
responsibility separate and indupendent; whethei performed by
one person or by two, they were e4ually the subject of distinct
compensation. The accounts were separately kept, and adjusted
by settlements at the Treasury. The allowance to the same officer
has been made by the Treasury as claimed by General Gratiot,
as is fully shown by the evidence rejected by the Circuit Court.
The counsel .for the plaintiff in error also submitted to the
Court, as part of their argument, the opinions of counsel on the
claims rejected by the Treasury. These opinions were as follow.
Mr. Jones, in his opidion stated :-2. Compensation for "extra
services" connected with the practical execution of certain
works of internal improvement, provided for by acts of Congress.
The services for which compensation is claimed, under this
head, werd clearly extra-official, without having any stated compensation appointed for them by law; they weie such,,as the
government might have'employed and paid any private ifidividual to perform. That any officer, no matter what his denomination or rank, civil or military, who is employed by the government to perform such services, is entitled'to 'such realsonable compensation, over and above his official salary or pay, as any private
individual might have claimed if employed to perform the same
services; and that the rate and amount of his compensation are
to be liquidated by such standards of value or merit, and according to such usages in similar lines of business, as in transactions
between private individuals, has all been long and conclusively
settled by the most unquestionable precedent and auth6rity.
The act of Congress (30th April, 1824) directing certain surveys, &c., and assigninig certain duties, in execution of the act.
to "officers of the corps of engineers," does not include in
those duties any part of the services for which General Gratiot
chims compensation. That act neither directs nor authorizes
the execution of any work of internal improvement whatever;
it merely takes certain preparatory steps, and provides for col-

SUPREME COURT,
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

lecting such information as may enable Congress, at some future
time, and by subsequent and independent legislation, to judge
of the expediency of setting on foot such works, and of providing for their execution; and with that view, it authorizes the
President to cause "surveys, plans, and estimates to be made of
the routes of such roads and canals as he may deem of national
importance ;" it also authorizes him to employ officers of engineers, or other persons, in preparing these materials for future
legislation. The results of these preliminary investigations are
required by the act to be reported to Congress; they were so
reported; and it then remained for Congress alone, at some
future time, to provide for the execution of such of the works
as those results mayhave shown to be practicable and expedient.
Tith the execution of these "surveys, plans, and estimates," the
entire execution of the directions and purposes of the act of Congress was completed, and all" the duties assigned by the act to
officers of the engineer corps were executed and determined.
When Congress did afterwards provide, by substantive acts of
legislation, for the construction of any of these works, without
assigning any further duties to officers of the engineer corps,
such officers had no official concern whatever,with those works;
the works were to be carried! on exclusively by civil, not by
military means and instruments. Of course, when the government employed any officer of the corps in any branch of the
business connected with the practical execution of the works, it
was an employment purely extra-official; for which he was just
as well entitled to extra-official compensation, and to the same
rule and rate of compensation, as if he had not been clothed
with any official character."
Mr. Binney:-I have considered the questions discussed in
General Jones's opinion, and as, upon his statement of General
Gratiot's claims I agree in all points, it might be sufficient to
express my assent generally; but I think that ail additional remark will be found to fortify General Jones's interpretation of
the Army Regulations of 1821 ; the part of the case which appears to present the greatest difficulty.
The objection to General Gratiot's claim to distinct compensation for distinct services in disbursing money for Fortress Monroe, and also for Fortress Calhoun, seems, while the Army

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

349

[Gratiot v. The United States.]

Regulations of 1821 applied to the case, to rest upon the suggestion that he was performing the duties of but one agent, and
therefore was entitled only to two dollars per diem for the Wahole
collective service: that he was substituted by the 14th section
of article 67, for an officer who is spoken of as an agent for
fortifications, and was not to be substituted except wlere there
was "no agent for fortifications ;" and, therefore, that being
substituted for the performance of a general'or collective service,
the two dollars per diem is all that he could claim, whether he
performed the agent's duties at one or at ten fortifications.
This is a question of interpretation of the 14th clause of the
67th article.
The remark I have to make is, that the Army Regulations of
1821 do not speak of any such officer as an agent for fortifications generally and collectively. The 7th section of the 67th
article says:-" there shall be appointed As many agents for
fortifications as the service may require." They might be one,
or one hundred in number, according to the necessities of the
service; but from the nature of the duties assigned to them by
the Army Regulations, they must have been agents for. some
fortification or fortifications in particular, and not for two or
more jointly or generally. Two, or any other number of fortifications, might have been placed by the Department under the
agericy of the same person, and he might by agreement have
received one compensation for the performance of his duties at
all the posts; but the agency for each would have been, by its
prescribed duties, a separate agency for each, and not a joint cr
collective agency for the whole.
This is shown by all the sections of article 67, from the 7t1
to the 13th inclusive; for, although they speak of agents and
fortifications in the plural, they do so with reference to duties of
disbursing and accounting, which necessarily belong to the agent
in regard to each fortification separately, and not to two or more
fortifications jointly. It is out of the question to suppose that the
Army Regulations meant to authorize or to require the blending
in one account of the disbursements, the articles purchased, the
labourers employed, and the abstracts made out, for two or more
fortifications jointly; the appropriations, which are for fortificaVOL. XV.-2 G

350

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

tions separately, would all be confounded by it; and if this was
not intended, then they meant to regard the duty of disbursing
and accounting as a separate service in regard to each fortification; and it is so to be understood throughout, notwithstanding
the use of the word fortifications in the plural.
It follows that this word, wherever it is found in this part of
the Army Regulations of 1821, is to be considered as used distributively, and not collectively, as comprehending two or more
fortresses within the limits of a joint duty.
When the 14th section declares that "where there is no agent
for fortifications," the superintending officer shall -perform the
duties of an. agent, it consequently does not mean that where
there is no agent having the collective duty of disbursing for all
fortifications, the superintending officer shall perform that collective duty; but using the word distributively, it means to say that
where there is no agent for a fortification to be constructed, the'
superintending officer shall perform the duties of agent in regard
to the fortification in question : and when it says, that as a compensation for the performance of that extra duty he will be
allowed, for moneys expended by him in the construction of
" fortifications," at the rate of two dollars per diem, it means to
use the word with the same effect, and to give the compensation
as distributively as the service.
If this be not so, the superintending officer would be entitled
to nothing for moneys expended by him in the construction of.a
single fortification. The word is "fortifications," and if it is to be
understood only of more than one, thefi nothing is to be allowed
for one; and if it is to be understood of one or more, then it is
to be understood of each one as a separate service and duty, as
it is before described ;" and the compensation hllowed- for te
service must be separate also.. If the superintending officer is
required by his superior to undertake the duty of agent for
Fortress A to day, and for Fortress B to-morrow, and for Fe tress
C the'next day, and all these duties were prosecuted for roars,
they are not one collective service, but three separate seriices;
and it is the same thing if all are ordered and begun on thesame day. They would be separate agencies, though but one
'agent performed the whole, and he rd-ceived but one general

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

351

[Gratiot v. The United States.]

compensation; and the account of the appropriations for the
three fortresses would not be truly kept, unless the general compensation was duly apportioned among them.
This I conceive is the effect of the Army Regulations of 1821,
as it more plainly is of the Regulations of 1825. Each fortifi'cation is separate in appropriation, separate in disbursement, and
separate in agency. It is meant also to be separate in compensation for agency. It might not be material to the agent or to
the Department, that the compensation -should be separately
estimated for each forLification of two or more confided to the
same agent: though,as I have said, I do not see how the appropriation can be truly accounted for except by a due apportionment of the aggregate compensation among the several fortifications. But when a specific compensation is allowed, reason and
justice require that it should have reference to a specific or
definite service; and hence, in the case of such a compensation,
thevery limitation enters into the interpretation of the clause.
What is the service intended to be compensated by two dollars
per diem? Is it the definite service of disbursing for one fortification, or the variable but always increasing service of disbuirsing for from one to ten? If it be the latter, there are gross
inconveniences, which are not to be encountered, Ulnless clear
language requires it. If it be the former, the interpretation
becdmes the more reasonable, from its just and reasonable consequences. The prescribed compensation, therefore, sustains the
interpretation that the service referred to was separate and distinct for each fortification, as the separate nature of the service
sustains the interpretation, that the prescribed compensation was
to be allowed in as many instances as there should be fortifications to be superintended.
Upon the other points of General Jones's opinion it is unnecessary for me to make a remark. I concur with him in all
points. Since the cases of The United States v. M'Daniel, the
same v. Fillebrown, and the same v. Ripley, reported in 7 Peters,
it is not to be doubted that an officer of the United States, performing, under the lawful sanction of a Department, extra services, which do not come within the line of his official duty, is
entitled to an allowance, to be graduated by the amount paid
for like services under similar circumstances."

352

SUPREME COURT.
(Gratiot v. The United States.)

Mr. GILPiN;the Attorney General, for the United States.
On the 2d of March, 1819, the plaintiff, then an officer of engineers in the army of the United States, was ordered to Old
Point Comfort, to take charge of the works there building, at the
two fortifications, Fort Monroe and Fort Calhoun. These works
form part of a united system of defence for Hampton Roads;
and are separated by a channel or arm of the sea, about a mile
wide. On the sth of November, 1S21, the disbursing agent then
at the post was removed, and the plaintiff was directed to "take
upon himself the disbursements of the public money, agreeably
to the regulations for the government of the Engineer Department ;" which he did. Until the 30th of June, 1825, he rendered his regular quarterly accounts, and charged and received
credit for two dollars per diem, as his compensation for these disbursements. He kept separate heads of account, for the disbursements at Fort Monroe, and at Fort Calhoun. In his quarterly account, rendered on the 30th of September, 1825, he foz
the first time charged four dollars per diem, being a separate
compensation of two dollars, for the disbursements at each work.
The second per diem was disallowed at the Treasury. On the
1st of August, 1828, the plaintiff became Chief Engineer, and
removed to Washington; but continued in charge of the works
at Old Point Comfort, until the 30th of September, 1829. In his
final account then rendered, he charged a second per diem from
November, 1821, amounting to five thousand seven hundred
and fifty-eight dollars, which, on its settlement at the Treasury,
was disallowed, together with some otfier items, amounting to
three thousand two hundred dollars and ninety.one cents, and
making together eight thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight
dollars and ninety-one cents. This balance remained unpaid;
and on the 26th of March, 1833, the plaintiff presented a new
account as "agent of fortifications at Forts Monroe and Calhoun." In this he relinquished both per diem allowances, and
made one general charge of one per cent. commission, from November, 1821, to September, 1829. This was also disallowed
at the Treasury.
On the 30th of June, 1834, Congress made an appropriation
of fifty thousand dollars, for "a fort at Grand Terre." The
whole of this sum was drawn from the Treasury by General

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

353

[Gratiot v. The United States,]

Gratiot, as Chief Engineer, in November, and IDecember, 1835.
On the 6th of October, 1836, he repaid int6 the Treasury fifteen
thousand dollars thereof, retaining thirty-five thousand dollars,
in addition to the balance of eight thousand nine hundred and
fifty-eight dollars and ninety-one cents, charged,- against him for
the disbursements at Old Point Comfort.
On the 1st of April, 1836, the pay and allowances to which
General Gratiot was entitled, were stopped; and the amount
thereof directed to be appropriated to the extinguishment of his
debt to the United States. On the 15th of December, 1838, his
accounts were again adjusted. The sums stopped from his pay
and allowances, to the amount of eight thousand nine hundred
and fifty-eight dollars and ninety-one cents, were applied so as*
entirely to extinguish the balance charged against him for disbursements at Old Point Comfort. He was also credited with a
sum of one thousand eight hundred and five dollars and eight
cents, which he had disbursed for the fort at Grand Terre, and
with one thousand five hundred and twenty dollars and fortyseven cents, stopped from his pay and allowances, which reduced
the balance due from him, to thirty-one thousand six hundred
and seventy-four dollars and forty-five cents. This was further
reduced, on account of allowances for transportation, expenses
of some journeys, and other -items, by the sum of two thousand
three hundred and eighty-two dollars and thirty-two cents,
leaving in his hands, unexpended and unaccounted for, of the
thirty-five thousand dollars drawni fron the Treasury, for the
fort at Grand Terre, the sum of twenty-nine thousand two
hundred and ninety-two dollars and thirteen cents.
As an offset to this, General Gratiot, on the I1th of.January,
1839, presented a new account at the Treasury, in which he renewed his first claim of five thousand seven hundred and fifty-.
eight dollars, for a second per diem, for disbursements at Old
Point Comfort; and added thereto a claim of eight hundred
and sixteen dollars and eighteen cents, being a commission of
two and a half per cent. on disbursements made by him, of" contingencies for fortifications;" and also a claim of thirty-seven
thousand two hundred and sixty-two dollars and forty-four cents,
as compensation for extra services, in conducting works of civil
engineering, from 1828 to 1838, at the rate of three thousand
2G 2
45

354

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

six hundred dollars per annum, in addition to his pay. These
claims, which would, if allowed, have extinguished the balance
against him, and left the United States largely in debt to him,
were'disallowed at the Treasury.
In February, 1839, a suit was brought against him by the
United States, in the Circuit Court, for the District of Missouri.
It was tried in April, 1840, and resulted in a verdict in favour
of the United States, for thitty-one thousand and fifty-six dollars
and ninety-three cents. On the trial, the only evidence given by
the United States, was a Treasury transcript, containing the accounts and settlements made at the Treasury, with the claims of
General Gratiot, ahd the grounds of their disallowance. He
offered, on his part, certain documentary evidence, with a view
to sustain the three items of his claim foi set-off,' but it was entirely rejected by the Court. Four bills of exceptions were
sealed by the Court, at the request of the defendant; but they
embrace substantially only the two questions, whether the Court
properly admitted the Treasury transcript, as evidence to sustain
the demand of the United States; and whether it properly
rejected the evidence offered by the defendant below, with a view
to sustain his set-off. These also form the entire ground of the
present proceedings in error.
I. There were four objections taken to the Treasury transcript;
that it did not show that the balance demanded was, as stated in
the declaration, for moneys received by the defendant, "as Chief
Engineer ;" that it charged him, not with moneys received, but
merely with "requisitions" therefor; that it set out "balances"
due, without the items of which they were composed; and that
it credited his account for disbursements, as an agent of fortifications, with the pay and allowances subsequently accruing to him
as Chief Engineer.
1. The slightest examination of the Treasury transcript, or
'of the state of the accounts of General Gratiot, shows that, in
point of fact, no money was sued for, except what was received
by him as Chief Engineer. The balance of eight thousand nine
hundred and fifty-eight dollars and ninety-one cents, due on account of his disbursements at Old Point Comfort, was entirely
extinguished on the settlement of his account in December, 1838.
The only sum remaining then in his hands, was that drawn by

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

355

[Gratiot v. The United Sttes.]

him from the Treasury, as Chief Engineer, to apply to the erection of the fort at Grand Terre. That the United States bad a
right thus to extinguish the balance first accruing by applying to
it the first moneys received from the debtor,.is too clear- to be
contested. The whole account was solely between these two
parties; no one but themselves was affected by, or interested in
the settlement; no objection was made by General Gratiot, at
the time; there was no request for any different application of
the moneys. The propriety, therefore, of extinguishing the first
debt, cannot be doubted. United States v. January, 7 Cranch,
572. United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheaton, 720. Cremerv.
Higginson, I Mason, 323. United Statelv. Wardwell, 5 Mason,
87. Armstrong v. United States, Peters's C. C. R. '46. Postmaster General v. Norvell, Gilpin, 125. 132. The first debt being
extinguished, all that was sued for was a debt incurred as Chief
Engineer, as set out in the declaration. The Treasury transcript
shows it to be money drawn on his own requisition, "as Chief
Engineer." This answers the objection; but even if all this did
not appear by the Treasury transcript, his mere receipt of the
money which is sued for, from the Treasury, while he was
Chief, Engineer, would sustain the declaration. In the case of
the United States v. Walton, 9 Wheaton, 651, this Court held a
declaration against the defendant, as an individual, to be sustained by a Treasury transcript against him as a Receiver; and say
tlfiat the evidence of moneys received in the latter capacity, is
sufficient. The reverse holds equally good. Where there are no
third parties interested, proof of the receipt of the money for the
use of the plaintiff is safficient. So in the.case of Smith v.'The
United States, 5 Peters, 302, this Court say, that official transactions are evidence of official character; and in that of the United
States v. Buford, 3 Peters, 28, they held, that the mere fact of
public money being paid by one officer to another, is proof that
the payment was received by the latter in his existing official
capacity. On the same principle, the payment of money from
the Treasury to General Gratiot, while he was Chief Engineer,
sustains the declaration, without further proof.
2. An examination of the Treasury transcript will also show
that General Gratiot was not charged, as is alleged, with "requisitions.", It is, on the contrary, a general account for "moneys

856

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

advanced." The requisitions, under which each item-of.advance
is made, are, indeed, separately stated; and the general object
of them is not repeated; had it been, the objection could not
have been made. It depends, therefore, on no -actual error -in
the account; no false or indistinct charge; but is a mere matter
of form, in which it would seem that the ugage of the accounting
officers is altogether the more simple and correct. There is no
similarity whatever with the case of an account; held by this
Court to be insufficient, (United States, v. Jones, 8 Peters' Rep.
381,) whicl charges an officer with "orders" or "bills of exchange," without the production of, or further evidence in regard
to those, instruments. It does not follow, in such cases, that the
payment is justly chargeable by the United States to the officer.
That must depend on the nfature of the order, or*the bill of exchange. But an advance of money from the Treasury to a
disbursing officer, on his own requisition, is evidence that it
was money received by him for the use of the United States.
3. It is not denied that a Treasury transcript, charging an
officer with "balances" in gross, and not stating the items which
compose them, is insufficient evidence. Unquestionably, it must
contain a full statement of the items of the account so as to
exhibit every credit; and every charge necessary to enable the
jury to do entire justice between the parties. United States v.
Jones, 8 Peters, 383. Now, in all this series of accounts betweein the United States and General Gratiot, it never has been
allegesl that a single erroneous charge has been made against
him, or that any credits have been refused him, except those
-which are contested in this suit, not upon any ground of
error in fact, but merely as to their legal propriety. "His
own balance, as set but in the statement of differences annexed to the transcript, agrees with that of the United States,'
if the items contested on legal grounds shall be admitted. If,
-therefore, the Treasury transcript did not contain all the items
-wnich compose any of the balances, it is evident that no injustice
would have been done thereby to General Gratiot, in presenting
his case to the jury. But, not resting upon this ground, the fact
is, that the transcript does coritain every item of whini these
balances are composed- It only requires an exairinatipn of the
transcript to see that there is a complete and detailed account of.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

$

[Gratiot v. The United States.]

every charge and credit; and the balances objected to are
merely rests in the account, during its progress, and when different
settlements were made. Taking the whole transcript together,
(which must be done, unless each successive settlement is to
embrace all the details of the previous one,) it is plain that every
item is to be found from first to last.
4. The objection that the pay and allowances of General
4Gratiot, which were stopped after the 1st of April, 1836, should
have been applied to the reduction of the balance due from. him
for the money drawn from the Treasury, for the fort at Grand
Terre, and not to the extinguishment of the balance due on his
account for disbursements at Old Point Comfort,is abswered by the
observations made in reply to the first objection to the transcript.
The appliration of the moneys coming into the hands of the
Urited Statds from their debtor, and not appropriated by him, is
to be made in such manner as they deem expedient. There was
no objection by General Gratiot to this mode of -appropriation;
the money received had no relation to the one debt more than.
to the Qther; the right sic tb appropriate, which was clearly vested
in the United States, as creditors, was not affected or controlled
by any circumstance, equitable or legal.
IL The principal ground on which it is sought to reverse the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Missouri, is the rejection, by the
Court, of evidence offered by the defendant below to sustain his
plea of set-off. Now it is not denied by the plaintiff in error, that
the sole object of this evidence was to ;upport those identical
claims, and no others, which, as to their nature and amount, were
set out in the Treasury transcriptthat was in evidence and went
before the jury. It is admitted, on our part, that, if the Court
rejected evidence of any fact which was a legal grourd of set-offi
or credit, they erred. The question, therefore, resolves itself into,
the inquiry, whether the particular items of claim, as set out in
the Treasury transcript, were, if proved, a legal ground of offset
by General Gratiot against the United States. The items are
three in number. The first is a claim for fiv6 thousand" seven
hundred and fifty-eight dollars for a second per diem allowance
for the disbursements made at Old Point Comfort. The second
is a clainrfor eight hundred and sixteen dollars and eighteen cents
.for disbursing" contingencies of fortifications." The third is a

358

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

claim for three thousand six hundred dollars per annum, in addition to his pay, during the whole time he was Chief Engineer,
for services in conducting -works of ivil engineering. It is submitted that each of these claims is contrary to law; and, therefore, that the Court properly refused to receive any evidence to
support them.
1. The plaintiff in error took the direction, as an officer of engineers, of the fortifications at Old Point Comfort. While there,
he became the disbursing officer, in place of the agent of fortifications. He took exactly the place of that agent. It was his duty
to do so. The regulations 6f the army required it; and those regulations were made in. pursuance of law, and constituted a legal
obligation. 2 Story's Laws, 1000. 1312. 3 Story's Laws, 1576.
1811. 1852. Had they not been recognised by law, it would
have been properly within the power and authority of the War
Department to make them. 71,Peters, 14. These regulations
prescribed the duty, and fixed the compensation. This duty
was, to take the place of the "agent of fortifications." "Where
there is no agent for fortifications, the superintending officer shall
perform the duties of agent; and while performing 'such duties,
the rules and'regulations for the government of such agents shall
be applicable to him." Army Regulations of 1821, Engineer
Department, art. 67. pp. 166, 167. This regulation was in force
when the plaintiff in error commenced perfonming the duties of
the agent of fortifications at Old Point Comfort. In 1825, while
he was still performing them, a new set of regulations was
adopted. They declared that "the engineer, superint3nding the
construction of a fortification will disburse the moneys applied
to the same." Army Regulations of 1825, par. 893, p. 170. The
compensation allowed to an agent of fortifications, was a commission of two and a half per cent. on the moneys he disbursed,
but he received no other pay or allowances. When his duties'
were assumed by an officer of the corps of engineers, that officer
was allowed to receive the same commissions, but as he received
also his pay and allowances as an officer of the army, their amount
was limited not to exceed two dollars a day. "As a compensation for the performance of that extra duty," say the Regulations
of 1821, p. 167, "he will be allowed for moneys expended by
him, in the construction of fortifications, at the rate of two dollars

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

359

[Gratiot V.The Unital Stats.]

per diem, during the continuance of such disbursements; provided
the whole amount of emolument shall not exceed two and a half.
per cent. on the sum expended:" and in those of 1825, p. iiO, it is.
said, "as a compensation for the performance of that extra duty,
he will be allowed at the rate of two dollars per diem, during the
continuance of such disbursements, provided the whole amount
of emoluments shall not exceed two and a half per cent.-on the
sum disbursed." It seems impossible to doubt the intention of
this provision; it was meant to substicute the engineer officer for
the agent. Col. Gratiot was to do exactly what the agent did;
fo that extra service, "the whole amount of his emoluments"
was not to exceed two dollars a day, in addition to his pay. If a
single agent had more than one work tinder his agency, and an
oficer was put in his place, then "the whole amount of his
additional emoluments" was allowed for the performance of this
additional duty. The plaintiff in error called himself the "agent
of fortifications." His extra duty was a single one; it was the
assumption of that discharged by the person whose place he
took; his allowance was a'commission, "during the continuance"
of that duty, of two and a half per cent., or of two dollars a day.
There is not a word to be found in the language or fair construction of the regulations, that indicates an intention to allow a single officer, charged with the same duty as a single agent, whose
place he takes, a double rate of compensation. It is, besides, a
per diem allowance; an allowance for the additional work "of
the day." This is not necessarily increased by the number of
contiguous works in charge of a single agent. Thus, at the
harbour of New York, in 1836, (9 Laws of United States, 458,)
there were three works in charge of ofie officer, for which Congress appropriatcd twenty thousand dollars; and, in the same
year, at the harbour of Newport, was one work in charge of ar
officer, for which they appropriated two hundred thousand dol]ars. Could it be intended that the former was to receive three
times the amount of extra compensation that the latter did, while
the amount of extra labour was only one tenth as much; and
when an "agent of fortifications," for whom each was substituted, would, at the latter place, have received ten times as much
as at the former? There would be neither reason nor justice in
such a constfuction. Besides, the uniform usage of the army

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

and the war department has been otherwise. General Macomb,
himself for a long while the Chief Engineer, and now at the'head
of the army, states the settled constrhction to have been but a
single allowance. -The testimony of the accounting officers,
offered by the plaintiff in error in the Court below, corroborates
that of General Macomb; and of numerous instances adduced,
where a single officer has had more than one fortification under
his charge, none are found, in which the double per diem allowance now claimed, has been made or sanctioned. The record
in this case shows, that between 1820 and 1838, more than thirteen millions of dollars were disbursed by officers of engineers
at various posts; it is well known that, at many of them, there
are several separate works contiguous to each other, and included
in a single superintendency. What stronger proof of a just as
well as a settled construction could be desired, than a uniform
practice through so long a period? The argument that the duties
of the agent are increased, because there are more works included
in his agency, is founded on an erroneous assumption of fact.
In the first place, if the amount of disbursement be not increased
by the additional number of works, (and, in many instances, as
we have seen, it is actually less,) there is, in reality, no increase
of labour; but, besides, the supposed multiplication of accounts
does not, as will be seen by the Treasury transcript, exist in
reality; the account of the agent is but a single one, merely designating,under separate heads, the placeof expenditure, in accordance with the designation of -the appropriation, as made by law.
2. The charge of two and a half per cent. commissions, for
disbursing contingepcies bf fortifications, i so clearly contrary to
law, that all e 4 idence to sustain it was properly rejected. Admitting the disbursement to have been made, as charged, such
an allowance, therefore, could not be lawfully claimed. The
army regulations, above referred to, declare that "the whole
amount of emoluments" is to be the per diem allowance of two
dollars; this is to be for the performance of the entire extra duti of disbursements; of course this charge of commission, in addition
to the per diem allowance, is directly contrary to the provisions
of these regulations; and they have the force and authority of
law, in regard to the subjects properly falling within their purview. If even the plaintiff in error could have offered any proof

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

361

[Gratiot v.The United States.]

of usage in favour of such an allowa.ce, (and the rejected evidence contains none such,)yet that would not have warranted
its admission, in the face of'so clear a legal provision, forbidding
such an allowance. Nor is there any force in the argument, that
these disbursements may have been other than those at Forts
Monroe and Calhoun, for which the per diem allowance is
claimed; because it appeared by the account of ihe plaintiff in
error himself, annexed to the Treasury transcript, and already
before the Court, when the evidence to sustain this claim was
rejected, that these disbursements for contingencies of fortifications, were, in fact, a part of those made by him at Forts Monr-..
and Calhoun.
3. The last and largest offset, claimed by the plaintiff in error,
is the gross sum of thirty-seven thousand two hundred and sixtytwo dollars, and forty-six cents, for "extra services in conducting
the'affairs connected with the civil works of internal improvement, carried on by the United States, and referred to the Engineer Departm6nt for execution," during a period somewhat
exceeding ten years, while he was Chief Engineer. For these
he claims the same annual salary, in addition to his pay, which
was given to Mr. Sullivan, and other civil engineers, who were
specially employed, under the provisions of the act of Congress
of 30th April, 1824. 3 Story's Laws, 1940. This salarywas three
thousand six hundred dollars. This claim appeared, for the first
time, in the accounts of General Gratiot, on the 1th January,
1839, after his removal from office. Nerer before had it been
made in any of his various accounts. It is a charge for his own
extra services, and for his alone, in regard to civil works of internal improvement, referred to the department of which he was
an officer. What did he i fact, do? In 1828,-he "assumed
his station at the seat of government as Chief Engineer ;" he
continued there till December, 1838; he made no disbursements
on any of these civil works of internal improvements; he made
no explorations or surveys; he examined no localities, ran no
lines, surveyed no harbours, built no piers; he performed none
of the services which were actually performed by the civil engineers, specially employed, whose salary he claims. As the head
of the engineer office, stationed at Washington, he superintended
the execution of duties of this sort, referred to his office, as he
VOL: XV.-2 H
46

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

superintended other duties referred to it. Such was the sum of
his services. Was this within the line of his official functions, or
was it not? It is submitted, that he was bound to perform it,
by the clear intent of the--aets'of Congress, by the regulations
of the War Department, and by the established construction
always given to those regulations; nor was'there any point in
which it was analogous to any service performed by the civil
engineers, whose salary he claims.
The whole series of legislation, in regard to the engineer corps
and to these works,.shows that when the latter were required to
be done by law, they came appropriately within the superintendance of the-former. The act of 9th May, 1794, (1 Story's Laws,
336,) which constitutes the corps, gives it no specific du ie., but
places it generally ,rder the orders of the President to perform
appropriate services on the coast or the frontiers. In 1802
(2 Story's Laws, 835) it was reorganized to "do such service as
the President should direct," clearly embracing every service
relating to engineering, which it might become the duty of the
President to have executed, whether nilitary or civil. The act
of loth April, 1806, section 1, article 63, (2 Story's Laws, 1000,)
distinctly aathorizes the President to employ the engineers out
of the line of their merely military profession; and, in 1812,
when the corps was increased, (2 Story's Laws, 1241,) and some
arrangementi made in regard to the military academy, which is
a part of the corps, a professor of engineering "in all its branches,"
that is, civil as well as military, was appointed. In 1813, (2 Story's Laws, 1312,) the tppographical department of the corps was
constituted; d1early indicating that such works of topography
and survey were regarded by Congress as a branch of the services falling within the appropriate superintendence of the head
of the corps. In 1818, (6 Laws of United States, 360,) we find
the officers of engineers joined with those of the navy, in surveying the waters of the Chesapeake. In 1821, (3 Story's Laws,
1810,) when the army was reorganized, the corps was continued
exactly as it had previously existed, with the same powers and
duties; and when, in 1838, (9 Laws of United States,) its topographical branch was increased, the employment of civil engineers to aid it was forbidden. The number of its. bureau
officers and Clerks was itareased as the civil works of internal

TANUARY TERM, 1841.

363

[Gratiot v. The United States.].

improvement referred to it were increased. Biennial Register
of 1828, p. 72. 79 and of 1837, p. 104. 118. This series of
laws exhibits the organization of a separate department, having a
'military officer as its chief, forming an executive office at Washington, which was to superintend all the subjects appropriately
belonging to "engineering in all its branchei," that might be.
referred to it, either directly by law, or by the Pr'esident in the
execution of duties devolved on him by law. If we examine
the legislation of Congress upon these subjects, it will .be found
to indicate a similar intention. _As early as 1817, (6 *Laws of
United States, 219,) the opening of the Chickasaw road was
intrusted to "9the direction of the Secretary of War." In 1819,
(6 Laws of Unit ed States, 368,) the appropriations for surveying
the watercourses west of the Mississippi are among those for
the military service. In 1820, (6 Laws of United States, 483,)
the general "military" appropriation bill, contains a series of appropriations for surveys of streams, rivers, and roads. In 1822,
(7 Laws of United States, 82,) are similar appropriations among
those for the ",military service" of that year. In 1824, (3 Story's
Laws, 1940,) the President is authorized to employ civil engineers in addition to "the officers of the engineer corps" and
such others as he may direct, to make surleys for internal improvements. in 1825, 1826, and 1827, (7 Laws of United
States, 338, 451, 537,) the appropriations for continuing these
and making other surveys are embraced in the bill for the "9military service" of those years. In 1828, and subsequently, there
was a separate appropriation bill for these works of internal
improvement, referring to them as under the superintendence of
the War Department. 8 Laws of United States, 72. 389. Here,
then, is a series of laws showing that, from the earliest period
when these civil works of internal improvemefit became the
subjects of legislation, they were regarded, by Congress as appropriately belonging to the .War Department and the military
service. To what office of that department, or to what branch
of that service could they belong, but to the department aid
corps of engineejrs ? What duty of the head of that corps could
be more evident and appropriate than the superintendence of
them?
The Army Regulations are uniformly in accordance with this

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

view of the legislation of Congress. As early as those of 1806,
(Army Regulations, art. 63,) when appropriations for civil works
of improvement in the states, were almost, if not entirely, unknown, we find this corpt directed to perform such special duties
as the President shall assign them, even out of the line of their
profession. Those of 1816, p. 96, repeat the same regulation.
In 1821 (Army Regulations, art. 67) it is expressly declared,
that "the chief of the corps of engineers shall be stationed at
the seat of government, and shall be charged with the superintendence of the corps of engineers to which that of the topographical engineers isattached." In 1825, when civil works of
internal improvement became the subject of large appropriations, a still more definite reference to them was introduced into
the Army Regulations. Regulations of 1825, art. 67, par. 888.
By them it was provided, that "the duties of the engineer department comprise reconnoitring and surveying for military purposes and for internal improvements, together with the collection
and preservation of topographical and geographical memoirs,
and drawings referring to those objects; the selection of sites,
the formation of plans and estimates, the construction, repair,
and inspection of fortifications, and the disbursement of the
sums appropriated for the fulfilment of those objects, severally,
comprising those of the military academy; also, the superintendence of the execution of the acts. of Congress, in relation to
internal improvement by roads, canals, the navigation of rivers,
and the repairs and improvements connected with the harbours
of the United States or the entrance into the same, which may
be authorized by acts of Congress, with the execution of which
the War Department maybe charged." These regulations, thus
specific, were in force when General Gratiot became the Chief
Engineer; and, in 1835, while he still occupied that post, on a
revision of the Army Regulations which must be presumed to
have passed, in relation to his own branch, under his own immediate notice, we find the superintendence of these works classed
among the regular duties of his, department. Regulations of
1835, p. 156. The Regulations, also, of the Academy at West
Point, p. 11, include civil engineering as one branch of the
course of instruction properly embraced under the class of " engineering."
Can it be argued, in the face of these regulations,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

365

[Gratiot v.The United States]
that the Chief Engineer, stationed at the seat of government, is
performing an extra service in superintending the acts of the
subordinate officers of his corps, while employed on these works,
any more than when they are employed on a fortification? Is
it an extra service to receive, examine, file, or submit to Congress the reports they may make from time to time, in regard
to one more than in regard to the other?
These questions are not more distinctly answered, by the explicit language of the regulation, which has been referred to,
than by th. uniform construction put upon it by the officers of
the corps themselves. The public documents for years past, contain the annual reports to Congress, made by the Chief Engineers,
including General Gratiot. The works of civil construction will
be found to be stated, and reported upon, with the same regularity as those for military purposes. No intimation will be discovered, through a series of years, that the former were less
appropriately ttached to the department than th3 latter. This
record exhibits an effort by General Gratiot, to extract from the
files of the departments, some evidence to show that such services
had been regarded' as extra services; but no single case to establish that point, has resulted from that endeavour. If even it had
been shown, that the actual services in the field of officers of engineers, on civil works of internal improvement, had been regarded as duties extraneous to their profession, this would have
afforded no analogy to the case of the head of the engineer
office, who, at the seat of government, merely superintends the
acts of his subordinate officers; but no instance, even of that
kind, has been produced. The few cases cited of extra allowances to officers of engineers, are found, upon examination, to
depend upon circumstances, which totally and explicitly tistinguish them from those where the officers of the corps: have
been employed upon civil works "referred to the Engineer Department for execution." Of all the numerous works, which,
under the skilful practical superintendence of this corps, have
during the last fifteen or twenty years developed the resources
of various parts of the United States, improved their harbours,
and facilitated their internal communications ; on which so many
millions of dollars have been spent; which have been the subjects, at every session, of careful and detailed reports to Congress
2 H2

'-366

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The UnitedStatem.]

of all these none have been regarded by the officers of engineers
who had the actual charge and execution of them, as works of
extra service; yet, with how much more justice might their
labours bave been so regarded, if the law or regulations of the
army.would have borne such a construction, than the mere officiaf supervision of them, by the chief of their corps at Washington.
The Civil Engineers, whose whole annual compensation General Gratiot takes as the standard of an allowance to himself, in"
addition to the pay, emoluments, and allowances r~ceived besides, by the Chief Engineer, to an amount, as appears by the
public documents, of not less than six thousand dollars; these
Civil Engineers were not only specially engaged, by the direct
authority of an act of Congress, but their duties were the arduous and responsible services of the field.' Long lines of survey
were explored and located by them; minute estimates and reports, filling many pages of the public documents, show the nature and extent of their labours; journeys, and explorations of
months, were their ordinary services to the public; their whole
time -was engaged by the duties for which this compensation was
bestowed. If the services of the plaintiff in error, for vfhich he
claims to retain, in addition to his pay, more than the thirty-five
thousand dollars drawn by him from the Treasury for the erection of the fort at Grand Terre, were not services falling within
the line of his duty, as Chief Engineer, they are yet services totally different from those to which he represents them as analogous; and the compensation allowed for the latter, affords no
evidence whatever, of the propriety of -the allowance that is
claimed.
Is there, then, any foundation in law, whatever, for thisclihim?
Is there any doubt but that the services were clearly such as belonged to the office General Gratiot held; such as he was bound
by law 'and the regulations of the army to perform, without any
additional compensation? If so, by what authority was he entitled tooffer evidence to sustain it? In what respect did, the
Court err, by rejecting entirely all testimony :which was presented for that purpose? It formed no legal or equitable ground of
credit. If proved in every particular it came within no rule
ever laid down by this Court, in regard to the admission of such

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

367

[Gratiotv. The United States.]

offsets. It is, therefore, submitted, that the Court did not err, in
rejecting all evidence offered for the purpose of sustaining this
claim.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error has elaborately argued
against the application to this claim of the provision of the act
of 3d of March, 1835, (9 Laws of the United States, 207,) which

prohibits an officer of the army from receiving any extra allowance, unless the same be authorized by law, on the ground, that
the provision in question, is applicable only to the appropriations
made during the year 1835. It is submitted to the Court, that
the provision is a permanent regulation, applicable to subsequent
appropriations, as well as to those of 1835; but that act is not
relied upon in the present case, on behalf of the United States,
as furnishing the ground on which the Court were bound to
reject this evidence; for the claim of the plaintiff was for manyservices anterior thereto. Had all these services of General
Gratiot been rendered subsequently to the 3d of March, 1835, ft
would then have been contended that, if they were in. fact extraneous, yet, that all compensation for them was prohibited by
that law; and on that ground, that all evidence to sustaia- theni,.
should have been rejected. - As it is, the ground relied upon, is
that the services for which this compensation is asked, clearlyappertained to the ordinary official duties of the Chief Engineer.
It is submitted, therefore, that al these claims, whether for an
additional per diem allowance, a commission for disbursing the
contingencies of fortifications, or an extra compensation for gtxperintending civil works of internal improvement, are contrary
to law, and could not, if established by the evidence offered in
every particular, be a legal offset to the claim of the UnitedStates, for the repayment of the money drawn by- General
Gratiot, from.the Treasury, in the year 1835, for the avowed
purpose of applying it to the erection of the fort at Grand Terre;
but which has been retained by him, and never, with the exception of one thosand eight hundred and five, dollars and eight
cents, applied, in fact, to that or any other public object- If the
Court shall be satisfied upon these points, there was then' no error
in the decisions of the Circuit Court, and its judgmem ought ta,
be affimed.

368

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case of a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
District of Missouri. The original action was assumpsit, brought
by the United States against General Gratiot, the plaintiff in
errpr; as Chief Engineer, for fifty thousand dollars alleged in the
declaration to be money had and received by him as Chief Engineer, to the use of the United States. At the trial, the controversy
turned mainly as to the merits of three items of set-off, or credit,
which were claimed by the defendant in the reduction or
extinguishment of the supposed debt due to the United States.
These items were as follows:
1. For disbursing $603,727 42, on account of Fort
Calhoun, from the 1th of November, 1821, to the
S0th of September, 1829, being 2879 days, at $2 per
day, being less than two and a half per cent. on
the amount disbursed, as allowed by the regulations of the army to an officer disbursing at a forti$5,758 00
fication,
2. For disbursing $33,447,36 on account of contingencies of fortifications, at 21 per cent., as author816 18
ized by the regulations above referred to,
3. For extra services in conducting the affairs connected with the civil works of internal improvement
carried on by the United States, and referred to the
Engineer Department for execution: and which did
not constitute any part of his duties as a military
officer; from the 1st day of August, 1828, to the 6th
day of December, 1838, inclusive, ten years and one
hundred and twenty-eight days, at 3000 dollars per
37,262 46
annum,
These items had all been disallowed by the Treasury Department, for reasons stated by the proper accounting officers,
and spread upon the record; and were insisted upon as just and
proper allowances by the defendant.
The jury at the trial found a verdict for the United States,'
upon which judgment was entered; and from that judgment the
present writ of error has been brought to this Court.
Four several bills of exceptions were taken at the trial on

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

369,

[Gratiot v. The United States.]

behalf of. the defendant. The first was taken to the refusal of
the Court to allow any evidence to be given in support of either
of these items of claim. The third was to a like refusal of the
Court to allow certain depositions and documents, offered by the
defendant, to be given in evidence to prove that he had rendered services to the United States, over and above the ordinary
and regular duties of his office, and the value of such services;
and the, established usage and -practice of the government in
allowing to ehgineers and other officers their claims for extra
compensation for like services. The second and fourth exceptions proceeded upon minor points in the case. The second
asked the instruction of the Court that the United States were
not entitled to recover, for any public money received by the
defendant in any other capacity or office than that of Chief
Engineer; and that certain requisitions, stated in the exception,
on account of Fort Grand Terre, and Fort Columbus, and Castle
Williams, and the Fort at Throg's Neck, were not evidende of"
money had and received by the defendant to the use of the
United States. The Court refused these instructions, because
there was no subject matter growing out of the evidence for the
United States, to which the instructions could apply, if given;
inasmuch as it appeared from the Treasuty transcript, given in
evidence, that the balance sued for was of sums placed in the
hands of the defendant, as Chief Engineer, in 1835, to be expended on the works at Grand Terre; and therefore, in effect,
the money sued for was -received by him in his capacity of
'Engineer. We are of opinion that these instructions were rightly
refused by the Court, for the reasons given by the Circuit Court;
and for the additional reason, that the first was afterwards virtually given upon the prayer of the defendant on the fourth
exception, so far as it was applicable to the case; and the secQnd
asked the opinion of the Court upon a matter of fact proper for
the cognisance of the jury.
The fourth exception, so far as it has not been already disposed
of, asked the Court to instruct the jury, that the items charged
against the defendant, as Chief Engineer, in the Treasury trahscript, marked A, which was given in evidence, consisting of
certain balances charged in gross without the items going to
show the said balances, were not competent evidence to charge

370

SUPREME COURT.
[Graiot v. The United Stat

the defendant in the action. This instruction the Court refused
to give, and in our judgment, rightly; for taking the whole transcript together, and examining its details, as a mere matter of
account, it is plain that all the iems on which these balances
are struck, are there to be found regularly entered and brought
forward. The supposed objection, then,'which was stated by
this Court in the case of The United States v. Jones, 8 Peters,
375. 383, as to mere naked balances on de traiiscript did not
apply.
There is another instruction asked under this exception, ia a
complicated form, but which mainly turns upon the considemtion whether the Treasury Department had a right to, deduct
the pay and emoluments of the defendant, as a. General of the
army, and while he was Chief Engine~r, by setting them off
against the balance reported against him, on account of his
superintendency of Forts Monroe and Calhoun. In ourjudgment,
the point involves no serious difficulty. The United States
possess the general right to apply all sums due for such pay and
emoluments, to the extinguishment of any balances due to them
by the defendant on any other account, whether owed by him
as a private individual, or as Chief Engineer. It is but the
exercise of the common right, which belongs to every creditor,
to apply the unappropriated moneys of his debtor, in his hands,
in extinguishment of the debts due to him.
Having disposed of these minor points, we now come to those
arising under the first and third exceptions, and which constitute
the only real difficulty in the case.
The first exception, under which. the Court excluded all
evidence in support of the three items of credit disallowed by the
Treasury Department, is certainly well founded ; unless it is clear
in point of law that neither of these items constituted a legal or
equitable claim against the United States. It is wholly immaterial whether the claim be a legal or an equitable claim, as in either
view, under the act of 1797, ch. 74, as was decided by this Court
in. the case of The United States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheat. 135, it constitutes a good ground of set-off, or deduction. It is not sufficient to- establish that these items ought to be rejected, that there
is no positive 'law which expressly provides for, or fixes such
allowances. There are many authorities conferred on the dif-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

371

[Gratiot v. The United States.)

ferent departments of the government, which for their due execution, require services and duties to be performed, which are not
strictly app ertaining to, or devolved upon any prticular officers,
or which require agencies of a special discretionay nature. in
such cases the department charged with the execution of the
particular authority, business, or duty, has always been deemed,
incidentally, to possess the right to employ the proper persons to
perform the same, as the appropriate means to carry into effect
the required end; and also the right, when the service or duty is
an extra service or duty, to allow the persons so employed a
suitable compensation. This doctrine is not new in this Court;
but it was fully expounded in the cases of The United States i.
M'Daniel, 7 Peters,. 1I The United States v. Ripley, 7 Peters,
18; and The United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 28.
To sustain the refusal of the Court in the. present case, it is,
therefore, indispensable to show that there is some law -which
positively prohibits, or by just implicatiori denies any allowance
of the disputed items, or of any part thereof. We know of no
law which has such an effect, or which contains any such prohibition or denial. It is true that the act of the 16th of March,
1802, ch. 9, which provided for the organization and establishment of the corps of engineers, in one of its sections (see. 27)
declares, "That the said corps, when so organized, shall -be sta-,
tioned at West Point, in the state of New York, and shall constitute a military academy; and the engineers, assistant engiheers,
and cadets, of the said corps, shall be subject, at all times, to do
duty in such places, and on such service as the. President of the
United States shall direct." But, however broad this- enactment is in its language, it never has been supposed to authorize
the President to employ the corps of engineers upon any other
duty, except such as belongs either to military engineering, or to
civil engineering. It is apparent, also, from the whole history
of the legislation of Congress on this subject, that, for many years
after the enactment, works of internal improvemeqnt and mere
civil engineering, were not, ordiharily, devolved upon the corps
of engineers. But, assuming the President possessed the fullest
power, under this enactment, from time to time to employ any
officers of the corps in the business of civil engineering, still it
must be obvious, that as their pay and emoluments -were, or

372

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

would be regulated with reference to their ordinary military and
oiher duties, the power of the President to detach them upon
other civil services, would not preclude .him from contracting to
allow such detached officers a proper compensation for any extra
.services. Such a contract may not only be established by proof
of some positive regulation, but may also be inferred from the
known practice and usage of the War Department in similar
cases, acting in obedience tothe presumed orders of the President.
Now it is perfectly consistent with the record in this case, that
the defendant might have offered direct or presumptive evidence
of such a contract. either express or implied, from the practice and
usage of the War Department, applicable to the very services
stated in some, at least, of the disallowed items. We do not say
that he could, in point of fact, have established anr such contract,
or any legal or equitable right to such allowances. That is a
point on which we have no right to pass judgment, since he
was stopped from offering any proof whatsoever at the very
threshold of the inquiry. In short, unless some law could be
shown establishing clearly and unequivocally the illegality of
each of these items; which, as we have said, has not been shown;
the refusal of the Court to admit the evidence cannot be supported; and we are; therefore, of opinion that this exception was
well taken; and that there was error in the refusal of the Circuit
Court.
The third exeeption opens this matter still more fully and exactly; for there the defendant offered certain depositions and
documents, as proofs to establish that he had rendered services
•over and above the regular duties of his office, and the value of
such extra services, and the established usage and practice of the
government in allowing to engineers and other officers their
claims for extra compensation for the lilke services. This evidence the Courtalso rejected, as the record asserts, as incompe-tent and irrelevant; but, undoubtedly; upon tie more broad
ground on which the evidence offered under the first exception,
was rejected, that the claims had no just foundation in law.
That the evidence so offered would, in point of fact, have maintained the asserted statements. we have no right, absolutely, to
affirm. That it was competent and relevant for the purpose for
which It was offered, and proper forthe consideration of the jury,.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

873

[Gratiot v. The United States.]

as conducing to the establishment of the facts, has not been denied
at the argument, and, indeed, seems not .to admit of any well
founded doubt. A very elaborate examination and analysis of
this evidence, and of its supposed bearing and agency on the
merits of each of the claims has been gone into at the bar; but,
in the view which we take of the case, it is matter of fact, belonging, in a great measure, if not altogether, to the consideration
.of the jury, and with which, as a Court of Error, we are not at
liberty to intermbddle. Withqut, therefore, taking up more time
upon this point, it is only necessary for us to say that, for the
reasons already stated, we are of opinion there was error also in
the Circuit Court in excluding the depositions and documents so
offered, from the jury.
But as the merits of these claims have been fully argued before

us, upon several points of law, as well as upon certain admitted
conclusions of fact, as if the evidence had been admitted, and
both parties desire our opinion in respect to the matters of law
connected with these facts 5 we have deemed it right, for the purpose of bringing this'piotracted controversy within narrowier
limits, upon the'new trial in the Circuit Court, to state some of
the views now entertained by the Court upon these points.
I. As to the first item. It purports to be founded on certain
Regulations of the Army, which are spread upon the record, and
which received the sanction of the President in 1821 and 1825.
The 67th article of the Regulations of 1821, provides as follows.
1. "The chief of the corps of engineers shall be stationed at
the seat of Government, and shall be charged with the superintendence of the corps of engineers, to which that of the topographical engineers is attached; he shall also be inspector of the
military academy, and be charged with its correspondence.
2. "The duties of the engineer department will comprise thd
construction and repairs of fortifications,-and a general superintendence and' inspectiod of, the same, military reconnoitrings,
embracing general surveys and examinations of particular sites
for fortifications, and the formation of plans -and estimates in
detail for fortifications for the defence of the same, with such
descriptive and military memoirs as may be necessary to establish
the importance and capabilities of the position intended to be
occupied; the general direction of the disbursements on fortificaVOL. XV.-2 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot r.The United States.]

tions, including purchases of sites and materials; hiring workmen,
purchases of books, maps, and instruments; and contracts for the
supplies of materials, and for workmanship.
14. "Where there is no agent for fortifications, the superintending officer shall perform the duties of agent, and while performing such duties,the rules anid regulations for the government
of the'agents shall be applicable to him; and as a compensation
for the performance of that extra duty, he will be .allowed, for
moneys expended-by him in the construction of fortifications 4t
the rate of two dollars per diem, during the continuance of such
disbursements; provided the whole amount of emolument shall
not exceed two and a half per cent. on the sum expended."
The 67th article of the Regulations, of 1825, provides as follows:
888. "The duties of the engineer department comprise reconnoitring ana surveying for military purposes, and for internal
improvements, together with the collection and preservation of
topographical and geographical memoirs, and drawings referring
to those objects; the selection of sites, the formation of plans and
estimates, the construction, repair, and inspection of fortifications,
and the disbuirsements of the sums appropriated for the fulfilment Of those objects severally, comprising those of the military
academy; also the superintendence of the execution of the acts
of Congress, in relati6nto internal improvement, by roads, canals,
the navigation of rivers, and the repairi and improvements connected with the harbours of- the United States, or the entrance
into the sarne, which may be authorized by acts of Congress,
with the execution' of which the War Department may be
charged."
893. "The engineer superintending the construction ofa fortification, will disburse the moneys applied to the same, and as
compensation for the performance of that extra duty, will be
allowed at the rate of two dollars per diem during the continuance- of such disbursements, provided The whole amount of

emolument shall not exceed two and a half per cent. on the sum
disbursed."'
So. far as the present item is c6ncerned, thbse regulations do
not differ in substance. They both raise the question as to the
-proper interpretatibn of them whether the allowance of two

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

875

[Gratiotv. The Unied Stat.]
dollars per diem, not exceeding two and a half per cent., is intended to be limited to a single per diem allowance; notwvithstanding the engineer superintending the construction, and
disbursing theL moneys, as agent for fortifications, is employed at
the time upor several, fortifications, each requiring separate
accounts of the disburiements to be kept, on.account of there
being distinct and independent appropriations therefor; or whether
the per diem allowance is-cumulative, that is to say, two dollars
a day for every fortification, for which there is a distinct and
independent appropriation, of which separate accounts are required to be kept, and the disbursements are confided to one and
the same engineer, as superintendent and agent of disbursements.
The Court are of opinion that the latter is the true construction
6f the Regulations; upon the ground, that it would be unreasonable to suppose that these Regulations intended to give the same
exact amount of compensation to a persondisbursing moneys upon
two or more distinct fortifications, that he would be entitled to if he
were disbursing agent for one only, although his duties might be
thus doubled, and even tiebled; apd that the natural import of
the language is, that the compensation is to be given to each
agent of a separate fortification, for his disbursements about that
particular fortification, without any reference to the consideration whether his agency yWas limited to that, or extended to other
fortifications. Under such circumstances, as tle defendant was
the disbursing agent, both at Fort Monroe and Fort Calhoun,
under distinct and independent appropriations, there does not
seem to be any reason why he may not be entitled to the -per
diem allowance which he claims for each of those forts.
2. As to the second item. The right to the commissions charged
for.disbursing thirty-three thousand-four hundred and forty-seven
dollars and twenty-six cents, on account of contingencies on for!
tifications, must, essentially, depend upon the evidence which may
be adduced in support df the claim. There is nothing in the
character of the item which precludes the defendant from showing
that he is entitled to the commissions of two and a half per cent.,
or of a less amount, if he can prove that the disbursements were
othbr than those on Forts Monroe and Calhoun; and that it has
been the usage of the Department to make the like compensation
for disburseriaents under the like 'circumstances, or that the

376

SUPREME COURT.
[Gratiot v. The United States.]

allowance is just and equitable i itself. The Court are of
opinion that evidence ought to have been admitted to establish it.
3. As to the third item, constituting a charge of thirty-seven
thousand two hundred and sixty-two dollars and forty-six
cents, for extra services in condncting the affairs connected with
the civil works of internal improvements, very different considerations may apply. Th6 Court are of opinion that, upon
its face, this item has no just foundation in law ; and, therefore,
that the evidence which was offered in support of it, if admitted,
would not have maintaindd it. The ground of this opinion is,
that upon a review of the laws and regulations of the government, applicable to the subject, it is apparent that the services
therein alleged to be performed were the ordinary special duties
appertaining to the office of Chief Engineer ; and such as the defendant was bound to perform; as Chief Engineer, without any
extra compensation over and above his salary and emoluments as
Brigadier General of the army of the United States, on account
of such services. In this view of the matter the Circuit Court
acted correctly in rejecting the evidence applicable to this item.
Upon the 'whole, upon the other grounds already stated, the
judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed; and the cause
remanded with directions to that Court to award a venire facias
de novo.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of 'the United States for the District of
Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is the opinion of this Court, that there wias error in the said
Circuit Court in rejecting the evidence offered by the defendant,
(Gratiot,) in support of his claims set forth in the first bill of exceptions;. and, also, error in refusing to allow the depositions
and documents to be given in evidence stated in the third bill
,of exceptions, for the purposes for which the same was offered
by the said defendant. It is thereupon now ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the 'same is hereby, reversed, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court) with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

