JANUARY TERM, 1841.

THE

377

UNITED STATES,'PLAINTIFFS IN ERIOR, V. THE BANK
OF THE METROPOLIS, DEFENDANT IN ERRlOR.

The United States instituted a suit against the Bank of the ketropolis, claiming
twenty-se-en thousand eight hundred and eighty-one dollars and fifty-seven cents,
the balance, according to the statements of the Treasury, due to the United States.
The defendant claimed credits amountihg to twenty-three thousand dollars, exclusive orinterest, which had been 'presented to the proper accounting officers, for acceptancos of the Post Office Department of the drafts of mail contractors, and an item of
six hundred and eleven dollars and fifty-two cents, overdraft of an officer of the
Post Office Department, on the Bank of the Metropolis. The drafts of the contractors, accepted ty the Post Office Department, were discounted by the Bank, in
the way of business; one draft was accepted unconditionally ; the other drafts were
accepted, "on condition, that the contracts be complied with." Held: That the
Bank became the holder of the draft unconditionally accepted, for valuable consideration; and its right to charge the United States with the amount cannot be
defeated by any equities between the drawers, and the Post Office.
When the United States, by its authorized officer, become a party to negotiable
paper, they have all the rights, and incur all the responsibilities of individuals who
are parties to such instruments. There is no difference, except that the United
States cannot be sued. But if the United States sue, and the defendant holds its
negotiable paper, the amount of it may be claimed as a credit, if, after being presented it has been disallowed by the accounting officers of the Treasury; and if the
liability of the United States on it be not discharged by some of those causes which
discharge a party to commercial paper, it should be allowed by a jury as a credit
against a debt claimed by the United States. This'is the privilege of the defendant for all equivalent credits, under the act of March 3d, 1797. The case of The
United States v. Dunn, 6 Peters, 51, cited.
From the daily, and almost unavoidable use of commercial paper by the United States,
they are as much interested as the community at large can be, in maintaining the
principles of commercial law involved in this case.
It was no matter, how the account of the drawer of the draft unconditionally accepted,
stood with the Post Office Department; whether he was a debtor or a creditor; whether
the Bank knew one or the other. An unconditional acceptance was tendered to the
Bank for discount. It was not the dutyof the Bank to inquire how the account stond,
or for what purpose the acceptance was made. All it had to look to was the
genuineness of the acceptance, and the authority of the officer to give it.
The rule is, that the want of consideration between the drawer and the acceptor is no
defence against thd rights of a third party, who has given a consideration for the
bill; and this, even though the acceptor has been defrauded by the drawee, if that
be not known to such third party.
If one purpose making a conditional acceptance only, and commit that acceptance to
writing, he should be careful to express the condition therein. He cannot use gene48
212

378

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropoli]

ral
terms, and then exempt himself from liability, by relying upon particular facts
which have already happened, though they are connected with the conditional acceptance. By express terms the accepor might have guaned against any construction,
other than that which was intended by, ,or was the apparent meaning of the words
of the acceptance. It matters not whatlthe acceptor meant by a .cautious and
precise phraseology, if it be not expressed as a condition.
Nothing out of the condition expressed in the words of the acceptance can be inferred;
unless it be in a case where the words used are so ambiguous as to make it nece"4ry that parol evidence should be resorted to, to explain them.
It must be conceded, as a general principle, that one having knowledge of particular
facts upon which lie intends to rely to exempt him from a pecuniary obligation
about to be contracted with another, of which facts the other is ignorant, and can
only learn from.him, or from documents in his keeping, that the fact
of his knowledge raises the obligation to tell it.
If two persons deal in relation to the executory contracts of a third, and one of them,
being the obligee, induces the other to advance money, "upon condition that his
contracts be complied with;" and he knows that forfeitureshave been already incurred
by the obligor, for breacbs of. his contract,'and does not say so; he shall not be permitted afterwards to get rid of his liability, by saying "I cannot pay you, for when
I accepted there was already duo to me from the drawer of the bill mc re than I accepted for; you did not chose to make inquiry."
The terms "accepted, when the contracts of the drawer of the bill arc complied with,"
are not retroactive; they do not refer to past transactions, but to the subsequent performance of the contractors.
The Postmaster General had the same power, and no more, over the credits allowed by
his predecessor, if allowed within the scope of his official authority, as given by law
to the head of the Department, This right in an incumbent of reviewing a predecessor's decisions, extends to mistakes in matters of fact, arising from errors in calculation, and to cases of rejected claims, in which material testimony is afterwards
discovered and produced. But, if a credit has been given, or an allowance made by
the head of a Department, and it is alleged to bean illeal allowance, the judicial tribunals must be resorted to, to construe the law under which the allowance was made;
and to settle the right between the United States, and the party to whom the credit
was given. It is no longer, a case between one officer's judgment, and that of his
successor. No statute is necessary to authorize the United States to sue in such a
case. The right to sue is independent of statute%and it may be done by the direction of the incumbent of the Department.
It is certainly the Treasury of the United States where its money is directed by law
to be kept. but-if those whose duty it is to disburse appropriations made by law,
employ, or are permitted by law to employ, either for safe keeping or mcre convenient disbursenient, other agencies, and it shall be necessary forthe United States to
sue for the recovery of the fund, the defendant may daim against the demand for
which the action has been brought any credits to which he shall prove himself entitled; if they have been previously presented to the proper accounting officers of the
Treasury Department, and have been rejected. This right was early given to defendants in all suits brought by the United States.
'When any instructions tb the jury are asked of the Cour, on- (he trial of a cause,
they. should be precise and certain to a particular intent, that the point intended to be

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

879

[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]
raised, may be distinctly seen by the Court; and that error, if one be made, may be
distinctly signed.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United Statess for the
county of Washington, in the District of Cdlumbia.
The United States on the 25th of June, 1838, instituted an action of assumpsit against the President and Directors of the Bank
of the Metropolis, for the recovery of twenty-seven thousand. eight
hundred and eighty-one, dollars and fifty cents, for sundry
matters' properly chargeable in 'an account, as by an account
annexed to the declaration appeared. The declaration cQntained
the usual counts in an action of assumpsit.
The account referred to contained numerous items*of deposits
made in the Bank of the Metropolis, from the Post Office Department, leaving a balance due the United States of the sum
stated in the declaration.
The defendants pleaded the general issue.
The defence' to the claim of the United States, was founded
on credits which amounted to twenty-three ihoasand dollars,,exclusive of interest, which had been presented to the accounting
officers of the Treasury, and which had been refused allowance.
They were for acceptances of the Post Office Department of
drafts drawn upon the Post Office Department, and an overdraft.
by E. F. Brown, an agent of the Post Office Department.
The jury found a verdict for the defetqdant, and certified that
there was due from the United States to the"bank three thousand
three hundred and seventy-one dollars and ninety-four cents,
with interest, from March 6, 1838.
The laintiffs, on the trial, asked the Court to give certain instructions to the jury, which was refused, to which the plaintiffs*
excepted. These are stated in; the opinion of th6' Court.
The United States prosecuted this writ of. error to the judgment of the Circuit Court, entered on the verdict. The case is
fully stated in the arguments of the Counsel and in the opinion
of the Court.
The case Was.argued by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General, for the
United States; and by Mr. Coxe, for the defendant.
Mt. Gilpin,'the Attorney General, for the United States.
In the year 1836, the Bank of the Metropolis was a depositary

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

of public moneys, which were in the Treasury of the United
States. On the 2d July, an act of Congress (4 Story's Laws,
2464) was passed, ordering that all the public revenue derived
froni postages should be deposited, when collected, "in the Treasury of the United States," as the rest of the revenue was; and
that it should be there held by the Treasurer to pay such appropriations as might be directed by Congress for "the service of
the Post Office Department." On the 16th July deposits were
made, under this act, in the Bank of the Metropolis; and, when
they were so inade, written instructions were given by the Postmaster General, and acceded to by the Bank, that the post office
revenue, as deposited, was to be kept in the name of the "Treasurer of the United States for the service of the Post Office Department;" to be paid on his warrants, to be reported monthly,
and settled quarterly, with him; and that "there was to be no
credit, deduction, or set-off admitted, except for moneys drawn
out on the Treasurer's warrant." At the monthly return of
1st October, 1837, there was a balance of revenue deposited to
the credit of the Treasurer of the United States of forty-two
thousand one hundred and seventy-one dollars and eighty-eight
cents. During that month the deposit was increased by the sum
of one thousand three hundred and seventeen dollars and fiftyseven cents, and warrants of the Treasurer, amounting to sixteen
thousand one hundred and thirty-two dollars and eighty-eight
cents, were paid; thus leaving a balance to the credit of the
Treasurer of twenty-seven thousand three hundred and fifty-six
dollars and fifty-seven cents. Instead of reporting this balance
on the 1st November, 1837, the Bank admitted a balance, only,
of one thousand and hirty-one dollars and ninety-seven cents,
having deducted therefrom the amount, with interest, of a draft
fo- ten thousand dollars, drawn on the 14th April, 1835, at ninety
days, by Edwin Porter on Richard C. Mason, "Treasurer of the
Post Office Department," and accepted by him as "Treasurer ;"
and, also, of Your draughts for thirteen thousand dollars, drawn
in October, 1835, at ninety days, by James Reeside on Amos
Kendall, Postmaster General, and accepted by him"on condition
that, his contract be complied with." All these drafts had
been discounted by the Bank before they became due; but had
not been paid by ihe acceptors. The Bank, also, deducted six

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

t381

[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]
hundred and eleven dollars and fifty-two cents, which sum was
overdrawn in the year 1835 by E. F. Brown, the agent for disbursing the contingent fund of the Post Office Department.
These credits were claimed at the Treasury and disallowed.
At June term, 1838, a suit was brought by the United States to
recover the whole balance of twenty-seven thousand tlhree hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty-seven cents. On the trial, the
Bank proved the facts above stated, and claimed the credits which
had been disallowed. The District Attorney of the United
States requested the Court to charge the jury on three pQints;
which were, substantially, as follows:
1. That if they believed there was nothing due to Porter and
Reeside, at the time of the acceptance of their drafts, or at
the time they became due, the Bank was not authorized by law
to set off such draught against the deposit of "the Treasurer of
the United States."
2. That if the accounts of Porter and Reeside were not finally
settled at the Department, it Was the duty of the Postmaster
General to have them settled; and, in such settlement, he ought
not to allow credits for illegal extra allowances, where such
allowances had been merely entered in the journal, but never
brought into the ledger.
3. That the overdraft of the agent for disbursing the contingent fund could not, by law, be set off against the deposit of
"the Treasurer of the United States."
These instructions the Court refused to give ; and it is submitted that they erred in so doing.
I. When Porter's draft became due, was it a just claim
against the United States; would the acceptor have been justified, by law, in paying it to the drawer? He accepted the
draught as a public officer-as "Treasurer of the Post Office
Department.'" He was to pay it out of the public money in-his
-hands, appropriated by law to pay the drawer when it became
due. It was an arrangement between the Department and a
contractor, for the benefit of the latter. It was an acknowledgmuit in advance. When the day of payment arrived, the money
had not been earned; no debt was due from the United States to;
Porter; there is, consequently, no appropriation by law to pay
him. If paid, he receives, from the public treasury, money not

882

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

appropriated to him. Could the acceptance of a public officer,
made under a misapprehension of the facts, authorize this?- If
it be a principle not doubted, that the neglect of a public officer
cannot deprive the United States of their right to recover money
from heir deblors; is it not a principle equally well founded that
they cannot be made to pay money twice by his error or indiscretion? Can the Treasurer of the Post Office Department, or any
other officer, promise to pay a sum of public money ninety days
hence, and then draw it from the public treasury, whetfier justly
due or not? Under the instruction, as asked, tfie question
whether'the money was owing or not to Porter on the day
when the draft became due, does not arise; for it was requested in the event of thQ jury believing that nothing was owing;
but the evidence shows that when that day arrived, every thing
to which he was entitled had already ,been. absorbed by foifeitures and drafts previously drawn and accepted. A payment,
made to him, then, would not have been made because he was
entitled to the money, but only because the Treasurer of thi
Post Office Department had accepted his draft. The Constitution, art. i. sec. 9, par. 6, forbids the payment of any money
from the Treasury, but in pursuance of appropriations nuade by
law. The appropriation for the benefit of Porter was exhausted. He had received from it all that he was entitled to. To
pay'him more would be to pay that for which there was no
appropriation. The United States v. Barney, 3 Law Jour; 130.
The United States v. Nicoll, 1 Paine, 649.
If, then, it be established that the Uhited States would not
have been bound to pay Porter himself, notwithstanding his
possession of the acceptance, were they bound to pay the Bank
to whom he transferred it? An illegal payment is not authorized, by the Constitution or law, to be made to a transferree,
any more than to the claimant himself. Every principle which
forbids double payment to one, forbids it to the two. It it not
requisite to controvert the general rule of commercial law, discussed before this Court in the case of Townly v. Sumrall,
2 Peters, 13. 185, as to the liability of an acceptor, whether hehas funds or not, for an unconditional acceptance; nor is it necessary to examine how far the ordinary responsibility, which
attaches to parties to negotiable paper, can be imppsed, by the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

383

[The United States v. Banik of the Metropolis.]

acts of their officers, on the United'States; or how far such rules
can be applied to them, in a case where they have ihe effect to
draw money from the Treasury, without an appropriation;
(12 Wheat. 561. 4 Wash. C. C. R. 464;) because, in this instance,
the acceptance was clearly of such a nature as to put the acceptor on his guard. If it was not strictly conditional, in terms,
it was so in substance. The Bank knew, when it received the
draught, that it was payable out of a public fund; and that the
payment could not be made, unless there was money, appropriated by law for that purpose, in the hands of 'the acceptor.
They, knew the acceptance was given by the acceptor "as
Treasurer ;" and that the law of the land gave public notice that
the Treasurer could not bind the United States, beyond the funds
appropriated for the use of the drawer. Suppose an agent
accepts as agent, will it be pretended that the principal is bound
beyond the extent of his agency? The holder must inquire into
that extent; must see the acceptor's authority; must know how
far the acceptance binds the principal. 1 Peters, 283. 290.
There is no hardship or injustice in this; the Bank, like any
other holder, had ample opportunity, before it discounted the
draft, to ascertain the exact extent of the obligation assumed
by the acceptor. This principle, which is just in every case, is
peculiarly.proper.in that of the United States. How can they
guard themselves against acts of their agents, either intentionally
or accidentally wrong, except by their laws? These are notice
to every person dealing with their officers. These make their
acceptances, special acceptances, whether so declared in terms
or not. Not only, however, did the Bank know the special and
conditional character of the acceptance; but they knew also
that it was payable on a contingency, and out of a particular
fund; that if that fund was previously exhausted, the acceptor
could not pay it. On settled principles of commercial law,
therefore, the, Bank was not entitled to payment, any more than
the drawer himself; if the fund was exhausted. If they. advanced their money imprudently, it was yet done advisedly:
they could have easily guarded against the loss: they can now
only repair it, so far as the United States are concerned, through:
the action of the legislature.
II. These principles apply more strongly to the acceptances

384

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

of Reeside's drafts, because they were conditional in express
terms. They were only to be paid "on condition that his con'tracts -were complied with." The Bank need not have discounted
a conditional acceptance, but having done so, it assumes the
burden of showing that the condition has been performed, before
it can charge the acceptor. 4 Maul. and Selw. 466. 2 Wash.
C. C. R. 514. Has it done so? The only evidence adduced by
them is, that Reeside performed, in the year 1835, the mail services for which he contracted. That a ." compliance" with all
the terms of his contracts has been shown, will scarcely be pretendel.. If it were, evidence, adduced by the Bank itself, sufficiently refutes it. It is proved that stipulations were expressly
made by him, not only to perform mail services, but to "pay
all forfeitures," and to "repay all advances." Was his contract
complied with, if forfeitures were unpaid, and advances not refunded? Had such a contract existed between man and man,'
and such an acceptance been given and received, could the holder,
in the face of such proof, recover from the acceptor? How, then,
can it be sufficient, when that acceptor is a public officer, to
makehim twice pay the money from the public Treasury?
III. As if aware of the force of these objections, it has been
strenuouily argued that there were, in fact, moneys due, which
were sufficient to pay all these acceptane6s. If this were so, it
is immaterial as to the error in the charge of the Co.rt, because,
in the instruction prayed, that was left as a matter of fact for the
jury. But how is it attempted to be shown that it was so? It
is not by proving that the forfeitures were not incurred, or that
the advances were returned; but it is said that allowances, sufficient to cover them, were made by the former Postmaster
General. It is true that such allowances are found to be entered
in the joinal; but they were never finally credited in the settlement of the accounts. It may be admitted, as has been argued,
that when tle head of an executive department has finally acted
upon a matter within the scope of his authority, his decision
cannot be reversed by his successor, to the disadvantage of a
third person, withoutnthe disclosure of material error, otherwisd
than by resorting to judicial proceedings. But such is not the
case here. These were merely journal memorandums, such as
must iecessarily'be made in the course of proceedings between

JANUARY, TERM, 1841.

385

[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

a mail contractor and the Post Office Department; they were
left to be finally settled when the account was adjusted. Would
it be contended, if the contractor had, in his own journal, charged
himself with a payment he had not received, or a forfeiture he
not incurred, that the error could not be corrected in the final settlement ? In the case of Ex parte Randolph, 9 Peters, 15, which
is relied on, the account had been entirely settled; it had passed
through all the forms of the Treasury; it reposed in the Register's
office as a final and conclusive adjustment. The ground taken,
therefore, does not sustain the assertion that the money was due;
and the Court below should have instructed the jury to that
effect. They should have instructed them, that the mere fact
of there having been allowances made in the journal, and while
the account was unsettled, which allowances are alleged to be
illegal and contrary to the contract, and were rescinded as such
before the account was closed, cannot of itself authorize the
admission of a credit for thuir amount.
But, it is said, that even if these forfeitures and advances
might be lawfully recharged- yet that the condition of the acceptances had no reference to them; that it was not retrospective,
but had relation merely to the performance of future duties
under the contract. Such a distinction, between the several
duties to be performed under the contract,is not warranted by
the language of the condition, which is general. The condition
was inserted for.the safety of the acceptor; the acceptance was
for the benefit of the contractor;' in conferring that benefit, the
protection of the a'ceptor was to be provided for; the Bank
knew this to be the case; the advance of money by it was a
voluntary act for its own advantage, and in making it, there was
no pretext for overlooking the.safety of the acceptor; this depended no less on the repayment of past advances; than on the.
performance of future services. Why should the acceptor, in
seeking to protect himself, guard less against one than the other?
The condition referred to the contract, the whole. contract; that
condition was submitted to the Bank before its money was
advanced; the- whole contract, therefore, was, or might and
ought to have been known; and it would be a great injustice to
the acceptor, when he states his condition in terms so broad as
clearly to secure for himself the performance of every stipulatio.
49
VOL. XV.-2 K

386

SUPREME COURT.
[The Unifed Stow v. Bank ofthe Mtmpedff]

of the contract, were the party that obtains bis guarantee for the
payment, to be permitted to diminish that security in Tegard to
some of the most essential of those stipulations. Itisnot possible,
in an acceptance, to state all the particulars of a contract; it is
sufficient to embrace it entirely, by general and comprehensive
words, not susceptible of being misunderitood. When this is
done, no one has a right to allege ignoranpe of any part of that
which he might easily have known. How could the acceptor
apprize ev'ery one, into whose hands the draft might pass, of
every stipulation of the contract? It was sufficient -that he apprized him, before he incurred any responsibility, that a.contract
existed between the drawer and the acceptor, which might be
ascertained, and musL be performed in all its parts, before the
latter either intended or engaged to be re~ponsiblb.
IV. The claim to be repaid the overdraft of E. F. Brown,
cannot be sustained. He deposited in the Bank, on the 30th of
April, 1835, the sum of seven thousand and seventy dollars, and
twenty-four cents. He drew checks on this till the 2d December,
1835, when he had received thereon, seven thousand six hundred
and sevent-one dollars, and seventy-six cenfs; that is, six hundred and eleven dollars, and twenty-four cents more than he had
deposited. There is no proof, nor even an allegation, that this
latter sum was applied to the use of the United States. The sole
grounds of claim are, that, from June, 1835, the checks of Brown
were -countersigned by the Accountant of the Department; and
that, 4fter the contingent fund was exhausted, and previous to
the passage of the annual appropriation act, some ordinary bills,
-certified by the Accountant, were paid by the Bank. In what
manner do these acts recognise the overdraft? In itself it was
wrong. It was a transaction known only to the Bank. and
Brown. It might have-been prevented by the former. It is
excused by no proof that such agents as he was, were usually,
*or ever permitted to make overdrafts. The countersignature by
the Accountaht, and the payment of bills, at the express request
of the Postmaster General, are proofs that any deviation from
the usual mode was only to be made by exprss authority. None
such is 'exhibited for this overdraft. It was, therefore, an act
voluntarily done by the Bank, not for the benefit of the United
States, and with which it has no right to charge them.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

387

[The United Stateav. Bank of the Metpolis.]
V. Btit suppose all these sums are legal credits, 'can they be
set off or deducted from moneys deposited in. the bank, after the
2d of July, 1836, to the credit of "the Treasurer of the United
States, for the service of the Post Office Department ?" That was
public money in the treasury. It could be drawn out in no way
but by a warrant, under an appropriation made by act of Congress. It was not under the control of thie Postmaster 'General.
It was not money which he had received in order to disburse;
nor was it under the control of the Treasurer himself, except to
pay it on such a warrant. He could have no other voucher to
discharge himself, if the money was not in the Treasury. I Story's
Laws, 46. These provisions of law were known to the Bank
when it received the deposit from the Treasurer. They cannot
charge against it a claim which, if the Treasurer himself had
paid, he would not be credited with.
The debts do not arise in the same right, nor are they of the
same nature. It is true that the United States are, eventdally,
ihe parties; but the public funds, distributed for different objects,
are separate funds in the .transactions between a claimant and
the various officers of the government. Such a distinction is
indispensable. The relations. between a bank and the Treasurer
as a public depositary, are totally distinct from those between a
bank and the head of an executive department, in-relation to
contracts existing between them. The settlement of its account
with one, would have no reference to that with the other. Vfleley
are, therefore, in fact, debts that dd not arise-between the sanie
parties, or in the safue right. In every case of set-off recognised by this Court, it has been for moneys properly payable out
of the saree fund which the United States sought to recover.
An agent intrusted with money cannot pay off his principal's
debts, and then set off the payment. This is here attempted, for
it is the payment of a debt to Porter and Reeside, with funds
with which the agent is intrusted for a different purpose. 1.Rawle,
330. Nor can an agent convert to one tiurpose, funds deposited
with him for another. Nor can he avail himself bf the advantages of his agency, to do, for his own benefit, that which injures
or affects his principal. 1 Johns. C. C. 394. 6 Pick. 204.
The inability, thus established, to sustain, upon general principles of law, such a right of set-off as is now contended for is con.

388

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis]

firmed by the peculiar facts of this case. The whole claim of the
Bank was ascertained and liquidated in January, 1836. This
deduction is made out of money placed in its hands subsequent to
that time, under a promise, both express aid implied, that it would
not be appropriated to the payment of that claim. Before so depositing the money, the Postmaster Generil, in his letter of 16th
July,1836,stipulated that it should "be paid out only oh the checks
of the Treasurer," and that, in accounting for the sums thus deposited, "no other credit, set-off, or deduction would be admitted."
On this condition, and on this alone, did the Bank receive the money; and that at a time when both parties knew that therewas this
actual .pending claim to a credit, set-off, and deduction, existing
and disputed between them. Even if the Bank had not agreed
to this express stipulation when it received the money, would
not their consent to transfer the fund they then had to a new
account, their silent acquiescence, their settlement of repeated
monthly and qu~arterly accounts, without an allusion to a claim
of right to make this deduction, have proved, by an implication,
not to be resisted, that they did not mean to assert any such
right? Did not their special acceptance-of the fund, their voluntary agreement to hold it for a special purpose, deprive them of
any general claim they might previously have had upon it?
16 Vesey, 279, 280. 5 Mau. & Selv. 186. 15 Mass. 397.
However broad the terms of the act of Congress (1 Story's
Laws, 464) are, therefore, in allowing equitable offsets; and if
they were not meant to be exclusively applicable to disbursing
officers, and to cases where the claim, if just, would have been

paid out of the fund in controversy; (9 Cranch, 236. 6 Wheat.
163. 7 Peters, 1;) still, the positive agreement of the party,
after the claim has arisen, and before the money was paid, put
into his hands, that the latter was not to be applied to the former, must on every principle of law prevent his present resort
,to a privilege. which he thus consented to forego.
Mr. Coxe, for the defendant in error.
For many years the government of the United States have
made use of the banks in the city of Washington in their financial operations; and the Bank of the Metropolis was for a
long time one of these banks. In 1835, Mr. Kendall became

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

389

[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

Postmaster General; and up to the period of his entering on the
diqties of his office, there were no matters -with the Ban unsettled in the Post Office.
The Post Office was in the practice of giving acceptances on
drafts of contractors; and,.sometimes, the Bank of the Metropolis
was resorted to for the immediate exigencies of the Post, Office.
The position assumed is, that the instructions asked for by the
:paintiffs in the Circuit Court were not such as the Court should
have given, being inforiaal, and rather a demurrer to the evidence on the part of the defendant. The party asking the instructions of the-Court is bound to place them in proper form;
and the Court are not to modify and adapt them to the case.
In this case all the grounds of the defence were placed together,
and if any of the items were good as set off to the claim of the
United States, the instructions asked for were improper; and the
Court will give the defendant judgment. The other instructions are equally defective.
The credits allowed by the Postmaster General, before the
office was held by Mr. Kendall, were final. When entered in
the journal, this was the effect of such entry;, and the head
of the Department cannot afterwards alter them. Entries in the
ledger have no effect on those credits. One of the instructions
asked for by the plaintiff, was, that, as the entries in the ledger
were made by a clerk, they were of no effect!
If allowances had been made by the Postmaster General,
-vhich were deemed illegal by his successor, the proper course
vould have been to institute an action to surcharge and falsify
ie settlement. But it is not in the power of the successor to
pen the account, and to revise and alter it. This was decided
this Court in The United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 1;
id in 8 Peters, 38S3, 384.
The act of Congress of March, 1836, which directs ,the Postmaster General to institute suits for money improperly credited,
does not allow that officer to charge a contractor with money
which had been allowed and credited to him, and thus by his
own act decide the propriety of the charge.
The acceptances of the Post Office Department, which were
charged by the defendants to the United States, should be governed by th6 same rules and principles of law which operate in
2X2

390

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

relation to such contracts, in their usual employment in commercial transactions. The United States submit themselves to these
rules, when such contracts are entered into for them, by their
authorized agents.
Mr.- Coxe also contended, that if the contracts of the persons
whose drafts had been accepted by the Post Office Department
had not been performed, it was the duty of the Department to
have given the defendants notice of the same, and to have
proved the non-performance. As to the acceptance of the draft
of Edwin Porter, certainly no debts due by him before the date
of the acceptance could be set off against the claim of the Bank
on the acceptance. It was a general and an unqualified "acceptance.
Mr. Justice WAYNP delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action of assumpsit brought by the United States
to recovektthe sum of twenty-seven thousand eight hundred and
eighty-one dollars and fifty-seven cents. The defendants pleaded the general issue. On the trial of the cause, the defendants
claimed credits, amounting to twenty-three thousand dollars,
-exclusive of interests and costs. The items had been presented
to the proper accounting officer and were not allowed. They
were acceptances of the Post Office Department, of the drafts
of mail contractors, and an item of six hundred and eleven dollars and fifty-two cents, called in the record "E. F. Brown's
overdraft."
The jury found for the defendants, and certified there was
due to them by the United States three thousand three'hundred.
and seventy-one d6llars and ninety-four cents, with interest from
the 6th March, 1838.'
The errors assigned are, that the Court refused to give to the
jury the following instructions, which were asked after the evidence had been closed on both sides.
1. That upon the evidence aforesaid, the defendants are not
entitled in this action to set off against the plaintiff's demand, the
amount of the acceptances given in evidence by the defendants,
nor the amount of the overdraft of E. F. Brown.
2. If the jury believe, from the evidence, that when the acceptance of the draft of E. Porter was given by the then Treasurer

JANUARY'TM,. 1841.

391
C9

fjJTjUxlW-~ttSw v. Badk 4f the-Metrpolis]

of the Department,'there -was .nothintg -due to 1Rater ,standing

-

nn the books of the Post Office -Dpartment,..axfd that .onf he
books of the iDepartment, whenltie ;Rqptanceifblldue there was
nothing duetoliim- then the Zefendantsannntatioffitheamount
of said acceplze against the plnintiffs 3imIitnhis action.
3.That if 'the .acouts of :E. :PRorter and Ree ie, as contragtmrs -with the :Post ,Office Department, were mnotfrlly settled ,n
the books Df tbe Post Office Department 'When lhe present Poatmaster General came into office, it was Ns Txtylo have said
accounts settled -and if in .such settlement there were credits
claimed by thenras allowed by order of Mr. Barry, when Postmaster General, and entered on the jona, ht not carried into
these accounts in the ledger, and finally entered as credits in these
accounts, which credits were for extra allowances which the
said Posimastei General was not legally authorized to allow
them, then it was in the power and was the duty of the present
Postmaster General, to disallow such items of credit
We will consider the instructions asked, in connexion, and
upon the merits of the case; but before we conclude will express
an opinion upon the.form of the first.
It appears, that the five drafts claimed as credits were drawn
on the Post Office Department by contractors for carrying the
mails. That they were accepted, and were, discounted at the
Metropolis Bank in the way of business.
Porter's draft was at ninety days after date, for ten thousand
dollars, payable at the Metropolis 3Bank to his own order, to be
charged to account, and was unconditionally accepted by R. C.
Mason, signing himself Treasurer of the Post Office Department. It is admitted that he was. so.
Reeside drew four drafts. One on the 17th October, 1835, for
four .thousand five hundred dollars; another on the 20th'
October, 1835, for one thousand dollars; a'third on the 23d
October, 1835, for four thousand five hundred dollars; and the
fourth on the 28th October, 1835, for three thousand dollars.
They were payable to his own order ninety days after date, for
value received; to be charged to his account for transporting the
mail, and addressed to the Postmaster General. 'The following
was the -form of all of them, and of the acceptances of the
Postmaster General.

392

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.)

$4500.
Wash.ington City, October 17th, 1835.
Sia :-Ninety days after date, please pay to my own order,
four thousand five hundred dollars, fdr value received, and charge
to my account, for transporting the mail.
Respectfully yours,
JA.mEs REEsiDE.
Hon. Amos. KENDALL, Postmaster General.
"4Accepted on condition that his contracts be complied with."
Amos KENDALL.
Porter's draft was unconditionally accepted. It was discounted by the defendants, uponi his endorsement. The Bank became
the holder of it, for valuable consideration, and its right to
charge the United States with the amount cannot be defeated by
any equities between the drawer and the Post Office Department,
of which the Bank had not notice.
When the United States, by its authorized officer, become a
party to negotiable paper, they have all the rights, and incur all
the respongibility of individuals who are parties to such instruments. We know of no difference, except that the United States
cannot be sued. But if the United States sue, and a defendant
holds its negotiable paper, the amount of it may be claimed as a
credit, if, after being presented, it has been disallowed by the accounting officers of the Treasury; and if the liability of the
United States upon it, be not discharged by some of those causes
which discharge a party to commercial paper, it should be allowedby a jury, as a credit against the debt claimed by the
United States. This is the privilege of a defendant, for all equitable credits given'by the act of March 3d, 1797: 1.Story, 464.
This, and th" liability of the United. States, in the manner it has
been stated, has been repeatedly declared, in effect, by this Couri.
It said, in the case of the United States v. Dunn, 6 Peters, 51,
"1the liability of parties to a bill of exchanoge, or promissory note,
has been fixed on certain principles, which -are essential to the
credit and circulation of such paper. These principles originated in the convenience of commercial transactions, and cannot
now be departed from."
From the daily and unavoidable use
of commercial paper by the United States; they are as much interested as the community at large can be, in maintaining these
principles.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

393

[The United Statesyv. Bank of the Metropolis.]

It was held, in the case of The United States v. Barker,
4 Wash. C. C. R. 464, that the omission of the Secretary of the
Treasury,for one day, to give notice of the dishonour -of bills,
which were purchased by the United States, discharged the
drawer. And this Cpurt said, when that case was brought before it, there was no right to recover; on account of the neglect
- in giving notice after the return of the bills.
12 Wheaton; 561.
That, and other cases like it, show how rigidly those principles
have been applied in suits on bills and promissory notes, in
which the'United States was a party. The acceptance of Porter's
draft was unconditional, and there is nothing in tht evidence to
discharge the acceptor. There is neither waiver, express or implied, of his liability.; There was no understanding nor communication concerning it between the Bank and any officer of tfie
Post Office Department, before it was discounted. The Bank
advanced the money, which it was the object of the bill to obtain. It cannot be doubted, the acceptance was given for that
purpose. The want of consideration then, between' th6 drawer
and the acceptor, can be no defence against the right of the ind6rsee, who gave a valuable consideration for the bill.
It does not matter how the drawer's account stood. Whether.
he was a debtor or a creditor of the Department; whether the
Bank knew one or the other. An unconditional acceptance was
tendered to it for discount. It was not its duty to inquire how
the account stood, or for what purpose the acceptance was made.
All it had to look to was the genuineness of the -acceptance, and
the authority of the officer to give it. The rule is, that a want
of consideration between the drawer and acceptor is no defence against the right of a third party, who has given a consideration for the bill, and this even though the acceptor has
been defrauded by the drawer; if that be not known by stch
third party, before he gives valu e for it.
The evidence then, concerning Porter's account, was immaterial and irrelevant to the issue. It cannot affect the rights of
the Bank, and did not lessen the obligation of the Department
to pay the acceptance when it becariie due.
But the evidence does not show that any thing was due by
Porter when the draft was accepted, or when it came to maturity. Mason, the witness, saqy, "that in the interim a sufficient

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Rmk af the irt ,opolis.]

sum had been raised and can-ied to the credit of Porter, to pay
the draft; but that he had also, within the dates, been charged
-with the amount of a draft drawn upon him by the Postmaster
.at !Mobile, accepted by him,, which draft was payable in 1833,
Fant that he was charged with failures and forfeitures incurred as
:cotntractor, in 1833; which charges were made by order of Mr.
Barry, then Postmaster General. It was certainly right to debit
Yorter with these charges, if they were due by him; but that
didot'.change the relative Tights and obligations of the Bank
aifdtithe Department upon his bill. If either are to lose by
:Porter, .shall it be that party, who was bound to know the state
oof thecacount, before it gave an unconditional acceptance, for
.thc pugozse of accommodating its own agent; or the other, who
jiaced ;faith in the acceptance, advanced the moneir upon it,
-..
wich ;it was intended to raise; and who could jiot have learn,ed 4hat was the state of Porter's account, as it is proved that
the & ges-.whidh it is now said should have priority of payment over the :bill were not made against Porter until after his
'bill had been accepted. Certainly, the loss should fall upon the
first. It cannot be otherwise, unless it would be affirmed that
an ameptr may claim to be discharged on account of his own
negligene, and that having Induced a third party to advance
money upon Ibis acceptance, he shall be permitted to intervene
between himsolftand the endorsee of the paper, a debt due to
him by the Arawer. The evidence offer2d to invalidate this
credit was done from ignorance of the legal consequences incurred by such an acceptance. In such a case, the bank right-*
fully looked to the United States for payment of this bill; and if
Porter owes any thing for forfeitures incurred as contractor, or
on account o the Mobile draft, the United States must look to
him. There is no proof on the record, however, of any thing
being due by Porter on those accounts;. and we do not intend to
express any opinion upon his liability, or the rights of the United
States, idf respect to them, one way or the other.
What are the merits of the case upon Reeside's drafts.
They were drawn on the Postmaster General, at ninety days,
payable to the order of the drawer, and were to be charged to
his account for transporting the mail. They were "accepted on
condition that his contracts be complied with." This is of course

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

395

[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis]
as binding " an absolute acceptance, if the condition has been
performed.
What is the proof of performance, and how shall this conditional acceptance be construed ? Mason, the witness, says,
" Reeside, in fact, performed the services for which he was con'tractor, in the year 1835 , and the money which he earned upon
his contracts was applied, to an extent exceeding the amount
due upon his drafts, to the extinguishment pf balances cre~ted
against him, by recharging him with sumg of money which had
been allowed to him by Mr. Barry, the former Postmaster
General, as contractor for carrying the mail, by givinig him credit
therefor in a general account current on the journal, but -not
entered in the ledger, where his acc6unt remained unsettled
when the present Postmaster General came into office." It is
said,%this does riot cover the condition of the acceptance, because
Reeside stipulated, by his bond, to pay forfeitures, and repay
advances; and that he owed the Department on both accounts,
when these acceptances. were given ; and thaf iithi" sense his
contracts were not complied with. If .this "be so, in one sense
the contracts would not be complied with: but is that the construction which should be put upon such a condition, when the
subject matter to which it relates is consid6red?
If one purpose making a conditional acceptance, only, and
6ommit that acceptance to writing, he should be careful to express
the condition therein. He cannot use geferal terms, and then
exempt himself from liability, by relying upon .particular facts
which have already happened, though they are connected with
the condition expressed. Why? Because. the particular fact is
of itself susceptible of being made a distinct condition. This
case furnishes as good an illustration of the rule as any other
can do. -Instead of the words being used, "accepted on condition that his contracts be complied with," could"it not have been
as easily said, accepted on condition that forfeitures already incurred shall be paid, and that advances made shall be refunded.
This would have conveyed a very different meaning; and.would
have put the Bank, when the drafts were offered to it for discount, on inquiry. If they had been discounted without inquiry, it would have been done at the risk that-the earnings upon
the cont'acts, and such as might be earne - between the date of

396

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

the acceptances and the times of payment, would be enough to
pay forfeitures, repay advances, and to take up the bills. It matters not what the acceptor meant by a cautious and precise
phraseology, if it be not 6xpressed as a condition. And when
we are told, as ye are in this case, by the person making these
acceptances, that the form of words was devised expressly for
that purpose, meaning for the purposes of having forfeitures
paid and advances refunded, and to avoid promising to pay any
thing to the order of contractors so long as any thing should be
due from them-to the Department; we think it will be admitted
that the purpose explained is larger than the condition expr~ssed.
And from the passage in the evidence just cited, how just does the
rule appear which has been laid down by the Court, that, in the
case of acceptances of commercial paper, that which can be made
a distinct condiiion must be so expressed; nor can any thing out
of the condition be inferred, unless it be in a case where the
words used are so ambiguous as to make it necessary that parol
evidence should be resorted to, to explain them. Then the onus
of proof would be on the acceptor, and the proof would be of
no avail if the holder or any person under whom he claims, took
the bill without notice of such conditions and gave a valuable
consideration for it. The error in this case arose from the acceptor supposing that the defendants did know, and if they did
not, they were bound upon such .an. acceptance to inquire into
the stipulations and conditions of Reeside's.contracts before they
discounted the bills; and it is said they did not use 4'due diligence to acquire information." The objection then implies that
information of these forfeitures and advances'could have been
given, and that it was not given when these acceptances were
made. This makes it, then, a question of due diligence between
the acceptor and the defendants, as to his obligation to communicate what he knew; and their want of caution in not making
the. inquiry.
We think -it will be conceded to be a general principle, that
one having knowledge of particular facts upon which he intends
to rely to exempt him from a pecuniary obligation, about to be
contracted with another-of which facts that other.is ignorant,
and can only learn them from the first, or from documents in his
keeping-that the fact of klnowledge raises the obligation upon

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

397

[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

him to tell it. This would be the law in such a case, and it is in
this case. Inquiry by the defendants would, at -most, have
resulted in obtaining what was already known to the acceptor.
He held the contracts: he knew, or should have known, officially
the state of the accounts between the contractor and the Department, and when he conditionally accepted his drafts, which
were to be charged to his account for transl orting the mail; as
his liability to pay them would occur in ninety 0 .tys, it was but
reasonable that he should have said in plain terms, when giving
his acceptances, "If the earnings of the contractor from this time
to the maturity of the draft, shall be sufficient to pay what he
owes, and the debt he may incur until then, then these drafts
will be paid." This would have been a condition about which
there would have been no mistake.
But, further, if two persons deal in relafion to the executory
contracts of a third; as these contracts were; and one of them
being the obligee induces the other to advance.monpy to the
obligor, upon "condition that his contracts be complied with;"
and he knows that forfeitures have been already incurred by the
obligor, for breaches of his contract, and does not say so;
shall he be permitted afterwards to get rid of his liability, by
saying to the person-making the advance, "I cannot layyou, for
when I accepted there was already due to me from the drawer
of the bill more than I accepted for. I had knowledge of it then,
and so might you have had if you had made the inquiry; but
you did not choose to inquire; so I will pay myself first, because
my acceptance was on condition that his contracts be complied
with?"
Such is the case before us as itwas presented by the argument; and we cannot doubt it will be thought decisive that
it was the duty of the acceptor, in this instance, to communicate
what he knew of Reeside's account, if he had afiy conversation
with the defepdants before the drafts were discounted, and that
it was not the duty of the defendants -to inquire. It cannotu be
answered by saying the words of the acceptance were intended
to provide for what might exist, but what was not then known,
or for breaches of the contracts which had already occurred, but
which had not been charged with a penalty for either would be
an admission that M*'quiry by the defendants when the acceptVOL. XV.-3 L

398

SUPREME COTRT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

ances were made, could not have resulted in getting the information at the Department.
But, again, will the terms of the acceptance admit in any way
of retroactive construction? The words must be taken according to the ordinary import of them. They are "accepted on condition that his contracts be complied with." Can there be compliance with an executory contract, but in future, if breaches
have already happened. Supposing no breaches to have occurred,
necessarily implies such as may occur in future, and. subsequent
compliance. If both past and -future breaches, then, are, as
contended for, to be comprehended within the condition of this
acceptance, why may not the condition be extended to such as
may happen-afte-r the maturity of the drafts, as well as to such
as had occurred before they were accepted? A literal interpretation must lead to both, and that will not be cbntended for.
But the argument is, that the defendants should have inquired
into the "'sTpulations of the contracts and the extent of the ,condition;" and it is said, "the Bank would have been informed,
that the ]Department expected Mr. Reeside to renew his drafts
until the :accumulation of his current pay would be sufficient to
meet ihem; and had his pledge to take them up himself, if earlier
payrnentshould be required." Be it so. Can there be a plainer
aamnission than there is in the preceding sentence, written by the
auo~ptor, that it is necessary to go out of the condition of the
aace tance to ascertain his meaning, and that his construction
rests upon facts, known by himself and Mr. Reeside, which the
dfendants could not have known but from one or the other of
them:? facts out of the condition, and which could alone become a condition by being so expressed. Again, it is takep for
granted.in the argument, if the defendants had inquired into the
.,stipulations of the contracts and the bond, that they would have
been informed of the forfeitures which had been incurred. But
that would not follow. Before such knowledge could have
Sbeen obtained, it would have been necessary to take one step
further beyond the condition--an inquiry into the accounts.
'>Vhere shall such.constructionr stop, if it be allowed at all. The"
'law does not permit a conditional acceptance to be construed by
any thing extraneous to it, unless where the terms used are so
ambiguous that it cannot be otherwise ascertained.

TA.NUARY TERM, 1841.

399

[The Unite States v. Bahk of the Metropolis.)

We will suppose, however, that the stipulations of Reeside's
contract, and' his bond, had been known to the defendants.
Might they not very justifiably have concluded, that his drafts
were accepted to aid him with an advance to fulfil his engage-'
ments? The bond in evidence, shows that a necessity for advances was contemplated. It had been the habit of the Department to make them to contractors. Its exigencies,'it is said,
required advances to, be made. The witness, Mason, says,
" From the year 1830, the pecuniary affairs of the Department
were much deranged, and it was frequently unable to pay debts
due by it to contractors. Under such circumstances, the Department was in the practice of giving to contractors acceptdtces for
sums less than was actually standing to their credit, unconditionally; and such acceptances were always taken up at maturity,
prior to May, 1835. That occasionally, and with the special
approbation of the Postmaster General, acceptances were givenupon the faith of existing contracts, conditional upon. the performance of the contracts, which were understood to become
absolute, if the contractor performed the services stated in the
contract"' The defendants,'in the year 1835, held acceptances
of the same character, for more than seventy thousand dollars, all
of which were under protest for non-payment, but subsequently
paid prior to the institution of this suit, except those in dispute
in this case. The witness further says, the Bank of the Metropolis, and other banks in the city of Washington and elsewhere,
have been, for many years, in the practice of discounting such
acceptances. That it was often done for the accommodation of
th&Department; often for the accommodation of the drawer, and
frequently of both. This testimony brings the Department and
the Bank in connexion upon acceptances of the former for contractors; shows the course of business upon them; and aids to
give a proper construction to the acceptances under consideration.
When it is remembered, also, that these acceptances were given
to renew others of the Department, which were overdue,-we
think it cannot be doubted, that the terms, "accepted on eondition
that his contracts be complied with," cannot retroact to embrace
forfeitures which had been incurred, and to refund advances said:
to have been made before the.date of these acceptances. The
argument .upon this point was made upon the false assumption

400

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

that there had been a communication between the Postmaster
General and the defendants concerning these acceptances, before
they were discounted; or that there was an obligation upon the
part oi the defendants to make an inquiry into the state of Reeside's- contract, and his fulfilment of them, because the acceptances were conditional. It did not exist here, nor does it in any
case of a conditional acceptance. The acceptor is bound by his
contract as it is expressed, and so it may be negotiated, without
any further inquiry.
Having fully canvassed the argument upon the point of the
obligation of the defendants to inquire into the condition of the
acceptance; we turn, for anmoment, to the case as it is shown to
be by the evidence.
Reeside's earnings between the date of the acceptances and the
time for the payment of them, were not applied to pay forfeitures,
or refund advances. They were exhausted by recharging him
with sums of money, which Mr. Barry had allowed to him as
contractor for carrying the mail, which were credited in the journal, but not entered into the ledger. That they were not posted,
cannot affect Reeside's right t6 such allowances; and something
more must appear than the testimony in this case discloses, before
it can oe admitted, that credits given by Mr. Barry were legally
withdrawn by his successor. There is no evidence in this cause
to iinpeach the fairness and legality of the allowances credited
by Mr. Barry; no proof that Reeside had incurred forfeitures, or
that advances had been made to him. Proofs should have been
given, if it was intended to justify the r.charges for the causes
stated. No attempt was made to do so. The allowances, thin,
are credits in Reeside's account, which the defendants may u~se to
prove his performance of the conditions of the acceptance; and
they do show performance, hs the amount earned would have
paid his drafts if it haa not been diverted.
The third" instruction asked the Court to say, among other
things,' if the credits given by Mr. Barry, were for extra
allowances, which the said Postmaster General was not
legally authorized to allow, then it was the duty of the presentPostmaster General to disallow such items of credit. The successor of Mr. Barry had the same power, and no more, than
his predecessor, and the power of the former did not extend to

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

401

[The United States v. Bank of the Metropoli.]

the recall of credits or allowances made by Mr. Barry, if he acted
within the scope of official authority given by law to the head
of the Department. This right in an incumbent of reviewing a
predecessor's decisions, extends to mistakes in m'atters of fact
arising frorm, errors in calculation, and to cases of rejected claims,
in which material testimony is afterwards discovered and produced. But if a credit has been given, or an allowance made,
as these were, by the head of a Department, and it is alleged to
be an illegal allowance, the judicial tribunals of the coubtry
must be resorted to, to construe the law under which the allowance was made, and to settle the rights between the United States
and the party to whom the credit was given.. It is no longer a
case between the correctness of one officer's judgment and that
of his successor. A third party is interested, and he cannot be
deprived of a payment on a credit so given, but by the intervention of a Court to pass upon his right. No statute is necessary
to authorize the United States to sue in such a case. The'right
to sue is independent of statute, and it may be done by the direction of the incumbent of the Department. The act of 2d July,
1836, entitled "An act to change the organization of the Post
Office Department," is only affirmative of the antecedent right of
the Government to sue, and directory to the Postmaster General
to cause suits to be brought in the cases mentioned in the 17th
section of that act. It also excludes him from determining,
finally, any case which he may suppose to arise under thAt section. His duty is to cause a suit to be brought. Additional
allowances, the Postmaster General could make under the 43d
section of the act of March 2d, 1825,,(3 Story, 1985) and we
presume it was because allowances were supposed to have been
made contrary to that law, that the 17th section of the act of 2d
July, 1836, was passed. In this last, the extent of the Postmaster General's power in respect to allowances, is too plain to be
mistaken.
We cannot say that either of the sections of the acts of 1825,
and 1836. just alluded to, covers the allowances made by Mr.
Barry to Reeside.
But if the Postmaster General thought
they did, and that such a defence could have availed against the
rights of the Bank to claim these acceptances, as credits in this
suit, the same proof .which would have justified a recovery in
2L2
51

402

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank ofthe Metropoli.]

an action by the United States, would have justified the rejection
of them as credits when they are claimed as a set-off.
We pass to the credit claimed, and called E. F Brown's overdraft- But why it is so called, we do not know; for certainly
no overdraft occurred when he checked alone upon the contingent fund of the department deposited to his credit in the Bank.
Seven thousand and seventy dollars and twenty-four cents, on
the 30th of April, 1835, Were deposited to his credit. By 7th of
June, he had drawn of that sum three thousand and seventy-six
dollars and, ninety-seven cents. Then the Postmaster General
directed the Bank not to pay Brown's checks, unless they were
approved by Robert Johnson, the Accountant of the Department.
It is in proof, that no check of Brown's was afterwards paid
without Jofinson's approval. On the 2d bf Decehmber following,
the original deposit to Brown's credit was drawn out in his
checks, approved by Johnson, and it was found there had been
an overdraft of something over six hundred dollars. We do not
say, that an overdraft out of the Bank by authorized officers of
the United States, is in any case chargeable to the United States,
unless it can be shown that the money overdrawn has been applied to the use of the United States : but in the present instance,
we think no proof of such application was necessarf, and we
cannot resist the conclusion, that the defendants are, in equity,
entitled to this credit, for the proof is, that on the day that the
overdraft was known, the Postmaster General wrote a letter to
the Cashier of the Bank, stating that cthe contingent fund of the
Department was exhausted, but-the public service requires that
a number of bills chargeable to that appropriation; shall be paid
sooner than the usual sum can be obtained from Congress; I
therefore request the favour of your Bank, to pay such bills
against the Department, of that character, as may be presented,
with the certificate that the amount is allowed, signed by Robert
'Johnston, Accountant of this Department." The request was
complied witth, and the Bank .advanced until the 14th of May,
1836, more-than six thousand dollars, to pay claims on the contingent fund. In this case, as in those of more humble dealings,'
the course 6f business between parties must be used when it
can apply to explain their understanding_ of past transactions.
Nor can the inference be resisted, that when the Postmaster

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

403

[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolia]

General discovered the contingent fund had been overdrawn, and
requested that other overdrafts might be made on the same account, that it was an admission of the correctness of the first.
We think, then, that the United States was a debtor to the defendants for Porter's draft, and Reeside's drafts, and for the overdraft on the contingent fund, principal, interest, and costs.
But it is said, though the credits claimed by the defendants
shall be found to be due by the United States, they cannot be
set off in this suit. This was the first instruction asked, and refased by the Court.
It is urged, that to allow them as credits in this suit is, in
effect, to permit money to be taken from the Treasury, otherwise
than it is directed to be disbursed by law. That the money previously held by the defendants had been passed, to the account
of the Treasurer of the United States by direction of the Postmaster General, in conformity with the act of the 2d of July,
1836. 4 Story, 2464. That when the defendants conplied
with the letter of instruction, written to them by the Postmaster
General, on the 16th of July, 1836, and transferred the money
then on deposit to the credit of the Department, to the Treasurer of the United States, for the service of the Post Office Department- and when they consented to receive future deposits
according to a form sent, and to transact the business according
to the regulations contained in -the letter of the '16th of July,
1836; that the defendants cannot legally charge their 6laims
against that account, by way of set-off in this suit.
To the foregoing-objections, a briief but conclusive answer
may be given. That is certainly 'the. Treasury of Ihe "United
States where its money is directed by law -to "be 'kept: 'but if
those 'whose duty it is 'to disburse appropriatdons nmade -by law.,
employ, or are permitted -y law to enploy, either Xbr safe keep-.
ing, cr more convenient disbursement, other agencies, miadR-t shall
become necessary for the United States to sue for the recovery
of the fund, that -the aefendant in the -action uay clam,against
the demand for which the action 'ms -heen7rronght,-anyzreits
to which he shall prove bimself ,entitled 'to, if they have 'ben
previously 'presentedl to the proper accoufiting officers -bf ihe
.Treasury, and been rejected. Sudhis the'law, as it now stands.
-Thisright was'early given by an act of 0ongress to all defend-

404

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis.]

ants in suits brought by the United States. 1 Story. It has
been repeatedly before this Court. The decisions upon it need
not be cited. They apply to this case. The transfer of the deposit to the Treasurer of the .United States; the ltter of the
Postmaster General directing it to be done; his regulations for
keeping the account, and for disbursing it; were directory to the
defendants; and their compliance with such directions, was an
acknowledgment that the 'Postmaster General had the right to
give them, as the conditions upon which they were to continue
the depository of the fund. But it cannot. be inferred, either
from the act of 2d of July, 1836, requiring that when the revenues of the Post Office Department have been collected, that
they.shall be paid, under the direction of the Postmaster General, into the Treasury of the United States; or because appropriations for the service of the Department, shall be disbursed
by the checks of the Treasurer endorsed upon warrants of the
Postmaster General, and countersignedby theAuditor for the Post
Office Department, under the words "registered and charged;"
or from the declaration in the Postmaster General's letter to the
defendants, that no other credit, set-off, or deduction wilFbe admitted in this account. It cannot be inferied, that the defendants
accepted the Postmaster General's letter as a contract to surrender the right secured to them by the statute, to claim credits in
a suit brought against them by the United States; or that it imposed upon them any legal obligation not to do so.
From the previous and contemporaneous correspondence between the Bank and the Postmaster General, concerning these
drafts, it is clear such was not the apprehension of the defendant
when the account was opened with the Treasurer of the United
States, in compliance with the Postmaster General's letter. That
was done in compliance with the law, changing entirely the fiscal
arrangements of the Department; and for that purpose the PostmasterGeneral was the proper organ to direct it to be done;' but
any condition in that letter not required by the act of Congress,
under which he was acting, though officially made, is rather an
evidence of what he wished to do, than a conclusion that he had
the power to impose it; or that the defendants had consented to
look to Congress for the reimbursement of the debt due them,
and not to the Courts of justice. When the account was changed

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

405

[The United States v. Bank of the Metpolis.)

to the Treasurer of the United States, there was a large balance
on deposit to the credit of the Post Office Department. The fund,
however, was not the less that of the United States, in the one
case or the other. The change, then, made no difference as to
the ownership of the rand, in their 'right to retain, if the defendants had any right at all to retain it for their debt. They had
been dealing with the exc-utive branch of the Government in a
natter of money, and could not be turned to the Legislature
without their consent to ask it to do as a favour, what the judiciary could settle as a right. If the defendants had supposed
such was to be -the consequence of carrying the fund to the
Treasurer's account, it is manifest from the evidence in the case,
that it would not have been done. That they did not do so,'it
is to be inferred also from the evidence arose from an indisposition to 'nforce a right until every effort had been made to obtain
it by amicable adjustment; and from an indisposition to embarrass a Department which had been severely pressed, and was
then just beginning to be relieved. The Postmaster General
says, in his letter of 'Mhrch 19th, 1838, that, "excepting the
refusal, in common with other banks, to pay the warrants of
this Department in gold and silver, or an equivalent, commencing in May last, and the seizure of both a general and
special deposit of moneys.in the Treasury to meet alleged claims,
under the circumstances exhibited in the annexed papers, the
Bank of Metropolis has faithfully discharged its duties as a deposit
bank for this Department." The circumstances alluded to are
those which have been the subject of comment in this case; and
it is our opinion, that they confirm the right of the defendants
to the credits claimed. There was no error, then, in the Court not
giving the instructions asked for, and the judgment is affirmed.
It is proper for us to say, however, if the law and the merits of
the case were not with the defendants, that the Court might xiell
have refused to give the first instruction, from the manner in
which it is asked. After the evidence had been closed on both
sides, the Court was asked to say, "1that upon the evidence aforesaid, the defendants are not entitled, in this action, to set off
against the plaintiffs' demand, the amount of acceptances aforesaid, so given in evidence by the defendants, nor the amount of
,the overdraft of E. F. Brown." It raises all the issues, both of

406

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States A.:Bankof the Metropol.]

law and fact, in the case, and requires the Court to adjudge the
case for the plaintiffs. This the Court could not do as there
were contested facts in the case, whidh it *as the province of the
jury to decide. The Court could only have said, alternatively,
what was the law of the case, accordingly as the jury did or did
not believe the facts; and this, it will be admitted, would have been
equivalent to a refusal of the instruction. When instructions
are asked, they should be precise and certain, to a particular intent; that the point intended to be raised may be disiinctly seen
by the Court, and that error, if one be made, may be distinctly
assigned.
This cause came on to be heard on- the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
District of Colunbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and waa argued by counsel: on consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment
of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby; Ilirmed.

