SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS; V. THE HEIRs Op JOSEPH
DELESPIKE AND OTHERS, AXPELLEES.
A claim for a square of four miles of land, under a grant from Don Jose Coppinger,
Spanish Governor of East Florida, situtated. a the north head of Indian river, conLirmed.
The certificate of Don Tomas de Aguilar, Secretary of the Government and Province,
6f the copy of the grant of the Governor, stating the same "to be faithfully drawn
from the original in the Secretary's office 'under his charge," was legal evidence
of the grant; and was properly admitted as such, in support of the same. The case
of The United States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters, and The United States v.Rodman, at
this term, deciding the same point, cited. The case of The United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 96, cited.
A grant of ten thousind. two hundred and forty acres of land, by the Sjmnish Governor
of Frbrida, which recited, among other things, that it was made under a royal order
of the King of Spai, of 29th MarcA 1915, and which was not in conformity with
the'grant; but which was made in the exercise of other powers to grant lands, which
had been vested in the Governor; was not made invalid by the recital of the royal
order as the authority for the grant.. The grant recited plso, that it was made in
.consideration of military services, ?nd was also in consideration of the surrender of
another grant, previously made, which surrendgr had been accepted by the Governor.
These were sufficient inducements to the grant.

* APPEAL from the Superior Court of East F,orida.
Joseph Delespine and others presented a petition to the Superior Court of East Florida, claiming ten thousand two hundred
and forty acres of land, at the north, head of..Indian river, by
vjitue of a concession from Governor Coppinger, the Spanish
Governor of East Florida, to Pablo Fontane, dated November 10,
1817.
* The grant, and circumstances of the case, are full stated in the
opinion of the Court.
The Superior Court of East 'Florida decreed a confirmation
of the grant; and the United States prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Gilpin, for the United. States;
Mr. Downing appeared as counsel for the appellees.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

227

[The United States v. Delespine et al]

Mr. Gilpin, for the United States, relied on the following
grounds:1. That the evidence in the case is insufficient to prove that
the alleged grant or concession was ever made.
2. That if it be proved or admitted that the alleged grant or
concession was ever made, still, that the same was not in conformity to the royal order of 29th March, 1815, by virtue of
which, it is declared that the concession was made.
1. This is an alleged concession of Governor Coppinger. -The
evidence to support it is a copy of the concession, certified by
Tomas de Aguilar, and it is accompanied by an order and certificate of survey. The only point~to be considered in regard to
this evidence is, whether or not the facts bring the case within
the rule established in that of The United States v.'Wiggins, 14
Peters, 348. This Court certainly -will not extend the scope of
that rhie, so as to give any weight to these secondary evidences
of title which it does not indisputably recognise. It is not denied
that the production of the order of survey, and the plat and'certificate made in pursuance thereof, go far to bring it within that
decision; but it may not be improper to ask.the particular consideration of the Court to the depositions annexed to the record,
which would seem to show that the existence of the original
concession was a matter of doubt at a very early period; that in
March, 1822, very shortly after the cession of Florida, before the
alleged losses of papers are supposed to have occurrea, and
when the grantee was yet living, and sold part of his interest to
Delespine, it appeari not to have been in existence; and that the
particular fact of its actual existence, at any time, is not proved
by a single witness.
2. This grant purports to be founded on the royal order of
29th of March, 1815, 2 White's New Rec. 279. That order
authorizes the Governor to grant land to the soldiers in the
militia; the quantity being the same "as established by regulation in the province, agreeably to the number of persons composing each family ;" and it also contemplates special rewards
to certain officers mentioned in it. If Fontane, the grantee, was,
as it is presumed he was, one of the militia authorized to take
under this order, yet h "was entitled only to the quantity "established by regulation," which was much less than that included

SUPREME oRT.
[The United States v. Delespine et aL]

inthe alleged concession. It may then be said, ift the language
of this Court, in. the case of The United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters;
448, that ",If the validity of the grant depends on its being in
conformity with the 'oyal.order, it cannot be supported." It is
true, that this Court, in the- case of The United States v, Percheman, 7 Peters, 96,in examining the effect bf a recital of the'royal
order of 29th March, ;815, in a grant of a large body of land,
declared "Ithat the reference to' it was to be regarded no farther
than as showing that the favourable attention of the king had
been directed to the petitioner." If the facts of the present case
are s~~ilar to those which led the Court in that case, so t regard
th; effect of the royal order, it is admitted that the grant, if made,
was valid. , But are they similar ? In the first place, .Percleman
was a distinguished ofcer of dragoons, who h'ad rendered important military services; and this Court said, thatthe GevrDor
made the grant, as a reward for these, services, which. -be.,4i;d
full authority to do under the laws of the Indies. But, in the
second place, it happened that Percheman was himself qne of
the offiders individually mentioned in the royal order of 1815, as
entitled, to a special reward; aftd, therefore, the order was
naturally and properly recited in the grant.: These considerations evidently made a'large grant, in that case, perfectly consistent with'a reference to the royal order of 1815. But neither
of them'is applicable to the present case. Neither the petition
nor the grant refers directly or indirectly to any military services;
nor Was the grantee, Fontane, one of those specially named in it.
How., then, can such a grant, solicited and made, as this piurpdrts
to be, "in virtue of the said royal order," be valid?
3. The grant is for a tract of land " on a creek which, issuing
from the north head of Indian river, westwardly, runs to the
northwest." The certificate of the survey is 'for a tract " in the
territory-of Musquito, northwestwardly of Indian river." The
petition of the claimant is for a tra'ct "at the north head of the
river Ys, or Indian river, on the weA side thereof.1 This discrepancy is fatal to the validity of the claimant's title. The land
surveyed and claimed is not identical with that granted; the title
to the latter has never been .perfected, even by a survey: it is
too late for this now to b6 done: and, therefore, the decree of
the Superior Court of East Florida, made pursuant to,the de-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

229

[The United States v. Delespine et al.]

scription in the grant, cannot cure the defect resulting from the
negligence of the claimant himself. It falls within the principles
which have already been before the Court at this term, in the
case of The United States v. The Heirs of Forbes.
Mr. Justice WAYwE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.
The decree of the Court declare the claim to be valid, to a
square of four miles of land on a creek, issuing from the north
head of Indian river, westwardly, and running to the northWest.
The following is the memorial and grant offered by the appellees, to maintain the claim:
His EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR.
Don Pablo Fontane, an inhabitant and merchant of this place,
with due respect represents to your Excellency, that in consequence of the orders of His Majesty of the twenty-ninth of
March, one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, in which he has
been pleased to grant, gratuitously, to his faithful subjects of this
Province, lands in proportion to the serVices rendered by them,
and as your petitioner considers himself included in the 'said
royal favour, this government granted to him, under date of the
twenty-fifth of June, of the present year, in absolute property,
as it appears by the document duly annexed, a quantity of land
comprehended in a square of four miles, on Trout creek, of the
river St. John, and-as it happened that when he went to take
possession of the said land, he'found it in the possession of Dona
Beig Bagely, widow, and this he represents to your Excellency,
id order that you be pleased to withdraw the said document of
ownership which, is annexed, and to grant him another in lied
thereof, for the same quantity of land on anothe) creek, which,
issuing from the. north head of Indian river westwardly, runs to
the north-west. Therefore,your petitioner supplicates your Excellency to consider as returned the mentioned document of concession, and, in virtue of the said royal order, to grant him, in
absolute property, the square of four miles of land, at the place
which he has just designated, as the same is vacant, which favbur
,he hopes to Teceive from the justice of your Excellency.- St.
VOL. XV.-U

230

SUPREME COURT.
[The Unitd States v. Delespine et aL]

Augustine of Florida, tenth of November, one thousand eight
hundred and seventeen.
PABLO FONTANE.
St. Augustine, tenth of November, one thousand eight hundred
and seventeen: I accept the retrocession which this party offers,
of the land which was granted to him on the twenty-sixth of
'June last past, for the reasons which he exhibits in this petition,
and in lieuthereof, I grant him in lawful property, in conformity
to the royal order to which he refers, and as he is entitled thereto, the square of four miles of land on the north head of Indian
river, which he designates, and to this effect let the Secretary's
office issue to him a copy conforming to this decree, to which
will be- annexed the copy of this petition, on which the decree
was rendered. In testimony thereof, and in order that at all
times it may serve as a title in form to the interested party.
COPPINGER.
CERTIFICATES OP. AGUILAR.

I, Don Tomas de Aguilar, sub-lieutenant of the army and secretary of the government of this place, and of the Province
thereof, for his majesty, do certify that the preceding copy is
faithfully drawn from the original, which exists in the Secretary's office in my charge, and in obedience to order, I give
the present in St. Augustine of Florida, on the eleventh of
November, one thousand eight hundred and seventeen.
ToMAs DE AGUILAR.

We, Don Francisco FatiQ, and Don Juan Huertas, members
of this illustrious council constitutional, do certify, that the signatures affixed in this expedient, are the same which the signers
use, and .in testimony thereof, we sign this in St. Augustine, on
the thirteenth of June, one thousand eight hundred and twentyone.

FRANCISCO J. FATIO,

JUAN HUB.TAS.

St. Iugustine, 16th May, 1832.-1 certify that the preceding
is a correct tanslation of the Spanish document annexed.
A. GAY Translatorand Interpreter

f the Sup'r Court.

XANUARY TERM, 1841.

231

[The United States v. D]elespine et aq

It.is contended that the decree should be reversed, because the
evidence is insufficient to prove that the grant was made. The
proof is a certificate of Aguilar, the secretary of the government,
which has been ruled to be sufficient in the case of The United
States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters; and again, at this term, in the case
of The United States A; Rodman.
The second objection. is, that if the grant is proved, -it is not
in conformity to the royal order of the 29th March, 1815, by
virtue of which it is declared the grant was made.
That royal order has been under- the consideration of this
Court in Percheman's case, 7 Peters, 96. In that case, it will
be seen that the petitioner refers in his memorial to the order
of 'the 29th March, 1815 ; and that the Governor in the grantfor the land says: "In consideration of the provisions of the
royal order, under date of 29th March last, which is referred
to, I do grant to him in absolute property," &c.; but the Court
(referring to certificates which were annexed to the memorial for
the grant, which the grant refers to as certificates annexed) said,
"military service is'the foundation of the grant, and the royal
order is referred to only as showing that the favourable attention
of the king had been directed to the petitioner." 7 Peters, 96.
The Court" sustained the grant in that case; notwithstanding it
was said to have been made in consideration of the royal order
of 1815, which limits grants to one hundred acres, and to persons
of a particular regiment. The power in the Governor to make
a larger grant of land, was not thought to be restrained in making a grant to one, -who was not of the regiment designated in
the order, and who applied, for it on the ground of services.
The reasoning in that decision cannot be shaken. It applies
with full force to the gratit now under consideration i the decree
of the Governor being alike in both cases. - But this has an adcditional consideration, recited in the memorial. ' The surrender
of another grant previously made for'services; recognised by
the Governor in his acceptance of the retrocession offered by the
memorialist. This is a grant in absolute property. Though it
recites the order of the 29th March, 1815, the inducements for
making it are considerations, which plainly show it was not intended by the Governor to be restrained to the number of acres
limited by that order.

232

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Delespine et a.]

The judgment of the Court below will be affirmedj but as the
survey given in evidence in this case was rejected by the Court,
as it should have been, this Court will direct a survey to be made
at the place designated in the decree of the Court below, for the
number of acres decreed, without prejudice to the rights of third
parties.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Superior Court for the District of East Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is adjudged
and decreed by this- Court, that the decree of the said Superior
Court in this cause, so far as it declares the claim of the petitioners to be valid, be, and.the same is hereby, affirmed in all respects; and that a survey be made of the lands contained in the
said concession, according to the terms thereof, for the number
of acres, and at the place therein designated; provided, it does
not interfere with the rights of third parties: and it is further
ordered-by the Court, that a mandate be issued to the Surveyor
of Public Lands, directing him to do, and cause to be done, all
'the acts and things enjoined on him by law, and as required by
the decree and opinion of this Court in this case ; and that this
case be remanded to the said Superior Court for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to thii decree,*and the opinion of this Court, which must be annexed to the mandate

