518

SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. THE LIBELLANTS AND
CLAIMANTS OF THE SCHOONER AMISTAD, HER TACKLE, A.PPAREL, AND FURNITURE, TOGETHER WITH HER CARGO, AND
THE AFRICANS MENTIONED AND DESCRIBED IN THE SEVERAL
LIBELS AND CLAIMS, APPELLEES.
The Spanish schooner Amistad, on the 27th day of June, 1839, cleared out from
Havana, in Cuba, for Puerto Principe, in the same island, having on board, Cgp.
tain Ferrer, and Ruiz and Montez, Spanish subjects. Captain Ferrer had on board
Antonio, a slave; Ruiz had forty-nine negroes; Montez had four negroes, which
were claimed by them as slaves, and stated to be their property, in passports or documents, signed by the Governor General of Cuba. In fact, these African negroes had
been, a very short time before they were put on board the Amistad, brought into
Cuba, by Spanish slave traders, in direct contravention of the treaties between Spain
and Great Britain, and in violation of the laws of Spain. On tie voyage of the
Amistad, the negroes rose, killed the captain, and took possession of the vessel. They
spared the lives of Ruiz and Montez, on condition that they would aid in steering
the Amistad for the coast of Africa, or to some place where negro slavery was not
permitted by the laws of the country. Ruiz and Montez deceived the negroes, who
were totally ignorant of navigation, and steered the Amistad for the United States;
and she arrived off Long Island, in the state of New York, on the 26th of August,
and anchored within half a mile of the shore. Some of the negroes went on shore
to procure supplies of water -and provisions, and the vessel was then discovered by
the'United States brig Washington. Lieutenant Gedney, commanding the Washington assisted by his officers and crew, took possession of the Amistad, and of the
negroes on shore and in the vessel, brought them into the District of Connecticut,
and there libelled the vessel, the cargo, and the negroes for salvage. Libels for.
salvage were also presented in the District Court of the United States, for the District of Connecticut, by persons who had aided, as they alleged, in capturing the
negroes on shore on Long Island, and contributed to the vessel, cargo, and negroes
being taken into possession by the brig Washington. Ruiz and Montez filed claims
to the negroes as their slaves, and prayed that they, and parts of the cargo of the
Amistad, might be delivered to them, or to the representatives of the crown of Spain.
The attorney of the District of Connecticut filed an information stating that the
Minister of Spain had claimed of the government of the United States that the
vessel, cargo, and slaves should be restored, under the provisions of the treaty
between the United States and Spain, the same having arrived within the limits and
jurisdiction of the United States, and had been taken possession of by a public armed
vessel 9f the United States, under such circumstances as made it the duty of the
United States to cause them to be restored to the true owners thereof. The information asked that the Court would make such order as would enable the United
States to comply with the treaty ; or, if it should appear that the negroes had been

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

519

[The United States v. The Amistad.]
brought from Africa,' in violation of the laws of the United States, that the Court
would make an order for the removal of the negroes to Africa, according to the laws
of the United States. A claim for Antonio was filed by the Spanish consul, on.
behalf of the representatives of Captain Ferrer, and claims are also filed by-merchants of Cuba for parts of the cargo of the vessel, denying salvage, and asserting
their right to have the same delivered to them under, the treaty. The negroes, Antonio excepted, filed an answer denying that they were slaves, or the property of
Rui7, or Montez; and denying the right of the Court under the Constitution and
laws df the United States to exercise any jurisdiction over their persons: ' They asserted thit they were native free-korn Africans, and ought of right to be free; that
they had been, in April 1839, kidnapped in Africa, and had been carried in a vessel
engaged in the slave trade from the coast of Africa to Cuba, for the purpose of being
sold; and that Ruiz and Montex, knowing these facts, had purchased them, put them
on beard the Amistad, intending to carry them to be held as slaves for life, to another
part of Cuba, and that, on the voyage, they rose on the master, took possession of the
vessel, and were intending to proceed to Africa, or to some free etate, when they
were taken possession of by the United States armed vessel, the Washington. After
evidence had been given by the parties, and all the documents of the vessel and cargo,
with the alleged passports, and the clearance from Havana had been produced, the
District Court made a decree, by which all claims to salvage of the negroes were
rejected, and salvage amounting to one-third of the vessel and cargo, was allowed to
Lieutenant Gedney, and the officers and crew of the Washingon. The claim of
the representatives of Captain Ferrer, to Antonio, was allowed: the claims of Ruiz
and Montez being included in the claim of the Spanish minister, 4nd of the minister
of Spain, to the negroes is slaves, or to have them delivered to the Spanish minister,
under the treaty, to be sent to Cuba, were rejected: and the Court decreed that the
negroes should be delivered to the President of the United States, to be sent to Africa,
pursuant to the act of Congress of 3d March, 1819. From this decree the District
Attorney of the United States appealed to the Circuit Court, except so far as the
same related to Antonio. The owners of*the cargo of the Amistad also appealed
from that part of the decree which allowed salvage on their goods. Ruiz' or Monte'z
did not appeal, nor did the representatives of the owner of the Amistad. The Circuit
Court of Connecticut, by a pro forma decree, affirmed the decree of the District Court,
reserving the question of salvage on the merchandise on board the Amistad. The
United States appealed from this decree. The decree of the Circuit Court was
affirmed; saving that part of the same, which directed the negroes to be delivered to
tWe President of the United States, to be sent to Africa; which was reyereed,,and
the negroes were declared to be free.
The sixth article of the treaty with Spain, of 1795, continued in full force, in this particular, by the treaty ratified in 1821, seems to have had principally in view, cases
where the property of the subjects of either state, had been taken possession of within
the territorial jurisdiction of the other, during war. The eighth article provides for
cases where the shipping of the inhabitants of either state are forced, through stress
of weather, pursuit of pirates, or enemies, or any other urgent necessity, to seek
shelter in ho ports of the other. There may well be some doubts entertained
whether the case of the Amistad, in its actual circumstances, falls within the purview of this article.
The ninrh article of the treaty provides, that all- ships and merchandise, which shall

520

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

be rescued out of the hands of any pirates and robbers, on the high seas, which
shall be brought into some poi of either state, shall be delivered to the officers of the
port in order to be taken car-- of, and "restored entire to the proprietary, as soon as
due and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the property thereof." 'To bring
the case of the Amistad within this article, it is essential to establish: First, that the
negroes, under all the circumstances, Fall within the description of merchandise, in
the sense of the treaty. Secondly, That there has been a rescue of them on the
high seas, out of the hands-of piates and robbers. Thirdly, That Ruiz and Montez
are the true proprietor of the negroes, and have established their title by competent
proofs. If those negroes were, at the time, lawfully held as slat-es under the laws
of Spain, and recognised by those laws as property capable of being bought and
sold, no reason is seen why this may, not be deemed, within the intent of the t-eaty,
to be included under the denomination of merchandise, and ought, as such, to be restored to the claimants; for upon that point the laws of Spain would seem to furnish
the proper rule of interpretation. fBut, admitting that to be the construction of the
treaty, it is clear in the opinion of the Court, thfat neither of the other essential facts
ant requisites has been established by proof and the onus probandi of both lies upon
r
the claimants, to give rise to the casus ftederis.
The negroes were never the lawful slaves of Ruiz, or Montez, or of any other Spanish
subject. They are natives pf Africa; and were kidnappeal there; and were unlawfully transported to Cuba, in violation of the laws and treaties of Spain,'and of the
most solemn edicts and declarations of that government.
By the laws, treaties, and edicts of Spain, the African slave trade is utterly abolished;
the dealing in that trade is deemed a heinous crime; and the negroes thereby introduced into the dominions of Spain, are declared to be free.
There is no pretence to say thq negroes of the Amistad are "pirates" and "robbers;"
as they were kidnapped Africans, who, by the laws of Spain itself were entitled to
their freedom.
Although public document. of the government accompanying property found on board
of'the private ships of a foreign nation, are to be deemed prima facie evidence of the
I-cts which they state, yet they are always open to be impugned for friud; and
whether that fraud be in the original obtaining oftihose documents, or in the subsequent
fraudulent and illegal use of them, where once -it-is satisfactorily established, it overthrows all their sanctity, and destroys them as proof.
*Fraud will vitiate any, even the most solemn transactius; and any asserted title
founded upon it, is utterly void.
The language of the treaty with Spain of 1795, requires the proprietor "to make due
and sufficient proof" of his property; and that proof qannot be deemed either due
or sufficient, which ii stained with fraud.
Nothing is more clear in the laws of nations as an established rule to' regulate their
rights and duties, and ifitercourse, than tme doctrine that the ship's papers are prima
facie evidence of what they state; and that if they are shown to be fraudulent, they
are not to be held proof of any valid title whatever. This rule is applied in prize
cases; and is just as applicable to the transactions of civil intercourse between nations in times of peace.
In the solemn treaties between nations it never can be presumed that either state
intends to provide the means of perpetrating or protecting fraudg; but all the provisions are to be construed as intended to be applied to na fide transactions.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

521

[The United States v. The Amistad.]
The seventeenth article of the treaty with Spain which provides for certain passports
and certificates as evidence of property on board of the ships of both states, is, in its
terms, applicable only to cases where either of the parties is engaged in war. This
article required a certain form of passport to be agreed upon by the parties and
annexed to the'treaty. It never was annexed: and, therefore, in the case of The
Amiable Isabella, 6 Wheaton, 1, it is held inoperative.
Supposing the African negroes'onbard the Amistad not to be slaves, but kidnapped, and
free negroes, the treaty with Spain cannot be obligatory upon -fem;and the United
States are bound to respect their rights, as much as those of Spanish subjects. The
conflict of rights between the parties, under such circumstances, becomes positive
and inevitable, and must be decided upon the invariable principles of justice and
international law.
The treaty with Spain never could have been intended to take away the equal rignts
of all foreigners who should assert their claims to equal justice before the Courts of the
United States; or to deprive such foreigners of the protection given to them by
other treaties, or by the general laws of nations.
There is no ground to assert that the case of the negroes vho were on board of the
Amistad comes within the provisions of the act of Congress of 1799, or of any other
of the prohibitory slave-trade acts. These negroes were never taken from Africa,
or brought to the United States in contravention of these acts. When the Amistad
arrived she was in possession of the negroes, asserting their freedom; and in no
sense could possibly intend to import themselves into the United States as slaves, or
for sale as slaves.
The carrying of the Amistad and her cargo into Connecticut by Lieutenant Gedney,
and the officers and crew of the Washington, was a highly meritorious and useful
service to the proprietors of the ship and cargo, and such, as by the general princi.
ple of the maritime law, is always deemed a just foundation for salvage. The rate
allowed by the Court, (one-third,) does not seem beyond the exercise of a sound
discretion, under the very. peculiar and embarrassing circumstances of the case.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the UnitedStates for the
District of Connecticut.
On the 23d day of January, 1840, Thomas R. Gedney, and
Richard W. Meade, officers of the United States surveying brig
Washington, on behalf of themselves and the officers and crew
of the brig Washington, and of others intef'osted and entitled,
filed a libel in the District Court of the United States, for the
District of Connictdcut, stating that off Culloden Point, near
Montauck Point, they took possession of a vessel which
proved to be a Spanish schooner called tb Amistad, of Havana,
in the island of Cuba, of about 120 tons burden; and the said
libellants found said schooner was maned by forty-five ne.groesisome of whom had landed near the said point for water;
2x2

"66

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

and there were also on board, two Spanish gentlemen, who represented themselves to be, and, as the libellants verily believe
were part owners of the cargo, and of the negroes on board, who
were slaves,belonging to said Spanishgentlemen; that the schoonef
Amistad sailed on the 28th day of June, A. D. 1839 from the'port
of Havana, bound to a port in the province of Principe, both in the
island of Cuba, under the command of Raymon Ferrer as master
thereof: that the schooner had on board and was laden with a
large and valuable cargo, and provisions, to the amount, in all,
of forty thotIsand dqllars, and also money to the sum and amount
of about two hundred and fifty dollars; and also fifty-four slaves,
to wit, fifty-one male slaves, and three young female slaves,
who were worth twenty-five thousand dollars; and while on the
voyage from Havana to Principe, the slaves rose upon the capta4 and crew of the schooner, and killed and murder,3d the
captain and one of the crew, and two more of the -crew escaped
and got away from the schooner; that the twd Spaniards on board,
to wit, Pedro Montez, and Jose'Ruiz, remained alive on board
the schooner after the murder of the captain, and after the
negroes had taken possession of the vessel and cargo; that their
lives were spared to assist in the sailing of the vessel; and it
was directed by the negroes, tlhat the schooner should be navigated for the coast- of Africa; and Pedro Montez, and Jose
Ruiz did, accordingly, steer as thus directed and compelled by
the negroes, at the peril of their lives, in the daytime, and in
the night altered their course and steered for the American shoie;
but after two months on the ocean, they succeeded in coming
round Montauck Point, then they were discovered and boarded
by the libellants,.and the two Spanish gentlemen begged for and
claimed the aid and protection of the libellants. That the schooner
was accordingly taken possession of, and recaptured from the
hands and possession of the negroes who had taken the same;
that the schooner was brought. into the port of New London,
where she now is; and the schooner would with'great difficulty,
exposure, and danger havd been taken by the libellants, but for
the surprise upon the blacks who had possession thereof, a part
of whom were on shore; and but for the aid and assistance and
services of the libellants, the vessel and cargo would have been
wholly lost to the respective owners thereof. That the cargo

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

523

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

belongs to divers Spanish merchants and others, resident in The
island of Cuba, and to Pedro Montez and Jose Ruiz, the latter
owning most of the slaves.
The libellants stated, that having saved the schopner Amistad
an(I cargo, and the slaves, with considerable danger, they prayed
that process should bIe issued against the same, and that the
usual proceedings might be had by the Courf, by which a
reasonable salvage should be decreed out .of the property so
saved.
Afterwards, Henry Green and Pelatiah Fordham, and others,
filed a petition and answer to the libel, claiming salvage 'out of
the property proceeded against by Thomas R. Gedney and others,
and stating that before the Amistad was seen or boarded by the
officers and crew of the Washington, they had secured a portion
of the negroes who had come on shore, and had thus aided in
saving.the vessel and cargo.
On the 2.9th of August, 1839, Jose Ruiz and Pedro Montez,
of Cuba, filed claims to all the negroes on board of the Aniistad,
except Antonio, as their slaves. A part of the, merchandise on
board the vessel was also claimed by them. They alleged that
the negroes had risen on the captain of the schooner, and had
murdered him; and that afterwards they, Ruiz and Montez, had
brouglt, her into the United States. They claimed that the
negroes and merchandise ought to be restored to them, under the
treaty with Spain; and denied salvage to'Lieutenant Gedney,
and to all other persons claiming salvage.
Afterwards, Ruiz and Montez each filed in the District Court,
a separate libel, stating more at large the circumstances of the
voyage of the Amistad, the'murder of the captain by the negroes, and that the negroes afterwards compelled them to steer
the vessel towards Africa, but that they contrived to bring her
to the coast of the United States, where she was captured by the
United States brig Washington. Ruiz; in his libel, stated the
negroes .belonging to him to have been forty-nine in number,
"named and known at Havana, as follows: Antonio, -Simon,
Jose, Pedro, Martin, Manuel, Andreo, Edwards, Celedonia, Burtolono, Ramia, Augustin, Evaristo, Casamero, Merchoi, Gabriel,
Santorion, Escolastico, Rascual, Estanislao, Desidero, Nicholas,
EstevrSn, Tomas, Cosine, Luis, Bartolo, Julian, Federico, Salus-

524

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

tiano, Ladislao, Celestiko, Epifanio, Eduardo, Benancieo, Felepe,
Francisco, Hipoleto, Berreto, Isidoro, Vecente, Deconisco, Apolonio, Esequies, Leon, Julio, Hipoleto, and Zenon; of whom
several have died." Tgeir pr~sent names, Ruiz stated, he had
been informed, were, "Cinque, Burnah 1st, fCarpree, Dammah,
Fourrie 1st, Shumab, Conomah, Choolay, Burnah 2d, Baah,
Cabbah, Poomah, Kimbo, Peei, Bang-ye-ah, Saah, Carlee, Parale, Morrah, Yahome, Narquor, Quarto, Sesse, Con, Fourrie 2d,
Kennah, Lammane, Fajanah, Faah, Yahboy, Faquannah, Berrie,
Fawnu, Chockammaw, and Gabbow."
The libel' of Pedro Montez stated that the names of three
negroes on board the Amistad, belonging to him, were Francisco,
Juan, and Josepha; the Spanish name of the fourth was not
mentioned; and the four were now called Teme, Mahgra, Kene,
and Carria.
All these were stated to be slaves, and the property of the
claimants, purchased by them at Havana; where slavery is tolerat5d and allowed by law; and they and the merchandise on
board the vessel, the'claimants allegdd, by the laws and usages
of nations, and of the United States of America, and according
to the treaties between Spain and the United States, ought to be
restored to- the claimants without diminution, and entire.
The vessel, negroes, and merchandise were taken into his
possession, by the Marshal of the district of Connecticut, under
process issued by order of the Court.
On the 19th of September, 1837, William S. Holabird, Esq.,
attorney of the United States, for the district, filed a suggestion
in the District Court. stating that, since the libel aforesaid, of
Thomas R. Gedney, Esq., was filed in this Court, viz. within the
present month of September, in the year of our Lord 1839, the
duly accredited minister to the United States, of her Catholic
Majesty, the Queen of Spain, had officially presented to the
proper department of the United States government, a claim,
which is now pending, upon the United States, setting forth that
"the vessel aforesaid, called the Amistad, and her cargo aforesaid, together with certain slaves on board the said vessel, all
being the same as described in the libel aforesaid, are the property
of Spanish subjects, and that the said vessel, cargo, and slaves,
while so being the property of the said Spanish subjects, arrived

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

525

EThe United States v. The Amistad.)
within the jurisdictional limits of the United States, and were
taken possession of by the said public armed brig of the United
States, under such circumstances as make it the duty of the
United States to cause the same vessel, cargo, and slaves, being
the property of said Spanish subjects, to be restored to the true
proprietors and owners of the same without further hindrance
or detention, as required by the treaty now subsisting betweeft
the United States and Spain." The attorney of the United
States, in behalf of the United States, prayed the Court, on
its being made legally to appear that the claim of the Spanish
minister is well founded, and is conformable to the treaty, that
the Court make such order for the disposal of the said vessel,
cargo) and slaves as may best enable the United States in all
respects to comply with their treaty stipulations, and preserve
the public faith inviolate. But if it should be made to appearthat the persons described as slaves, are negroes and persons of
colour, who have been transported from Africa, in 'violation of
the laws of the United States, and brought within the United
States, contrary to the same laws, the attorney, in-behalf of
the United States, claimed that, in such case, the Court will
make such further order in the 'premises as may enable the
United States, if deemed expedient, to remove such persons to
the eoast of Africa to be delivered there to such agent or
agents as may be authorized to receive and provide for them,
pursuant to the laws of the United States, in such case. provided, or to make such other order as to the Court may seem
fit, right, and proper in the premises."
On the same day, September 19, 1839, the negroes, by their
counsel, filed an answer to the libel of Lieutenant Gedney arid
others, claiming salvage, and to the claim of Ruiz and Montez,
claiming them as slaves, as also to the intervention of the United
States, on the application of the minister of Spain ; in which they
say, that they are natives of Africa, and were born free, and
ever since have been and still of right are and ought to be free
and not slaves; that they were never domiciled in the islai*d of
Cuba, or in the dominions of the Queen of- Spain, or subject to
the laws thereof. That on or about the 15th day of April, 1839,
they vere7" in the land of their nativity, unlawfilly kidnapped,
and forcibly, and wrongfully, by certain persons to then un-

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistal]

known, who were there unlawfully and piratically engaged in
the slave trade between the coast of Africa and the island of
Cuba, contrary to the will of these respondents, unlawfully, and
under circumstances of great cruelty, transported to the island of
Cuba for the unlawful purpose of being sold as slaves, and were
there illegally landed for that purpose. That Jose Ruiz, one of the
libellants, well knowin& all the premises, and confederating with
the persons by whom the respondents were unlawfully taken
aild holden as slaves, and intending to deprive, the respondents
severally of their liberty, made a pretended purchase of the
respondents, except the said Carria, Teme, Kene, and Mahgra;
and that Pedro Montez, also well knowing all the premises, and
confederating with the said persons for the purpose aforesaid,
made a pretended purchase of the said Carria, Teme, Kene, and
Mahgra; that the pretended purchases were made from persons
who had no right whatever to the respondents or any of them,
and that the same were null and void, and conferred no right or
title on Ruiz or Montez, or riglht of control over the respondents
or either of them. That on or about the 28th day of June, 1839,
Ruiz and Montez, confederating with each other, and with one
Ramon Ferrer, now deceased, captain of the schooner Amistad,
and others of the crew thereof, caused respondents severally,
without law or right, under color of certain false and fraudulent
papers by them procured and fraudulently used for that purpose,
to be placed by force on board the schooner to. be transported
with said Ruiz and Montez to some place unknown to the
respondents, and there enslaved for life. That the respondents,
being treated on board said vessel by said Ruiz and Montez
and their confederates with great cruelty and oppression, and
being of right free as aforesaid, were incited by the love of liberty
natural to all men, and by the desire of returning to their families
and kindred, to take possession of said vessel while navigating
the high seas, as they had a right to do, with the intent to return
therein to their native country, or to seek an asylum in some
free state, where slavery did not exist, in order that, they might
enjoy their liberty under the protection of its government; that
the schooner, about the 26th of August, 1839, arrived in the
possession of the respondents, at Culloden Point near Montauk,
and was there anchored near the shore of Long Island, within

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

527

[The United States v. The Arnistad.]

hailing distance thereof, and within the waters and territory of
the state of New York; that the respondents, Cinque, Carlee,
Dammab, Baah, Monat, Nahgis, Quato, Con, Fajanab, Berrie,
Gabbo, Fouleaa, Kimbo, Faquannah, Cononia, otherwise called
Ndzarbla, Yaboi, Burnah Ist, Shuma, Fawne, Peale, Ba, and
Sheele, while said schooner lay at anchor as aforesaid, went on
shore within the state of New York to procure provisions and
other necessaries, and while there, in a state where'slavery is
unlawful and does not exist, under the protection of the government and laws of said state by which they were all free, whether
on board of said schooner, or on shore,, the respondents were
severally seized, as well those who were on shore as aforesaid,
as those who were on board of and in possession of said schooner,
by Lieutenant Gedney, his officers, and crew of the United States
brig Washington, without any lawful warrant or authority whatever, at the instance of Ruiz and Montez, with the intent to keep
and secure them as slaves to Ruiz and Montez, respectively, and
to obtain an award of salvage therefor, from this honourable
Court, as for a meritorious act. That for that purpose, the
respondents were, by Lieutenant Gedney, his officers and crew,
brought.to the port of New London; and while there, and afterwards, under the subsequent proceedings in this honourable
Court taken into the custody of the marshal of said district of
Connecticut, and confined and held in the jails in the cities of
New Haven and Hartford, respectively, as- aforesaid. Wherefore, the -respondents pray that they may be set free, as they
of right are and ought to be, and that they be released from the
custody 9f the marshal, under the process of this honourable
Court, under which, or under colour of which they are holden as
aforesaid.
Jose 4ntonio Tellincas, and Aspe and Laca, subjects of Spain,
and merchants of Cuba, presented claims for certain merchandise which was on board the Amistad when taken possession of
by Lieutenant Gedney; denying all claims to salvage, and asking
that the property should be restored to them.
On the 23d day of January the District Judge made a decree,
having taken into his consideration all the libels, claims, and the
suggestion of the District Attorney of the United States, and the
claim preferred by him that the iegroes should be delivered to

528

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amista.]

the Spanish authorities, the negroes to be sent by them to Cuba,
or that the negroes should be placed under the authority-of the
President of the United States, to be transported to Africa.
The decree rejected the claim of Green and others to salvage
with costs. The claim of Lieutenant Gedney and others to salvage on the alleged slaves was dismissed. Tile libels and claims
of Ruiz and Montez being included under the claim of the minister of Spain, were ordered to be dismissed, with costs taxed
against Ruiz and Montez respectively..
,IThat that part of the claim of tli minisitef Spain which
demands the surrender of Cinques and others, who'are ,-iecifically named in the answer filed as aforesaid, be dismissed, without cost."
That the claim of the vice consul 6f Spain, demanding tie
surrender to the Spanish government of Antonio,'a slave owned
by the heirs of Captain Ferrer, should be sustained; and ordered
that Antonio should be- delivered to the government of Spain,
or its agent, without costs.
The claims ifTellincas and Aspe and Laca, for the restoration
of the goods specified by them, being part of the cargo of the
Amistad, was sustained, and that the same goods be restored to
them, deducting one-third of the gross appraised value of them,
which was allowed as salvage to the officers and crew of the
Washington. A like salvage of one-third of the gross value of
the Amistad, and thjother merchandise on board of her,-was
also adjudgeddto the salvors. The costs were to be deducted
from the other .tio-thirds.
- - "-Aiid,- w.hereas the duly accredited minister of Spain, resident in the United States, hath, in behalf of the government of
-Spain, for the owners of said schooner, and the residue of said
goods, claimed that the same be restored to that government for
the said' owners, they being Spanish subjects, under the provisions of the treaty subsisting between the United States and
Spain: And, whereas it hath been made to appear to this
Court, that the said schooner is lawfully owned by the subjects
of Spain, as also the rcsidue of said goods not specifically claimed: And, whereas the aforesaid Don Pedro Mlpntez, and Jose
Ruiz, have in person ceased to prosecute their claim as specified
in their respective libels, and their said claims fall within the de-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

529

[The United States v.The Amistad.]

mand and claim of the Spanish minister, made as aforesaid: And,
whereas the seizure of the said schooner and goods by the said
Thomas R. Gedney and others, was made on the high seas, in a
perilous condition, and they were first brought into the port of
New London, within the District of Connecticut, and libelled for
salvage"
[The decree then proceeds to adjudge to Lieutenant Gedney.
and others, as salvage, one-third' of the gross proceeds of the
vessel and cargo, according to an appraisement which had
been made thereof; and, if not paid, directed the property to be
sold, and that proportion of the gross proceeds of the sale to be
paid over to the captors, the residue, after payment of all costs,
to be paid to the respective owners of the same.]
-Upon the answers of the negroes, and the representations of
the District Attorney of the United States, and of Montez and
Ruiz, the decree proceeds :
"This Court having fully heard the parties appearing 'with
.their proofs, do find that the respondents, severally answering as
aforesaid, are each of them natives of Africa, and were born
free, and ever since have been, and still of right are free, and not
slaves, as is in said several libels, claims or representations alleged or 'surmised; that they were never dbmiciled in the Island
of Cuba, or the dominions of the Queen of Spain, or subject to
the laws thereof; that they were severally kidnapped in theik
native country, and were, in violation of their own rights, and
of the laws df"Spain, prohibiting the African slave trade, imported into the island of Cuba, about the 12th June, 1839, and
were there unlawfully held and transferred to the said Ruiz and
Montez, respectively; that said respondents were within fifteen
days after their arrival at Havana, aforesaid, by said Ruiz and
Montez, put on board said schooner Amistad to be transported
to some port in said island of Cuba, and there unlawfhlly held
as slaves; that the- respondents or some of them, influenced by
the desire of recovering their liberty, and of returning to their
families and kindred in their native country, took possession of
said schooner Amistad, killed the captain and cook, and severdly
wounded said Montez, while on her voyage from Havana, as
aforesaid, and that theiespondents arrived in possession of said
schooner at Cullpden Point near Montauck, and there anchored
VOL. XV.-2 V
67

530

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

said schooner on the high seas, at the distance of half a mile
from the shore of Long Isla.nd, and were there, while a part of
the respondents were, as is alleged in their said answer, on shore
in quest of water and other necessaries, and about to sail in said
schooner for the coast of Africa, seized by said Lieutenant Gedney, and his officers and crew, and broughf into the port of New
London, in this district. And this Court doth further find, that
it hath ever been the intention of the said Montez and Ruiz,
since the said Africans were put on board the said schooner, to
hold the said Africans as slaves; that at the time when the said
Cinque and others, here making answer, were imported from
Africa into the dominions of Spain, there was a law of Spain
prohibiting such importation, declaring the persons so imported
to be free; that said law was in force when the' claimants took
the possession of the said Africans and put them on board' said
schooner, and the same has ever since been in force."
. The decree of the District Court recites the decree of the government of Spain of.December, 1817, prohibiting the slave
trade, and declaring all negroes brought into the dominions of
Spain by slave traders to be free; and enjoining the execution of
the decree onall the officerq of Spain in the dominions of Spain.
The decree of thb District Court proceeds:
"And this Court doth further find, ihat when the said Africans
were shipped on board the said schooner, by. the said Montez
an4 Ruiz, the samewere shipped under the passports signed by
the Governor General of the Island of Cuba, in the following
words, viz.:
.Description.
Havana, June 22d, 1839.
Size.
I grant permission to carry three black ladiAge.
noes, named Juana, Francisca, and Josefa,proColour.
pertyofDr. Pedro Montez,to Puerto Principe,
Hair.
by sea. They must present themselves to the
Forehead.
respective territorial judge with this permit.
Eyebrows.
Duty, 2 reals.
ESPLETA.
Eyes.
(FAdorsed)
Commander of Matria.
Nose.
Mouth.'
Let passin the schooner Amistad,to Guana
Beard.
ja, Ferrer, master. Havana, June 27th, 1839
Peculiarsi-ns..
MART & Co.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

531

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

Description.
Size.
Age.
Colour.
Hair.
Forehead.
Eyebrows.
Eyes.
Nose.
Mouth.
Beard.
Peculiarsigns.

Havana,June 26th, 1839.
I grant permission to carry forty-nine black
ladinos, named Antonio, Simon, Lucas, Jose,"
Pedro, Martin, Manuel, Andrios, ]dwardo,
Celedernnio, Bartolo, Raman, Augustin,
Evaristo, Casimero, Meratio, Gabriel, Santome, Ecclesiastico, Pasenal, Stanislao, Desiderio, Nicolas, Estevan, Tomas, Cosme,
Luis, Bartolo, Julian, Federico, Saturdino,
Ladislas, Celestino, Epifano, Fronerie, Venaniro, Feligre, Francisco, Hypolito, Benito,
Isdoro, Vicente, Dioniceo, Apolino, Esequiel,
Leon, Julio, Hipolito, y Raman, property of
Dr. Jose Ruiz, to Puerto Principe, by sea.
They must present themselves with this ,permit to the respective territorial judge.
ESPLETA.

Duty, 2 reals.
(Endorsed)
Commander of Matria.
Let pass in the schooner Amistad, to Guanaja, Ferrer, master.
Havana, June 27th, 1839.
MART. & Cd."

"Which said passports do not truly describe the said persons
shipped under the same. Whereupon, the said claim of the
minister of Spain, as set forth in the two libels filed. in the-name
of the United States by the said District Attorney, for and in
behalf of the government of Spain and her subjects, so far as
the same relate to the said Africans named in said claim,. be dismissed."
"And upon the libel filed by said District Attorney in behalf of
the United States, claiming the said Africans libelled as aforesaid, and now in the custody of-the Marshal of the district of
Connecticut, under and by virtue of process issued from this
Court, that they may be delivered to the President of the United
States to be transported to Africa. It is decreed that the said
Africans now in the custody of 6aid 1\Iarshal, and libelled and
claimed as aforesaid, (excepting Antonio Ferrer, be delivered to
the President of the United States by the Marshal of the district
of Connecticut, to be by him transported to Africa, in pursuance

532

SUPREME COURT.
[ThetUnited States v. The Amistad.)

of the law of Congress, passed March 3d, 1819, entitled IAn act
in addition to the acts prohibiting the slave trade.'"
After the decree was pronounced, the United States, "claiming
in pursuance of a demand made upon them by the duly accredited minister of her Catholic Majesty, the Queen of Spair,
.to the United States, moved an appeal froth the whole and every
part of the said decree, except part of the same in relation to
the slave Antonio, to the Circuit Court" of Connecticut.
Antonio Tellincas, and Aspe and Laca, claimants, &c., also
appealed from the decree to the Circuit Court, except for so much
of the decree as sustains their claims to the goods, &c.
The Africans,. by their African names, moved in the Circuit
Court, in April, 1840, that so much of the appeal of the District
Attorney of the United States, from so much of the decree of the
District Court as related to them severally, may be dismissed;
"because, they say that the United States do not claim, nor have
they ever claimed any interest in the appellees, respectively, or
either of them, and have, no right, either by the law of nations,
or by the Constitution or laws of the United States to appear in
the Courts of the United States, to institute or prosecute claims
to property, in behalf of the subjects of the Queen of Spain,
under the circumstances appearing on the record in this case;
much less to enforce the claims of the subject of a foreign government, to the persons of the said appellees, respectively, as
the slaves of the said foreign subjects, under the circumstances
aforesaid."
The Circuit Court refused the motion.
The Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District Court,
pro forma, except so far as respects the claims of Tellincas, and
Aspe and Laca.
After this decree of the Circuit Court, the United States, claiming in pursuance of a demand made upon them by the duly accredited minister of her, Catholic Majesty, the Queen of Spain to
the United States, moved an appeal from the whole and every
part of the decree of the Court, affirming the decree of the
District Court to the Supreme Court of the United States, to be
holden at the city of Washington, on the second Monday of
January, A. D. eighteen hundred and forty-one; and it was allowed.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

533

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

The Court as far as respects the decree of the District Court
allowing salvage on the goods on board the Amistad, continued
Iourt,
on that
the case to await the decision of the Supreme
part of the decree appealed from.
The Circuit Court inthe decree, proceed to say, that "1they had
inspected certain depositions and papers remaining as of recorl
in said Circuit Court, and to be used as evidence, before the
Supreme Court of the United States, on the trial of said appeal."
Among the depositions, were the following..
"I, Richard Robert Madden, a British subject, having resided
for the last three years and upwards, at Havana, where 1-have'
held official situations under the British government, depose and
say, that I have held the office of superintendent of liberated
Africans during thai term, and still hold it;, and have held for
the term of one year, the office there, of British.commissionerp,
in the MiXed Court of Justice. The duties of my office and of
my avocation, have led me to become well acqudinted with
Africans recently imported from Africa. I have seen and had
in my. charge many hundreds of them. I have also seen the
Africans in the custody of the marshal of the district of Connecticut, except the small children. I have examined 'themand
observed their language, appearance, and manners; and I have
no doubt of their having been, very. recently, brought from
Africa. To one of them, I spoke, and repeated a Mohammedan
form of prayer in the Arabic language; the man immediately
recognised the language, and repeated a few words of it after
me, and appeared to understand it, particularly the words ' Allah
akbar,' or God is great. The man who was beside this negro,
I also addressed in Arabic, saying-' salaam ailkoem,' or peace
be .to you; he immediately, in the customary oriental salutations,
repliedA-aleckoum salaam,' or peace- be on you. From my
knowledge of oriental habits, and of the appearance of the
newly imported slaves'in Cuba, I 'have no doubt of those
negroes of the Amistad being bona fide Bozal negroes, quite
newly imported from Africa. I have a full knowledge of the
subject of slavery-slave trade in Cuba; and I know that no
law exists, or has existed since the year 1820, that sanctions the
iniroduction of negroes into the island of Cuba, from Africa for
the urpose df making slaves, or being held in slavery; and; that
2'2

534

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

all such Bozal negroes, as those recently imported are called, are
legally free; and no law, common or statute, exists there, by which
they can be held in slavery. Such Africans, long settled in Cuba,
and acclimated, are called ladinos, and must have been introduced
before 1820, and are so called in contradistinction to the term
creole, which is applied to the ilegroes born in the island. I
have seen, and now have before me, a document, dated 26th
Jut/e, 1839, purporting to be signed by Ezpeleta, who is captain

general of the island, to identify which, I have put my name
to the lefthand corner of the document, in presence of the
counsel of the Africans; 'this document, or "trasspasso," purporting to be a permit granted to Don 1. Ruiz, to export from
Havana to Porto Principe, forty-nine negroes, designated by
Spanish names, and called therein ladinos, a term totally inapplicable to newly imported Africans. I have seen, and now have
before me, another document, dated 22d June, 1839, and signed
in the same manner, granted to Don Pedro Y'Iontez, for the removal of three negro children irom Havana to Porto Principe,
also designated by Spanish names, and likewise called Iladinos,'
and wholly inapplicable to young African children, who could
not have beefi acclimated, and loifg settled in the island; which
document, I have identified in thd same manner as the former.
To have obtained these documents from. the governor, for bona
Aide Bozal negroes, and- have described them in the application
for it, as ladinos; was evidently a fraud, but nothing more than
such an application and the payment of the necessary fees
would be required to procure it, as there is never any inquiry
or inspection of the negroes on the part of the governor or his
*officers, nor is there any oath required from the applicant. I
further state, that the above documents are manifestly inapplicable to the Africans of the Amistad, I have seen, here and in New
Haven; but such, documents are commonly obtained by similar
applications at the Havana, and by the.'e means, the negroes recently and illegally 'introduced, are thus removed to the different
ports of the island, and the danger obviated of their falling in
with English cruisers, and then they are illegally c~rried into
slaviery. One of the largest dealers and importers of the island
of Cuba; in African slaves, is the notorious house of Martiner
& Co., of Havana,; 6ind for years past, as at present, they have

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

635

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

been deeply engaged in this traffic; and the Bozal Africans, imported by these and all other slave traders, when brought to

the Havana, are immediately taken to the barracoons, or slave
marts; five of which are situated in the immediate vicinity of
the governor's ,county house, about one nile and a half fromi the
walls of Havana; and from these barracoons, they are taken
and removed to the different parts of the island when sold; and
having examined the endorsements on the back of the trasspasso,
or permits for the removal of the said negroes of the Amistad,
the signature to that endorsement appears to be that of Mar-

tiner & Co.; and the document purports to be a permit or pass
for the removal of the said negroes. The handwriting of Mar
tiner & Co., I am not acquainted with. These barracoons, outside the city walls, are fitted up exclusively for the reception and
sale of Bozal negroes; one of these barracoons or slave marts,
called ]a miserecordia, or '.mercy,' kept by a man, named
' Riera,' I visited the 24th September last, in company with a
person well acquainted with this establishment; and the factor
or major domo of the master, in the absence of the latter, said to
me, that the negroes, of the Amistad had been purchased there;
that he knew them well; that they had been bought by a man
from Porto Principe, and had been embarked for that place; and
speaking of the said negroes, he said, ' che, castima,' or what
pity it is, which rather surprised me; the man further explained hiinself, and said, his regret was for the loss of so many
valuable Bozals, in the event of their being executed in the
'United States.
"One of the houses most openly engaged, and notoriously implicated in the slave trade transactions, is that of Martiner & Co.;
and their practice is to remove their newly arrived negroes from
the slave ships to these barracoons, where they commonly remair
two or three weeks before sold, as these negroes of the Amistad,
illegally introduced by 'Martiner & *Co., were in the present
instance, as is generally reported and believed in the Havana.
Of the Africans which I have seen and examined, from the necessity which my office imposes on me at the Havana of -assisting at the registry of the newly imported, Bozals, emancipated
by the Mixed Court, I can speak wit& tolerable certainty of the
ages of these people, with the exc" 'ion'of the children, whom

536

SUPREME COURT.
[TJ.UbTite8States v.The Amist.]

I have not seen. Sa, about 17; Ba, 2! -, Luckawa, 19; Tussi,
30; Beli, 18; Shuma, 26; Nama, 20; Tenquis, 21; the others,
I had nottime to take a note of their ages.
"With respect to the Mixed Commission, its jurisdiction extends
only to cases of captured negroes brought in by British or Spanish
cruisers; -and notwithstanding Ahe illegalities of the traffic in
slaves,,from twenty to twenty-five thousand slaves have been
introduced into the island during the last three years; and such
is the state of society, and of the administration of the laws
there, that hopeless slavery is the inevitable result of their removal into the interior."
On his cross-examination the witness stated, that he was not
acquainted with the dialects of the African tribes, but was slightly
acquainted with the Arabic language. Lawful slaves of the
island are not offered for sale generally, or ofteri placed in the
barracoons, or man marts. The practice in Havana is to use
the barracoogs "for Bozal negroes only." Barracoons are used
for negroes recently imported, and for their reception and sale.
The native language of the Africans is not often continued for a
long time on certain plantations. "It has been to me a matter
of astonishment at the shortness of time in which the fanguage
of the negroes is disused, and the Spanish language adopted and
acquired. I speak this, from a very intimate knowledge of the
condition of the:negroes in Cuba, from frequent visits to plantations, and journeys in the interior; and, on this subject, I think
I can say my knowledge is as full as any person's can be.
"There are five or six barracoons within pistol shot of the
country residence of the Captain General of Cuba. On every
other part of the coast where Ihe slave trade is carried on, a barracoon. or barracoons must likewise exist. - They are a part of
the things necessary to the slave trade, and are for its use only;
for instance, near Matanzas there is a building or shed of this
kind and used for this purpose.
"Any negroes lafided in the island since 1820, and carried into
slavery, have been illegally introduced; and the transfer of.them'
under false names, such as calling Bozal, Ladinos, is, necessarily,
a fraud. Unfortunately, there is no interference on the part of
the local authorities-; they connive at it, and collude with the
slave traders- the" governor, alone, at the Havana, receiving a

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

537

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

bounty or inpost on each negro thus illegally introduced, of ten
dollars a head. As to the Mixed Commission, once the negroes
clandestinely introduced are landed they no longer have cognisance of the violation of the treaty; the governor has cogijisance
of this and every other bearing of the Spanish law on Spanish
soil. This head-money has not the sanction of any Spanish law
for its imposition; and the proof of this is, it is called a voluntary
ontribution."
Also a statement, given by the District Attorney, W. S. Holabird, Esq., of what was made to him by A. G. Vega' Esq.,
Spanish Consul, January loth, 1s.to. "That he is a Spanish
subject; that he resided in the island of Cuba several years;
that he knows the laws of that island on the subject of slayery;
that there was no law that was coniidered in force in the island
of Cuba, that prohibited the bringing in African slaves; that the
.Court of.Mixed Commissioners had no jurisdiction except in cases
of capture on the sea; that newly imported Africati negroes
were constantly brought to the island, and, after landing, were
bona fide transferred from one owner to .another,.without any
interference by the loc.l authorities or the Mixed Comm'ission,
and were held bythe owners,-and recognised as lawful property;
that slavery was recognised in Cuba by all the laws that were
considered in force there; that the native language of the slaves
was kept upon some plantations'for years. That the barracoons
are public markets, where all descriptions of slaves are sold and
bought; that the papers-of the Amistad are genuine, and are in
the ugual fo6fm; that it was not necessary to practise any Traud
to obtain such papers from the proper officers of the government;
that none of the papers of the Amistad are signed by Martiner,
spoken of by R. R. Madden in his deposition; that he (Martiner)
did not hold the -office from whence that paper issued."
Also a deposition of James Ray, a mariner on board of the
Washington, stating the circumstances of the taking possession of
the Amistad, and the Africans, which supported the allegatios4
in the several libels, in all essential circumstances.
The documents exhibited as the passports of tfe Spanish
authorities at Havana, and other papers relating tO tle Amistad,
and her clearance from Havana, were also annexed 'to the Ulecree
of the Circuit Court, in the original Spariish, -Translations of all

538

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amista.]

of these, which were deemed of importance in the cause, are given
in the decree of the District Court.
Sullivan Haley stated in his deposition, that he heard Ruiz
say, that "none of the negroes could speak Spanish; they are
just from Africa."
James Covey, a coloured man, deposed that "he was born at
Berong-Mendi country; left there seven and a half years ago;
wa a slave, and carried to Lumboko. All these Africans were
from Africa. Never saw them until now. I could talk with
them. They appeared glad because they could speak the, same
language. I could understand all but two or three. They say
they from Lumboke; three moons. They all have Mendi
names, and their names all mean something; Carle, means bone;
Kimbo, means cricket. They speak of rivers which I know;
said they sailed from Lumboko; two or three speak different
language from the others; the Timone language. Say-ang-wa
rivers spoken of; these run through the Vi country. I learned
to speak English at Sierre Leonq. Was put on board a man-ofwar one year and a half. They an agree as to where they
sailed from. I have no doubt they are Africans. I have been
in this country six months; came in a British man-of-war; have
been in this town (New Havea) four months with Mr. Bishop;
he calls on me for no money, and do not know who pays my
board. I was stolen by a black man who stole ten of us. One
man carried us two months' walk. Have conversed with Sinqua; Barton has been in my town, Gorang. I was sailing for
Havana when the British man-of-war captured us."
The testimony of Cinque and the negroes of the Amistad, supported the statements in their answers.
The respondents also gave in evidence the "Treaty between
Great Britain and Spain, for the abolition of the slave trade,
signed at Madrid, 23d September, 181.7."
The case was argued for the United States, by Mr. Gilpin, the
Attorney General, and'by Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Adams, for the
appellees; Mr. Jones, on thq part of Lieutenant Gedney and
others, of the United States brig Washington, was not reqtuired
to salvage.
by the Court to argue the claims

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

S39

[Uhe United States v.The A-istalj

Mr. Gilpin, the Attorney General, for the United States, reviewed the evidence, as set out in the record, of all the facts connected with the case, from the first clearance'of -the schooner
Amistad, at Havana, on the 18th May, 1838, down to the 23d
January, 1840, when the final decree of the District Court of the
United States. for the District of Connecticut, was rendered.
The Attorney General proceeded to remark, t6at, on. the 23d
January, 1840, the case stood thus. The vessel, cargo, and
negroes, were in possession of the Marshal, under process from
the District Court, to answer to five separate claims; those of
Lieutenant Gedney, and Messrs. Green and Fordham, for salvage;
that of th United St~tes, at the instance of the Spanish minister,
for the vessel, cargo, and negroes, to. be restored to the Spanish
owners, in which claim those of Messrs. Ruiz and Montez were
merged; that of the Spanish vice-consul, for the slave Antonio,
to be restored to the Spanish owner; and that of Messrs. Tellincas,
and Aspe and Laca, for the restoration of a part of the cargo
belonging to them. "The decree.of the District Ctmrt found that
the vessel, and the goods on board were the property of Spanish
subjects, and that the passports under which the negroes were
shipped at Havana, were signed by the Governoi General. of
Cuba. It denied the claims of Lieutenant Gedney, and Messrs.
Green and Fordham, to salvage on the slaves, but allowed the
claims of the officers and crew of the Washington to salvage on
the Amisted, and on the merchandise on board of that vessel. It
also decreed that the residue of the goods, and the vessel, should be
delivered to the Spanish minister, to be restored to the' Spanish
owners; and that the slave Antonio should be ilelivered to the Spanish vice-consul, for the same purpose. As to the negroes, claimed
by Ruiz and Montez, it dismissed the claims of those persons, on
the ground that they vere included urder that of the minister
of Spain. The libel of the United States, claiming the delivery
of the negroes to the Spanish minister, was 'dismissed, on the
ground that they were not slaves, but were kidnapped and imported into Cuba; and that, at the time they were so imported,
there was a law of Spain declaring persons -o imported to be
free. The alternative prayer of the United States, claiming the
delivery of the negroes. to be transpprted atAinca, was granted.
As soon as this decree was made.; an ppea was taken by the

540

SUPREME COURT.
[The Unit~L States v. The Amistad.]

United States to the Circuit Court, from the whole of it, except
so far as it related to Antonio. At the succeeding term of the
Circuit Court, the negroes moved that the appeal of the United
States might be dismissed, on the ground that they had no
interest in the negroes; and, also, on the ground that they have
no right to.prosecute claims t6 property in behalf of subjects of
the Queen of Spain. That motion, however, was refused by the
Circuit Court, which proceeded to affirm the decree of the District
Court, on the libel of the United States. It is from this decree
of the Circuit Court that the present appeal to the Supreme
Court is prosecuted.
Was the decree of the Circuit Court correct?

The state of the facts, as found by the decree, and not denied,
was this. The vessel, and the goods on board, were the property of Spanish subjects in Havana, on the 27th June, 1839.
At that time slavery was recognised and in existence in the
Spanish dominions. The negroes in question are certified at
that time, in a document signed by the Governor General of
Cuba, to be ladinos negroes-that i, slaves-the property of
Spanish subjects. As such, permission is given by the Governor
General, to their owners, to take them, by sea, to Puerto Principe,
in the same island. The vessel'with these slaves, thus certified, on
board, and in charge of their alleged owners, regularly cleared and
sailed from Havtana, the documentary evidence aforesaid, and
the papers of the vessel being also on board. During this voyage,
the negroes rose, killed the captain, and took possession of the
vessel. On the 26th August, the vessel, cargo, and negroes,
were rescued and taken on the high seas, by a public officer
of the United States, and brought into a port of the United States,
where they await the decision of the judicial tribunals.
In this position of things, the minister of Spain demands that
the vessel, cargo, and negroes, be restored, pursuant to the 9th
article of the treaty of 27th October, 1795, which provides (1
Laws of the United States, 268) that "1all ships and merchandise of what nature soever, which shall be rescued out of the
hands of any pirates or robbers,\on the high seas, shall be
brought into some port of either state, and shall be delivered
into the custody of the officers of that port, in oroer to be thken
care of and restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as duo

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

541

[The United Statee v. The Ambstad.]

and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the property
thereof."
The only inquiries, then, that present themselves, are,
1. Has "due and sufficient proof concerning the property
thereof" been made?
2. If so, have the United States a right to interpose in the
manner they have done, to obtain its restoration to the Spanish
owners?
If these inquiries result in the' affirmative, then thd decree of
the Circuit Court was erroneou's, and ought to be reversed.
I. It is submitted that there has been due and sufficient proof
concerning the property to authorize its restoration.
It is not denied that, under the laws of Sphip, negroes may be
held as slaves, as completely as they are in any of the states
of this Union; nor will it be denied-, if duly proved to be such,
they are subject to restoration as much as other property, when
coming under the provisions of this treaty. Now these negroes
are declared, by the certificates of the Governor "General, to be
slaves, and the property of the Spanish subjects therein r amed.
That officer (1.White's New Rec. 369. 371; 8 Peters, 310)
is the highest functionary of the government in Cuba,; his public
acts are the highest evidence of any facts stated by him,.within
the scope of his authority. It is within the scope of his authority
to declare what is property, and what are the rights of the subjects of Spain, within his jurisdiction, in regard to property.
Now, in the. intercourse of nafions, there is no rule better
established than this, that full faith is to be given to such acts
---to the authentic evidence of such acts. The question is not
whether the act is right or wrong; it is, whether the act has
been done, and whether it is an act within the scope of the
authority. We are to inquire only whether the. power existed,
and whether. it was exercised, and how it was exercised; not
whether it was rightly or wrongly exercised.
The principle is universally admitted, that, whereyer an author
ity is delegated to any public officer, to be exercised at his discretion, under his own judgment and upon his own responsibility,
the acts done in the appropriate exercise of that authority, are
binding as to the"subject matter. Without such a rule there could
be no peace or comity among 'nations; all harmony, all mutual
VOL. XV.-2 Z

542

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Aiistel]

respect would be destroyed; the Courts and tribunals of one
country would become the judges of the local laws and property
of others, Nor is it to be supposed that so important a principle
would not be-recognised by Courts of justice. They have held,
that'. whether the 6it of the foreign functionary be executive,
legislative, or judicial, it is, if exercised within its appropriate
--sphere, binding as to the subject-matter; and the authentic record
of such act is full and complete e'vidence -thereof. In the case
of Marburv t Madison, I Cranch, 170, this Court held, that a
commission was conclusive evidence of an executive appointment; and that a party from whom it was -withheldmight obtain
it through the process of a Court, as being such evidence of his
rights. In the case of Thompson- v. Tolmie, 2 Peters, 167, this
Court pustained the binding and sufficient character of a decision,
made by"a competent tribunal, and not reversed, whether that
decision was in itself right or-wrong. In the case of TheUnited
States n. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 719, the whole doctrine on this'
subject is most forcibly stated. Indeedi nothing can be clearer
than the principles thus laid down; nor ,tan they apply more
directly to any case than the present. Here is the authentic, certificate or record of the highest officer known to the Spanish law,
declaring, in terms, that these negroes are the property of the
several Spanish subjects. We have it countersigned by another
of the principal officers. We have it executed and delivered,
as the express evidence- of property, to these persons. It is
exactly the same as that deemed sufficient fer the vessel and for
the cargo. Would it not have been complete and positive evidence
in the island of Cuba? If so) the principlQ laid down by this
Court makes it such here.
But this general principle is strengthened,by the particular
circumstances'of the case. Where property on board of a vessel
is brought into a foreign port, the documentary evidence, whether
it be a judicial decree, or the ship's papers, accompanied by
possession, is the best evidence of ownershiri and that to which
Courts of justice invariably look. In the case of .Bernardi v.
Motteux, Douglas, 575, Lord Mansfield laid down the rule that
a decree of a foreign Court was conclusive as to the right of property under it. In that of the Vigilantia, 1 Rob. 3. 11, the
uecessity or.propriety- of plrodjling the ship's pipers, .as the first

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

543

[The United States v. The Axnistad.]

evidence of her character and property, and of ascertaining her
national character from her passport, is expressly recognised. In
that of the Cosmopolite, 3 Rob. 269, the title of the claimant;
who was.a Dane, to the, vessel, was a decree of a French Court
against an American vessel; the Court refused to inquire into
the circumstances of the condemnation, but held the decree sufficient evidence for them. In'that of the Sarah, 3 Rob. 166, the
captors of a prize applied, to be allowed to give proof of the
property being owned by persons other than those stated in the
ship's documents, but it was refused. In that. of the Henrich"
and Maria, 4 Rob. 52, the very question was made, whether the
Court would not look into the validity of a title, derived under a
foreign Court of Admiralty, and it was refused.
These principles are fully sustained by our own Courts.
In the case of the Resolution, 2 Dall. 22, 23, possession of
property, on board of a vessel is held to be presumptive evidence
of ownership; and the ship's papers, bills of -lading, and other
documents, are prima facie evidence of the facts they speak. It
is on this evidence that vessels are generally acquitted or condemned. In that of the Ann Green, 1 Gall. 281.284, it is laid
down as the rule that the first and proper evidence in prize cases
is the ship's papers; and 'that only in cases of doubt is further
testimony to be received. The Court thiere say that as at general
rule they woufd pronounce for the inadmissibility of such further evidence. So in that of the Diana, 2 Gall. 97, the general
rule laid down is, that no claim is t6 be admitted in oppositibn to
the ship's papers; the exceptions stand upon very particular
grounds. In that of Ohl v. The Eagle Insurance Company,
4 Masan, 172, parol evidence was held not to be admissible to
contradict a ship's papers. In that of M'Grath v Caridelero,
Bee, 60, a decree of restitution in a foreign Court of Admiralty
was held to befull evidence of the ownerghip, and such as was
to be respected in all other countries. 'In that of Catlett'v. The
Pacific Insurance Company, Paine, 612, the register was held
to be conclusive evidence of the national character of the vessel;
-and a similar rule *as held to exist in regard to a pass, in the
case of Barker v. The Phoenix Insurance Company.
Similar principles have been adopted in this Court.

544

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.The-Amista.]

The decree of a foreign Court of Admiralty, on a question' of
blockade, was allowed in the case of Croudson v. Leonard,
4 Cranch, 434, to bb contradicted in the Court below; but this
Court reversed that decision, and held it to be conclusive. In
that of the Mary, 9 Cranch, '142, this Court sustained the proof
of property founded on the register against a decree of a foreign
Court of Admiralty. In that of the IPizarro, 2 Wheaton, 2 7,
the Court look to the documentary evidence, as that to be relied
on to prove ownership; and alihough the papers were not strictly
correct, they still relied on them in preference to further extraneous proof. Add to all this the twelfth article of the treaty with
Spain, (1 Laws of United States, 270,).which makes passports
and certificates evidence of property; and the principle may be
regarded as established beyond a question, that the regular documents ire the best andprimary evidence in regard to all property
-onboard of vessels. This is indeed especially the case when they
are merely coasting vessels, or such as are brought- in on account
of distress, shipwreck; or other accident. The injustice of requiring further, evidence in such cases, is too apparent to need any
argument on the subject. Nor is it a less settled rule of international law, that when a vessel puts 'in by reason, of distress or
any similar cause, she is not to be jhdged by the municipal law.
The unjust results to which a different rule. would lead are most
apparent. Could we tolerate it, that if one of our own coasters
was obliged to put into Cuba, and had regular coasting papers,
the Courts of that country should look beyond them, as to
proof of property?
If this point be established, is there any difference between property in slaves and other property? They existed as property
at the time of the treaty in perhaps every natioil of the globe;
they still exist as property in Spain and the United States; they
can be demanded as property in the states of this Union to which
they fly, and where by the laws they would not, if domiciliated,
be property. If, then, they are property, the rules laid down in
regard to property extend to them. If they are found on board
of a vessel, the evidence of.property should be that which isr
recognised as the best in other cases of property-the vessel's
papers, accompanied by possession. In the case of the Louis,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

.545

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

2 Dodson, 238, slav2s are treated of, by Sir William Scott, in
express terms, as property, and lie directed that those taken unlawfully from a foreigner should be restored:
In the case of the Antelope, 10 Wheaton, 119, the decision
in the case, of. the Louis is recognised, and the same principle
was fully and completely acted upon. It was there- conceded,
(10 Wheaton, 12,4,) that possession on board of a vessel was
.evidence of property. In the case of Johnson v. Tompkins,
1 Baldwin, 577, it was held that, even where it was a questionof freedom or slavery, the same rules of evidence prevailed as
in other cases relative to the right of property. In the case of
Choat v. Wright, 2 Devereux, 289, a sale of a slave accompanied
by delivery is valid, though there be no bill of sale. And it is
well settled, that a title to them is vested by the statute of..lmitations, as in othef cases of property. 5 Cranch, .358. 361.
11 Wheaton, 361.
It, then, the same law exists in regard to property in slaves as
in other things; and if documentary evid6nce, from the highest
authority of the country where- the property belonged, accompanied with possession, is produced; it follows that the title to
the ovnership of this property is as complete as is required by
law.
But it is said that this evidence is insufficient, because it is in
point of fact fraudulent and untrue. The ground of this assertion is, that the slaves were not property in Cuba, at the d te of
the document signed by the Governor General ; because they had
been lately introduced into that island from Africa, and persons
so introduced were free. To this it is answered that, if it were
so, this Court will not look beyond the authentic evidence uibder
the official certificate of the Governor General; that, if it would,
there is not such evidence as this Court can regard .tobe sufficient
to overthrow the positive statement of that document; and that,
if the evidence were even deemed sufficient to show the recent
introduction of the negroes, it does not establish that they were
free at the date of the certificate.
I. This Court will not look behind the c6rtificate of the. Governor-General.' It does not appear to be alleged that it is fraudulent in itself. It is found by the District Court to have been
signed by him, and countersigied by the officer of the tustoms.
2z2
69

SUPREME COURT.
[T4* United States 0. The An4stad.]

It was issued by them in the ipproriate exercise of their functions. It resembles an American register or coasting license.
Now, all the authorities: that have been cited show that these documents are received as the highest species of evidence, and that,
even if there is error in the proceedings on which they are
founded. The correctiori mnst.be made by the tribunal from
which it emanates. Where- should we stop if we were to refuse
to give faith to the documebts -of public officers?' All national
inter-ourse, all commerce mst be at an end. If there is error
in isuing these papers, the matter must be sent to the tribunals
of Spain for correction.
I1. But if this Court will look behind this paper; is the evidence sufficient to contradit it? The. offidial declaration. to be
contradicted is certainly of a character n6t to be lightly set aside
in the Courts -of a foreign country. The question is not as to the
impression we may, derive from the evidence; but how far is it
sfficient to ,justify us in declaring a fatt' in direct *contradiction
to such an official declaration. It is not evidence that could be
received .according to the established admiralty practice. Seamen (1 Peters, Ad. Dec. 211) on board of a vessel cannot be
witnesses for one another in matters where they have a common
interest. Again, the principal part of this evidence is not taken
under oath. That of Dr. Madden, which is mainly relied upon,
is chiefly hearsay; and is contradicted, in some of its most essentialparticulars, by that of other witnesses.
Would this Court be justified, on evidence such as this, in
setting aside the admitted certificate of. the Governor General?
"Would such evidence, in onie of our own Courts, be deemed
adequate to set aside a judicial proceeding, or an act of a public
functionary, done in the due exercise of his office? How,'then,
can. it be adequate to such an erid, before the tribunals of a
foreign country, when they pass upon the internal municipal acts
of another government; and when the endeavour is made to
set them aside, in a matter relating to their own property and
people?
III. But admit this evidence to be competent and sufficient;
admit these negroes were brought into Cuba a few weeks before
the certificate was given; still, were they not slaves, under the
Spanish .laws? It is not 'denied that. negroes imported from

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

547

[The United States v.The Amistad.]

Atica into Cuba, night be slaves. If they are notit is on account
of some special law or decree. Has such a law been produced
in the present case? The first document produced is the treaty
with England, of 23d September, 1817. But that has no such
effect. It promises, indeed, that Spain will take into consideration the means. of preventing ihe slave trade, and it points out
those means; so far as the trade on the coast of Africa is concerned. But it carefully limits the'ascertainment of any infrifngement to two'special tribunals; one at.Sierra Leone, and the other,
at Havana. The next is the decree of December, 1817, which
authorizes negroes, brought in against the treaty, to " be declared
free." The treaty of 2Sth June, 1835, which is next adduced, is
confined entirely to the slave trade on the coast of Africa, or the
voyage from there. Now,, it is evident that none of these documents show that these negroes were free in Cuba. 'They had
not been "declared free" by any competent tribunal. Even had
they been taken actually on board of a vessel engaged ini the
.slaye trade, they must have been adjudicated upon at one of the
two special courts, and-nowhere else. Can this Court, then, undertake to decide this question of property, when it has not even
been decided by the Spanish Courts; ;ind make such decision in
the face of the certificate of the highest functionary of the
island ?
It is submitted, then, that if this Court 'does go behind the certificate of the Governor General, anAd look into the fact, whether
or not these pdrsons were slaves on the 18th June, 1839, yet
there is. no sufficient evidence on which they could adjudge it to
be untrue. If this be so, the proof concerning the propierty is
sufficient to bring the case within the intention and provisions
of the treaty.
The next question is, did the United Statds legally intervene
to obtain the decree of the Court for the restoratior of the property, in order that it might be delivered to the Spanish owners,
according to the stipulations of the treaty? They did; because
the property of foreigners, thus brought under the cognisan.ce
of the Uourts, is, of right, deliverable-to the public functionaries
of the government t0 which such foreigners belong; -because
those functionaries have r~quir6d the interposition of the United
Stateson their behalf; and because the United States were au-

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

thorized, on that request, to interpose, pursuant to their treatj
obligations.
That the property of foreigners, under such' circumstances,
may be delivered to the public functionaries, is so clearly established, by the decisions of this Court, that it is unnecessary tc
discuss the point. In the case (2 -Mason; 411, 412. 463) of La
Jeune Eugenie, there was a libel of the vessel, as in this case,
and a claim interposed by'the French consul, and also by the
owners themselves. The Court there directed the delivery of the
property to the public functionary. ' In that of the Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat. 52, the Spanish consul interposed. In that of the
'Antelope, 10 Wheat. 68, there were claims interposed, very much
as in this case, by the captain as captor, and by the Vice
Consuls of Spain and Portugal, for citizens of their respective
countries; .and by the United States. Th Court directed their
delivery; partly to the Consul of Spain, and partly to the United
States.. It is thus settled,'that the public functionaries are entitled to intervene in such cases, on behalf of the citizens of their
countries. In the present one, the Spanish minister did so intervene by applying to the United States to adopt,. on his behalf,
the necessary proceedings; 'and, upon his doing so, Rui; and
'Tvontez withdrew their separate claims. The United Stateq,,oji
their pait, acted as the treaty requirbd. The exe'utive is t;i4r
agent in ajI such transactions, and on him devolved the obligat ioj to see this property restcred entire, if due proof concernihg
it was made.- The form of proceeding was already established
by precedent and by law. The course adopted was exactly that
pursued in the cas6 of M'Fadden v. The Exchange, 7 Cranch,
116, where a vessel was libelled in a port of the United States.
Being a public vessel of a foreign sovereign, w'hich the government was bound to protect, they intervened exactly in 'the same
way. The libel was dismissed, and the vessel restored to the
custody of the public officers of France.
It is, therefore, equally clear, that the Uniied States, in this instance,has pursued the course required by the laws of nations; and
if the Court are satisfied, on the first point, thiat there is due proof
concerning the property, then it ought to be delivered entire, so
that it'maybe restored to the Spanish owners. If this be so, the
Court below has erred, because it has not decreedany part of'

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

549

[The United States v. The Amitad.]

the property to be delivered entire, except the boy Antonio.
From the vessel and cargo, it has deducted the salvage, diminishing them by that amount; and the negroes it has entirely refused to direct to be delivered.
Mr. Baldwin, for tl&e 'defendants in error.
In preparing to address this honourable Court, on the questions arising upon this record, in behalf of the humble Africans
whom I represent,-contending, as they are, for freedom and for
life, with two powefful governments arrayed against them,--it
has been to me a source of high gratification, in this unequal
contest, that those questions will be heard and decided by a
tribunal, not bnly elevated far above the influence of executive
power and popular prejudice, but, from its very constitution,
exempt from liability to those imputatiofis to which a Court, less
happily constituted, or composed only-of members from one section of the Union, might, however unjustly, be exposed.
This case is not only'one of deep idterest in itself, as affecting
the destiny of the unfortunate Africans, whom I represent, but
it involves considerations deeply affecting our,national char&cter
in the eyes of the whole civilized world, as well as questions of
power on the part of the government of the United States,
which are regarded with anxiety and alarm by a large portion
of our citizens. It presents, for the first time, the question whether
that government, which was established for the promotion of itusTIC--, which was founded on the great principles of the Revolution, as proclaimed in the Declaration of Independence, can,
consistently with the genius of our institutions, become a party
to proceedings for the enslavement of human beings cast upon
our.shores, and found in the condition of freemen within the territorial limits of a

FREE AND SOVEREIGN STATE ?

In the remarks.I shall have occasion to make, it will be my
design to appeal to no sectional 'piejudices, and to assume no
positions in which I shall not hope to be sustained by intelligent
minds from the south es~well as-from the north. Although Iam
in 'favour of the broadest liberty of inquii 7 .aad_.iscussion,happily secured by our Constitution to every citizen, subject only
t6 his individual responsibility to the laws for ilp dbuse; -I Ihave
,ever been of' the opinion that the exercise af that libertv byr

550

SUPREME COURT.
[The United-States v. The Amistd.]

citizens of one state, in regard to the institutions of another,
should always be guided by discretion, and tempered with kindness.
Mr. Baldwin here proceeded to state all the facts of the case,
and the proceedings in the District a-ad Circuit Courts, in support
of the motion to dismiss the appeal. As no decision was giveu
by the Court on-the motion, this part of the argument is, necessarily, omitted.
Mr. Baldwin continued: If the government of the United
States could appear in any case as the representative of foreigners
claiming properti in the "Courtof Admiralty, it bas no right to
appear in their behalf to aid them in the recovery of fugitive
slaves, even when domiciled in the country from which they
escaped: much less the recefit victims of the African slave trade,
who have sought an asylum in one of the free states of the
Union, without any. Wrongful act on our part, or. for which, as
in the case of the Antelope, we are in any way responsible.
The recently imported Africans of 'the Amistad, if they were
ever slaves, which is denied, were in the actual condition of freedoa when tliey came within the jurisdictional limits of the state
of New York. They came there without any wrongful act on
the part -of any oTfier or citizen of the U nited States. They
were in a state where, not only no law existed to make them
slaves, but where, by an express statute, all persons, except fugitives, &c., from a sister state, are declared to be free. Theywere
under the protection of the laws of a state, which, in the language
of the Supreme Court, in the case of Miln v. The City of New
York, 11 Peters, 139, "has the same undeniable and unlimited
jurisdiction over all persons and things within its territorial
limits, as any foreign nation, when that jurisdiction is not
surrendered or restrained by trhe Constitution of the United
States."
The 'American people have never imposed it as a duty on the
government of the United States, to become actors Lan attempt
to reduce to slavery, men found in a state of freedom, by givirng
extra-territoria. force to a foreign slave law. Such a duty would
not only be repugnant to the feelings of a large portion of the
citizens of the United States, but it would be wholly inconsistent
with the fundamental principles of opr government, and the pur-

JANUARY TERIM, 1841.

551

[The United States v. The Amista.]

poses for which it was established, as well as with its policy in
prohibiting the slave trade and giving freedon, :a its victims.
The recovery of slaves for their owners, whether foreign or
domestic, is a matter with which the executive of the United
States has no concern. The Constitution confers upon the government no power to establish or legalize the institution of slavery.
It recognises it as existing in regard to persons held to service
by the laws of the states which tolerate it; and contains a compact between the states, obliging them to respect the rights
acquired under the slave laws of other states, in the cases specified in the Constitution. But it imposes no duty, and confers
no power on the government of the United States to act in regard
to it. So far as the compact extends, the Courts of the United
States, whether sitting in a free state or a slave state, will give
effect to it. Beyond that, all persons within the limits of a state
are entitled to the protection of its laws.
If these Africans have been taken from the possession -of their
Spanish claimants,-and wrongfully brought into the United States
by our citizens, a question would have been presented similar to
that which existed iut the case of the Antelope. But when men
have coibe here voluntarily, without any wrong on the part of
the government or citizens of the United States, in withdrawing
them from the jurisdiction of the Spanish laws, why should this
government be required to become active in their restoration?
They appear here as freemen. They are in a'state where they
are presumed to be free. They stand before our Courts on equal
ground with their claimants; and when the Courts, after an impartial hearing with all parties in interest before them, have
pronounced them free, it is neither the duty nor the right
of the executive of the United States, to interfere with the decision.
The question of the surrender of fugitive slaves to a foreign
claimant, if the right exists at all, is left to the comity of the
states which tolerate slavery. The government of the United
States has nothing to do with it. In the letter of instructions
addressed by Mr. Adams, when Secretary ot State, to Messrs.
Gallatin and Rush, dated November
ISIS, in relation to a
Great
Brtairi,
for a more active coproposed arrangement with
,operation in the suppression of-tbe slave trade,he assigns as a

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

reason for rejecting the proposition for a mixed commission, "that
the disposal of the negroes found on board the slave-trading
vessels, which might be condemned by the sentence of the mixed
Courts, cannot be carried into effect by the United States."
"The condition of the blacks being in this Union regulated by
the municipal laws of the separate states, the government of
the United States can neither guarantee their liberty in the states
where they could only be received as slaves, nor control them in
the states where they would be recognised as free." Doc. 48,
H. Rep. 2 sess. 16th Cong. p. 15.
It may comport with the interest or feelings of a slave state
to surrender a fugitive slave to a foreigner. or at least to expel
him from their borders. But the people of New England, except so far as they are bound by the compact, would cherish and
protect him. To the extent of the compact we acknowledge our
obligation, and have passed laws for its fulfilment. Beyond that
our citizens would be unwilling to go.
A state has no power to surrender a fugitive criminal to a
foreign govemment for punishment; because that is necessarily
a matter of national concern. The fugitive is demanded for a
national purpose. But the question of the surrender of fugitive
slaves concerns individuals merely. They are demanded as property only, and for private purposes. It is, therefore, a proper
subject for the action- of the ,state, and not of the national
authorities.
The surrender of neither is demandable of right, unless stipulated by treaty. See as to the surrender of fugitive criminals,
2 Brock. Rep. 493. . 2 Sumner, 482. 14 Peters, 540. Doe. 199,
H. R. 26 Cong. p. 53. 70. 10 Arter, State Pap. 151. 153. 433.
3 Hall's Law Jour. 135. An overture was once made by'the
government, of the United.. States to negotiate a treaty with
Great Britain for the mutual surrender of fugitive slaves. But
it was instantly repelled by the British government. It may
well be doubted whether tatch a stipulation is within the treatymaking power under the Constitution, of the United States.
"The power to make' treaties," says Chief Justice Taney,
14 Peters, 569, "is given in general terms, ....
and consequently it was designed to include all those subjects which in the
ordinary intercourse of nations htad usually.been made subjects

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

553

[The United States v.The Amistad.]

of negotiation and treaty; and which are consistent with the
nature of our institutions, and the distribution of powers between
the general and state governments." See Holmes v. Jennison,
14 Peters, 569. Buthowever this may be,the attempt to introduce
it is evidence that, unless provided for by treaty, the obligation
to surrender was not deemed to exist
We deny that Ruiz and 'Montez, Spanish subjects, had a right
to call on any officer or Court of the United States fo use the
force of the government, or the process of the law for the purpose of again enslaving. those who have thus escaped .frorhL
foreign slavery, and sought an asylum here; We deny-that the
seizure of these persons by Lieutenant Gedney for such a purpose was a legal or justifiable act.
How would it be-independently of the treaty between the
United States and Spain-upon the principles of our government, of the common law, or of the law of nations?
If a foreigli slave vessel, engaged in a traffic which by our
laws is denounced as inhuman and piratical- should be captured
by the slaves while on her voyage fronm Africa to Cuba, and
they should succeed in reaching our shores, have the Constitution or laws of the United States imposed upon our judges, our
naval officers, or our executive, the duty of seizing the unhappy
fugiti-tes and delivering them up to their oppressors? Did the
people of the United States, whose government is based on the
great principles of the Revolution, proclainied in the Declaration
of Independence, confer upon the federal executive, or judicial
tribunals, the power of making our nation accessories to such
atrocious violations of human right?
Is there any principle of international law, or law of comity
which requires it? Are our Courts bound, and if not, are they
at liberty, to give effect here to the slave trade laws of a foreign
nation; to laws affecting strangers, never domiciled there, when,
to give them such effect would be to violate the natural rights
of men?
These questions are answered in the negative by all the most
approved writers on the laws of nations. I Burg. Confi. 741.
Story, Confl. 92.
By the law of France, the slaves of their colonies, immediately on their arrival in France, become free. In the case of
VOL. XV.-S A
70

554

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

Forbes v. Cochrane, 2 Barn. and Cress. 463, this question is elaborately discussed and settled by the English Court of King's
Bench.
By the law of the state of New York, a foreign slave escaping
into that state becomes free. And the Courts of the United
States, in acting upon the personal rights of men found within
the jurisdiction of a free state, are bound to administer the laws
as they would be administered by the state Courts, in all cases
in which the laws of the state do not conflict with the laws or
obligations of the United States. The United States as a nation
have prohibited the slave trade as inhuman and piratical, and
they have no law authorizing the enslaving of its victims. It is
a maxim, to use the words of an eminent English judge, in the
case of Forbes v, Cochrane, 2 Barn. and Cress., "that which is
called comitas inter communitates, cannot prevail in any case,
where it violates the law of our own country, the law of nature,
or the law of God." 9 Eng. C. L. R. 149. And that the laws
of a nation, proprio vigore, have no force beyond its own territories, except so far as it respects its owh citizens, who owe it allegiance, is too familiarly settled to need the citation of authorities.
See 9 Wheaton, 366. Apollon, 2 Mason, 151-158. The rules on
this subject adopted in the English Court of Admiralty are the
same which prevail in their Courts of common law, though they
have decided in the case of The Louis, 2 Doason, 238, as the
Supreme Court did in the case of the Antelope, 10 Wheaton, 66,
that as the slave trade was not, at. that time, prohibited by the
law of nations, if a foreign slaver was captured by an English
ship, it was a wrongful act, which it would be the duty of the
Court of Admiralty to repair by restoring the possession. The
principle of amoveas riianus, adopted in these cases, has no application to the case of fugitives from slavery.
But it is claimed that if these Africans, though "recently imported into Cuba," were by the laws of Spain the property of Ruiz
and Montez, the government of the United States is bound by the
treaty to restore them; and that, therefore, the intervention of
the executive in these proceedings is proper for that purpose.
It has already, it is believed, been shown that even if the case
were within the treaty, the intervention of the executive as a
party before the judicial tribunals was unnecessary and impro-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

555

LThe United States v. The Amistad.]

per, since the treaty provides for its own execution by the Courts,
on the application of the parties in.interest; And such a resortis
expressly provided in the twentieth article of the.treaty of 1794
with Great Britain, abd in the twenty-sixth article of the treaty of
1801 with the French Blepublic, both'of which are in other respects
similar to the.,ninth article of the Spanish treaty, on which the
Attorney General has principally relied.
The sixth article of the Spanish treaty has received a judicial
construction in the case of the Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheaton,
284, where it was decided that the obligation assumed issimply
that of protecting belligerent vessels from capture within our
jurisdiction. It can have no application therefore to a case like
the present.
The ninth article of.that treaty provides 'that all ships a-ad
merchandise of what nature soever, which shall be rescued out
of the hands of pirates or robbers, on the high seas, shall be
brought into some port of either state, and shall be delivered to
the custody of the officers of that port,-in order to be taken care
of, and restored entire to the true proprittors, as sooxi as due
and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the property
thereof."
To render this clause of the treaty applicable to the case under
consideration, it must b6 assumed that under the term" merchandise" the contracting parties intended to .include slaves; and
that slaves, themselves the recent victims of piracy, who, by a
successful revolt, have achieved their deliverance from slavery,
on the high seas, and have javailed themselves of the means of
.escape of which they have thus acquired the possession, are to
be deemed "pirates and robbers," "from whose hands" such
"merchandise has been rescued."
It is believed that such a construction of the words of the
treaty is not in accordance with the rules of interpretation which
ought to govern our Courts; and that when there is no special
reference to human beings as property, who are not acknowledged as such by the law or comity of nations generally, but
only by the municipal laws of the particular nations which
tolerate, slavery, it cannot be presumed that the contracting parties intended to include them under the general term "merchandise." As has already been remarked, it may well be doubted

556

SUPREME COURT.
[The Unitea States v. The Amistad.]

whether such a stipulation would be within the treaty-making
power of the United States. It is to be remembered that the
government.of the United States is based on the principles promulgated in the Declaration df Independence by the Congress
of 1776;. "that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among
these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; and that to
se',ure these rights governments are instituted."
The convention which formed the Federal Constitution, though
they recognised slavery as existing in regard to persons held to
labour by the laws of the states which tolerated it, were careful
to exclude from that instrument every expression that might be
construed into an admission that there could be property in men.
It appears by the report of the proceedings of the convention,
S(3,Madison Papers, 142S,) that the first clause of section 9,
article 1, which provides for the imposition of a tax or~duty on
the importation of sach persons as any of the states, then existing, might think proper to admit, &c., "not exceeding ten dollars
for each person," was. adopted in its present form, in consequence of the opposition by Roger Sherman and James Madison
to the clause as it was originally reported, on the ground, "that
it admitted that there could be-property in men ;" an idea which
Mr. Madison said "he thought it wrong to admit in the Constitution." The words reported by the committee, and stricken
-out on this 6bjection, were: "a tax or duty may be imposed on
such migration or importation at a rate not exceeding the average
of the duties laid upon imports." The Constitution as it now
stands will be searched in vain for an expression recognising
human beings as merchanidise or legitimate subjects of commerce.
In the case of New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 104. 136, Judge
Barbour, in giving the opini6n of the Court, expressly declares,
in reference to the power "to regulate commerce" conferred on
Congress by the Constitution, that "persons are not the subjects
of commerce." Judging from the public sentiment'which prevailed ai the time of the adoption of the Constitution, it is prbbable that the first act of the government in the exercise of its
power to regulate commerce, would have been to prohibit the
slave trade, if it had not bdern restrained until 1808, from prohibiting the importation of' such persons as any of the states,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

657

(The United States v. The Amistad.)

then existing, should think proper to admit. But could Congress
have passed an act authorizing the importation of slaves as
articles of commerce, into any state in opposition to a law of the
state, prohibiting their introduction? If they could, they may
now force slavery into every state. For no state can prohibit
the introduction of legitimate objects of foreign commerce, when
authorized by Congress.
The United States must be regarded as comprehending free
states as well as slave states: states which do not recognise slaves
as property, as well as states which do so regard them. When
all speak as a nation, general expressions ought to be construed
to mean what all understand to be includea in them; at all events,
what may be included consistently with the law of nature.
The ninth article of the Spanish treaty was copied from the
sixteenth article of the treaty with France, concluded in 1778, in
the midst of the war of the Revolution, in which the great principles of liberty proclaimed in the Declaration of Independence
were vindicated by our fathers.
By "merchandise rescued from pirates," the contracting parties must have had in view property, which it would be the duty
of the public ships of the United States to rescue from its unlawful possessors. Because, if it is taken from those who are rightfully in possession, the capture would be wrongful, and it would
be our duty to restore it. But is it a duty which our naval
officers owe-to a nation tolerating the slave trade, to subdue for
their kidnappers the revolted victims of their cruelty? Could
the people of the United State , consistently with their principles.
as a nation, have ever consented to a treaty stipulation which
would impose such a duty on our naval officers? a duty Which
would drivd every citizen of a free state from the service of-his
country? Has our government, which has been so cautious as
not to oblige itself to surrender the most atrocious criminals, who
have sought an asylum in the United States, bound itself, under
the term "merchandise," to seize and surrender fugitive slaves?
The subject of the delivery of fugitives was under consideration before and during the negotiation of the Treaty of San
Lorenzo; and was purposely omitted in the treaty. Sec. 10
Waite's State Papers, 151. 433.* Our treatibs with Tunis and
Algiers contain similar expressions, in which both-parties stipu3A2

558

SUPREME COURT.
[The Unitid States v. The Amistad.]

late for the protection of the property of the subjects of each
within the jurisdiction of the other. The Algerine regarded his
Span- h captive as property; but was it ever supposed, that if an
Alghrine corsair should be seized by the captive slaves on board
of her, it would be the duty of our naval officers, or our Courts
of Admiralty, to recapture and i estore .them?
The phrase6logy of the entire article in the treaty, clearLy
shows that it was intended to apply only to inanimate things, or'
irrational animals; such as are universally regarded as property.
It is "merchandise rescued from the hands of pirates and robbers
on the high seas" that is to be restored. There is no provision
for the surrender of the pirates themselves. And the reason is,
because the article has reference only to those who are "1hostes
humani generis," whom it is lawful for, and the duty of all nations to capture and to punish. If these Africans were "1pirates"
or sea robbers, whom our naval officers might lawfully seize, it
would be our duty to detain them for punishment; and then
what would become of the "1merchandise ?"
But they were not pirates, nor in anysense hostes humani
generis. Cinque, the master-spirit who guided them, had a single object in view. That object was-not piracy or r6 erybut the deliverance of himself and his companions in sulering,
from unlawful bondage. They owed no allegiance to ,Spain.
Thdy were on board of the Amistad by constraint. Their object
was to free themselves from the fetters that bound them, in order
that they might return to their kindred and their home. In so
doing they were guilty of no crime, for vihich they could be held
responsible .as pirates. See Bee's Rep. 273. Suppose they had
been impressed American seamen, who had regained their liberty
-in a sirfiilar manner, would they in that case have been deemed
guilty of piracy and murder? Not in the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall. In his celebrated speech in justification of the
surrender b President Adams of Nash under the British trety,
he says: "Had Thomas Nash been an impressed American, the
homicide on board the Hermione would most certainly not have
been murder. The act of impressing an American is an act of
lawless violence. The confinement on -board a vessel is a continuation of that violence, and an additional outrag6. Death

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

559

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

committed within the United States in resisting such violence,
would not have been murder." Bee's Rep. 290.
The United States, as a nation, is to be regarded as a free
state. And all men being presumptively free, when "merchandise" is spoken of in the treaty of a free state, it cannot be presumed that human beings are intended to be included as such.
Hence, whenever our government have intended to speak of
negroes as property, in their treaties, they have been specifically
mentioned, as in the treaties with Great Britain, of 1783 and 1814.
It was on the same principle, that Judge Drayton, of South Carolina, decided, in the case of Almeida, who had captured, during
the last war, an English vessel with slaves, that the word "property" in the prize act, did not include negroes, and that they
must be regarded as prisoners of war, and not sold or distributed
merchandise. 5 Hall's Law Journal, 459.
And it was for the same reason, that it was deemed necessary
in the Constitution, to insert an express stipulation in regard to
fugitives from service. The law of comity would have obliged
each state to protect and restore property belonging to a citizen
of another, without such stipulation; but it would not have
required the restoration of fugitive slaves from a sister state,
unless they had -been expressly mentioned.
In the interpretation of treaties we ought always to give such
a construction to the words as is most consistent with the customary use of language; most suitable to the subject, and to the
legitimate powers of the contracting parties; most conformable
to the declared principles of the government; such a constructiono
as will not lead to injustice to others, or in any way violate the
laws of nature.
These are, in substance, the rules of interpretation as given
by Vattel, b. ii. ch. 17. The construction claimed in behalf
of the Spanish libellants, in the present case, is at war with
them all.
It would be singular, indeed, if the tribunals of a government
which has declared the slave-trade piracy, and has, bound itself
by a solemn treaty with Great Britain, in 1814, to make continued efforts "to promote its entire abolition, as a traffic irreconcilable with the principles of humanity and justice," should construe the general expressions of a treaty which since that period

560

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

has been revised by the contracting parties, as obliging this nation to commit the injustice of tfeating as property the recent
victims of this horrid traffic; more especially when it is borne'in
mind, that the government of Spain, anterior to the revision of
the treaty in 1819, had formally notified our government that
Africans were no longer the legitimate objects of trade; with a
declaration that "His majesty felt 'confident that- a measure so
completely in harmony with the sentiments of this government,
and of all the inhabitants of this republic, could not fail to be
equally agreeable to the President." Doc. 48. 2 sess. 16 Cong.
p.S.
Would the people of the United States, in 1819, have assented
to such a treaty? Would it not have furnished just ground of
complaint by Great Britain, as a violation of the 10th article of
the treaty of Ghent?
But even if the treaty 'in its terms were such as to oblige us to
violate towards strangers the immutable laws of justice, it would,
according to Va~tel, impose no obligation. Vattel, c. 1,  9; b.

ii. c. 12,  161 ; c. 17,  311.
The law of nature and the law of nations, bind us as effectually
to render justice to the African, as the treaty can to the Spaniard.
Before a foreign tribunal, the parties litigating the question of
freedom or slavery, stand on equal ground. And in a case like
this;where it is admitted that the Africans were recently imported,
and consequently never domiciled in Cuba, and owe no allegiance
to'its laws, their rights are to be determined by that law which
is of universal obligation-the law of nature.
If, indeed, the vessel in which they sailed had been driven
upon our coast by stress of weather or other unavoidable cause,
-and they -had arrived here in the actual possession of their alleged
bwners, and had been slaves by the law of the country from which
they sailed, anl where they were domiciled, it would have been
a very different question, whether the Courts of the United States
could interfere to liberate them, as was dole at Bermuda by the
colonial tribuhal, in the case of the Enterprise.
But in this case there has been no possession of these Africang
by their claimants within our jurisdictioii, of which they have
been deprived, by the act of our government or its officers; 'and
neither by the law of.comity, or by force of the treaty, are the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

561

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

officers or Courts of the United States required, or by the principles of our government permitted to become actors in reducing
them to slavery.
These preliminary questions have been made on account of
the imp'ortant principles involved in them, and not from any
unwillingness to meet the question between the Africans and
their claimants upon the facts in evidence, and on those alone,
to vindicate their claims to freedom.
Suppose, then, the case to be properly here: and that Ruiz
and Montez, unprejudiced by the decree of the Court below,
were at liberty to take issue with the Africans upon their answer,
and to call upon this Court to determine the question of liberty
or property, how stands the case on the evidence before the
Court?
The Africans, when found by Lieutenant Gedney, were in a
free state, where alr men are presumed to be free, and were in
the actual condition of freemen. The burden of proof, therefore,
"rests on those who assert them to be slaves. 10
Wheaton, 66.
2 Mason, 459. When they call on the Courts of the United
States to reduce to slavery men who are apparently free, they
must show some law, having force in the place where they were
taken, which makes them slaves, or that the claimants are entitled
in our Courts to have some foreign law, obligatory on the
Africans as well as on the claimants, enforced in respect to them;
and that by such foreign law they are slaves.
It is not pretended that there was any law existing in the
place where they wdre found, which made them slaves, but it
is claimed that by the laws of Cuba they were slaves to Ruiz
and Montez; and that those laws are to be here enforced. But
before the laws of Cuba, if any such there be, can be applied to
affect the personal status of individuals within a foreign jurisdiction, it is very clear that it must bE. shown 'that they were
domiciled in Cuba.
It is admitted and proved in this case that these negroes are
natives of Africa, and recently imported into Cuba. Their domicil of origin is consequently the place of their birth in Africa.
And the presumption of law is, always, that the domicil of origin,
is retained until the change is proved. 1 Burge's Conflict. 34.
71

562

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amista.]

The burden of proving the change is cast on him who alleges it.
5 Vesey, 787.
The domicil of origin prevails until the party has not only acquired another, but has manifested and carried into execution
an intention of abandoning his former domicil, and acquiring
another, as his sole domicil. As it is the Will or intention of the
party which alone determines what is the real place of domicil
which he has chosen, it follows that a former domicil is not abandoned by residence in another, if that residence be not voluntarily
chosen. Those who are in exile, or in prison, as they are never presumed to have abandoned all hope of return, retain their former
domicil. 1 Burg. 46. That these victims of fraud and piracy-husbands torn from their wives and families-children from their
parents and kindred-neither intended to dbandonfthe land of their
nativity, nor had lost all hope of recovering it, sufficiently appears from the facts on this record. It cannot, surely, be claimed
that a residence, under such circumstances, of these helpless beings
for ten days in a slave barracoon, before they were transferred to
the Amistad, changed their native domicil for that of Cuba.
It is not only incumbent on the claimants to prove that the
Africans are domiciled in Cuba, and subject to its laws, but they
must show that sorhe law existed there by which "recently imported Africans" can be lawfully held in slavery. Such a law
is not to be presumed, but the contrary. Comity would seem
to require of us to presume that a traffic 'so abhorrent to the feelings of the whole civilized world is not lawful in Cuba. These
respondents having been born free, and having been recently imported into :Cuba, have a: right to be everywhere regarded as free,
until some law obligatory on them is produced authorizing their
enslavement. Neither the law of nature nor the law of nations
authorizes the slave-trade; although. it was holden in the case of
the Antelope, that the law of nations did not at that time actually
prohibit it. If they are slaves, then, it must be by some positive
law of Spain, existing at the time of their recent importation.
No such law is exhibited. On the contrary, it is proved by the
deposition of Dr. Madden, one of the British commissioners
resident at Havana, that since the year 1820, there has been no
such law in force there, either statute or common law.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

563

[The United States v. Th Amistad.]
But we do not rest the case here. We are willing to assume
the burden of proof. On the 14th of May, 1818, the Spanish
government, by their mipiister, announced to the government
of the United States that the slave-trade was prohibited by
Spain; and by express command of the King of Spain, Don Onis
communicated to the President of the United States the treaty
ivith Great Britain of September 23d, 1817, by which the King
of Spain, moved partly by mbtives of humanity, and partly in
consideration of four hundred thousand pounds sterling, paid
to him by the British government for the accomplishment of so
desirable an object, engaged that the slave-trade should be
abolished throughout the dominions of Spain, on the 30th May,
1820. By the ordinance of the King.of Spain of December, 1817,
it is directed that every African imported into any of the colonies
of Spair in violation of the treaty, shall be declared free in the
first port at which he shall arrive.
By the treaty between Great Britain and Spain of the'28th
bf June, 1835, which is declared to be made for the purpose of
"rendering the means taken for abolishing the inhuman traffic
in slaves more effective," and to be in the spirit of the treaty
contracted between both powers on the 23d of September, 1817,
"the slave-trade is again ddclared on -the part of Spain to be
henceforward totally and finally- abolished, in all parts of the
world." And by the royal ordinance of November 2d, 1838,
the Governor and the naval officers having command on the' coast
of Cuba, are stimulated to greater vigilance to suppress it.
Such, then, being the laws in force in all the dominions of
Spain, and such the conceded facts in regard to the nativity and
recent importation of these Africans, upon what plausible ground
can it be cloted by the government of the United States, that
they were slates in the island of Cuba, and are here to be treated
as property, and not as human beings?
The only evidence exhibited to prove them slaves, are the
papers of the Amistad; giving to Jose Ruiz permission to transport forty-nine Ladinos belonging to him, from Havana to Puerto
Principe; and a like permit to Pedro Montez, to transport thee
Ladinos. For one of the four Africans, claimed by Montez, (the,
boy Ka-le,) there is no permit at all.
It has been said in an official opinion by the late Attorney

564

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

General, (Mr. Grundy,) that "1as this vessel cleared out from one
Spanish port, to another Spanish port, with papers regularly authenticated by the proper officers at Havana, evidencing. that
these negroes were slaves, and that the destination of the vessel
was to another Spanish port, the government of the United States
would not be authorized to go into an investigation for the pur-pose of 'ascertaining whether th6 facts stated in those papers by
the Spanish officers are true or not;",-"1 that if it were to permit
itself to go behind the papers of the schooner Amistad, it would
place itself in the embarrassing condition of judging upon Spanish
laws, their force, effect, and application to the case under consideration." In .support of this opinion, a reference is made to
the opinion of this Court, in the case of Arredondq, 6 Pet. 729,
where it is stated to be "a universal principle, that wheie power
or jurisdiction is delegated to.any public officer or tribunal over
a subject-matter, and its exercise is confided to his or their discretion, the acts so done are binding and valid as to the subjectmatter; and individual rights will not be disturbed collaterally
for .any thing done in the exercise of that discretion within the
authority conferred. The only questions which.can arise between
an individual claiming a-right under the acts done, and the public,
or any person denying its validity, are power in the officer, and
fraud in the party."
The principle thus stated, was applicable to the case then before the Court, which related-to the validity of a gkant made by
a public officer; but it does not tend to support the position for
which it is cited in the present case. For, in the first place, there
was no jurisdictio'h over these newly imported Africans, by the
laws of Spain, to make them slaves, any more than if they had
been white men. The ordinance.of the king declared them free..
Secundly, there was no intentional exercise of jurisdiction over
them for such a purpose, by the officer who granted the permits;
and, thirdly, the permits were fraudulently obtained, and frauidulently used by the p6iirtfis claiming to take benefit of them. For
the purposes for which -they are attempted to be applied, the,
permits are as inoperative as would be a grant from a public
'officer, fraudulently obtained, where the state had no title to the
thing granted, and the officer no authority to issue the grant.
See 6 Ppters, 730. 5 Wheat. 303

JANUARY TERM) 1841.

565

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

But it is said, we have no right to place ourselves in the position of judging upon the Spanish laws. How can our Courts
do otherwise, when Spanish subjects call upon them to enforce
rights which, if they exist at all, must exist by force of Spanish
laws? For what purpose did the government of Spain communicate to the govefnment of the United States, the fact of the
prohibition of 'the slave-trade, unless it was that it might be
known and acted upon by our Courts? Suppose the permits to
Ruiz and Montez had, been granted for the express purpose of
consigning to perpetual slavery, these recent victims of this prohibited trade, could the government of Spain now ask the government or the Courts of the United States, to give validity to'
the acts of a colonial officer, in direct violation of that prohibition; and thus make us aiders and abettors in. what we know to
be in atrocious wrong?
.It may be admitted that, even after such an annunciation, our
cruisers could not lawfully seize a Spanish slaver, cleare& out as
such by the Governor of Cuba: but if*
the Africans on board of.
her could effect their own deliverance, hnd" reach our shords, has
not the government of Spain authorized us to treat them with
h6spitality as freemen? Could the Spanish minister, without
offence, ask the government of the United States to seize these
victims of fraud and felony, and treat them as property, because
a colonial governor had thought Proper to violate the ordinance
of his king, in granting a permit fo a slaver?
, But in this case we make no -charge upon the Governor of
Cuba. A fraud upon him is proved to have been practised by
Ruiz and Montez. He fiever undertook to assume jurisdiction
over these Africans as slaves, or to decide any question in regard
to them. He simply issued, on the application of 'Ruiz and
Montez, passports for Ladino slaves from Havana to Puertoi
Principe. When .under colour of those passports, they fraudulently put on board the .Amistad, Bozals, who by'the laws of
Spain could not be slaves, we surely manifest no disrespect to the
acts. of the Governor, by giving efficacy to the laws of Spain,
and denying to Ruiz and Montez the benefit of their fraud, The
custom house, license, to which the name of Espeleta in print
was appended, was not a document given or intended to be used
.as evidence of property between Roiz and Montez, and the
VOL. XV.-3 B

SUPREME COURT.
[The United Stawt .The Amistad.]

Africans; 'any more than a permit fro m our customhouse would
be to settle conflicting.claims of ownership to the articles contained in the manifest. As between the government and the shippers, it would be evidence if the negroes described in the passport
were adtually put on board, and were, in truth, the property of
Ruiz and Montez, that they were legally shipped; that the
customhouse forms had been complied with; and nothing more.
But in view of facts as they appear, and are admitted in the
present case, the passports seem to have been obtained by Ruiz
and Montez, only as a part of the nedessary machinery for the
completion of a slave voyage. The evidence tends strongly to
prove that Ruiz, at least, was concerned in the importation of
these Africans, and that the reshipment of them under colour
of passports obtained for Ladinos, as the property of Ruiz and
Montez, in connection with the false representation on the papers
of the schooner, that they were "passengers for the government,"
was an artifice resorted to by these slave-traders, for the double
purpose of evading the scrutiny of British cruisers, and legalizing the transfer of their victims to the place of their ultimate
destination. It is a remarkable circumstance, that though more
than a year has elapsed, since the decree of the District Court
denying the title of Ruiz and Montez, and pronouncing the
Africans free, not a particle of evidence has since been produced
in support of their claims. And yet, strange as it may seem,
during all this time, not only the sympathies of the Spanish
minister, but the powerful aid of our own government have
been enlisted in their behalf!
It was the purp6se of the. Reporter "to insert the able and
,interesting argumedt of Mr. Adams, for the African appellees;
and the publication of the "Reports" has been pdstponed in the
hope of obtaining it, prepared by himself. It has not been received. As many of the pointspresented by Mr. Adams, in the
cliscussion of. the cause, were not considered by the Court essential to its decision: and were ndt taken notice of in the
-pinion of the Court, delivered by Mr. Justice STORY, the necessary omission of the argument is submitted to with less
regret.

JANUARY TERM. 1841.

567

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

Mr. Gilpin, the Attorney-General, in reply.
The judiciary act, which gives to this Court its powers, so far
as they depend on the legislature, directs that, on an appeal from
the decree of an inferior Court, this Court shall render such judgment as the Court below did, or should have rendered. It is to
obtain from it such a decree in this case, that the United States
present themselves here as appellants.
At the threshold of their application, the right so to present
themselves is denied. They are to be turned away, as suitors
having no claim to such interposition. The argument has gone
a step further; it seems now to be contended, that their appearance in the Court below,'which was not then objected to, is to be
regarded as destitute of right, equally with their presbnt appearalice here. They are not even mere interlopers, seeking justicewithout warrant; they are dictators, in the form of supplicants,
and their suggestions to the Court, and their. application for its
judgment, upon solemn and important questions of fact, are
distorted by an ingenious logic which it is difficult to follow.
Applications, made without the slightest"expression of a wish,
except to obtain that judgment, and in a form which, it might be
supposed, woald secure admission into any Court, are repudiated,
under the harsh name of "executive interference." Yet in what
single respect do the facts of this case sustain such allegations?
How can it be justly said that -there has been any "executive
interference," not resulting from the adoption of that course
which public duty made incumbent; and conducted in the manner, and in that manner only, which was required by that sense
of public duty, from which, no officer; possessing a due regard
for the obligations of his trust, will ever shrink?
In what situation is the case when it is first presented to the
notice of the government of the United States? On nearly, if
not exactly the same day that the Secretary of State receives
from the minister of Spain an officidl communication, dated at
New York, and stating the facts connected with the schooner
L'Amistad, then just brought withifi the territory of the United
States; stating also, that the vessel is a Spanish vessel,-laden
with merchandise, and with sundry negro slaves on board,
accompanied with all the documents required by the laws of
.Spain, for navigating a vessel, and for proving ownership of

SOB

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

property; and then making an application to the government
of the United States to interpose, so that the property thus within
our territory, might be restored to Its owners pursuant to the
treaty; and asserting also, that the negroes, who were guilty,
as he contended, of a crime for which they ought to be punished,
ought to be delivered up on that account, too, pursuant to the
law of nations-on or about the same day, the letter of the District Attorney, which, though dated a day earlier, is. written in
Connecticut, also -reaches the Department of State, *conveying
the information that this same property and these same negroes
are already within the custody and authority of the judicial tribunals of the United States, by virtue of process, civil and criminal, issued by a judge of the United States, after solemn and
deliberate inquiry. The vessel, the cargo, and the negroes had
been all taken possession of by a warrant issued by the Court,
"as property;" they were then, at that very time, in the custody,
keeping, and possession of.the Court, as property, without the
slightest suggestion having been made by the executive branch
of the government, or even a knowledge of the fact on its part;
and when its interposition is formally solicited, its first information relative to the case received, it finds the subject of the demand already under the control of the judicial branch.
In this situation, the executive government, thus appealed to
and thus informied, looks to its treaty stipulations, the most
solemn and binding compacts that nations know among each
other, and the obligations ofbwhich can never be treated lightly,
so long as good faith forms the first duty of every community.
Those stipulations entered into in 1795, (1 Laws of United States,
266,) provide, in the first place, (article 6,) that each party to the
treaty, the United States and Spain, shall "endeavour, by all
means in their power, to protect and defend all vessels and other
effects belonging to the citizens or subjects of 'he other, which
shall be within the extent of their jurisdiction." Again, in the
eighth article, it is declared, that "in case the subjects or inhabitants of"either country shall, with their shipping, be forced,
through stress of weather-, or any other urgent necessity for seeking :shelter; t6 enter any port of the other, they shall enjoy all
favour, protection, and help." .-Again, in the ninth article, it is
provided, that "all.ships and merchandise, of what nature soever,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

569

[The United States v. The Amisd.]
which shall be rescued out of the hands of hny pirates or robbers
on the high seas, shall be brought into some port of either state,
and shall be delivered into the custody of the officers of that port,
in order to be taken-care of, and restored entire to the true prop ietor, as soon as due and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the property thereof." In the sixteenth article it is
further declared, .that the liberty of navigation and commerce
meant by the treaty, shall extbnd to all kinds of merchandise,
excepting those only which are contraband, and they are expressly enumerated; and inthe twenty-second article, the object
of the treaty is declared t6 be "the- extension of mutual commerce." When these stipulations were thus made, slaves were
a notorious article of merchandise and traffic in each country;
Aiot only-were they so in the United States, btit there was a constitutional provision, prohibiting -Congress from interfering to
prevent their importation, as such, from abroad. This treaty,
with these provisions thus solemnly and carefully framed, was
renewed in 1819; was declared to be still in existence and force.
It is declared, (7 Laws of United States, 624,) that every one
6f the 'articles- above quoted "remains donfirmed." It stands
exactly as it stood in 1795; and, in the year 1821, after both
governments had abolished the slave-trade, the provisions
-.adopted in 1795 are thus, as to "every clause and article thereof," so renewed, solemnly ratified, and confirmed by the President and Senate of the United States. No clause is introduced
to vary the nature or character of the merchandise; none to lessen or change the obligations, as would have been the case', had
any such change been contemplated; but the two treaties, having
the final date of 1821, bear the character of a single instrument.
-NoW these are mtipulations too clear to be misunderstood; too
imperative to-be wantonly neglected. C6uld we not ask of
Spain the fulfilment of every one of them towards our own citizens? If so, were we not bound, at least, to see that, through
some public functionary, or by'some means in which -nations
fulfil mutual obligations, they were performed by us to the subjects of Spain whenever the casus federis shoqid arise ?
Did it arise in this case? Here were unquestionably, as the
representative of Spain believed and stated)'a !essel and effects
3 B2
72

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

of subjects of that country within our jurisdiction-; here was a
vessel and merchandise rescued, as he alleged, from the hands
of robbers, brought into one of our ports, and already in the custody of public officers. Did not a treaty stipulation r ,quire the
United States to "endeavour b all means in their power to protect and defend this property?" Did not a treaty stipulationrequire us to "extend to them all favour, protection, and help?"
Did not a treaty stipulation bind us to "restore, entire, the,
property to the true proprietors, as soon as due and sufficient
proof should be made conqerning the same?" If nor, then is
there no force and meaning in language; and the words of
solemn treaties are an idle breath, of which nations may be as
regardless as of the passing wind.
The case then had arisen where it was the duty of the United
States, as parties to..this treaty, to interfere and see that its stipulations were performed. How were they to interfere? Certainly at the instance of the executive, through the medium of
the judiciary, in whose dustody and under whose control the
property claimed already was. The 'questions incident to due
and sufficient proof of property are-clearly judicial questions;
but when that property is already in the custody and under the'
jurisdiction of a Court, they.are so from necessity, as it is desirable they always should be, from choice. This position,
never denied, was eloquently urged by the counsel of these ndgroes when they first addreised the executive on the subject,.
(Cong..Doc. No. 185, p. 64,) and to that view they added the
request that he "would submit the question for adjudication to
the tribunals' bf the land."
He did so. He interposed at the instance of the Spanish
minister to fulfil a treaty stipulation, by causing a suggestion
to be filed in the Court which had already taken cognisance of
thbi .wbject-matt6r, and which had the property in its custody.
,That suggestion stated the allegation of the Spanish ffiinister,
that this wai property which 6ught to be restored under the
treaty; prayed in effect an inquiry of the Court into that fact;
and requested such a decree, after such inquiry, as might enable
the Uniteff States as a nation to fulfil their treaty obligations to
the Spanish nation.. This has been called "execntive -. uterference" and 1' e'xecutive dictation." To answer-such a charge in

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

571

[The Unied States v. The Amit ]]
any other way than by appealing to the facts, would he to trespass on the patience of the Court.
As if such charges were felt to be insuficien't, an- attempt is
niade by argument to prove that jhe government of the United
States had no right thus to interpose; no right to make this suggestionto the.District Court. And whynot? It is said, because
there is no law giving this power, and it cannot be implied;
because in a question of private property it must be left to the
parties alone to prosecute their rights, and the parties in this
case were already doing so for themselVes; and because it was
an interference and encroachmefit of the executive on the
province of the Court, not sanctioned by any precedent. These
are the grounds that have been taken, and it might be sufficient
to say that although every one of them existed in as full force
when the case was tried in the District Court, none of them were
there taken ; although every one of them was known before the
plea, and answer of the respondents, they started none .of these
objections.' After the decree and judgment of the Court below,
it is too late to start them. But there is nothing in them, whenever made.
I. The executive government was bound to take the proper
steps for having the treaty executed, and these were the proper
steps. - A treaty is the supreme law; the executive duty is especially to take card that the laws be faithfully executed; no branch
of this duty is more -usual or apparent thain that which is exe-cuted in connection with the proceedings and decrees of Courts.
What special assignment, by act of Congress, has been made of
executive duties in the fulfilment of laws through the decrees
and judgments of the judiciary? Yet it is matter of daily occurrence. What gives the District Attorney a right to file his libel
against a package of goods which the law says shall be forfeited
on proof being made tfiat they are falsely invoiced, any more
than to file his libel against a vessel and her cargo, which a
treaty (a still higher law) declares shall be restored on proof
concerning the ptoperty thereof? In the one case it is the execution of a law, by an executive officer, through the medium or
in connection with the Courts; in the other case it is the execution of a treaty in a similar manner. But in the latter the duty
is, if possible, more imperative, since the execution of treaties

-the

572

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amiatad.]

being connected with public and foreign'relations, is devolved
upon the executive branch. These princip'les are'clearly stated
by this Court in the case of the Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103; and
more fully in that of Williams v. The Suffolk Insurance Company, 13 Peters, 420.
As to its being a question of private property, which the
parties might themselves prosecute, it is not perceived how this
impairs the right, or even lessens the obligation of the United
States to interfere,to the extent and in the mainer they did, especially when solicited by the minister representing these parties;
they appear on behalf, or at the instance of a foreign sovereignty in alliance with them, which assumes itself the rights and
interests of the parties; those parties withdraw, as this record
expressly shows, when they so appear; no act of theirs occurs
after the interposition of the United States at the instance of the
Spanish minister, and it is expressly stated that they so withdrew, because their claims were merged in that which was thus
presented. This appearance of the United States is not, as has
been argued, a substitution of themselves as parties in interest;
it is a substitution under a treaty obligation; a substitution assumed in their public character to perform a public duty, by
means of which the further prbsecution of the individuals is (as
the treaty intended it should be) rendered unnecessary. Besides, what is thdre to show that all the parties having an interest
in this property were before the Court? It is nowhere so
stated; and, if they were not, the objections totally fail.
How this proceeding is an interference by the executive
with the Court; how it is an e'ncroachment on the judicial department ; how it is a dictation to the Court, or advice to it to do
its duty, it is difficult to conceive; and therefore difficult to reply
to such constructions of an act, analogous to the conduct of
every proceeding in a Court, rendered necessary to or imperative
upon the executive in the execution of the laws. If this libel, so
definite in what it alleges and what it asks, founded on the
official request of a public, functionary, and intended to obtain
the execution of a definite treaty obligatioii, be an infringement
of judicial authority, it will be scarcely possible for a District
-Attorhey,hereafter, to file an information, or, pr.esent an indictment.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

573

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

Nor is it, as is alleged, without precedent. In fact, - every
case of a libel filed by the United States, soliciting the examination and decree of a Court in rem, is a precedent, so far as any
principle is concerned. But the cases of the Exchange, the
Cassius, and the Eugenia, are not to be distinguished on any
ground. They were cases of property in Court, under libels of
private suitors; the United States interposed, under their obligation to foreign powers. That those obligations were general,
nQt arising by special treaty provisions, makes the cases less
strong. It is said, that the property in litigation, in those cases,
was to be delivered to the sovereign; is this property less in that
position, when it is asked for by the representative of the sovereigzi2 It is said they were not delivered up as property; the
Exchange and Cassius were so delivered: as public property qo
"the Emperor Napoleon," so stated in terms, and of the Frenchrepublic. The Eugenia was delivered to the consul of France,
that it might be proceeded against in rem, if desired. In the
forms of proceeding by the United States, and in the decrees,
every thing resembles what has been done or sought for in this
case. But, in fact, every instance of interposition of foreign
functionaries, constls, and others, affords a precedent. . They have
no right of 'property. They are no parties in interest. They interpose in behalf of the citizen. Did not this Court, in the case of
the Bello Corrunes, 6 Wheaton, i 52, where the express point
was made, and the interposition of the Spanish consul, on behalf
of his fellow-citizens, was resisted; sustain his right, as a public
functionary, although it was admitted he could show no special
authority in the particular proceeding? So in the case of the
Antelope, 10 Wheaton, 66, the consul was allowed to inteipose
for Spanish gubjects, who were actually unknown. It will hardly
be denied, that where the foreign functionary may thus come into
our Courts, to prosecute for the party in interest, our own funttionaries may, do the same. As to the case of Nash,'Bee, 266,
it clearly sustains, so far as the course of proceeding; by means
of the judiciary, is concerned, the right and duty of the executive thus to interpose. That was an application for, the ristoration of a driminhl under treaty stipulations. The main q'uestion
was, whether this surrender belonged exclusively to the executive, or was to be effected through the medium of the judiciary,

574

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

and while Chief Justice Marshall sustained the authority of he
executive, as founded on the casus fcaderis, he admitted that the
aid of the judiciary might, in some cases, be called in. If this
were so, as to persons, it is at least equally so, in regard to property. In respect to both, proof is to be made; without proof, neither
the Testoration of the one nor the-other can be effected; that proof
is appropriately made to and passed upon, by the judicial tribunals; but as the execution of the treaty stipulation is vested in
the executive, if the case is proved to the satisfaction of the judiciary, its interposition; so far as is necessary to that end, forms
a proper part of the judicial proceedings.
It seems clear, then, that these objections to the duty of the
executive to interpose, where the property to be restored is in
the custody of the Court, cannot be sustained either by principle
or authority. And such appears to be the seditiment of the
counsel for the appellees, from the zeal with which they have
pressed 4nother argument, to reach the same end. That argu-o
ment is, that the United States could ndt interpose, because the
Spanish minister never had asked for the restoration of the slaves
as property; and, bedause, if he had, he had sought it solely
from the executive department, and denied the jurisdiction of the
Court. Now, suppose this were so, it would be a sufficient
answer to say, that, independent of the request of the foreign
funictionaryi the United States had a treaty obligation to perform,
which they were bound to perform; and that, if a request in
regard to its performance was made upon grounds not tenable,
this did not release the United States from their obligation
on grounds which, as they kiiew, did properly exist. But, in
point of fact, the Spanish minister did, from the first, demand
, these negroes, as property belonging to Spanish subjects, which
ought to be restored as property under the treaty of 1795. Passages have been culled from the letters of Mr. Calderon, and
Mr. Argaiz* to show that their surrender as criminals was only
sought for; but the correspondence, taken together, bears no
such-construction. It is true they were demanded as criminals;
the alleged crime had been committed on Spanish subjects,
and on board of a Spanish ship; by the law of nations and by
the judgment of this Court, such a case was within Spanish jurisdiction. - Whether -a nation has a right, by the public law,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

575

[The United 8tates v. The Amistid.]

under such circumstances, to require the extradition of the
criminal, is a point on which jurists have differed; but most independent nations, if not all, have properlyassumed and maintained the right to determine the question for themselves; denying
the existence of any such obligation. To make the request, however, is a matter of constant occurrence ; to sustain it by appeals
to the law of nations, as conferring a right, is usual ; we have in
our own government azsked for such extradition, at the very time
we have denied the existence of the obligation.' That the Spanish
minister 9hould, therefore, request the delivery of these persons
as criminals.; that he should sustain his request as one consonant
to the law of nations, is not in the least a matter of surprise.
But did that interfere with his demand for them also, as property? There is no reason why it should do sb, and the correspondence shows that it did not; in point of fact.
The very first letter of Mr. Calderon, that of 6th September,
1839, quoted and commented upon by he counsel for the appellees, commences with a reference to The treaty stipulation, as
one of the foundations and causes of his application. It bs his
imperious duty, he says, to elaim an observance of the lar of nations, and of the treaties existing between the United States and
Spain. Then follow, throughout the letter, repeated references
to the double character of the demand for the slaves; references
which it seems scarcely possible$ to misconceive. He declares,
officially declares, that the vessel, "previous to her departure, obtained her clearance from the custom-house, the necessary permit
from-the authorities for the transportation of the negroes, a passport, and all the other documents required by the laws of Spain
for navigating a vessel, and for proving ownership of property;
a circumstaiice particularly important," in his opinion.
So Mr. Argaiz, in his letter of the-26th November, 1839, evidently pursues the same double demand; that they should be
surrendered under the treaty as property, and that they are also
subject to delivery as criminals. If there were a doubt as to his
meaning, it must be removed, by observing his course on'the
passage of the resolutions adopted unanimously by the American
Senate, on the 15th of April last. Those resolutions declared:
1. That a ship or vessel on the high seas, in ,time of peace,
engaged in a lawful voyage, is, according to the law of nations,

576

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The .Amistad.]

under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state to which the -flag
belongs; as much so, as if constituting a part of its own domain.
2. That if such sbip or vessel should, be forced, by stress of
weather., or other unavoidable cause, into the port and under
the jurisdiction of. friendly power, she and her cargo, and persons on board, with their property, and all the rights belonging
to their personal relations, as established by the laws of the state
to which they belong, would be placed under the protection
which the laws of nations extend to the unfortunate under such
circumstances.
On the passage of these resolutions, so evidently referring to
the slaves as property, adopted in relation to the slaves carried
into Bermuda and there set free, Mr. Argaiz claimed, for the
owners of the slaves on board the Amistad, the application of the
same rules. To complete the chain of evidence derived from
the correspondence, we have a letter addressed by him to the
Secretary of State, on the first moment that the allegation of the
request being for their delivery as crimirfals, was made official,
by the motion of the appellees lately filed in this Court-we have
a note to the Secretary of State, explicitly renewing, his demand
in the double relation.
It is evident, then, that there was a clear, distinct, and formal
requept, on thle part of the Spanish minister, for the delivery of
these negroes, by virtue of the treaty, as the property of Spanish
subjets. This.fact, it has been endeavoured to establish, from
'the correspondence, because'it has been alleged that the executive of the United States has given a cohstruction to the request
.of the Spanfish minister, at variance with that stated in the libel
of tha District Attorney. As to any legal bearing on the case, it
.dous not appear to be material. So far as the Courts of justice
are concerned, no principle is better settled than that, in relation
to the political operations of' the government, the judiciary
-adopts the .onstruction given to their own actA an~d those of
foreign representatives, by the proper executive departments.
The.opinion of this Court to that effect, is apparent in the decisions,
already cited in the cases of the Peggy and the Suffolk Insurance
Co.; and when, in the case of Garcia v. Lee, the whole matter
was reviewed, with special reference to the ccustruction of treaties, it was solemnly and deliberately affirmed. That the Depart-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

577

[The United States v.The Amistad.]

ment of State regarded this request as one for the delivery of
property, is evident, not merely from the libel of the District
Attorney, but from the whole correspondence. To obtain 'adifferent view, we must, indeed, pick out sentences separate from
their context, and give to particular phrases a meaning not consistent with the whole scope of the documents in .which they are
found.
But, as if the allegation, that the Spanish minister never required the restoration of these slaves as property, under the treaty,
was not to be clearly established -by the correspondence, it is
endeavoured to be sustained by the fact, that he refused to submit
to the judgment of the Court, as definitive of the rights of Spain
and her subjects, under the treaty.. How this refusal changes
the character of his demand on the one hand, or the proper mode
of proceeding by the executive on the other, it is not easy to
perceive. No nation looks, in its intercourse under a treaty with
another, to any but the executive g9vernment. Every nfition
has a right to say with what act she will be satisfled as fulfilling
b
a freaty stipulation, the other party to the treaty reserving the
same right. Has not our executive over and over again demanded redress for acts sanctioned by decrees of foreign tribu*nals ? Have we not sought that redress by applications made
directly to their executives? Has it ever been heard, that the
claims of American citizens for redress from foreign governments,
are precluded, because iwueign Courts have decided upon -them?
Such has not been the case in poin't of fact, and such is not the
course authorized bjr the law, an- adopted in the'intercourse
of nations. To say, therefore, that Spain would not recognise a
decree of a Court, which should award her less than the treaty,
in her opinion, stipulated she should receive, does not, as it must
appear, affect, in any manner whatever, the rights under it,.
or the mode of proceeding to be adopted by our own executive.
With the latter the course was plain. The matter was already
before the judiciary, a component and independent branch of the
government to which it appropriately belonged. Its action is
calmly waited for, as affording the just and only basis of ultimdte
decision by the executive.
Viewed, then, on every ground of treaty*obligation, of cbnstitutional duty, of precedent, oirof international intercourse, the
VOL. XV.-3 C
73

578

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

interposition of the executive in the mode adopted, so far from
being "unnecessary and improper," was one of duty and propriety, on receiving from the Spanish minister his official representation, and from the District Attorney the information that
the matter was~already in charge of the Court.
,And now it may be asked, wvhether there is any thing in these
facts to justify the censure so largely cast upon the executive for
the course which it was deelned a duty to pursue; any thing that
authorizes "its arraignment," to use the language of the counsel
for tht appellees, before the judicial tribunals, "for their judgment
and censure?" Performing cautiou'sly an international, obligation; passing upon no rights private or public; submitting to
the Courts of justice the facts made known officially to it; seeking the decrees of the legitimate tribunals; coniinunicating to
foreign functionaries, that by these decrees its course would be
governed-it is these acts which are argued upon, as ground for
censure and denunciation. With what justice may be well tested,
by placing another government in the position of our own. Let
us recollect that there is among nations as among men, a golden
rule let us do to them as we wish them to do to us; let us ask
how we would have our own minister and representative in a
foreign land to act by us, if we were thrown in like manner on
a foreign shore-if a citizen of South Carolina, sailing to New
Orleans with his'slaves, were thus attacked, his associates killed,
himself threatened 'with death, and carried for months in a
vessel, scarcely seaworthy, beneath a tropical sun. Should we
blame the American minister who had asked the interposition
of the Courts? Should we blame the foreign government that
facilitated that interposition ? Look at the case of the negroes
carried to Bermuda; have we there-as we are now denounced
for not doing-have we there gone as private suitors into the
Courts, or have we sought redress, as nations seek it for their
citizens ?
The question of freedom or slavery was there brought, exactly as it was here, before the judicial tribunals, at the instance of
persons who took up the cause of the slaves; the owners did not
pursue their claims as a mere matter of private right; the government of the United States, through its minister, appealed to
the executive government of Great Britain ; sought redress from

JANUARY TERM,,1841.

579

[The United States v. The Amista.]

that quarter; and received it. The value of the slaves was paid,
not to the individuals, but to our own government, who took
their business upon themselves, exactly as the Spanish minister
has assumed that of Ruiz and Montez.
Let us then be just; let us not demand one mode of proceeding for ourselves, and practise another towards those who
have an equal right to claim similar conduct at our hands.
II. The Attorney General then proceeded to reply to the
position of the counsel for the appellees, that whatever might be
the right of the United States as parties to the proceedings in the
District and Circuit Courts, they had yet no authority to appeal, in
such a case, from the decrees of those Courts, to this tribunal, and
that,therefore, the present appeal should be dismissed.. As no
decision was given by the Court on this point, and the argument
in support of the motion, and on-behalf of the appellees,, has not
been reported, that in reply, and in behalf of the United States,
as appellants, is also necessarily omitted. The position contetided
Ior by the Attorney General was, that the case was before this
Court-coram judice; and that the case itself, the parties to it,
and the mode of bringing it up, were all in accordance with the
law authorizing appeals. If so, lie submitted, that this Court
has jurisdiction of it, and will revise the decree that has been
pronounced by the Circuit Court, which is all that was solicited.
That the highest judicial tribunal should pronounce upon the
facts set out in this record, was all that the executive could desire;
they present questions that appropriately belong to the judiciary,
as the basis of executive action; they relate to the rights of property, and the proofs concerning it; and when the decision of
that co-ordinate branch of the government, to which the examination of such questions appropriately belongs, should be made,
the course of executive action would be plain.
III. The only question, then, that remains to be considered, is,
was the decree erroneous ?
The decree, as it stands, and hs it now comes up for examination, is, that this vessel and her cargo shall be delivered up to
the Spanish minister, for the Spanish owners, not entire, but
after deducting one-third for salvage, to be given to Lieutenant
Gedney and his associates; and that the negroes, except Antonio,
shall be delivered to the President of the United States, to be

580

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

sent -to Africa, pursuant to the provisions of the act of 3d March,
1819,  2. 2 Story's Laws,1752. Now it is submitted, that this
decree is erioneous, because the vessel, cargo, and negroes were
all the property of Spanish subjects, rescued from robbers, and
brought into a port of the United States, and due proof concerning the property in them was made; that, therefore, the decree
should have been, that they be delivered to the Spanish owners,
or to -the Spanish minister, for the owners, according to the
stipulations of the ninth article of the treaty of 1795.
The vessel and cargo are admitted to be merchandise or property, within the meaning of the treaty. Are slaves aiso property
or merchandise, .within its meaning? That they are not, has
been very elaborately argued by the counsel for the appellees;
yet, it is confidently submitted that, both by the' laws of Spain
and of the United States, slaves are property; and a fair construction of the treaty shows that it was intended to embrace
every, species of property recognised by the laws of the two
contracting nations. We are asked for a law to this effect; a
law establishing the existence of slavery in the Spanish dominions.
It might be sufficient- to say, that what is matter of notorious
history willl be recognised by this Court, without producing a
statutory regulation; but the royal decree of 1817, which promulgates the abolition of the foreign slave trade, refers throughout to the existence of slavery in the Spanish Indies, and this
Court, in many of its adjudications, has recognised its existence.
If slaves then, were, property by the laws of Spain, it might
be justly concluded that, even if they were not so recognised by
the United States, still they are property within the meaning of
the treaty, becausethe intention of the treaty was to protect the
property of each -nation. But, in fact, slaves were, and, are,
as clearly recognised by them to be property, as they ever were
by Spain. Our. citizens hold them as property; buy' and sell
-them as property; legislate upon them as property. State after
state has been received into this Union, with the solemn and
deliberate assent of the national legislature, whose constitutions,
previously&submitted to and sanctioned by that legislature, recognise slaves as merchandise; to be held as such, carried as
such from place to place, and bought and sold as such. It has
been argued that this government, as a government, never has-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

581

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

recognised property in slaves. To this it is answered, that if no
other proof could be adduced, these acts of the national government are evidence that it has done so. The Constitution of the
United States-leaves to the states the regulation of their internal
property, of which slaves were, at the time it was formed, a well
known portion. It 4Iso guaranteed and protected the rights of
the states to increase this property, up to the year 1808, by
importation from abroad. How, then, can it be said, that this
government, as a government, never has recognised this property? But, if slaves be not so regarded, by what authority did
tht general government demand indemnity for slaves set free in
Bermuda by the British government? Is not this an act, recent
in date and deliberate in conduct, showing the settled con-.
struction put upon slaves as property. Is not the resolution of
the Senate-the unanimous resolution-a declaration that slaves,
though liberated as persons, and so adjudged by a foreign Court,
are, in fact, by the law of nations, property, if so allowed to be
held in the country to which the ownbr belongs?
But it is contended that, although they may have been recognised as property by.the two nations, they were not such property
as was subject.to restoration by the treaty. Now, to this it may
be answered, in the first place, that every -reason which can be
suggested for the introduction of the treaty stipulations to protect
and restore property, apjlies as fully to slaves as to any other.
It is, in states where slavery exists, a valuable species of property;
it is an object of traffic; it is transported from place to place. Can
it be supposed, that the citizen of Virginia, sailing to New Orleans
with his slaves, less needs the benefit of these treaty stipulations
for them, than for any other property he may have on board, if
he is carried into a port of Cuba, under anyi of the adverse circumstances for which the treaty was intended to provide? But,
again; is not the treaty so broad and general'in its terms, that one
of the contracting parties has no right to make an exclusion of
this property, without the assent of the other ? 'The sixteenth
article of the treaty says, it is to extend to "all kinds" of merchandise, except that which is contraband. Was not a slave a kind
of merchandise, then recognised as such by. each nation, and
allowed to be imported into each nation, by their respective laws?
The treaty- of 1819, which was ratified in 1821, after the slave
3c2

582

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

trade was abolished, but while slave property was held in both
countries, renews this article as it stood in 1795. Is it possible
to imagine that, if a new policy was'to be adopted; there would
not have been an express stipulation or change in rpgard to this,
as there was in regard to other articles of the old treaty? If
further proof were wanting, it would be found in the fact, that
the executive authorities of both nations, at once and unequivocally, considered the terms of the treaty as extending to slave
property. Independently of ihe authority which this decision
on the political construction of a treaty will have with this Court,
upon the principles it has laid down, it may be regarded as
strong evidence of the intentions of the contracting parties; and
when we see our own government and the Senate of the United
States, seriously examining how far a similar case is one that
falls within the class of international obligations, independent
of treaty, we may give to its deliberate judgment, in the proper
construction of this treaty, the highest weight.
The next inquiry is, whether the property in question was
"rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers on the high
seas, and brought into any port of the United States ?" That
the vessel was at anchor below low water mark when taken possession of, and consequently upon the high seas, as defined by the
law of nations, is a fact not controverted; lfut it is objected that
the negroes by whom she was held were not pirates or robbers
in !he sense of the treaty, and that if they were, its pro isions
could not apply to them, because they were themselves the persons who were rescued. That the acts committed by the negroes
amount to piracy and robbery, seems too clear to be questioned.
Piracy is an offence defined ana ascertained by the law of nations;
it is "forcible depredation on the sea, animo furandi." United
States v. Smith, 5 Wheaton, 153. Every ingredient necessary to
constitute a crime thus defined, is proved in the present case. It
was the intention of the treaty, that whenever, by an act of
piracy, a vessel and property were run away with-taken from
the owners, who are citizens of the United States or Spain-it
should, if it came into the possession of the other party, be kept
by that party and restored entire.. Slaves differ from other
property, in the fact that tliiy are persons as well as property;
that they may be actors in the piracy ; but iL.is not perceived how

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

583

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

this act, of itself, changes the rights of the owners, where they
exist and are recognised by law. If they are property, they are
propprty rescued from pirates, and are to be restored, if brought
by the necessary proof within the .provisions of the treaty.
What are those provisions? That "due and sufficient proof
must be made concerning the property thereof."
The first inquiry "concerning property," is its identity. Is
there any doubt as to the identity of these slaves? There is
clearly none. Are they proved to have been slaves, owned by
Spanish subjects? They are negroes, in a country where slavery
exists, passing from one port of the Spanish dominions to another,
in a regularly documented coasting vessel; and they are proved
to be, at the time they leave Havana, in the actual possession
of the persons claiming to be their owners. So far as all the
prima facie evidence extends, derived from the circumstances
of the case at that time, they may be regarded as slaves, as much
as the negroes who accompany a planter between any two
ports of the United States. This, then, is the first evidence of
property-their actual existence in a state of slavery, and in the
possession of their .alleged owners, in a place where slavery is
recognised, and exists by law.
In addition to this evidence derived from possession, Ruiz and
Montez had, according to the statement of the Spanish minister,
which was read by the counsel for the appellees, "all the documents required by the laws of Spain for proving ownership of
property." They have a certificate, under the signature of the
Governor Gener'al,-countersigned or attested by the captain of
the port, ,declaring that these negroes are the property of the
Spdnish citizens who are in possession of them. It has already
been shown, by reference to the laws of Spain, that the powers
of a Governor General in a Spanish colony are of a most plenary
character. That his powers are judicial, was expressly recognised by this Court, in the case of Keene v. M'Donough, 8 Peters, 310., If stch are the powers of this officer, and if this be a
document established as emanating from him, iimust be regarded
as conclusive in a foreign country. 'The cases already- cited,
establish the two positions, that, as regards property on board
of a vessel, the accompanying documents are the first and best
evidence, especially when attended with possession; and that a

584

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

decree, or judgment, or declaration of a foreign tribunal, made
"within
the scope of its authority, is evidence, beyond which
the
These
rules
are
essential
country
will
not
look.
Courts of another
to international intercourse. Could it be tolerated, that where vessels, on a coasting voyage, from one port of a country to another,
are driven, without fault of their own, to take refuge in the harbour

of another country, the authentic evidences of property in their
own country are to be disregarded? That foreign Courts are to
execute the municipal laws of another country, according to their
bonstruction of them? Can it be that the Courts of this country
will refuse to recognise the evidence of property, which is recognised aid deemed sufficient in the country to which that property
belongs? We have unquestionable evidence, that such dockments as these are regarded as adequate proofs of property in
Cuba. But it is said this certificate is a mere passport, and no
proof of property. To this it is replied, that it is recognised as
the necessary and usual evidence of-property, as appears by the
testimony'referred to. It is true it is a passport for Ruiz, but it
is not a mere personal passport; it is one to take property with
him, and. it ascertains and describes that property.
But we are told it must be regarded as fraudulent by this
Court; and the grounds on which this assertion is made, are the
evidence adduced to show that thesenegroes have been imported
into Cuba from Africa since the treaty between Great Britain
and Spain. Is this evideiice legal and sufficient to authorize this
Court to declare the particular fact for which it is vouched-that
the negroes were imported into Cuba contrary to law? If it is
sufficient for this, does such illegal importation make the negroes
.free men in the island of Cuba? If it does, will this Court declare the certificate to be null and void, or leave that act to the
decision of the appropriate Spanish tribunals?
In the argument submitted on the part of the United States, in
opening the cLse, the nature of this evidence has been commented
upon. It is such chiefly as is not legal evidence in the Courts
of the United States. Now, the question is not as to the impression derived from such evidence,but it is whetheron testimonynot
legally sufficient, the declaration of a competent foreign. functionary will be set aside? As if there were doubt whether a Court
of the United' States would so do, the admissions of Ruiz, and

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

585

[The Unitea States v. T"e Amistad.]

of the. Attorney of the United-States are vouched. Yet it is
apparent that these were admissions, not of facts known. to.them
selves, but of impressions derived from evidence which is as much
before this Court as it was before them. To neither one nor the
other was the fact in question personally known. It was inferred
by them from.evidence now for the most part before this Court.
I But, admitting the fact of the recent importation from Africa,
still, nothing has been adduced to controvert the position, taken
in opening, that the laws* of Spain required, in such a case,
and evn in the case of negroes actually seized on board'of a
Spanish vessel on her voyage from Africa, a declaration by a
Court expressly recognised. by Spain, to establish their freedom.
However much we may abhor the African slave trade, all nations
have left to those in whose vessels it is carried on, the regulation
and punishment of it. The extent, to which Spain was willing.
to permit -any other nation to interpose, where her vessels or her
subjects' were concerned, is carefully determined i, this very
treaty.. The principal witness of the appellees expressly admits.
that when negroes are.landed, though in linown violation of the
treaty, it is a subject to be disposed of by the municipal law.
Now, it is .not pretended here, that, even if these negroes were
unlawfully introduced, they have been declared free. Can, then, this Court adjudge that these negroes were free in the island of
Cuba, even if the fact of their recent importation be proved?
Much more, can they assume to do it, by putting their construction on a treaty, not of the'United States, but between two foreign
nations; a treaty which those nations have the sole right to construe and act upon for themselves?
But, if satisfied that the Governor General has been imposed
upon, and the documents fraudulently obtained, still, is the fraud
to be punished and the error to be rectified in our Courts, gr in
those of Spain? What says Sir William Scott, in the case of the
Louis, when asked what is to. be done if a French ship laden
with slaves, in violation of the laws of that country, is brought
into an English port: "II-answer," says he, "9without hesitation,
restore the possession which has been unlawfully divested; rescind
the illegal act done byyour owrn subject, and leave the foreigner
to the justice of his own country." Can a rule more directly
applicable to the present case be found? ,VThe Courts of no
74

586

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

country," says Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of the Antelope, "execute the penal laws of another." In the case of the
Egenia, vihere a French vessel was liable to forfeiture under
the laws of France, for vl6lating the laws prohibiting the slave
trade, Judge Story directed, not that she should be condemned in
our own Courts, but that she should be sent to France. This,
says he, "enables the foreign sovereign to exercise complete jurisdiction, if he shairprefer to have it remitted to his own Courts
for adjudication." -This, he afterwards adds, "makes our own
country not a principal, but an auxiliary in enforcing the interdict
of France, arid subserves the great interests of universal justice."
Are not these the true principles which should govern nations
in their intercourse with each other; principles sanctioned by
great and venerated names? Are not these the principles by
which we would require other nations to be goveme 1, when
our citizens are charged, in a foreign country, with a breach of
our own municipal laws? And is it not productive of the same
result? Do we doubt that the Courts and officers of Spain will
justly administer her own laws? Will this Court act, on the
presumption that the tribunals of a foreign and friendly nation
will fail to pursue that course which humanity, justice, and the
sacred obligations of their own laws demand? No nation has
a right so to presume, in regard, to another;' and, notwithstanding the distrust that has been repeatedly expressed in the progress of this cause, in regard to the Spanish tribunals and the
Spanish functionaries; yet a just respect towards another and a
friendly nation; the common courtesy which will not suppose in
advance, that it will intentionally do wrong; oblige us to believe,
and warrant us in so doing, that if the laws of Spain have been
violated; if its officers have been deceived; and if these negroes
are really free; these facts will be there ascertained and acted
upon, and we shall as "auxiliaries," not principals, best "sub!
serve the cause of universal justice."
If this viea be correct, and if the evidence is sufficient to
prove the property of the Spanish. subjects in the island of
Cuba, the only question that remains to be considered is,
whether the acts of the slaves during the voyage changed
their condition. It has been argued strongly that they were free;
that they were "in'the actual condition of freedorf;" but how can

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

587

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

that be maintained? If slaves by the laws of Spain, they were
so on board of a Spanish vessel, as much as on her soil; and will
it be asserted that ,the same acts in the island of Cuba would
have made them free? This will hardly -be contended. No
nation recognising slavery, admits the sufficiency of forcibleemancipation. In whht respect were these slaves, if such by the
laws, of Spain, released, from slavery by their, o*n acts of aggression upon their masters, any more than a slave becomes free
in Pennsylvania, who forcibly escapes from his owner in Virginia? For this Court to say that these acts constituted a release
from slavery, would be to establish for another country municipal
regulations in regard to her property; and, not that only, but to
establish them directly in variance with our own laws, in analogous cases. If the negroes in this case were free, it was because
they were not slaves when placed on board the Amistad, not because-of the acts there committed by them.
It is submitted, then, that so far as this Court is concerned, there
is sufficient evidence concerning this property, to warrant its restoration pursuant to the provisions of the treaty with Spain; and
that, therefore, the judgment of the Court below should be reversed, and a decree made by this Coult for the entire restoration of the property.
Mr. Justice STOZnY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case of an appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court of the District of Connecticut, sitting in admiralty. The
leading facts, as they appear upon the transcript of the proceedings, are as' follows: On the 27th of June, 1839, the schooner
L'Amistad, being the property of Spanish subjects, cleared out
from the port of Havana, in the island of Cuba,.for Puerto Principe., in the same island. On board of the schooner were the'
captain, Ransom Ferrer, and Jose Ruiz, ancd Pedro Montez, all
Spanish subjects. The former had with him a negro boy, named
Antonio, claimed to be his slave. Jose Ruiz had with him fortynine negroes, claimed by him as his slaves, and stated to, be his
property, in a certain pass or document, signed by the Governor
General of Cuba. Pedro Montez had with him four other negroes,
also claimed by him as his slaves, and stated to be his property,
in a similar pass eX document, also signed by the Governor General

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

of Cuba. On the voyage, and before the arrival of the vessel at
her port of destination, the negroes rose, killed the captain, and
took possession of her. On the 26th of August, the vessel was
discovered by Lieutenant Gedney, of the United States brig
Washington, at anchor on the high seas, at the distance of half a
mile from the shore of Long Island. A part of the negroes
were then on shore at Culloden Point, Long Island; who were
seized by Lieutenant Gedney, and brought on board. The vessel, with the negroes and other persons on board, was brought
by Lieutenant Gedney into the district of Connecticut, and there
libelled for salvage in the District Court of the United States. A
libel for salvage was also filed by Henry Green and Pelatiah
Fordham, of Sag Harbour, Long Island. On the lSth of September, Ruiz and Montez filed claims and libels, in which they
asserted their ownership of the negroes as their slaves, and of
certain parts of the cargo, and prayed that the same might be
"delivered to them, or to the representatives of her Caflolic
majesty, as might be most proper." Oil the 19th of September,
the Attorney of the United States, for. the district of Connecticut,
filed an information or libel, setting forth, that the Spanish
minister had officially presented to the proper department of the
government of the United States, a claim for the restoration of
the vessel, cargo, and slaves, as the property of Spanish subjects,
which had arrived within the jurisdictional limits of the United
States, and were taken possession of by the said public armed
brig of the United States; under such circumstances as made it
the duty of the United States to cause the same to be restored to
the true proprietors, pursuant to the treaty between the United
States and Spain: and praying the Court, on its being made
legally to appear that the claim of the Spanish minister was well
founded, to make such order for the disposal of the vessel, cargo,
and slaves, as would best enable the United States to comply
with their treaty stipulations. 'But if it should appear, that the
negroes were persons transported from Africa, in violation of the
laws of the United States, and brought within the United'States
contrary to the sarae laws; he then prayed the Court to make
such order for their removal to the coast of Africa, pursuant to
Ahe laws of the United States, as it should deem fit:

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

589

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

On the 19th of November, the Attorney of the United States
filed a second information or libel, similar to the first, with the
exception of the second prayer above set forth in his former one.
On the same day, Antonio G. Vega, the vice-consul of Spain, for
the state of Connecticut, filed his libel, alleging that Antonio was
a slave, the property of the represbhtatives of Ramon Ferrer,
and praying the Court to cause him to be delivered to the said
vice-consul, that lie might be returned by him to his lawful owner
in the island of Cuba.
On the 7th of January, 1840, the negroes, Cinque and others,
with the exception of Antonio, by their counsel, filed an answer,
denying that they were slaves, or the property of Ruiz and
Montez, or that the Court could, under the Constitution or laws
of the United States, or under any treaty, exercise any jurisdiction over their persons, by reason of the premises; and praying
that they might be dismissed. They specially set forth and
insist in this answer, that they were native born Africans;
born free, and still of right ought to be free and not slaves; that
they were, on or about the 15th of April, 1839, unlawfully kidnapped, and forcibly and wrongfully carried on board a certain
vessel on the coa st of Africa, which was unlawfully engaged in
the slave trade, and were unlawfully transported ih the same
vessel to the island of Cuba, for the purpose of being there
unlawfully sold as slaves; that Ruiz and Montez, well knowing
the premises, made a pretended purchase of them: that afterwards, on or about the 28th of June, 1839, Ruiz and Montez,
confederating with Ferrer, (captain of the Amistad,) caused
them, without law or right, to be placed on board of the Amistad, to be transported to some place unknown to.them, and there to
be enslaved-for life; that, on the voyage, they rose on the master,
and took possession of the vessel, intending to return therewith
to their native country, or to seek an asylum in some free state;
and the vessel arrived, about the 26th of August, 1839, off Montank Point, near Long Island; a part of them were sent on shore,
and were seized by Lieutenant Gedney, and carried on board;
and all of them .were afterwards brought by him into the district
of Connecticut.
I On the 7th of January,1 840, Jose Antonio Tellincas, and Messrs.
Aspe and Laca, all Spanish subjects, residing in Cuba, filed their
VOL. XV.-3 D

590

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.]

claims, as owners to certain portions of the go6ds found on board
of the schooner L'Amistad.
On the same day, all the libellants and claimants, by their
counsel., except Jose Ruiz and Pedro Montez, (whose libels and
claims, as stated of record, respectively, were pursued by the
Spanish niinister, the same being merged in his claims,) appdared,
and the negroes also appeared by their counsel; and the case was
heard on the libels, clAims, answers, and testimony of witnesses.
On,the 23d day of January, 1840, the District Court made a
decree. By that decree, the Court rejected the- claim of Green
and Fordham for salvage, but allowed salvage to Lieutenant
Gedney and others, on the vessel and cargo, of one-third of the
value thereof, but not on the negroes, Cinque and others; it
allowed the claim of Tellincas, and Aspe and Laca with the
exception of the above-mentioned salvage; it dismissed the libels
and claims of Ruiz and Montez, with costs, as being included
under the claim of the Spanish minister; it allowed the claim of
the Spanish vice-consul for Antonio, on behalf of Ferrer's representatives; it rejected the claims of Ruiz and Montez for the
delivery of the negroes, but admitted them for the cargo, with
the exception of the above-mentioned salvage; it rejected the
claim made by the Attorney of the United States on behalf of the
Spanish minister, for the restoration of the negroes under the
treity; but it decrqed that they should be"delivered to the President of the United States, to be transported to Africa, pursuant
to the act of 3d March, 1819.
From this decree the District Attorney, on behalf of the United
States, appealed to the Circuit Court, except so far as related to
the restoration of the slave Antonio. The claimants, Tell incas,
, and Aspe and Laca, also appealed from that part of the decree
which awarded salvage on the property respectively claimed by
them. No appeal was interposed by Ruiz or Montez, or on behalf of the iepresentatives of the owners of the Amistal. The
Circuit Court, by a mere pro forma decree, affirmed the decree
of the ,District Court, reserving the question of salvage upon the
claims of Tellincas, and Aspe and Laca. And from that decre6
the present appeal has been brought to this Court.
The cause has been very elaborately argued, as well upon the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

591

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

merits, as upon a motion on behalf of the appellees to dismiss
the appeal. On the part of the United States, it has been contended, 1. That due and sufficient proof concerning the property
has been made to authorize the restitution of the- vessel, cargo,
and negroes to the Spanish subjects on whose behalf they are
claimed pursuant to the treaty with Spain, of the 27th of October, 1795. 2. That the United States had a right to intervene
in the manner in which they have done, to obtain a decree for
the restitution of the property, upon the application of the
Spanish minister. These propositions have been strenuously
denied on the other side. Other collateral and incidental points
have been stated, upon which it is not necessary at this moment
to dwell.
Before entering upon the discussion of the main points involved in this interesting and important controversy, it may be
necessary to say a few words as to the actual posture of the case
as it now stands.before us. In the first place, then, .the only
parties now before the Court on one side, are the United States,
intervefiing for the sole purpose of procuring restitution of the
property as Spanish property, pursuant to the treaty, upon the
grounds stated by the other parties claiming the property in their
respective libels. The United States do not assert any property
in themselves, or any violation of their own rights, or sovereignty, or laws, by the acts complained of. They do not insist that
these negroes have been imported into the United States, in contravention of our own slave trade acts. They do not geek to
have .these negr6es delivered up for the purpose of being transported to Cuba bs pirates or robbers, ox as fugitive criminals
found within our territories, who have been guilty of offences
against the lavs of Spain. They do not assert that the seizure,
and bringing the vessel, and cargo, and negroes into port, by
Lieutenant Gqdney, for the purpose of adjudication, is a tortious
act. They simply confine themselves to the right of the Spanish.
claimants to the restitution of their property, upon the facts asserted in their respective allegations.
In the next place, the parties before the Court on the other
side as appelleeS, are Lieutenant Gedney, on his libel for salvage,
and the negroes, (Cinque, and others,) asserting themselves, in
their answer, not to be slaves, but free native Africans, kidnapped

592

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.The Amistad.]

in their own country, and illegally transported by force from that
qountry; and now entitled to maintaintheir freedom.
No questioi has been here made, as to the proprietary interests
ift the vessel, and cargo. It is admitted that they belong to
"Spanish subjects, and that they ought to be restored. The only
point on this head is, whether the restitution ought to be upon
the payment of salvage or not? The main controversy is, whether
these negroes are the property of Ruiz and Montez, and ought
to be -delivered up and to this, accordingly, we shall first direct
our attention.
It has been argued on behalf of the United States, that the
Court are bound to deliver them up, according to the treaty
of 1795, with Spain, which has in this particular been continued in full force, by the treaty of 1819, ratified in.1821.
The sixth article of that treaty, seems to have had,'prindipally, in
view cases where the property of the, subjects of either state
had been taken possession of withiii the territorial jurisdiction
of the other, during war. The eighth article provides "forcases
where the shipping of the inhabitants of either state are forced,
through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates, or enemies, or any
other urgent necessity, to seek shelter in the ports of 'the other.
There may well be some doubt entertained, whether the present,
case, iuits actual circumstances, falls within the purview of this
article.. But it does not seem necessary, for reasons hereafter
stated, absolutely to decide it. Theninth article provides, "that
all ships and merchaultise, of what nature soever, which shall be
rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers, on the high
seas, shall be brought into some port of either state,,and shrll
be delivdred to the custody of the officers of that port, in.order
to be taken care of and restored entire to the true proprietor, as
soon as due and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the
property.thereof." This is the' article on which the main reliance
is placed on behalf of the 'United States, for the restitution of
these negroes. To bring the cage within the. article, it is essential to,estdblish, First, That these-negroes, under all -the circumstances, fall within the description of merchandise, in the sens6
of the treaty, Secondly, That there has been a rescue of them
ol the high seas, out'of the hands of the pirates and robbers;
which, in the present case, can only be, by showing that they

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

593

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

themselves are pirates and robbers; and, Thirdly, That Ruiz and
Montez, the asserted proprietors, are the true proprietors, and
have established their title by competent proof.
If these negroes were, at the time, lawfully held as slaves under
the laws of Spain and recognised by those laws as property capable
of being lawfully bought and sold; we see no reason why they
may not justly be deemed within the intent of the treaty, to be
included under the denomination of merchandise, and, as such,
ought to be restored to the claimants: for, upon that poinf, the laws
of Spain would seem to furnish the proper rule of interpretation.
But, admitting this, it is clear, in our opinion, that neither of the
other essential facts and requisites has been established in proof;
and the onus probandi of both lies upon the claimants to give
rise to the casus fmderis. It is plain beyond controversy, if we
examine the evidence, that these negroes never were the lawful
slaves of Ruiz or Montez, or of any other Spanish subjects.
.They are natives of Africa, and were kidnapped there, and were
unlawfully transported to Cuba, in violation of the laws and
treaties of Spain, and the most solemn edicts and declarations
of that government. By those laws, and treaties, and edicts, the
African slave trade is utterly abolished; the dealing in that trade
is deemed a heinous crime; and the negroes thereby introduced
into the dominions o'f Spain, are'declared to be free. Ruiz ahd
Montez are proved to have made the pretended purchase of
these negroes, with a full knowledge of all the 'circumstances.
And so cogent and irresistible is the evidence in this respect, that
the District Attorney has admitted in open Court, upon the record,
that these negroes were native Africans, and recently imported
into Cuba, as alleged in their answers to the libels in the case.
The supposed proprietary interest of Ruiz and Montez, is completely displaced, if we are at liberty to look at the evidence or.
the admissions of the District Attorney.
If, then, these negroes are not slaves, but are kidnapped Africans, who, by the laws of Spain itself, are entitled to their freedom,
and were kidnapped and illegally carried to Cuba, and illegally
detained and restrained on board of the Amistad; there is no pretence to say, that they are pirates or robbers. We may lament
the dreadful acts, by which they asserted their-liberty, and took
possession of the Amistad, and endeavoured to regain their native
3 D2

75

SUPREME COURT.
.[TheUnited States v. The Amistad.]

country; but they cannot be deemed ,pirates or robbers in the
sense of the law of nations,.or the treaty with Spain, or the laws
of Spain itself; at least so far as those laws have been brought
to our knowledge. Nor do the libels of Ruiz or Montez assert
them to be such.
This posture of the facts would seem, df itself, to put an end
to the whole inquiry upon the merits. But it is argued, on behalf of the United States, that the ship, and cargo, and negroes
were duly documented as belonging to Spanish subjects, and
this Court have no right to look behind these documents; that
full faith and credit is to be given to them; and that they are to
be held conclusive evidence in this cause, even although it sho,'1d
be. established by the most satisfactory proofs, that they have
been obtained by the grossest frauds and impositions upon the
constituted authorities of Spain. To this argument we can,
in no wise, assent. There is nothing in the treaty which justifies
or sustains the argument. We do not here meddle with the
point, whether there has been any connivance in this illegal
traffic, on the part of any of the colonial authorities or subordinate officers of Cuba; because, in our view, such an examination
is unnecessary, and ought not to be pursued, unless it .were
indispensable to public justice, although it has been strongly
pitssed at the bar. What we proceed ,uponis this, that although
public documents of the government, accompanying property
found on board of the private ships of a foreign nation, certainly
are to be deemed prima facie evidence of the facts which they
purport to state, yet they are always open to be impugned for
fraud; and whether that fraud be in the original obtaining of these
documents, or in the subsequent fraudulent and illegal use of
them, when once it is satisfactorily established, it overthrows all
their sanctity, and destroys then as proof. Fraud will vitiate
any, even the most solemn transactions; and an asserted title to
property, founded upon it, is utterly void. The very language
of the ninth article of the treaty of 1795, requires the proprietor
to make du6 and sufficient proof of his property. And how can
that proof be deemed either due or sufficient, which is but a connected, and stained tissue of fraud? This is not a mere rule of
municipal jurisprudencie. Nothing is more clear in the law of
nations,as an established rule to regulate their rights, and duties.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

595

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

and intercourse, than the doctrine, that the ship's papers are but
prima facie evidence, and that, if they are shown to be fraudulent, they are not to be held proof of any valid title. This rule
is familiarly applied, and, indeed, is of every-days occurrence in
cases of prize, in the contests between belligerents and neutrals,
as is apparent from numerous cases to be found in the Reports
of this Court; and it is just as applicable to the transactions of
. civil intercourse betweeni nation in times of peace. If a private
ship, clothed with Spanish papers, should enter the ports of the
United States, claiming the privileges, and immunities, and rights
belonging to bona fide subjects of Spain, under our treaties or
laws, and she should, in reality, belong to the subjects of another
nation, which was not entitled to any such privileges, immunities, or rights, and the proprietors were seeking, by fraud, to cover
their own illegal acts, under the flag of Spain; there can be no
doubt, that it would be the duty of our Courts to strip off the
disguise, and to look at the case according to its naked realities.
In the solemn treaties between nations, it can never be presumed
that either state intends to provide the means of perpetrating
or protecting frauds; but all the provisions are to be construed as
intended to be applied to bona fide transactions. The seventeenth article of the treaty with Spain, which provides for certain
passports and certificates, as evidence of property on board of the
ships of both states, is, in its terms, applicable only to cases
where either of the parties is engaged in a war. This article
required a certain form of passport to be agreed upon by the
parties, and pnnexed to the treaty. It never was annexed; and,
therefore in the case of the Amiable Isabella, 6 Wheatbn, 1, it
was held inoperative.
It is also a most important consideration in the present case,
which ought not to be lost sight of, that, supposing these African.
negroes not to be slaves, but kidnapped, and free negroes, the
treaty with Spain cannot be obligatory upon them; and the
United States are bound to respect their rights as much as those
of Spanish subjects. The conflict of rights between the parties
under'such circumstances, becomes positive and inevitable, and
must -be decided upon the eternal principles of justice and international law. If the contest were about any goods on board of
this ship, to which American citizens asserted a title, which was

"596

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. The Amistad.)

denied by the Spanish claimants, there could be no doubt of the
right of such American citizens to litigate their claims before
any competent American tribunal, notwithstanding the treaty
with Spain. A fortiori, the doctrine must apply where human
life and human liberty are in issue; and constitute the very
essence of the controversy. The treaty with Spain neveircould
have intended to take away the equal rights of all foreigners,
who should contest their dlaims before any of our Courts, to
equal justice; or to deprive such foreigners of the protection
given them by other treaties, or by the general law of nations.
Upon the merits df the case, then, there does not seem to us to
be any ground for doubt, that these negroes ought to be deemed
free; and that the Spanish treaty interposes no obstacle to the just
assertion of their rights.
There is another consideration growing out of this part of the
case, which necessarily rises in judgment. It is observable, that
the United States, in their original claim, filed it in the alternative, to have the negroes, if slaves and Spanish property, restored
to the proprietors; or, if not slaves, but negroes who had been
transported from Africa, in violation of the laws of the United
States, and brought into the'United States contrary to the same
laws, then the Court to pass an order to enable the United States
to remove such persons to the coast of Africa, to be delivered
there to such agent as may be authorized to receive and provlide
for them. At a. subsequent period, this last alternative claim
was not insisted on, and another claim was interposed, omitting
it; from which the conclusion naturally arises that it was abandoned. The decree of the District Court, however, contained an
order for the delivery of the negroes to the United States, to be
transported to the coast of Africa, under the act of the 3d of
March, 1819, ch. 224. The United States do not now insist upon
any affirmance of this part of the decree; and, in our judgment,
upon the admitted facts, there is no ground to assert that the
case comes within the purview of the act of 1819, or of any
other of our prohibitory slave trade acts. These negroes were
never taken from Africa, or brought to the United States in contravention of those acts. When the Amistad arrived she was
in possession of the negroes, asserting their freedom; and in no
sense could they possibly intend to import themselves here as

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

597

[The United States v. The Amistad.]

slaves, or for sale as 'slaves. In this view of the matter, that
part of the decree of the District Court is unmaintainable, and
must be reversed.
The view which has been thus taken of this case, upon the
me~its, under the first point, renders it wholly unnecessary for us
to give any opinion upon the other point, as to the right of the
United States to intervene in this case in the manner .already
stated. We dismiss this, therefore, as well as several minor
points made at the argument.
As to the claim of Lieutenant Gedney for the salvage service,
it is understood that the United States do not now desire to interpose any obstacle to the allowance of it, if it is deemed reasona:ble by the Court. It was a highly meritorious and useful service
to the proprietors of the ship and cargo; and such as, by the
general principles of maritime law, is always deemed a just foundation for salvage. The rate allowed by the Court, does not
seem to us to have been beyond the exercise of a sound discretion,
under the very peculiar and embarrassing circumstances of the
case.
Upon the whole, pur opinion is, that the decree of the Circuit
Court, affirming that of the District Court, ought to be affirmed,
except so far as it directs the negroes to be delivered to the
President, to be transported to Africa, in pursuance of the act
-of the 3d of March, 1819; and, as to this, it ought to be reversed:
and that the said negroes be declared to be free, and be dismissed
from the custody of the Court, and go without day.
Mr. Justice B.ALnwIN dissented.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for thb
District of Connecticut, and was argued by, counsel. On
consideration whereof, 'it is the opinion of this Court, that
there is error in that part of the decree of the Circuit Court,
affirming the decree of the District Court, which ordered the said
ndgroes to be delivered to the President of the United States, to
be transported to Africa, in pursuance of the act of Congress, of
the sd of March, 1819; and that, as to that par, it ought to be
reversed: and, in all other respects, that the. said decree of the

598

.TTPREME COURT.
[The United Statesv. The Amistad.]

Circuit Court ought to be affirmed. It is therefore ordered
adjudged, and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said
Circuit Court be, and the same is heieby, affirmed, except as to
the part aforesaid, and as to that part, that it be reversed; and
that the cause be remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions
to enter, in lieu of that part, a decree, that the said negroes be,
and are hereby, declared to be free, and that they be dismissed
from the custody of the Court, and be discharaed from the suit
and go thereof quit without day.

