JANUARY TERM, 1841.

JOHN B. GORMAN AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. PETER
LENOX'S EXECUTORS, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

On a demurrer being filed, the rule is, that the party who has committed the first fault
shall have judgment against him.
Where a declaration is on a bond given to prosecute with effect a writ of replevin, and
the breach assigned is, "that the suit'was not prosecuted with effect," it is sufficient.
A certiorari had been issued by the Supreme Court to the Circuit Court, on an allegation of diminution, and the judgment in the replevin suit certified to the Supreme
Court, und-)r the certiorari, substantially diffsred from the judgment described in the
declaration on the replevin btond, in a suit in the Circuit Court, brought after the
judgment was rendered. In the Circuit Court, in the suit on the replevin bond, the
judgment was used in evidence without objection. Held, that the judgment was
properly given in evidence, to show the amount of damages which the plaintiffs in
the replevin suit had sustained; and the defendants in the suit on the replevin
bond, had no right to go into any inquiry as to the evidence on which the verdict
was rendered.
Evidence of set-off between the plaintiffs and the defendants in a suit on a replevin
bond, the set-off not having any application to the demand on the repleyin bond,
which was given after a distress for rent, and in which judgment for the renthad been
given for the avowant, is inadmissible. The evidence was not offered to show
that judgment had been satisfied, but that it ought niver to have been given.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
county of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
This case was argued at January term, 1840, by Messrs. Hoban
and Coxe, for the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr. Brent, for the
defendants: at this term,
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before this .Court "from the Circuit Court of
the District of Columbia, on a writ of error.
An action was brought in the Circuit Court, by the executors
of Lenox against the plaintiffs in error, on a bond given by them
in the penalty of three thousand four huidred dollars; with the
condition "that the said John B. Gorman should well and truly
prosecute a certain writ of replevin with effect;" and also, "sh o uld
return the goods and chattels replevied, if the same be adjudged,
and in all things stand to and abide by, perform and fulfil, the
judgment of the Court in the premises."

116

SUPREME COURT.
(Gorman et al. v. Lenox's Executors.]

To the declaration the defendants filed a plea of performance,
to which the plaintiffs demurred.
The defendants also put in a plea of set-off, that the testator
was indebted unto the said Gorman, in the sum of twelve hundred thirty-eight dollars ninety-six.cents, for sa much money, &c,,
and for a like sum for goods, wares, and inerchandise. To this
plea the plaintiff replied the general issue of non assumpsit. The
statute of limitations was "alsoreplied to this plea of set-off., on
which issue was joined. The cause on these issues was submitted to a jury, who returned a verdict for the plaintiffs, for the
sum of one thousand and eighty-eight dollars and twenty-five
cents, as the amount of damages on the bond.
After the verdict, the demurrer filed to the plea of performance
was argued and sustained; and there'upon. a judgment was
entered for the penalty in the bond, to be released on the. payment of the sum found by the jury.
On.the trial, the plaintiffs5 by their counsel, offered in evidence
to the jury, the record and minutes of proceeding in the case of
Gorman v. Lenox's executors, and claimed the verdict of the
jury for the amount of the rent in arrear found by the jury in
that case. And the defendants then "offered .to prove the set-off
filed in this cause, for the purpose of showing that no rent in
arrear was actually due, as found by said verdict, from Mrs.
Arguelis, as charged in the said avowry; and that therefore
•.the. plaintiffs were not damaged to that amount. But the
Court were of opinion that such evidence, so offered by the
defendants, was inadmissible; to which decision defendants
excepted."
And the defendants further prayed the Court to instruct the
jury, that the, plaintiffs were not entitled to recover for the- rent
in arrear, as aforesaid found by the jury, in the record aforesaid,
al'?ve given in evidence; which the Court refused to give.
This record is most loosely and informally made up. But little
attention seems to have been paid to the issues made, or to the
order in which they were tried.
To the plea of set-off, the plaintiffs below replied the general
issue of non assumpsit, and also the statute of limitations; when
the more regular mode of testing the validity of the plea would
have been by a demurrer. " Indeed, it is a matter uf surprise that

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

117

[Gorman et al. v. Lenox's FutorI
so obvious a course was not taken. But this irregularity seems
not to be important, as on the trial of these issues the defendants,
offered evidence under the plea of set-off; which" was overruled
by the Court. This, in effect, determined the matter of the plea.
The demurrer to the plea of-general,-performance, seems not, to
have been decided until after the verdict was rendered. As this
plea.was clearly bad, thd demurrer was very properly sustained
by the Court.
A demurrer being filed, the rule is, that the party .who has
committed' the first fault shall have judgment against him. And
on this demurrer a question is raised as to the sufficiency of the
declaration. The breach assigned imithe declaration is; that the
said Gorman did not prosecute the writ of replevin with effect,.
nor return the goods and chattels'replevied, nor pay to the plain.
tiffs the damages and costs, recovered.
The breaches are not,'asigned with care, and the judgment
recovered in the replevin suit, is inartificially stated in the declaration. But it seems where the declaration is on a bond, given
to prosecute with effect'a -writ of replevin, a breach assigned as
in this declaration, Ifthat the suit was not prosecuted with effect,"
is sufficient. 11 Serg. and Lowber, 236. 6 Har. and Johns. 139.
2 Gill and Johns. 441-443.
The record of the judgment in the replevin suit, as certified in
obedience to the writ of certiorari, substantially.differs from the
judgment described in the declaration; but the record of this
judgment was only used as evidence in the Circuit Court; and
no objection was made to it. The variance, not having been
excepted to in that Court, it cannot now'be noticed. The objection, as stated in the second bill of exceptions, was, that the
amount of the rent in arrear found by the jury could ,not be
received in evidence in this suit.
The action being brought on a penal .bond,.under the Maryland practice, it was the province of the jury to asess the damages
which the plaintiffs had a right to recover; ana the judgment in
the replevin suit was given in evidence, to how the amount
of damages which the plaintiffs had sustained. This was undoubtedly correct;. and it is equally clear that the defendants had no
right to go into any inquiry as to the evidence on-which the verdict
was rendered. The jury found in the replevhisuit, the amount

.118

SUPREME COURT.
[Gorman et a]. v. Lenox's Executors.]

of rent in arrear, on which the distress was made, and this was
the proper criterion of damages in that case.
There was no error in the Circuit Court, therefore, in overruling this objection.
It is equally clear, that the Court properly rejected all evidence
under the plea of set-off. Thi~was, substantially, an attempt to
prove that there was no ground for the verdict and judgment
.for damages, in the replevin suit. The offer was notto show that
such judgment had been satisfied, but that it ought never to have
been given.
This evidence of set-oft was also inadmissible, on the ground
that it relates to different parties from those in the present suit.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed,
with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from tie Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the .punty of Washington, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and
adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the -said Circuit
Court, in thig cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
costs and damages, at the rate of six per centum per annum.

