290

SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN EROR, V. WILLIAM LINN
AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS 'IN ERROR.
The United States instituted an action of debt against the defendant, William Linn,
and his sureties, to recover a sum-of money in the hands of Linn, he having been
appointed a Receiver of Public oneys at the Land Office of the District of Vandalia, on the 12th of'February, 1835. The first count in the declaration stated,.
that the defendants had executed, on the 1st of August, 1836, a " writing obligatory,
sealed with their seals," to the United States, in the sum of one hundred thousand
dollars, for the faithful performance of the duties of his office by Linn ; and that certainsums of money had been into the hands of Linn, as Receiver, which he had
failed to account for and pal over to theUnited States. The second count stated
the execution of "an instrument of writing," to the United States, by the defendants,
signed by them, by which they promised to pay one hundred thousand dollars to the
United States, whicn was to be void and of no effect in case Linn faithfully executed
the duties of the office of Receiver of Public Mbneys; and alleging that Linn hald
received a large sum of money belonging to the United States, which he had failed
to pay over or account for to the United States. The Judges of the Circuit Court of
IllinOis were divide& in opinion, and the division was certified to the Supreme Court,
upon two questions, 1. Whether the obligation of the defendants, being without
seal, is a bond within the act of Congress. 2. Whether such an instrument is good
at common law. Held,,. That that the obligation , being without seal, is nota bond
within the act of Congress. 2. That such an instrument is god at common law.
If thb contract, signed by the defendants, was entered into for a lawful purpose, not
prohibited by law, and is founded on a sufficient consideration, it is a valid contract
at common law.
The case of :he United States i,. Tingey, 5 Peters, 115, cited.
From the decision of this Court, in the case of The United States v. Tingey, it follows,
that a voluntary contradt, or security, iaken by the United States for a lawful purpose,
and upon agood consideration; although not prescribed by any law, is notentirely void.
The case of the United States v. Bradley, 10 Peters, 364 cited...
Linn -had been appointed Receiver of Public Moneys before the execution -of the
instrument declared upon; and was entitled to the emoluments of the office. This
was a sufficient consideration appearing on the face of the instrument to support the
promise. A benefit to the promissors, or a damage to the promissee, constitutes a
good consideration. A consideration to the principal, was sufficient to bind the
sureties.
The mere appointment of Linn as Receiver of Public Money, was not the-consideration
of the cintract; but the emoluments, and benefits resulting from the appointment,
formed the consideration. It was a continuing consideration, running with his continuance in office, and existed in full force at the time the instrument was signed.
The act of Congress under which this instrument was taken, directs that a Receiver
of Public Moneys shall, before he enters on the duties of his office, give bod, with-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

291

[The United States v. Linn et aL]
approved securities, for the faithful discharge of the duties of his trust. This statute
does not pvofess to give the precise form of the bond. It is only a general direction
to give a bdnd for the faithful discharge of the trust. There were no negative wprds
in the act, or any thing by implication, or otherwise, to make void a security taken
in any other form; nor is there any thing in reason or sound principle that should
lead to such a conclusion.
The actual difference between an instrument under seal, and one not under seal is,
that ia the one case the seal imparts a consideration, and in the other it must be
proved. There ought to be some very strpong grounds to authorize a Court to
declare a contract absolutely void, which has been voluntarily made;, upon a good
consideration, and delivered to the party for whose benefit it was intended.

ON a certificate of division in opinion from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Illinois.
William Liun, one of the defendants, was appointed on the
12th of February, 1835, a Receiver of Public Moneys at the land
office, in the district of Vandalia, which was established by the
.4ct of Congress, of the l1th May, 1s0. 3 Story's Laws, 1780.
By that act he was to "give security in the same manner, in the
same sums, and his compensation, emoluments, duties, and authorities, were to be in every respect the same, as were or might

be by law provided in relation to the Registers and Receivers of
Public Moneys, in the several land offices establishe4 for the
sale of the public lands."

These provisions were stated more particularly in the act of
10th May, 1800, (1 Story's Laws, 786,) which directed that a
"Receiver of Public Moneys shodild give bond, with approved
security in the sum o'f ten thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of his trust."
At June term,.1838, the United States

brought this suit against the defendant, William Linn,-and the

other defendants.
In the first count of that declaration, the United States, as
plaintiffs, set out the execution by the defendants, on the 1st of
August, 1836, of a certain writing obligatory, sealed with their
seals, and to the Court shown, the date whereof was the same

day and year aforesaid, by the names, contractions, abreviations,
and dscriptions of "William Linn, D. B. Waterman, Lemfiel
Lee, J.

V. Duncan, Wim. Walters, Asabel Lee, Wm. L.

D.

Ewing, A. P. Field, and Joseph Duncan," by which they
acknowledge themselves to be held and firmly bound unto the

292

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Linn et m]

said plaintiffs, in the full and just sum of one hundred thousand
dollars, to be paid to the said plaintiffs, when they, the said defendants should be thereunto afterwards requested; and the said
plaintiffs,.according to the. statute in such case made and provided, averred that the said writing obligatory was and is subject
to a certain condition thereunder written, ;whereby after reciting
to the effect following, that is to say: That the President of the
United States had, pursuatit to law, appointed the said William
Linn, Receiver of Public Moneys, for the district of lands subject to sale at Vandalia, in the state of Illinois, for the term of
-four years, from the twelfth day of January, one thousand eight
hundred and thirty-five, by commission bearing date twelfth
February, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-five, it is provided that if the said William Linn, shbuld fafthfully execute
and discharge the duties of his office, meaning the office of Receiver as aforesaid, then the said qbligation was to be void and
of none effect, otherwise, it should abide and remain in full
force and virtue. Nevertheless, the said plaintiffs, in fact said,
that -after the making of the said writing obligatory, and after
the appointment of the said William Linn, to be Receiver of
Public Moneys as aforesaid, to wit: on the twenty-second day
of November, in the ybar of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and thirty-seven, at Vaidalia aforesaid, he the said
William Linn, did not faithfully execute and discharge the duties
of his said office, in this, to wit: That there came into and was
then .and 'there in the hands of him the said William Linn, as
Receiver of Public Moneys; as aforesaid, while he was Receiver
as foresaid) and within four years from the said 12th day of
Jan ary, in the year last aforesaid, a large *sum of money belonging to the said plaintiffs, received by him, the said William
Linh, as Receiver as aforesaid, and in virtue of his said office,
for lands sold by the said plaintiffs, of the public lands, subject
*to sale at Vandalia. aforesaid, to wit: the sum of four millions
of dollars, which money it was the duty of the said William
Linn, as such Receiver as aforesaid, to pay to and account-for,
to the said plaintiffs, when requested so to do.. Yet the said
*William Linn did not nor would he pay to or account for, to the
said plaintiffs, the said last mentioned sum of money belonging
to the said plaintiffs as aforesaid, and which came into and was.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

293

[The United States v. Linn et a].]

in the hands of him, the said William Linn, as Receiver of
Public Moneys as aforesaid, or any part thereof, although often
requested so to do; but he, the said William Linn, hitherto
wholly refused to pay to the said plaintiffs the said last mentioned sum of money, or any part thereof, to the great damage of
the said plaintiffs.
In .the second count of their declaration, the United States as
:plaintiffs, set out the execution by the defendants, on the 1st of
April, 1836, of a certain "instrument in writing, bearing date
the same day and year first aforesaid, and that they then and
there delivered the said instrument in writing to the said plaintiffs, and therein and thereby reciting that the President of the
United States had, pursuant to law, appointed the said William
Linn to be Receiver of Public Moneys, for ihe district of lands
subject to sale at Vandalia, in the state of Illinois, for the term
of four years from the twelfth day of January, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-five, by commission
bearing date of the twelfth of February, in the year last afore.said, the said defendarits did then and there, in and by said inand"
strument in writingby the names,'contractions, abreviations,
descriptions of "Wm. Linn, D. B. Waterman, Lemuel Lee, J.
W. Duncan, Win. Walters, Asabel Lee, Win. L. D. Ewing, A.
P. Field, and Joseph Duncan," acknowledge themselves to be
held and firmly bound unto the said plaintiffs'in the sum, and
promised to pay unto the said plaintiffs the sum of one hundred
thousand dollars of money.of the United States, to which payment well and truly to be made, they, the said defendants, bound
themselves jointly and severally their joint and seve.al heirs, executors and administrators, by the said instrument in writing,
which said instrument in writing,.was, however to be void and
of none effect, in case and upon -the condition that the said
William Linn, should faithfully execpite and discharge the duties
of his office, meaning -the said office of Receiver of Public
Moneys as aforesaid, otherwise, the said instrument in writing,
should abide and. remain in full force and virtue; and the. said
plaintiffs in fact say, that after the making and delivery-of the
said instrument in writing, and after the appointment of him,
the said William Linn, to be Receiver of Public Moneys as
* aforesaid, he) the said William Lind, did not faithfully execute
2 B2'

294

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Linn et a.]

and discharge, and hath not faithfully executed and discharged
the duties of his said office as aforesaid, they then set forth the
breach of the contract, to the same" effect as in the preceding
count.
In the third count of their declaration, the United States, as
-plaintiffs, set out the execution'by the defendants, of a certain
"other instrument of writing bearing date the same day and year
first aforesaid, their own proper hands being thereunto subscribed,
and that they then and there delivered the same instrument in
writing to the said plaintiffs, and thereby b# the names, contractions, abbreviations, and descriptions of" Win. Linn, D. B. Waterman, Lemuel Lee, J. W. Duncan, Win. Walters, AMabel Lee,
Win. L. D.Ewing, A. P. Field, and Joseph Duncan," reciting in
said instrument that the President of the United States had,
pursuant to law, appointed the said William Linn to be Receiver
of Public Moneys for the district of lands subject to sale at Vandalia, in the state of Illinois, for the term of four years from the
twelfth day of Jahuary, one thousand eight hundred and thirtyfive, by commission, bearing date the twelfth day of February,
in the year last aforesaid, did acknowledge themselves to be held
and firmly bdund unto the said plaintiffs, in the full and just sum
of 'ne hundred thousand dollars of money of the United States,
which said sum of money, they, the said, defendants, bound
themselves, their joint and several heirs, executors, and administrators, jointly and severally, by said instrument in writing, and
promised well and truly to pay to the said plaintiffs, if the said
William Linn, so appointed Receiver as aforesaid, and to act as
such Receiver, and in such office of Receiver as aforesaid, should
not faithfully execute and discharge the duties of his said office;
and the said plaintiffs in fact said, that after the making and
delivering of the said instrument in writing, and after the appointment of the said William Linn, to be Receiver of Public
Moneys as aforesaid, he; the said William Linn, did not faithfully execute and discharge the duties of his said office;" they
then set forth the breach of the contract to the same effect as
before; and concluded with 6 general averment of the neglect
and refusal of the defendant, Linn, to comply with its conditions,
whereby an action had accrued to them against all the defendants.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

295

[The United States v.Linn et aL]

To the second and third counts of the declaration, the defendants demurred, as insufficient in law to .sustain the plaintiffs'
action; and the United States joined in the demurrer.
On the argument of the demurrer, the opinions of the judges
-were opposed on the points:
1st. Whether the obligation set out in the second and third
counts in the declaration, being'without seal, is a bond within the
-act of Congress?
2d. Whether such an instrument is good at common law?
And on application of the plaintiffs, by their counsel, the above
ppints were ordered to be certified agreeably to the act of Congress.
Mr. Gilpin, tht Attorney General, for the United States.
The second count of the declaration, in this case, averred the
execution, on the first day of August, 1836, in the state of llinois, of a certain instrument of writing by the defendants; and
that they then and there delivered the-said instrument of writing
to the plaintiffs; in whicli instrument of writing they recited the
appointment of Linn to the office of a Receiver, and that he was
to hold it for four years then chiefly unexpired; and they acknowledged themselves to be bound to the plaintiffs in the sum,
and promised to pay to them the sum of one hundred thousand.
dollars, to which payment they bound themselves jointly and
severally by the said instrument in writing; which said instrument was, however, to be void, if the said Linn faithfully
executed the duties of his office; and the plaintiffs then aver,
that he did, after the making and delivering of the said' instrument, fail so to execute them, by refusing :topay over certain
moneys; and they then set forth the failure, and charge that,
though often requested, he has refused to .pay over the. said
moneys.
The third count recited the making of an instrument of writing
by the defendants on the same day, their own proper hands
being thereto subscribed, and then set out the consideration, the
nature of the agreement, and the breach of its condition; as in
the "secoudcount.
.ro both these counts the defendants demurred, as insufficipnt

296

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.Linn et al.]

in law to sustain the plaintiffs' action, and the United States
joined in the demurrer.
On the argument of the demurrer; the opinions of the judges
were divided on the points:
lst.: Whether the obligation, set out in the second and third.
counts of the declaration, being without seal, is a bond within
the act of Congress?
2d. Whether such an instrument is good at common law?
The act of Congress, establishing a land office at Vabdalia, was
passed-on the llth of May, 1820. 3 Story's Laws, 1780. The
fourth section provides that there shall be a Register and Receiver
appointed -to each of the aforesaid land offices, who shall "give
se~urity iii the same manner, in the same sums, and whose compensation, emoluments, duties, and authority shall, in every
respect, be the same as are, or may be, by law provided, in relation to the Registers and Receivers of Public Moneys in the
several land offices established for the sale of the public lands."
The first law regulating such security, is that of 18th May, 1796,
(1 Story's Laws, 425,) which prescribes that the Receiver in the
Western.Territory shall "give bond, with sufficient -security, for
the faithful discharge of his trust." The nextact is that of 10th
May, 1800, (1 Story's Laws, 786,) which first established regular
land offices; it required the Receiver of Public Moneys "to give
boud, with approved security, in the sum of ten thousand dollars,
for the faithful discharge of his trust." In all the acts passed
from that time to 1834, establishing land offices, it is provided,
in the same uniform language, that the Receivers shall give
security in the same manner, in the same sums, and their compensation, emoluments, duties, and authorities, be the same as
are or may be provided by law. The act of 26th June, 1834,
(4 Story's Laws, 2374,) somewhat varies this language, by directing that the Receiver "shall give sdcurity, and discharge all duties
pertaining to such office, as are prescribed by law."
1. The language of these laws is so uniform that it seems to
preclude any argument oir the first question. The law has given to
sealed instruments a higher degree of obligation, in many respects,
than instruments not executed with that formality; and it cannot
be doubted that it was the intention of Congress, ill using this

S"ANUARY TERM, 1841.

297

[The United States v. Linn et al.]

language, to, require that instruments carrying with them the
highest sanction should be given. Taking this view of the subject, it is not necessary to offer, any observations, which may seem
to sanction either party; the officers who take the security, or
the parties who give t, in substituting, under any circumstances,
'an obligation less complete and binding, under every aspect 9f
the law, than that whfch Congress has required. * Neither is it
necessary to discuss how far redress might be obtained, in a
Court of Equityif the omission of the seals was a-mere result of
accident. 1 Story's Ekquity, 165. Montville v. Haughton, '7
Conn. Rep. 545. Wadsworth v. Wendell, 5 Johns. C. C. 224. It
is sufficient that the act of Congress has required a "bond,"
which this instrument, technically, is not.
2. As to the validity of the instrument which was taken, and
its binding obligation on the parties, it seems too clear to "admit
a doubt.
Although the act of Congress requires that a bond should be.
taken, this is not all that it requires. It dire.ets that "security,"
also, should be taken. A bond is a species of security which it
designates; but it is not the only security which it contemplated,
unless that should be deemed to be sufficient. Can it be doubt6d,
if an officer gave a mortgage as security, in additiQn'to his bond,
that it would be authorized by the.terms of the act of Congress?
Can it beL doubted that, if an officer were to deposit a sum of
money in the treasury, (as is done in France,) as his security, it
would be within the law? The object to be attained is security;
the bond is designated as the usual, and generally the most certain and efficient form of security, and it should always be taken;
but it does not preclude any other: on the contrary, it clearly
recognises it, by adding to a specification of the particular instrument, the object which itdegires to reach. In the. law of 1834,,
we see that the bond is not particularly nanied; the object alone
is stated, leaving the form to be adopted by the officers required
to receive and give the security. The Receiver there is bound
"to give security," as he is bound to "discharge all duties pertaining to his office ;" the form of the one, and the details of the
other, are not prescribed, though the objects to be attained are
distinctly stated. It is, therefore, clear, by the language of the
act, that the giving "security for the faithful execution of. his
38

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.Linn et al.]

office," by the defendant, is within it provisions; as well as the
giving of a bond.
But if it were not within the provisions of the act, in terms, it
is an implied right,,on the part Of the United States. They have
a clear authority to accept such voluntary security for the faithfu performance of official duties, as they may deem expedient.
It appears by the record in this case, that the defendants voluntarily made, signed, and delivered to the United States, this instrument in writing, as a security that the defendant, Linn,.would
faithfully perform his official duties. Such an instrument, so
executed and delivered, if valid in itself, is one that the United
States may receive, and one. whose obligation is binding on those
who give it. They are at liberty to make and to enforce all
contracts, not prohibited, which are necessary to the successful
exercise, of the authority intrusted to them. Thus, as early as
1813, this Court, in the case of Dugan v. The United states, 3
Wheaton,. 172, decided that the United States might be tne purchasers and endorsers of a bill of exchange, and that, on its nonpayment, they might enforce by suit the obligation of the prior
endorser, although there was no act of Congress giving special
authority for the one or the other. It was a voluntary contract
between them and the endorser, being entered into in the
transaction of the public business, by a public officer, for the
benefit of the public; and the Cofirt- said, in reply to an objection similar to that which is urged here, that they "were
not bound to presume that the officer acted otherwise than according to law, or those rules which had been established by .the
proper departments ef government for the transaction of business
of that nature." in the case of Osborn v. The Bank of the
United States, 9 Wheaton,.738, this Court said, "it is not unusual
for a legislative act to involve consequences not expressed. An
officer, for example, is ordered to arrest an individual; it fs not
necessary, nor is it usual to say that he shall not be punished for
obeying this order." This is a consequence naturally resulting
from the power required. He may lawfully exercise it, and the
Court will protect him in it, as fully as if every consequence had
been the subject of legislation. In the case of the Postmaster
General i. Early, 12 Wheaton, 136, a bond was given .by the
defendants to the 'Postmaster General, as ecurity- that Eirly

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

299

[The United States v.Linn et a].]

would faithfully discharge his duties as a Deputy Postmastel
The defendants pleaded thaftheir contract was not one authorized
by any law of the United States, and that it could not, therefore,
be enforced. This Court, however, held, that the Postmaster
General, as a public officer, was fully warranted in taking a bond
which was to secure the payment over of moneys coming into
the Deputy Postmaster's hands, where no law pr6hibited such a
security. In the present case, not merely is the payment of
moneys part of the actual condition, (since the law niakes it one
of the .duties of a Receiver for the performance of which the
bond stipulates,) but, besides, the law authorizes expressly "secur
rity" to be taken. The case of the United States v. Tingey, 5
Peters, 115. 127, may be regarded as having decided the same
principle conclusively. In that case, a suit was instituted against
ihe"sureties in a bond given to secure the. faithful performance
of oftEzial duties; but the instrument was not such a one as the
act of Congress prescribed. On Ibis account, it was contended
that the Jnited tates could not recover. But this Court said,
"Upon full consideration of this subject, we are of opinion that
the United States have such a capacity to enter into contracts."
Afterwards they say, "we hold that a voluntary bend, taken by
authority of the proper officers of the Treasury Department, to
whom the disbursement of public moneys is intrusted, to secure
the fidelity, in official duties, of a Receiver, or an agent for disbursing public moneys, is a binding contract between him and
his sureties, and the United States, although such bond may not
be prescribed, or required by any positive law."
Here, then, we have the full, general,and express declaration of
this Court, of the right of the United States to make 'such contracts,
without .positive authority of law; we have it stated, in terms, in
regard to a bond. How much more fully does the principle apply
when there is a law requiring security to be taken and wnen
the contract is one of a less severe and imperative character than
the bond which they ad,.it to be authorized. In the case of
Farrar v. The. United States, 5 Peters, 388, this Court held, thot
an official bond, although a provision which the act required it
to contain, was omitted, was yet binding to the full extent of its
own langbage. In the case of The United States v. Robertson,
5 Peters, 651, there was an agreement made by the Bank, of

3oo

SUPREME- COURT.
[The United States v. Linn et al.]

Somerset with the United States, to pledge the estate of the bank
to secure, as far as it would secure, the payment of a debt due to
the former; a bond was given to fulfil this agreement; neither
instrument was* authorizdd by any statute; yet this Court expressed no doubt as to the right of the .United States' to be a
party to these contracts, and to enforce their performance. The
case of The United States v. Bradley, 10 Peters, 359, was one
where a Paymaster gave a bond in terms different from those
required by the act of Congress; and the sureties, who were
parties to it, contested their liability on that ground; but the
Court reaffirmed the doctrine asserted in Tingey's case, and
decided that the United States had capacity to enter into contracts wherever such contracts were not prohibited by law.
This case, auihoritatively,decides the point, affirming, as it does,
the principles which, in a lees general form, had been considered
in those of Dugan, Early, and Tingey; and places it beyond a
doubt, that a contract, valid in itself, made with the United
States, by the defendants, to secure the faithful performance of
Linn's duties, was binding on all the parties, and can be enforced
by their Courts. If it were necessary, which it is not, to strengthen
these views, thus drawn from the decisions of this Court, it might
be added, that the principles on which they are founded, have
been recognised, over and over again, by the ablest judicial
tribunals throughout the Union. Dixon v. The United States,
1 Brock. 181. Commonwealth v. Lecase, 2 Dail. 122. Commonwealth v. Wolbert, 6 Binn. 296. Morse v. Hodsden, 5 Mass.
318. Thomas v. White, 12 Mass. 369.
To impair the force of these views, it is argued, that this contract is not such a one as the act authorized, and is, therefore,
contrary to its-policy; and it is inferred from this, that it must
be regarded is void. To support the position, numerous cases
have been cited, where bonds taken under statutes, and containing provisions wholly different from those prescribed by the
statutes, have"been held to be invalid. This argument assumes
a principal point, which is, that any security, other than a bond,
is forbidden. There is nothing in the language of the act, which
warrants this assumption, but the reverse. Security for the performance of certain duties was the policy; the highest sort of security was preferrea, it is true; but to say thht the neglect of an

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

301

[The United States v. Linn et a].]

officei, in point of form, to take that sort, and an acceptance in
lieu thereof, of an inferior species of security, is less consistent
with that policy, than an abandonment of all security, is an inference that just reasoning can never sanction. In the case of
Bradley v. The United- States, this Court distinctly adverted to,
and repudiated a similar argument. They say, that an inference
that a designation of a particular form of bond in act of Congress, makes every other form void, is not warranted by any
principle of public policy which the law was designed to promote. The cases cited on behalf of the defendants'are, it is believed, without an exception, those where there have been omissions or insertions of substantial clauses, in statutory obligations,
which operated to the injury of the parties, and were at variance
with the object and intent of the law. In the present case, no such
error is alleged. The contract is altogether correct in point of form.
The obligations imposed, "are such as the law warrants. There
would be no departure -in the instrument, from the requirements
of the act, if it had been properly executed. That it was given
in furtherance of its objects, is not contested; that it would have
effected this purpose, and no other, if the seals had been aflixed,
is not denied. How then can an argument, which asserts that it
is a void instrument, be sustained by the authoritj of cases,
which differ from the present in all these particulars?
If -then it be established, that the United States have a right to
accept and enforce a valid obligation of this sort, the only inquiry
that remains is, \vhether or -not this instrument is a valid contract
in itself; whether, if executed between man and man, it would
be binding on the parties ?
This is a contract of suretiship, or guaranty. It is a promise
of one person to answer for another person, in consideration of
this latter obtaining some trust, confidence, or credit. It is, in
this instance, a contract of Linn, Waterman, Lee, and the other
defendants, with the United States, in which they promise to
answer, to the extent of one hundred thousand dollars, for Linn,
in consideration of his being allowed by the United States, to
hold the trust created by his being a Receiver of Public Moneys,
for several years to come, if he faithfully discharges its duties. That such a contract is a lawful one, it is needless to assert. It
is known to the law of every civilized nation. To make the inVOL. XV.-2 C

S02

SUPREME COURT.
[rhe United States v. Linn et aL)

strument, which is evidence of this contract, binding end sufficient,
it is necessary that it should be duly executed in -writingi by the
parties; and that it should show a sufficient legal consideration.
That the instrument now in question iS duly executed, appears
by th& record; it is one in writing, and signed by the parties,
delivered, and accepted. This is all the formality that is necessary to its complete execution. Ballad v. Walker, 3 John. C.
C. 64. Duncan v. Vnited States, 7 Peters, 448. The authorities,
cited on behalf of the defendants, do not establish the ground
which is assumed, that this instrument is void from defective execution. Those autnorities only sustain a position, not at all applicable, that where a contract is in itself a joint one, intended
to be executed by several parties, none of whom dispense with
the participation of the others, the execution by one of them is
imperfect, and the contract may not be binding upon him.
This contract then is duly executed. Does it also show a sufficient legal consideration? It is said by Judge Yates, in the
case of Pillan v. Van Mierop, 3 Burr. 1669. 1670. 1671,that 11any
damage 'or suspension of a right, or possibility of a loss, occasioned to the plaintiff by the promise of another, is a sufficient
consideration for such promise, and will make it binding, although
no actual benefit accrues to the party promising." This rule,
thus so clearly laid down, is sustained by a long series of cases.
Miniet ex parte, 14 Vesey, 189. Gardom ex parte, 15 Vesey, 287.
Morley v. Boothby, 3 Bing.. 107. Newberry v. Armstrong,
4 Car. and Pay. 59. Kemble v. Farren, 6 Bing. 34. Packard v.
Richardson, 17 Mass. 140, 141. Lansing v. M]Killup, 3 Caines,
291. Now the present instrument sets forth, in terms, that Linn
has received from the plaintiffs, the office of a Receiver,*" for
four years," and is to perform its duties for the plaintiffs, and
that if he shall fail to do so, which must necessarily occasion a
damage and a suspension of the rights of the plaintiffs, and a
possibility of a loss to them, the defendants will indemnify them.
It contains a consideration for the promise, stated on the face of
the contract, and shows.the loss that must accrue to the plaintiffs,
if Linn violates his part of tlie contract. In the case of Violett.
v. Patton, 5 Cranch, 142, this Court decided that "to constitute
a consideration, it is not absolutely necessary that a benefit should
accrue to the person making the promise; but that it is sufficient,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

303

[The United States t. Linn etaL]

if something valuable flows from the person to whom it is made."
So in the case of Townsley v. Sumrall, 2 Peters, 182, this Court
said that "it is of no consequence that the direct consideration
moves to a third person, for it moves from the purchaser, (of a
bill of ,exchange,) and is his inducement for taking the bill. He
pays his money on the faith of it, and is entitled to claim a fulfilment of it. Damage to the promiseeonstitutes as good a consideration, as benefit to the promissor." But is there not a direct
benefit to the promissor?" Is it but a single and entire contract,
to which Linn, and the sureties are jointly a single party; to this
party, on the one hand, there is a benefit passing from the United
States, as fully and completely, as there is, on the other, a service
rendered by it to the United States. The office of Receiver, its
emoluments, and compensation, had passed to one of these joint
parties, and was held and enjoyed by him, when the contract
was entered into. Undoubtedly there is a valid and sufficient
consideration, arising from an actual benefit received.
It is argued, however, that the consideration is past, and was
executed at the date of the contract 5 and numerous authorities
are cited to prove that, on such a consideration, it cannot be sustained. But how is this an executed consideration? The mere
appointment is past, it is true, but the office exists and continues;
its emoluments are to be received in the future, and its duties are
to be performed.
This, then, is a contract, not only legally executed, but binding
and obligatory in its character upon the parties. It is,.as has
been shown, one into which the United States had a right to
enter. It is, therefore, one which is good, at common law, independently of the requirements of the act of Congress, in relation
to the form of security to be given by a Receiver.
Mr. N. H. Swayne, for the defendants.
This case was certified up from.the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Illinois, the opinions of the Judges being
opposed upon the following questions:
I. "Whether the obligation set out in the second and third
counts in the declaration, being without; seal, is a bond within:
the act of Congress."
.II. "Whether such an instrument is good at common law."

-

304

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.Linn et aL]

The act of Congress upon this subject was passed May loth,
1800. See Gordon's Digest, Art. 1185. The provision referred
to is in these words:
"There shall be appointed by the President of the United
States, with the advice and consent of the Senate, a Receiver of
Public Moneys for lands of the United States, at each of the
places respectively, where the public and private sales of the
said lands ard'to be made, who shall, before he enters on the
duties of his office,'give bond with appropriate. security, in the
sum of ten thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of his
trust."
The meaning of the term "bond" is well settled. It is "an
obligation for the payment of money." See Tom. Law Dic. tit.
Bond, and the authorities there cited.
The sealing is indispensable. Com. Dig. fit. Obligation, A. 2.
It is more important than the signing. The former without the '
latter was formerly held' sufficient, while the latter withdut the
former at most constitutes only a simple contract.- Bac. Ab. tit.
Obligation, C.
The terms "bond," "writing obligatory," and "obligation,"
ex vi termini, import a sealed instrument. See 1 Chitty's Pl. 313,
and the cases there cited.
" An instrument containing the words, ' sealed with my seal,'
without a seal, &c., is not a deed.". Deming v. Bullet, 1 Black.
241. Taylor v. Glazor, 2 Serg. & R. 502. Warren v. Lynch,
5 John. R. 239. Harman v. Harman, 1 Bald. 129. Perk. Con.
sec. 129.
Upon this point it cannot be necessary th multiply authorities.
The instrument not being a "bond," of course is not within
the meaning of the act of Congress.
IL Is "such an instrument good at common law?"
The negative, of this proposition is maintained upon the following grounds:
1. It is inchoate, imperfect, and prima facie void.
2. It is without consideration; and if not,
3. The consideration was executed at its date, therefore insafficient.
4. It is contrary to the policy of the act, and is therefore void.
The following authorities are relied upon:

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

305

[The United States v. Linn et al.]

1. That it is inchoate, imperfect, and prima facie void.
"A bond signed by one surety which contained in the body
of it, the names of two, is not recoverable against the one who.
signed it, unless it be proved that he who signed it, dispensed
with the execution of it by the other." Sharp v. The United
States, 4 Watts, 21.
See also, Bean v.Parker, 17 Mass. 605.
Wood v. Washburn, 2 Pick. 24; and Wells v. Dill.- Mart.
Rep. 592.
In the case of Bean v. Parker, the Court say: "This bond
must' be considered as declared upon according to its real tenor,
in the same manner as if it had been recited in hmc verba, and,
then purporting to be a bond signed by principal and sureties,
and no principal having executed it, it must be taken to be
void."
In Wells v. Dill, the Court hold this language: "The contract
is incomplete until all the parties contemplated to join in its execution affix their names to it, and while in this state cannot be
enforced against any one of them. rhe law presumes that the
party signing, did so upon the condition that the other' obligors'
named in the instrument should sign it, and their failure to comply with their agreement, gives him a right to retract."
Upon a careful examination of the cases cited, and the one
under consideration, it is believed they will be found to exhibit
a striking analogy, and to turn on the same principle. It is, that
the face of the instrument itself shows that it is imperfect, and is
a caveat to the obligee. It is apparent that something rqmains
to be done to complete it, and until that is done, a locus penetentim is left to the obligor. He may revoke it, or impose such
terms and conditions as he may think proper.
The point to which the cases above cited relate, arose in the
case of Duncan v. The United States, 7 Peters, 435.
But that case is distinguishable from these in two essential
particulars:
1. It appeared from the record, that the parties signing had
severally acknowiledged the validity of the bond before a notary
public,
2. It also appeared that the jury had found that the parties
.who signed, had delivered the bond as a valid instrument. Hence
it would seem that this authority does not apply.
1 2c2
.39

306

SUPREME COURT.
E'he Unitea States v.Linn et aL]

In Perkins on Contracts, sec. 129, p. 58, the law on the point
under consideration, is thus laid down: "And it is to be known,
that notwithstanding that the words, obligatory, or, &c., are
written in parchmeht or paper, and obligor, or, &c., deliver the
same as his deed, and it is not sealed at the time of the delivery,
it is but ah escrowl, notwithstanding that the name of the obligor
be subscribed."
This is the only direct 'authority upon this point, that has
been found.
2. It is without consideration, and therefore void.
It appears from the recital of the instrument, that the commission bears date nearly eighteen months prior to its execution.
If, there be any consideration, what is it? None is expressed
in the instrument, and none is alleged in*the declaration.
AlU agreements, without consideration, except those under seal,
and those within the law merchant, which of themselves import
- consideration, are void. People v. Shall, 9 Cow. 780. Burnet
v. Biscoe, 4 J. R. 236. Cook v. Bradley, 7 Conn. Rep. 57 Thatcher v. Dinsmore, 5 Mass. R. 302.
Mere written agreements, are, in this respect, on a footing with
oral contracts. 1 Saund. 211, Id. f"ote 2. Cook v. Bradley,
7 Conn. 57.
Even in cases within the statute of rauds, the rifle as to the
consideration is unchanged.
The statute only superadds the
iecessity of written evidence of the agreement. Saunders v.
Wakefield, 6 Eng. C. L. 533. Rann v. Hughes, 7 Term R. 347.
-Reech v. Kennegal, I Vesey, 123. Leonard v. Vredenburg,
8 Johns. R. 29.
An unqualified acknowledgment of indebtedness, or a promise
to pay, by a writing not under seal, if it depart from the forms
recognised by the law merchant, does not dispense with the necessity of averring and proving a sufficient legal consideration.
Carlos v. Fancourt, 5 Term R. 482. Lansing v. M'Killip, 3 Caines,
287. Beauchamp v. Bosworth, 3 Bibb's R. 16.
A guaranty -of a note, like. any other promise without consideration, is void. Aldridge v. Turner, 1 Gill and J. 427. Henry
v. Prince, 4 Pick. 385. S. C. 7 Pick. 243. Bailey v. Bogart,
4 Johns. R. 280.
A promise originally without consideration, will not be sup-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

307

[The United Sttea v. Linn et al]

ported by the fact, that the parfy to whom it was made has sustained special damage by its non-performance. Thorne v. Deas,
4 J.R. 84.
3. If there be any consideration, it was executed at the date
of the instrument, and therefore insufficient.
It has been already remarked, that the bond bears date nearly
eighteen months later than the commission. It recites that the
President had "appointed," &c., "by commission, bearing
date," &c.
For the general doctrine on the subject of executed considerations, se6 1 Saund. 264, and'note.
I cannot do better than to add the following extract from the
American Jurist, No. 43, p. 3, in which most of the leading authorities upon this point are collected: "In the case.of Hunt v.
Bate, 2,Dyer, 272 a, the declaration averred that the defendant
promised to save the plaintiff harmless, in consideration that he
had become bail for the defendant's servant. Judgmenf was
arrested. So where the declaration alleged that the defendant
promised to pay the plaintiff five pounds, in consideration'that
the plaintiff had delivered' to 'him twenty .sheep. Jeremy v.
Goochitan, Cro. Eliz. 442. So of a promise by a lessor to give
a new lease in consideration that the lessee had incurred expense
in defending his title-under the old lease. Moore v. Williams,
Moore, 220. So of a promise to loan the plaintiff ten pounds
upon request, in consideration that the plaintiff had foimerly
loaned the same sum to the defendant. •Dagget v. Vowel,
Moore, 643. So of aC promi.se to repay sixty pounds, in consideration that the plaintiff had before paid that sum to the 'defendant's creditors in satisfaction of th6 debt. Baker v. Halifax,
Cro. Eliz. 741. So of promisq in consideration that the plaintiff had sold and delivered goods, lent money, &c., to the defendant, or had done work for him, or had sold and conveyed a farm
to him." The following authorities are referred to in a note, and
will be found fully to sustain the latter part of the text. Oliverson v. Wood, 3 Leo. 366. Hays v. Warren, 2 Barn. Bk. 141.
S.0. 2 S.933. Comstock v. Smith, 7 John. R. 87. Parker- v.
Crane, 6 Wend. 649. Leland v. Douglass, 1 Wend. 492. BalcQ]l v.Craggin, 5 Pick. 295. Stanhope's case, Clayt. 65.
"A. B. gave a writing to the plaintiff, as-follows: In consider-

308

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Linn et al.]

ation of your having endorsed the undermentioned notes, drawn
by S. and F., in your favour, we hereby hold ourselve accountable to you for them, in the same manner as though said notes
were drawn by us." It was held that the consideration was
past and insufficient. Bulkley v. Landon, 2 Conn. 404. See
also Chitty on Contracts, 52.
In Jenkins v. Reynolds, 3 Brod. and Bing. 14, the guaranty
was in these words: "To'Messrs. Jenkins and Xones-Gentlemen: To the amount of e100, be pleased to consider me as
security on Mr. James, Cowing & Co's. account."' It was held
insufficient, because on its face it was doubtful whether it related
to a past or a future consideration. See also 3 Conn. Rep. 585,
and 1 Leigh's Nisi Prius, 36.
4. It is contrary to the policy of the act, and therefore void.
It is conceded that the appointment was complete, when the
commission was issue• The requirement that bond should be
given .before the Receiver entered on the duties of his office, was
merely directory, and does not in this view affect the validity of
the instrument. A bond takni afterwards, would have been as
valid as if taken before. U. S. v. Bradley, 10 Peters, 363.
It is also well settled in the Courts of the United States, that
when a statutory bond contains conditions required by the act
under which it is taken, and others not required; and such conditions "are severable," it is valid as to the former and void as
to the latter.-Idem. See also U. S. v. Armstrong, Peters C. C.
R. 47.. Same v. Howel, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 620. Same v. Brown,
Gilp. 174.
It seems also to be settled, that if the bond be wholly different
from what the statute requires, from the omission of a necessary
member in its conditions, or from any other cause; or contain
the requisite conditions so mingled with others not required as
not to be severable from them, it is wholly voi& This would
seem to be a necessary result of the preceding proposition; but
the point is believed to have been expressly ruled in the following
cases: U. S. v. Morgan and Farquahar, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 10.
Dixon et al. v. U. S., 1 Brok. Rep. 178. U. S. v. Gordon and
Id. 195. U. S. v. Hipkins,
Shepherd, Id. 191. U. S. v.
2 Hall, L. Jour. so.
To sustain such a bond, (to use the language of Judge Story.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

809

[The United States v. Linn et a].]

in another connexion,) "would be not to execute but to super,
sede the requisitions of the law." United States v. Tingey, 5
Peters, 129.
"Where an essential circumstance required by law is omitted
in the bond, the Court does not believe itself competent to supply
the omission and make the bond conform to the statute. No
analogous case is known, in which a Court of Law exercises such
a power." United States v.
2 Brok. 197.
Where a form of security wholly different from that prescribed
by the statute is taken, is it not as much a departure from the
statute, as contrary to its policy, and therefore void, as a bond
wholly different from its requirements?
The act of Congress dtrecting that a bond shall be taken,
"implies a prohibition of every other species" of security.
Billings v. Avery, 2 Conn. 239. Cole v. Gower, 6 East, 117.
If it were competent for the proper officer to receive this instrument in lieu of a bond, what shall he the limits of his discretion ?
Might he not with equal propriety have received a real or chattel
mortgage upon propdrty situated no matter where; or a mere
oral contract with these same parties ? And, may he not require
a sufficient bond from one party, and receive something entirely
different from another? This', it is presumed, will not be contended for upon the other side; yet, in principle, wherein lies the
difference ?
The policy of the law in requiring a bond, is obvious.
1. It is the most solemi form of contract..
2. It imports a consideration, and dispenses with the necessity
of proving one.
3. Independent of the act on that subject, it would in some
of the states, give to the United States, in the collection of their
debts from the estates of decedents, priority over simple contract
creditors.
The doctrine upon the.subject of offcial bonds, has been pushed
to great lengths in sustaining them; but, except in the view
already taken, it is believed those cases do not affect this question.
This is not the case of a bond taken where none is required;
nor of a bond taken under a statute, but in part or wholly inconsistent with its requirements.

310

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Linn et al.]

It is a different security from that which the statute demands.
No case, it is believed, can be found, where such an instrument,
under such circumstances, has been supported at law. Where
a statutory bond was executed to an obligee other than the one
indicated in the statute, it was for that reason holden to be void.
Purple v. Purple, 5 Pick. 227..' The same point was ruled in
Warner v. Racey, 20 J. R. 74.
These are instances of departure from the statutory requisitions,
much less material, it would seem, than that under consideration.
See also, Commonwealth v. Jackson's Executors, 1 Leigh's Rep.
484. Branch v. Commoniwealth, 2 Call, 510. Steward v. Lee,
3 Call, 421. Hyslop v. Clark, 14 J. R. 458.
If the omission of the seals arobe from accident or mistake, a
Court of Equity would undoubtedly supply the defect. See
The authorities on this point
1 Story's Equity, 165-181.
are so fully collected, and so clearly stated by the author, that
a more particular reference to most of them is deemed unnecessary.
In Wadsworth v. Wendel, 5 Johns. C. R. 224, it will be observed that the seal only was wanting, and that the Chancellor
established ind enforced the instrument. The case of Montville v. Haughton, 7 Conn. 545, is in most respects identical
with this. A Court of Equity gave the relief prayed for.
This goes strongly to show that it is only in such a Court that
the obligee can be aided; and that would seem to be the appropriate tribunal for such cases.
There is an apparent defect which, prima facie, vitiates the
instrument; yet enbugh is done to show an intention to make a
valid contract. On the other hand, the parties in answering the
bll, especially the sureties, have an opportunity to develope all
the facts in relation to the execution of. the instrument, and may
thus avail themselves of a meritorious defence, which they could
not establish in any other way. The contract of a surety is to
be construed 'strictly. Miller v. Stewart, 9 Wheat. 680.
Whether this instrument be void or not, the United States
have a valid separatq demand against the principal, for money
had and received. Walton v. The United States, 9 Wheat.
651,

JANUARY. TERM, 1841.
[The United States

'

1ll

Linn et al]

Mr. Justice Taoxysox delivered the opinion of the Court.
.This case comes from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the state of Illinois, on a certifcate of division of opinion upon
the following points:
1st. Whether the obligation get out in the second and third
counts in the declaration, being without seal, is a bond within'
the act of Congress.
2d. -Whether such instrument is good at common law.
Upon the first point no doubt can exist. There being no seal
to the instrument, it is not a bond. This point was abandonbd by
t1e Attorney General, on the argument; and the question must
of course be answered in the negative. And as the act of Congress directs the security to be taken by bond, this answer necessarily implies that the instrument now in question is not in formthe instrument required by the act of Congress. And the second
point presents the broad question whether the instrument is good
and binding at common law, independent of the statute, as to
the mere form of the security.
If this is a contract'enfered into by competent parties, and for
a lawful purpose, not prohibited by law, and is founded upon i
sdfficient 'consideration, it is a valid contract, at common law.
In the case of The United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters, 115, it
was held by this Court, that the United States being a body
politic have a capacity to enter into contracts, and take bonds or
securities within the sphere of their constitutional bowers, -and
appropriate to the just exercise of those powers, through the
instrumentality of the proper department, to which those powers
are intrusted, whenever such bonds or contracts are not prohited by law, although the making such contracts, or taking such
bonds, may not have been prescribed by any pretexisting legislative act.
From this it follows, that a voluntary contract or security taken
by the United States for a lawful purpose, and upon a good consideration, although not prescribed by any law, is not utterly
void. That the instrument in question was taken for a lawful
purpose cannot be questioned. It was taken to secure the faithful performance of duties imposed by law upon a Receiver of
Public Money.
Although -the question came upin the Circuit Court upon a

312

SUPREME COURT.
[The

aited States v. Linn et a l.]

demurrer to the declaration, the point certified does not involve
any inquiry respecting the sufficiency of the declaration. The
declaration is referred to merely for a description of the instrument upon which the question arose. And if the instrument
can be made valid and binding at common lawby any averments and legal evidence, the question must be answered in the
affirmative.
This instrument, as set out in the second and third counts in
the declaration, bears date on the first day of April, in the year
1836, reciting that the President of the United States had, pursuant to law, appointed the said William Linn to be Receiver of
Public Money, for the district of lands subject to sale at Vandalia,
in the state of Illinois, for the term of four years from the 12th
day of January, in the year 1835, by commission bearing date
on the 12th of February, 1835. That the said defendants did
then and there, in and by said instrument in writing, y the
names, contractions, abbreviations, and descriptions, &c., (naming
all the defendants,) acknowledge themselves to be held, and
firmly bound, unto the said plainiiff in the sum of, and promised
to pay unto the said plaintiffs, one hundred thousand dollars of
money of the United States; to which payment well and truly
to be made, they, the said defendants, bound themselves jointly
and severally, their joint and several heirs, &xecutors,.nd administrators, by the said instrument in writing; which said instrumeht in -writing was, however, to be void and of none effect, in
case, and upon the condition, that the said William Linn should
faithfully execute and discharge the duties of his office of Receiver of Public Mineys as aforesaid; otherwise the said instrument in writing should abide and remain in full force and virtue.
And the question is, whether this instrument is binding at common law, as a security for the faithful discharge of the duties of
Receiver of Public Moneys, by William Linn. The argument
urgdd to the Court against the validity of this instrument, has
been presented under the following heads:
1. That the writing is without consideration.
2: If not without consideration, it was a past and executed
consideration.
3. That it is contrary to the policy of the act of Congress, and
so void.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

313

[The United States v. Linn et al.]

The recital in the instrument is that the President of the United States, pursuant to law, had appointed the said William Lin'n
Receiver of Public Money for the -district of land, subject to sale
at Vandalia, in the state of Illinois, for the term of four years
from the 12th of January, 1835, and who was duly commissioned for that purpose; and he was accordingly, by the laws of'
the United States, entitled to receive the same' compensation
and emoluments, and subject to the same duties in every respect
in relation to the lands to be disposed of at his office, as are or
may be by law provided in relation to the Receivers of Public
-Money in other offices established for the sale of public lands;
and was by law required to give security in the same manner
and sum as other Receivers of Public Moneys for the sale of public lands. 4 Story, 2374, art. 26, June, 1834.
These emoluments were the considerations allowed him for
the execution of the duties of his office; and his appointment
and commission entitled him tb receive this compensation,
whether he gave any security or not. His official rights and
duties attached upon his appointment. This was so held by
this Court in the case of The United States v. Bradley, 10 Peters,
364. The Court there say, it has been objected that Hall was
not entitled to act as paymaster until he had given the bond requirdd by the act of 1816, in the form therein prescribed; and
that not having given any such bond, he is not accountable as
paymaster for any moneys received by him, We ,are, say the
Court, of a different opinion. Hall's appointment as a paymaster was complete when his appointment was duly made by the
President, and confirmed by the Senate. The giving the bond
was a mere ministerial act, for the security of the government;
and not a condition precedent to hi§ authority to act as a paymaster. Having received the public moneys as paymaster, he
must account for such money. According to this doctrine, which
is undoubtedly sound, Linn was a receiver, de jure, as well as
de facto, when the instrument in question was given. And
although the law requiring security was directory to the officers
entrusted'with taking such security, Linn was under a legal as
,well as a moral obligation to give the security required by law;
and being entitled to the compensation and emoluments attached
to the office, which by his commission was.to continue for four
40
VOL. XV.-2 D

314

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Linn et al.]

years from the 12th of January, 1835; this was a sufficient
co sideration appearing on the face of the instrument, to support the promise. A benefit to the promissor, or damage to the
promissee, constitutes a 'good 'consideration. 5 Cranch, 150.
2 Peters, 182. If Linn received a sufficient consideration to
uphold the promise on his part, it was sufficient to bind the
sureties. There was no necessity for any consideration passing
directly between the plaintiffs -and the sureties. It was one
entire and original transaction; and the consideration which
supported the contract of Linn supported that of'his sureties.
If the contract between the plaintiffs and Linn had been executed and perfectly past, before -the other defendants became
sureties, so that their promise and undertaking could not connect
itself with the -original contract, it would have requirec a distinct consideration.. But the whole being one entire and original
contract, and not collateral on the part of the sureties, the consideration .received by Linn was sufficient to 'support the contract on the part-of his sureties. 8 Johns. 37. Cro. Eliz. 137.
3 Bur. 1886.
2. This was not a past and executed consideration. The mere
appointment of Linn, as a Receiver of Public Money, was not
the consideration of the contract, but the emoluments and benefit
r esulting from the appointment formed the consideration.
It
was a continuing consideration, running with his continuance iWi
office; and existed 'in full force at the time the instrument in
question was signed. This appears from the recitals in the contract. The term of office was four years from the 12th of January, 1835.
. 3. But it has been very strongly pressed upon the Court, that
it is against the policy of the act of Congress, to allow security
to be taken otherwise than by a bond. It may be well questioned whether this objection comes properly under consideration
in the question certified to thii Court; which is simply, whether
this instrument is good at common law. This, in strictness, presents the question entirely independent of the statute, and as if
no statute had ever been passed on the subject. But we do not
wish to confine ourselves to this narrow view of the question. The
act of Congress, under which this, instrument was taken, (1 Story,
786, see, 6,) directt that a Receiver of Public Moneys shall, be-

JANUARY TERIVI, 1841.

315

[The United States v. Linn et aL]

fore he eiters upon the duties of his office, give bond, with
approved security, in the sum of ten thousand dollars, for the
faithful discharge of his trust. The statute does not profess to
give the precise form of the bond. It.is only a general direction
to give a bond for the faithful discharge of the trust. There are
"no negative words in the act, or any thing 'by implication or
otherwise, to make void a security taken in any other form; nor
is there any thing in reason dr sound principle, that should lead
to such a conclusion. Had it been deemed by Congress of such
importance as is now attached to it, it is reasonable to suppose
that securities taken otherwise than by bond, would have been
declared void. The only objection urged against the validity
of this instrument is,. that it has no seals annexed to the names
of the signers. In every other respect, it is not pretended but
that it conforms 'precisely to the requirements of the statute.
And what is the real difference betweer an instrument under
seal, and one not under seal? The only material difference is,
that, in the one case, the seal imports a.consideration,'and in the
other, it must be proved. There ought to be some very strqng
gr6unds to. authorize a Court to declare an instruinent.absolutely
void, which has been voluntarily made, up.an-a good consideration, and delivered to the party for whose benefit it was intended.
There is, in this case, no principles of public policy or morality
violated. -BLt, on the contrary, the object and purpose for which
the instrument was given, was in furtherance of the provisions'
of the statute, and in Compliance with the legal and moral obli-.
gations imposed upon the Receiver of Public Moneys. The act
of Congress directs a bond to be taken, in the penalty'of t6n
thousand dollars. Suppose a bond should be taken in the
penalty of twenty thousand, would it on that account be void?
If it must pursue the precise directions of the adct; t certainly
would be void. The authority given to the President to increase
the amount of the bonds, was not passed until the year 1820,
(3 Story, 1790;) and if any departure from the irecise form of the
security directed by the statute would make void the bond, an mcreaseof the penalty'would have had that effect, before the act of
1820. The act directs a bond to be given, with approved secmity.
The nature of this security is not prescribed. A mortgage, or any
other approved security, voluntarily given, would no doubt be

316

SUPREME COURT.
[The Unita States v. Linn et al]

valid; and it would be no very forced interpretation of this act, to
consider this instrument as such security, It will be seen, from
the recital, compared with the date of this instrumeilt, that it was
given long after the aplointmnt of Linn. Why, and under
what circumstances it was given, do not appear; nor is it important here to inquire. Should that become necessary, the
proper time to inquire into that matter will be upon the trial of
the cause.
The point now presented to this Court is a single and abstract
question; whether this instrument is good at common law. It is
argued that this instrument is absolutely void, on the ground
that it is - gainst the policy. of the act to permit security to be
taken in any other form than is prescribed by the act. In a certain sense this may be true. It is the duty of all public officers
intrusted with the execution of powers delegated to them, to.
pursue the directions of the law conferring the power. But to
consvtue all such laws as a special delegation of authority, to be
strictly and literally pursued; and to consider every departure
from it, as done without authority, and absolutely void; would
frequently be defeating the very object and purpose for which
the law is made; and ought not to receive such a construction,
unless the statute itself declares all such acts void. But if the
mere omission to put seals to the instrument shall make it void,
every other departure from a strict und literal compliance with
the direction of the act, would make void the -security.
This has not been the light in which- this Court have viewed
analogous cases. En the case of The United States v. Brad.e'Y,
already referred to, the Court say, "it has been urged that the act
of 1816, ch. 69, does, b.y necessary implication, prohibit the taking
of any bonds from Paymasters other than those in the form pre*scribed by the 6th section of the act; and, therefore, that bonds
taken in any other form, are utterly v6id. We do not think so.
The act merely prescribes the form and purport of the-bond to be
taken of .Paymasters by the War Department. -It is in this
respect directory to that department; and, doubtless, it would
be illegal for that department to insist upon *a bond con,taining other provisions and conditions, differing from those
prescribed or required by law. But the act has nowhere declared
that all other bondA, not taken in the prescibed" form, shall be

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

317

[The United Stateg v. Linn et al.]

utterly void. Nor does such an implication arise from any of
the terms contained in the act, or from any principles of public
policy which it is designed to promote. A bond may, by mutual
mistake or accident, and wholly without design, be taken in a
form not prescribed by the act. It would be a very mischievous
interpretation of the act, to suppose" that, under such circumstances, it was the intendment of the act thdt the bond should be
utterly void. Nothing, we think, but very strong and express
language should induce a Court of justice to adopt such an
interpretation. Where the act speaks out, it would be our duty
to follow it. Where it is silent, it is a sufficient compliance with
the policy of the act to declare the bond void, as to any conditions
which are imposed upon a party beyond what the law requires.
This is not only the dictate of the common law, but of common
sense."
The act under which the security, in that case, was taken, is
substantially the same as the one under which the instrument
now in question was taken. 3 Story, 1575. It requires the
Paymaster to give good and sufficient bond to the United States,
fully to account for all moneys and public property which he
may receive, in such sums as the Secretary of War shall direct.
All the reasons urged in favour of the validity of the bond in
tba case, apply with equal force to the one now before the Court.
The'only departure of the instrument from the directions of the
act, is the want of a seal; and this, as is said in the case against
Bradley, may have been omitted by'mutual mistake, or accident,
and wholly without design. We think that the mere want of seals
is not such a departure from the act as to warrant the Court,
upon any supposed principles of public, policy, to pronounce this
instrument utterly void; it being good at common. law, and
given in furtherance of the great object of the statute, and as security for the faithful discharge of the duties required of the office.
We are accprdingly of opinion that the second question must
be answered in the affirmative.
Mf. Justice STORY, Mr. Justice M'LEAN, and Mr. Ju~tice
BALDWIN, dissented.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of
2D2

3i8

SUPREME COURT.
(The United States v. Linn et al.]

Illinois, and on the points and questions on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which
were certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act
of Congress in such c se made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this
Court, 1st. That the obligation set out in the second and third
counts in the declaration, befng without seal, is not a bond within
the act of Congress; and 2d. That such an instrument is good
at common law : whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this Court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

