JANUARY TERM, 1841.

THE UNITED

STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. SAMUEL W.

Dic'TSON

AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS IN'ERROR.

Samuel W. Dickson was appointed a Receiver of Public Money for the Choctaw district, Mississippi, and entered on the duties of his office on the 22d November, 1833,
and continued to hold the office until the 26th July, 1836, when he resigned it. He
received more then two hundred and fifty thousand dollars of public money, in each
year, during the two years of his continuance in office; and, also, more than two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars during the portion of the year commencing on the
22d November, 1835, and ending on the 26th July, 1836. He claimed, under the
act of Congress relating to the compensation and salaries of receivers, a compensation of one per cent. on the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in each
year; and also a commission of one per cent. on the money received during the
fraction of the year, not exceeding, with the salary of five hundred dollars, three
thousand dollars, in the fraction of the last year. The United States claimed to limit
the commissions and salary to the fiscal year, from January 1, to December 31, annually ; and denied his right to more than a portion of the commissions oh the money
received by him, limiting the same to the proportion of the year he was in office.
Held, that the receiver was entitled to charge his commissions on the whole sum
received by him in the part of the year he was in office; the same not exceeding,
with his salary, tae amount of three thousand dollars.
The receiver was entitled to calculate his yearly commission on the arbount of public
money received by him during ayear, commencing from the date of his appointment,
instead of calculating it by the fiscal year, which commences with the calendar year;
on the first day of January in every year. He had a right to charge the whole
yearly maximum of commissions, for the fractional portion of the year in which he
resigned.

IN error to the Circuit.Court of the United States for the

Southern District of Mississippi.
Samuel W. Dickson, the defendant, was appointed by the
President of the United States, Receiver of Public Money for the
Choctaw distict,*in the sfate of Mississippi, and entered on the
duties of his office on the 22d November, 1833, and retained the
office, performing the duties thereof until the 26th July, 1836i,
having on that day resigned the same.
The United. States claimed a large balance as due to them, and.
the defendant paid, in Natchez, the whole sum alleged to be clue
by him, with the exception of the items charged to him in the

142

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Dicksoil.]

treasury transcript, which were the subject of controversy in
this case.
A suit was instituted by the United States on the official bond
of Samuel W. Dickson, and his sureties, in May, 1839, in the
Distriot Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Mississippi, in Which the United States claimed certain sums
.of money received by Samuel W. Dickson, as Receiver, and not
paid over to the United States. These sums were claimed by the
defendant, and had been retained by him as his official dom pensation for the annual period of his service in the offic, from the
22d November, 1833, and for the fraction of the last year in
which he was in office, commencing on the 22d November, 1835,
and ending on the 26th July, 1836; during which latter period
he had received public money exceeding in amount two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars.
On the trial of the cause the Court charged the jury, that the
defendant Dickson was ehtitled to credit for three thousand
dollars as compensation, including his salary of five hundred
dollars for the year commencing November 22, 1833, and ending
November 22, 1834; that he was entitled to the same compensation for the year commencing November 22, 1834, and ending
November 22d, 1835; and for the fraction of the year between
the 22d November, 1835, and the 26th July, 1836, he was entitled
to two thousand five hundred dollars, commissions.
To this charge of the Court the United States excepted, and
prosecuted this writ of error; .a verdict and judgment for the
defendants having been given, confcrmably to the opinion of
this Court.
The case was argued by Mr. Birchard, and Mr. Gilpin,
Attorney General, for the United States. No counsel appeared
for the defendants,
Ir. Birchard, for the United States, contended that the Court
erred,
1st. In allowing the Receiver to calculate his yearly commission.
on the amount of public money received in a calendar year,
commencing with the date of his appointment, instead of the
fiscal year fixe& law.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

143

[The United States v. Dickson.]

2d. In allowing the Receiver the whole yearly maximum of
two thousand five hundred dollars of commissions for the fractional portion of the year in which he resigned.
In this case the accounting officers settled the accounts as is
required by law, quarterly. The last quarter of each year terminating on the 31st day of December, annually.
The' instruction given to the jury by the Court below, makes
his first year commence on the 22d day of November, 1833, and
end twelve months thereafter; and so of the succeeding years.
The fractional period, which it treats as a full year, begins November 22d, 1835, and ends July 26th, 1836. It treats the terms
used in the statute, "any one year," as any period of time, equal
to twelve calendar rionths, whether it consists of portions of any
two fiscal or calendar years. It disregards the beginning of
quarters, weeks, or months, and has no reference to the accounting days by-quarters, or the fiscal year established by law, and
recognised by Congress, and the department from the first establishment of the treasury to the present time.
It is respectfully submitted that the entire legislation of Congress shows that the terms "any one year," when used in.reference to the subject of accounting, import that portion of time
intervening between the 1st day of January and A1st day of
December; and that to give the phrase, as used in the act of 20th
April, 1818, 3 Story, 1710, any other meaning, or such a meaning as will make it embrace any twelve consecutive months,
composing parts of any two years, will subvert-the design of
Congress, introduce perplexity in accounts, and occasion great
inconvenience, if it does not .produceabsurdities.
The act of 1818 is not an isolated piece of legislation, to be
construed without reference to any other law. There are other
statutes, so directly connected with the subject-matter, that they
should be considered, if doubts may reasonably be entertained
as to its true ponstruction. It is but part and parcel of a code,
and must be examined in reference to the system of laws, of
which it forms a part, in order that from the whole a constiuction may be given to it, which will lead to no inconvenient
results, or defeat the"legislative will.
In Pennington v. Cox, 2 Cranch, 35, it was held, that the details of one part of a law or code may contain regulations

144

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.Dickson.]

.restricting or modifying the extent of a general expression used
in another part of the same act, and that the whole should be
taken into view for the purpose of discovering the mind of the
legislature. Anl in Fisher et al. ads. The United States,2 Cranch,
399, 400, Mr. Jdstice Washington, (in a dissenting opinion, but
on this.point agreeing with every member of the Court,) said,
"that if, from a view of the whole law, or from other laws in
pari materia, the evident intention is different from the literal
import of the terms employed to express it in a particular part of
the law, that intention should prevail, for that, in fact,'is the will
of the legislature."
"So, if the literal expressions of the law would lead to absurd,
unjust, or incbnvenient consequences, such a construction should
be given as to avoid those consequences, if, from the purview of
the law, and giving effect to the words used, it mayfairlybe done."
It is by these rules that I propose to test the correctness of the
opinion of the Court below. By reference to the 6th sec. act
of 10th May, 1800, 1 Story, 786, it will be seen that Receivers
were required to render quarterly accounts to the Secretary of
the Treasury. That they were appointed not for a term of years,
but during good behaviour, or the pleasure of the President*for
the time being, and that they were entitled to a commission of one
per cent. on the moneys received. The act of March 26, 1804,
2 Story, 932, sec. 14, gave them a salary of five hundred dollars,
and a half of one per cent. in addition. The law of compensation thus stood until 1S18, when the act in question was passed.
At this period all the operations of the government were well
understood. The departments were formed, the days of rendering and settling accounts were established and known. The
act of 1817, 3 Story, 1632, sec. 13, was in force, making it *the
duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to cause all the accounts
of his department to be settled within the year. The accounting
days had been established for more than a quarter of a centurr,
'dividing each year into four quarters, and commencing and terminating the fiscal year on the first day of January, and the 31st
of December. There has been no innovation on the part of the
Executive or Congress, in this respect, since'the formation of the
government.
Looking at the object to be accomplished by the act of 1818,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

145

[The United Statis o. Dickson.]

can it be supposed that the term "1any one year" was ever intended to be so understood as to embrace any other period than
that established by usage and recognised by all the laws-any
other than the well known days-the four fixed quarters constituting a year? At each of which the Receiver was required to
render complete accounts, with the vouchers necessary to a
prompt settlement. Especially when we reflect, that these settlements were to pass at the close of the year from, the Auditor and Comptroller to the Register of the Treasury, there
with the vouchers forever to remain as a finished piece of business. That the balances were to be certified to the Secretary
of the Treasury as the basis of the future action of himself and
Congress; and that certified copies from the Register were made
evidence in all legal proceedings. The laws evidently, as well,
as the law makers, contemplated, at that date, that the four quarters of any one year would constitute the entire account of that
year; and that the accounts of any two years could n6t be
'blended together without a violation of tbe legislative will.
Such a thing as beginning or terminating ain-annual or quarterly
account in the middle of a quarter, a month, or a week, (except
at the commencement or termination of 6ffic,, when it arose ex
necessitate,) was then, as now, alike unknown to the department
and the laws, and would effectually break in upon that simplicity and order of keeping accounts, which has been wisely, and
for necessary purposes, established for more than half a, cehtury.
If, then, the terms of the act of 1818 were of doubtful import,
might it not be 61aimed, that an exposition contemporaneous
with the law itself, and always uniform, is strong, if not conclusive evidence of its own correctness? May it not be claimed
with propriety, that in ali their enactmentsi touching the subject
of accounts, Congress have legislated in express reference to the
existence of this principle as a fundamental one? If so, the rule
is conclusive. It seems to me, there is no doubt upon the point.
Yet I will not press it further than to observe, that it behooves
us to be cautious in the inquiry, whether inadvertently or intentionally a special innovation has been introduced by this act.
It is contended that the act may receive such a construction as
will harmonize with the laws and usages upon the subject of accounts, fdilly effect the object of its framers, and give to each and
VOL. XV.-N
19

146

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States.

Dickson.]

every sentence its appropriate meaning, without the least violence to the language employed.
ITo do this, it must be examined here as it has been by the
several eminent lawyers who, at various periods, have presided
in the general land office and treasury department, all of whom
adopted the rule which was applied in settling this account, and
all of whose settlements are erroneous, if the Court below was
not in error. In 1818, no 'such thing as a term of years for the
office of a Receiver of public money was known to the law.
The 1st section of the act of May 18, 1820, 3 Story, 1790, first
limited the office to the term of four years, and the same act, ii
the second section employs words limiting and defining the word
year, as there used, so as to clearly distinguish it from the accounting year. No aid in construing the aot of 1818 can be derived from this posterior law. We must look to the state of
things existing at the time of its passage, for what it meant then
t flieans now. It is evident that the amount of one and a half
per cent. had become exorbitant at some offices, owing to the
increase and irregularity of land sales, and that the object was
to limit the expenses of each office to a fixed sum per annum.
It is manifest that Congress considered six thousand dollars a
year an adequate compensation to both Register and Receiver;
that let the business be more or less at any office, in any one
year, this sum out of the public treasury was considered enough
to pay for all the services which the two officers would be able
to beptow upon one set of plats and books. And that, if little
business ivas to be done, a less sum would be ample pay for it.
Hence, a salary of five hundred dollars pe± annum was appropriated for each office, and five thousand dollars limited- as the
maximum commissions for both offices. This sum is all that the
law designed to appropriate, and this is not given absolutely, but
only upon condition that the receipts of the office should be such
as to entitle the officers to the sum of three thousand dollars each.
Nothing can be found in the old mischief or the new remedy;
nothing in the title or text of the act to induce the belief that any
change in the timc, the manner and form of rendering and
closing accounts was designed. The terms of the law are such
that they could have been literally complied with, without preventing the final adjustments required to be made yearly by the

JANUARY TERM, 1841

147

[The United States v. Dickfion.]
act of 1817, sec. 13, and the then existing Treasury regulation.
Any one year naturally imports the fiscal and calendar year.
It is tortured into an unnatural meaning, unknown to the common acceptation of the words, if made to embrace parts of different years.
But for argument sake, let it be admitted that the construction,
which stood unshaken till 1837, is erroneous; that according to
the judicial term "any one year" does not, as in the common
acceptation, import the fiscal and calendar year, known to the
laws and the alnanacks; that an entirething may be composed
of different portions of entirely different things, and still retain
its identity, and let us trace the consequences which must follow.
If the path remains plain, free from perplexity and confusion,
then construction may prevail -without public detriment, and
without resulting in embarrassment or absurdity.
There are seventy land offices, each having.a Register and
Receiver, who are bound to return tkeir accounts qi~arteriy, on
the last days of March, June, September, and December, annually, with the vouchers necessary to a prompt settlement. These
accounts, the Commissioner. of the general land office is obli Ad
to settle and pass over to the first Comptfoller, who revises and
approves them; reports the result to the Secretary of the Treasury; and then files them with the Register of the Treasury.
At this stage of the business, the law supposes the work to be
finished. In making the settlement the accounting offcer is
required to ascertain the money brought into the Treasury during
the year, and to allo*v the Register and Receiver each a commission of one per cent. thereon, if the sum does not exceed two
thousand five hundred dbllars. With four accounting days, at
stated periods, the work is simple and produces no difficulty.
Will it be equally so if the accounting days per annum are
doubled? But doubling the number will not effect the object,
for of the whole one hundred and forty officers, scarce any two
will be found who entered upon duty on the same day. It
must be trebled, giving twelve accounting days for each officer,
four fbr the quarterly fiscal accounts required by law, four to
give the data on which the Register's commission is to be computed, and four for that of the Receiver; and as to these last
accounts, those of one officer will be no check upon those of the

148

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Dickson.]

other, because, from the nature of the case, both accounts will
not cover the same period of time. Again, the result will often
give to one officer commissions on the sales of a calendar year
to the amount of five thousand dollars, while the other on the
same sales will be entitled to but two thousand five hundred
dollars, a thing which is manifestly against the spirit of the law.
It is notorious, that in years past repeated sales within a year
have been held at a newly opened land'office, and that in the
following year, the sales have been nominal only. The annual
reports of the department show frequeat cases where one quarter's
receipts amount to near a million, and the receipts of the preceding year falls short of twenty thousand dollars; while a third
year has net to the treasury over two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars.
Try the rule of the Court below by the operations of such an
office, supposing the Register to enter upon duty the 1st of
January, and the Receiver on the 1st of May, for the year 1834;
and that during the year 1834 no sales are had; that in March,
1835, a sale brings over three hundred thousand dollars, and in
December, 1835, a second sale brings other three hundred thousand dollars; that in 1836, no sales are had, and the office is
discontinued on the last day of December. In this Lase, the
Register will have held office just three years, and under the
rule of the Court, he could receive as commissions but two thousand five hundred dollars; it being the maximum upon the sales
from 1st of January to 31st of December, 1835. The Receiver,
however, whv held office three months less, and performed only
equal labour, would be allowed the maximum of two thousand
five hundred dollars on the sales in March, 1835, as it would be
within his first year; and also the maximum on the sale of December, 1835, as that would fall in his second year, from his
entrance upon duty. I submit that Congress never contemplated
such a result; and yet, under the rule of the C6urt, such cases
would be of daily'occurrence. It is doubted if a single officer
can be found whose accounts-have been settled since the year
1818, without varying greatly, possibly thousands, from what
this rule would give.
[Here an account, settled by Justice M'Lean, was read, show-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

149

(The United States v. Dickson.]
ing the rule of adjustment in 1820, when he was Commissioner
of the General Land Office, to be as contended for now.]
But the unequal results as to the officer is not the only objection. In the case put, and in all that can happen, it compels the
accountant to blend the operations of different years together.
Instead of an account being closed at the end of a year, as the
law contemplates, the officer is compelled to keep it open, and
often to overhaul a business which, in legal contemplation, is
already settled. Thus, in the case put, the account of the Receiver, which the law looks upon as closed on the 31st of December, 1834, must be re-opened, andfthree-fourths of a year's commissions allowed in the first quarter of 1835. And the account
for the year 1835 could not be closed at the end of that year,
because out of the sums received, an allowance must be made to
the Receiver for the year 1836, during which no sales were had.
Instead of being provided with given data upon which to make
his annual estimates, the Secretary of the Treasury, under such
a plan of doing business, must ever act upon conjecture, and can
never .inform Congress, ht the opening of, or during a session, of
the actual state of the ireasury; foi he can never possess accurate
data until near a year has elapsed from the day of the date of
the officer's last appointment.
Could the department, with this rule in operation, ever form,
at the close of the year, an estimate of the annual 'net receipts
of such offices as New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore,
and New Orleans,'which would approximate accuracy by from
ten to fifty thousand dollars ? The list of officers is from ten to
two hundred at each of those places, each of whose salary, or
pay, is in like manner limited. It-would be,difficult, if not impossible. It would seem that the inconveniences which flow
from the rule, and the apparent effect it will have in defeating
the legislative intent to regulate and equalize the pay of Registers, and Receivers, prove its unsoundness. More especially
as by considering the words "quarter," "yearly," of the act of
1800, to mean fourth parts of the "any one year," mentioned
in.the act of 1818; and the phrase "any one year," to import
simply the said four quarters, an easy and natural sense and
meaning is allowed to each phrase; all vexation, confusion, and
apparent inequality of emoluments is avoided, and perfect har-

150

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Dickson.]

mony is found to exist between this law and all others upon the
subject of accounting.
Have the United States-been prej ddiced by the supposed error
in this case ? A pro rata allowance of commissions from November 22d, 1833, to December 31st, as will be seen, has been allowed
by the jury, although it does not-appear that any sale was made,
or money paid into "the treasury during that time. This error,
if it be one, is carried e Jugh the whole term of the Receiver,
(Rec. 10, 11,) and deducts from the receipts of 1834 over twentyseven hundred dollars.
2d. The Court erred in treating the fraction of two quarters
and twenty-six days as a full year, and allowing therefor twentyfive hundred dollars, instead of fourteen hundred and twentyeight dollars, the pro rata allowance. The receipts of this fractional year were two hundred nd eighty-five thousand nine
hundred and fifty-nine dollars. The receipts of the residue of the
year were two hundred and forty-nine thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven dollars. The accounting officers allowed
Dickson fourteen hundred ant twenty-eight dollars, and to his
successor, for the residue of the year, ten hundred and seventytwo dollars. - The decision of the Court below gives all to Dickson, and leaves nothing for his successor, without taking double
commissions out of the collections of that year.
Dickson resigned after serving half a year. Can he have ali
that Congress provided for kebping the office open for the year
1836; and shall his successor have nothing? We must suppose
that in 1818 Congre5 knew that land sales occurred at irregular
periods; that money from this source was collected in unequal
quantities; and that the accounts of each year would be settled
separately. All this was notorious. It was well known that
the footing of accounts on the 31st of December, would enable
the accountant to adjust the commissions upon principles of
equity as between different officers and the government. Can
it be inferred that an"innovation upon the fundamental principles
of settling accounts was designed? Can we presume that by implication, a door was meant to be opened, out. of which public
moAey was to flow, in the shape of land-office emoluments, at
a greater rate for each office than six thousand dollars per annum?
The law does not, in direct terms, appropriate more; and the.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

151

[The United States v. Dickson.]

Constitution prohibits the payment of what an act has not appropriated. The money received'for lands is public money. The
sole title of any officer to any part of it must be derived from the
act. That only gives him title by prescribing to the accountant
the duty of making him an allowance, when he closes his yearly
account. If Mr. Dickson's fraction of a year will draw full pay,
by what rule can any other man's fractional year be deprived
of full pay? The cases have been frequent, in times past, and
may be expected to be so in future, where a new office has
realised to the amount of say three millions in a year, one per
cent. of which, to each officer, m akes an aggregate of sixty thousand dollars.
Suppose a public land sale at some such office to take place
each month in twelve, and each sale to amount to two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, and a new set of officers to be given
for each month; will each month not be a fractional year? and
will not each fraction be as well entitled to the maximum of two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars as 1Mr. Dickson's fraction?
Whei. any one year is thug multiplied into twelve years, the cost
of 1he office per annum will be sixty-one instead of six thousand
dollars; and the manifest intention of the legislature Will be defeated. It will not do to say that this is an extreme case, for
the substantial facts as supposed have often occurred in practice.
Let the rule of the Court below be forced upon the department,
and it.is powerless, and cannot prevent hereafter the results supposed. The President must keep land offices supplied with
officers. He cannot force these officers to continue in service
after they choose to resign. He cannot refuse to sell lands when
the laws direct a sale. He is bound by oath to see all laws
executed, and must employ the means given for that purpose.
Will it be wise to suppose that men having adverse pecuniary
interests to be subserved by a contrary course, will hold themselves long to the guidance of a rule of conscience more fair than
the one which this Court is to pronounce lawful? It is far more
likelyi that public officers will square their consciences to the
morality of the rules judicially established.
Is there any difficulty to prevent the application of a rule
which will accomplish the object of Congress, in requiring annual settlements? Does not the whole of "any one year," as

152

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Dickson.]

well as the whole of any other object, comprise all its parts?
Does not the law contemplate that each land office has one
Receiver always, and never but ond ? Can it be doubted, that
the object of the act of 1818, was to limit the whole expenses
of an bffice to six thousanu dollars per year. If there is no difficulty in discovering the answers, then why shall not practice
give efficacy to the law, and make it mean what its makers
,meant? The general land office and the Comptroller have done
this. They found that Dixon had received and paid into the
Treasury in 1826, money sufficient to entitle him to the maximum
of commissions, and, that*his successor had also done the same
thing, and they allowed each his due proportion. They gave to
each what he earned, and broke down no rule in so doing, and
opened no door'through which the nation may be plundered, or
the Treasury pillaged. In what was their error? Did they a
wrong.?
It has been supposed, that the case of an officer, who should
be discontinued after three months' service, he having, in that
time, paid two hufidred and fifty thousand dollars into the Treasury; would be a case of hardship, and it has been asked, if the
Government 'would not be a gainer under the rule contended for,
if the sucbessor, in the last three quarters, should make no sales,
and of consequence earn no commissions; or. whether, to avoid
the supposed evil, the Government would give to the latter the
earnings of the former? To*all this I have to observe, that in
examining the accounts as settled by the department, ever since
1818, r have never found any case of hardship of the kind. In
the case supposed, it would be easy to avoid all injustice, by
allowing to each man what he earned. The incumbent of the
first quarter of the year earned full commissions, therefore give
it to him. The incumbent for the last three quarters earned none,
and would of course neither claim or receive any. Each would
have his own, and the United States would retain nothing which
the law designed to bestow upon others. Thus, in Dixon's case,
if,for the half of the year 1836, he would claim the compensation
of the full year, and reverse the settlement of the department, he
should prove his case fully by showing to the Court that no other
officer earned an r commissions during the same period. This
he did not do, and could not have done.- Without this proof, the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.
[The Unit

153

States v. Diclcson.

presumption- of law is that the accounts were properly and equitably adjusted, Such.also is the fact.
Mr. Gilpin, the Attorney General, for the United States.
The very full examination of the questions connected with this
case, by Mr. Birchard, the Solicitor of the Treasury; leaves little
room for further remark. It may not, however, be: useless to advert to the long settled system, which has prevailed, with manifest
advantage of the public interest, 4nd with no injustice, taking the
-whole system together, to individuals; and also to notice the unbroken series of laws which seem, te. establish its accordance
with legislative intention. The points at issue, do not, in the
present instance -involve any c6nsiderable sum of money, buL
their settlement is extremely important in the keeping of the accounts at the Treasury. Itis very desirable that all doubt in regard to them should be Temoved, and that a system, uniform in
itself, and in. accordance with the judicial interpretation of the
law, should be at once,and generally, introduced into the Treasury
Department, if that now existing be incorrect.
The compensation of all officers charged with the- collection
of the revenuie, whether derived from the customs or the public
lands, depends, not on a fixed salary, but 6n their receipts. It
is graduated either by a commission on moneys collected, or by
the amount of fees received. It depends, therefore, on their own
accounts. These accounts must be examihed and adjusted to
fix their compensation.
The mode, therefore, of keeping and rendering them, should
be such as to exhibit, with entire uniformity, and accordance of
parts, the two things; the correct discharge of duty in collecting
the public money, and. the exact amount of compensation due
therefor. For each of these objects are the accounts required.
They should be so framed as to exhibit each, whenever they are
adjusted. The rule adopted, to effect this, and practised from the
beginning of the government, has been to adjust the accounts of
these officers on the first days of January, April, July, and October. If their term of office commenced on an intervening day,
1he first account was required to be adjusted; when the firsLof
these days arrived;, if it terminated between them, the account
was settled for the fraction that elapsed between the last of those
20

154

SUPREME COURT.
EThe United Stae8 v. Dickvn.]

days, and the end of the official term. For these regular periods,
he accounts were rendered ; the commissions, fees, and emoluments, during these, were returned and calculated ; the compensation was adjusted and allowed'according to thein. In carrying
out the sysiem on these principles, the fiscal year has been invariably regarded as coincident with the calendar year, commencing on the first of January, and ending on the thirty-first of
December.
. In the case now before the Court, thle Receiver was appointed
to office on the 22d November, 1833, and held it until the 26th
July, 1836. During his first year, according to the mode of
settling his accounts at the Treasury, his official term was for the
fraction intervening between the 22d November and the 31st
December. It then extended through the years 1834 and 1835.
It embraced the two quarters of 1836,1o the 1st July, and the
fractional period of the third quarter, up to the 26th of that
month. The District Judge of Mississippi, has declared this
adjustment to be at variance with the law, and has decided that
the first year of the Receiver's official term was for twelve months,
ending on the 22d November, 1834; the second ending on the
same day of 1835.; and that the interval between that day and
the following 26th of July, is. to be regarded as the fraction of
his third official year.
It is obvious that the annual compensation, derived from commissions on moneys, or fees received during the year, may differ
considerably, as it is calculated by one of these modes, or the
other. It may differ in favour, or against the officer, according
to the period of the year, at which the moneys or fees are received. Neither the one mode, nor the other, however, will
operate uniformly for, or against the officer; that depends on the
amount and period of the receipts, taken in connection with the
time his official term began. The propriety, therefore, of the
regulation of the Treasury Department, as compared with that
now established by the District Judge, is. not to be tested by its
effect to increase or diminish the amount of an officer's compensation. Whatever mode- this Court shall direct henceforth to be
pursued, it will not, by so doing, augment or diminish the average compensation. It may lessen or increase it in a particular
case, accordingly as greater or less sums of money happen to be

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

155

[The United States v. Diqksn.]

received at a. particular period, but the general result of either
plan, will not be to give, on the average, either &feater or less
compensation.
Is it a matter of equal-indifference, as regards the fiscal operations of the Treasury ? .1 Will the public accounts be kept with
the same uniformity, simplicity, and accordance with the views
of the legislature, if the annual term-the "yearZ) of the officer
-is made to commence and end with the day of his apointment, in each successive year."
Such a regulation will be attended with manifest public inconvenience, and it is contrary to the whole scope of legislative
enactments.
1. The invaidable" practice of the government has been to
make the compensation of- its officers, annual; to allow them a
certain sum "_for the year." Not -less invariable has been its
practice to require that their accounts of the moneys they collect,
shall be rendered." quarterly ;" that is for every three months.
When the amount of annual compensation is made to depend
on the amount of money collected, it must be ascertained from
these accounts. Hence it follows, as a necessary consequence,
that the accpunts must be for periods corresponding with the
periods of compensation. If the period of compensation be irregular, and governed by each particular case, the'accounts must
be equally irregular; they must be made up for the period of
compensation, since the compensation depends upon them. It
will thus be seen, that if the year is to be such as is designated
by the District Judge, there must be a settlement of the accounts
when it expires; and this at the end of each year throughout
the term of the officer. If the quarterly accounts are, to agree
with this year, then are they equally irregtilar; -but if not, then
must there be a division in the account of that quarter, in every
year when the annual term expires; or there must be kept two
sets of accounts, embracing. exactly the same items of moneys
collected, but closing at different days, by one of which, the
commissions are to be ascertaijied, and, by the other, the general fiscal duties. Could any thing' lead to greater confusion,
and irregularity, than such a system as this? Yet it cannot be
obviated, if the fiscal year is to be made to vary with the appointment of the officer.

156

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Dickson.]

It cannot be said that the accounts may be kept, according to
the usual system, throughout the term of office, and then adjusted
for the fraction of the closing quarter. This plan will not accord
with the law. The law hays the officer is to receive a commission for collections "during the year ;" that year is either the
one beginning with the date of his appointment, or it is the fiscal
year heretofore adopted at the Treasury; They cannot be
blended during the term. Take the case of the defendant. He
is entitled to all the commiss'ions he receives in each year, pro
Vided they do not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars.
Suppose that the commissions up to the 22d November, 1834,
amount to that sum; will he not require that the account should
be then adjusted and closed? Must it not b-e so; or, if not, does
it not become necessary to dissect informally one of the q iarterly
accounts of every year? At the end of his term he will demand
that the amount of his commissions shall be made apparent in
each year of his .term; and this can only be done by a revision
of the whole series of accounts, and a re-adjustment of what has
been once settled; a revision and re-adjustment not only fraught
with inconvenience, but directly contrary to that provision of law
which requires the settlement of accounts quarterly, and their
deposit with the Register, so as. to constitute an unalterable and
permanent record.
But the inconvenience does not end here. It is well known
that the compensation of different officers may depend on commissions upon the same sums of money collected. Thus, the
Register and the Receiver are entitled to commissions on the
same sums of money collected at the land offices; the Collectors,
Naval Officers, and Surveyors are entitled to fees on the same
entries at the custoih houses. The accounts, therefore, of the
moneys so received should correspond; they are thus a check
upon each other, and they obviate a multiplicity of accounts.
,Yet how can this be accomplished, if the annual terms of each
of these officeis are made to differ entirely from those of the others,
by commencing with the day of:their appointment?
To such inconveniences shall, we be led if we change the
settled. systemh, adopted at the Treasury iinmediately after the
organization of the g'overnment, and followed, Nithout deviatiop,
true thAt an argument ab ificonvenienti is
for fifty years. It "is

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

157

[The United States v. Dickson.]

not to be pressed against the clearly ascertained rights of individuals, nor is a construction made by the executive officers, to
be presented as a controlling authority or precedent to a judicial
tribunal. But in this case it is to be remembered that the end
to be attained is not the interest of an individual, but the best
mode of effecting a great public object; that besides, in point of
fact, the interest of the individuals is not, as a'general rule, affected
injuriously by one system more than the other; and that the
whole subject is one to which the test of public convenience or
the reverse may be applied with peculiar propriety. The construction adopted by the Treasury Department may not have in
itself any controlling weight, but it is to be recollected that its
adoption, at an early period, fixed a rule for the settlement of
accounts and compensation well known to the country and the
legislature; numerous laws upon these subjects have since been
passed; and it is not, therefore, an unjust inference that Coigress
has intended its legislation-fo be applicable to that construction.
2. If the series of acts of Congress is examined, t will not be
less apparent that, from the beginning of the government, they
have contemplated annual salaries as he compensation of. these
officers, and quarterly settlements of their accounts; and this, not
for arbitrary and uncertain periods, but for distinct and ascertained fiscal terms. This is the case as well with officers of the
customs as with, those connected with the public lands. The
regular days of quarterly settlement, a8 adopted at the Treasury,
are also recognised by these acts.' 1 Story's Laws, 17. 26. 129.
150. 157. 228. 592. 665. 782. 786. 2 Story's Laws, S68. 932,
903. 950. 1309. 3 Story's Laws, 1632. 1710. 1790. 1792. 1853.
1857. 1876. 1916. Ii seems impossible to construe these various
provisions as fixing a different rule or period for accounting and
for making compensation. The compensation is "for the year;"
for the duties performed "during the year;" for the duties embraced in the"accounts as rendered and settled "for the year."
Fixed annual compensation is that which is almost universally
establTsti d for all offices.- The exceptions are comparatively
few; and those few Congress are constantly removing, as they
grow up from some incidental circumstance. The fund from
which this compensation is paid does not affect its character or
amount. Whether it is paid by a commission out-of the accruVoL. X.-O

SUPREiE COURT.
[The United States v. Dickson.]l

.ing revenue, before it goes into the treasury, or whether it is
drawn from the Treasury afterwards, is immaterial, if the sum
fixed be so much "for the year." If the sum and the term are
both fixe.d, the rompensation is in reality a salary, and the payment .of it is to be allowed and accounted for, exactly as if it
were a salary, payable by annual appropriation out of the Treasury. The mere fact that the compensation is for the collection
of money, cannot warrant an increase in proportion to the
amount collected. From the Treasurer of the United States
down to the Collector of the smallest port, there are numerous
officers. charged with the management of the public moneys, yet
such a general rule has never been adopted.
It would seem, then, that whether we take the system established by public convenience, and by the construction early
given to the regulations made for the settlement of accounts and
the payment of compensation depending on those accounts; or
whether we follow the general scope of the long series of legislative enactments, we are equally authorized to adhere to the
existing practice, in preference to that which the decision of the
District Judge of Mississippi will introduce in lieu of it.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a case of a writ of error to the Circuit Court, for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The defendant in error, Samuel W. Dickson, was duly appointed a Receiver of Public Moneys, for the Choctaw district, in Mississippi, and entered upon the duties of his office, on the 22d of
November, 1833. He continued to hold the office until the 26th
of July. 1836, when he resigned it. In May, 1839, a suit was
instituted upon his official bond, against him and his sureties, to
recover certain sums of public moneys received by him, and not
paid over. At the trial of the cause, Dickson insisted upon certain credits to be allowed to him, and proved the receipt by him,
while Receiver, into his office, as Receiver of public money,
amounting to more than two hundred and fifty thousand dollars,
in each year, during the two years of his continuance in office:
and also of more than two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
for the fraction of a year, commencing on the 22d of NQvembur,
1835, and ending-on the 26th of July, 186, when he resigned

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

159

[The United States v. Dickson.]

his o~fce; and he also proved the depositing of sufficient amounts
in Natchez, to entitle him to credit for the disputed items of his
account. Upon this evidence, the Court below charged the jury
that Dickson was entitled to credit for three thousand dollars, as
compensation, including his salary of five hundred dollars, for
the year commencing on the 22d of November, 1833, and ending
on the 22d of November, 1834; and to the like componsation
for the year commencing on the 22d of November, 1834; and
ending on the 22d of November, 1835: and that for the fraction
of a year between the 22d of November, 1835, and the 26th of
July, 1836, he was entitled to two thousand five hundred dollars
for commissions. To this opinion, and charge of the Court, a bill
of exceptions was taken by the United States; and a verdict
having been found accordingly by ihe jury, and judgment rendered thereon; the present writ of error has been brought to
revise that judgment.
Upon the argument in this Court, two points have been made,
on behalf of the United States: First, That the charge of the
Court below was erroneous, in allowing the Receiver to calculate
his yearly commission on the amount of public moneys resceived
by him, during a year, commencing from the date of his appointment; instead of calculating it by the fiscal year, ivhich commences with the calendar year, or on the first day of January of
every year. Secondly, That the charge of the Court below was
erroneous, in allowing the Receiver to charge the whole yearly
maximum of commissions for the -fractional portion of the year
in which he resigned.
The validity of these objections to the charge of the Circuit
Court. must essentially depend upon the true interpretation of
the act of the 20th of April, 1818, ch. 118. Originally, the Receivers of Public Moneys in the land offices, were paid a commission of one per cent. on the moneys received by them, as a
compensatioil for clerk hire, receiving, and keeping, and transmitting the public moneys to the Treasury of the United States.
This was originally provided by the act of the loth of May,
1800, ch. 55. § 6. By the act of the 26th of March, 1804, ch.
35. § 14, the compensation was increased by an addition of onehalf per cent. to the former commission, and also of an annual
salary of .ivehundred dollars, with the exception of the land
-

160

SUPREME COURT
[The United States v. Dickson.]

office of Marietta, where the annual 9,dary was two hundred
dollars, only. Then came the act of the 20th of April, 1818, ch.
118, which piovided "that instead of the compensation now allowed by law to the Receivers of the Public Moneys, for the
lands of the United States, they shall receive an annual salary
of ve hundred dollars each, and a commission of ohe per cent.
on the moneys received, as a compensation for clerk hire, receiving, safe keeping, and transmitting such moneys to the
Treasury of the United States: provided always, that tlVe whole
amount which any Receiver of Public Moneys shall receive,
under the provisions of this act, shall not exceed for any one
year, th sum of three thousand dollars."
The main controversy in the present case, turns upon the
meaning of the phrase, "any one year," in the foregoing section.
Does it mean "1any one year" calculated from the date of the
commission of the Receiver? or does it mean "any one year"
commencing with the calendar year, that is, with the 1st of
January of each year; which is commonly called, in matters
connected with the Treasury Department, the fiscal year .?
The argument addressed to us on behalf of the government,
is, that it means the latter. It is said that all accounting officers
(with some unimportant exceptions) are required by law, and
the regulations of the Treasury Department, to render quarterly
accounts of the moneys received by them, and of the disbursements made.by them, at the end of each quarter of the calendar
year; (see act of 10th of May, 1800, ch. 55;) and that all the
accounts kept at the Treasury Department are governed by this
mode of proceeding: and that if any other mode of keeping the
accounts were adopted, it would introduce endless embarrassment and confusion into the Department, and take away the
only adequate means of ascertaining from time to time the
exact financial state thereof, as to debts, and credits, and disbursements, which is so essential to the public security, and regular operations of the government. And hencej in order to give
fuIl effect to this system, it is contended that it is necessary, in all
laws of this character, to construe the year to mean the fiscal year.
Admitting the argument in its full force, (and we are not disposed to controvert the propriety of the present mode of.keeping
the public accounts, as being founded as well in law, as in public

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

161

[The United States v.Dickson.]

convenience,) still it does not appear to us to justify the conclusion attempted to be drawn from it. In short, we do not perceive what connexion the mode of keeping the accounts in the
Treasury' Department, has with the compensation allowed by
law to any public officer. That compensation is to be ascertained from the terms of the law allowing it; and whenever the.
amount is' once ascertained, according to those terms, it is to be
allowed and credited to the officer, whatever may be the form
in which the public accounts are kept, or the particular times at
which they are required to be rendered and settled. Nor are
we able- to understand why the accounts of any public officer
may not be made up regularly at the end of every fiscal quarter,
allowing such cdmpensation as he has then earned and is entitled
to by law, where his precedent term-of service has been less than
a full quarter, in consequence of an intermediate appointment to
office. The allowance for the fraction of a quarter may just as
readily be made at the commencement of his term of servite, by
reason of such an intermediate appointment, as it may be where
his office terminates in the midst of a quarter; in which case, (as
is admitted,) from necessity, the fraction is brought into his
closing official account.
It has been also argued, that the uniform construction given
to the act of 1818, ever since its passage, by the Treasury Department, has been, that the act has reference to the fiscal
year. The construction so given by the Treasury .Depdrtment
to any law affecting its arrangemefits and concerns, is certainly
entitled to great respect. Still, however, if it is not in conformity to the true intendment and provisions of the law, it cannot be
permitted to conclude the judgment of a Court of justice. The
construction given to the laws by any department of the executive government, is necessarily ex parte, without the benefit of an
opposing argument, in a suit where the very matter is in controversy ; and when the construction is once given, there is no opportunity to question or revise it by those who are most interested
in it as officers, deriving their salary and emioluments therefrom,
for they cannot bring the case to the test of a judicial decision.
It is only when they are sued by the government for some supposed default or btlance, that they can assert their rights. Their
acquiescence, therefore, is almost from a moral necessity, when
21
o2

162

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Dickson.]

there is no choice but obedience, as a matter of policy or duty.
But, it is not to be forgotten, that ours is a government of laws,
and not of men; and that the Judicial Department has imposed
upon it, by the Constitution, the solemn duty to interpret the
laws, in the last resort; and however disagreeable that duty
may be, in cases where its own judgment shall differ from that
of other high functionaries, it is not at liberty to surrender, or to
waive it.
•The present question, then, must be decided upon the same
principles by which we ascertain the interpretation of all other
laws; by the intention of the legislature as it is to be deduced
from the language and the apparent object of the enactment.
The object of the act of 1818, manifestly is to provide a suitable compensation for the Receivers and Registers of Public
Moneys fbr the public lands. The compensation is for services
to be rendeied by them, officially, during their continuance in
office; and up to a certain point, at least, it is in exact proportion to the extent and duration of those services, and the responsibility incurred thereby. The compensation is measured by
years. It is to be by an annual salary, and by a commissiol not
excee*ding an annual amount. The words are, that "they shall
receive an annual salary of five hundred dollars each." The
natural interpretation of these words, certainly is, that the salary
is to commence at the time when the service is to commence;
and that they are to be contemporaneous with each other. We
believe this to be the uniform interpretation of all laws of this
sort; and that when any person takes office in an intermediate
time between one quarter and another, the practice is to pay
him a proportion of the quarter's salary, accordingly; and if he
leaves office beflre the end of his-oficial year, to pay him for
the like proportion of the last quarter. Indeed it was admitted
at the argument, that this is the rule adopted at the Treasury
Department itself, in relation to the salaries of officers, viz.:
that it is begun and ended with the official year; and not with
the fiscal year. Nor was it suggested that, in this particular, any
difficulty arose, as to the mode of -keeping 'and settling the official accounts at the Treasury, at the end of each quarter, or
of .the fiscal year.
If, then, the natural interpretation of the words of the act, as.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

163

he United States v. Dickson.]

to the salary; has reference to the official year, and not to the
fiscal year; what ground is there to presume that Congress, in the
subsequent words regulating the commission; did not use the
word year in the like sense ? There is nothing in the language
or in the nature of the compensation, which leads us to the conclusion that Congress had in view the fiscal year, or the mode of
keeping the accounts in the Treasury Department, as guides to fix
the interpretation of the word year. For aught that appears, it
was used in its ordinary sense. The words are, 5'and a commission of one per cent. on the moneys received, as a compensation for clerk-hire, receiving, safe keeping, and transmitting
such moneys of the United States; provided always, that the
whole amount \vhich any Receiver of Public Moneys shall receive under the provisions of this act, shall not exceed, for any
one year, the sum of three thousand dollars." The commission
is on the moneys received by any one officer, not by one or more
officers, during any one year of his services; not during any
one calendar year, for the services of one or more officers in that
year. It is his compensation for clerk-hire, paid by him, and
for his responsibilities in receiving, keeping, and transmitting
the public moneys; and not-or his services and responsibility in
connexion with other officers. The commission is a compensation attached to the particular officer for his yearly service,
and not to the office itself for a fiscal year. If the intention of
the legislature had been what the argument for the United'States
supposes, the language of the proviso would have been different;
it would have been,-provided that the United States shall not, in
any one calendar year, pay more than one per centum upon all
the moneys received during that year; and that the commission
for any one year to whomsoever paid, shall not, in the whole,
exceed the sum of twenty-five hundred dollars. It need not be
said, how" entirely different in its scope and legal intendment
such language is from that of the present proviso; and yet the
argument is, that the Court should give them precisely the same
interpretation. We cannot but think that this is to call upon the
Court, not to expound the act as it is, but to frame its provisions
anew, upon a conjecture of what might have been the original
intention and object of Congress.
It is further urged, that unless we interpret the words to refer

164

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Dickson.]

to the fiscal year, great inconveniences may arise; and the government may, by there being several Receivers in ofiihe during one
and the same fiscal year, each of whom may have received more
public moneys than would entitle him to the maximum of commissions, be compellable to pay more than twenty-five hundred
dollars in one year; nay, may actually pay twice or thrice that
amount. Suppose it might be so, it would be a case of very
rare occurrence; and to put an extreme case is not a good test
of the fair and just interpretation .of any statute. In such
a case each successive Receiver would only receive his just proportion of the year's salary, and no more commission than Congrass itself had established to be a reasonable compensation for
his expenditures and responsibilities in receiving, safe keeping,
and transmitting the public moneys. There is -nothing in the
reason of the case, why each successive officer, \vho has incurred
the full responsibility, by the receipt of two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars, should not receive the whole commission up to
that extent. The argument ab- inconvenienti, therefore, under
such circumstances, does not address itself to this Court with the
force which it has been supposed to possess. It amounts merely
to this, that the act is defective in some of its details; and does
not reach all the cases which ought to be .pyovided fof.
But there would be inconveniences, not to say apparent hardships, upon the Receivers, in adopting the construction contended
for on behalf of the government. Thus, suppose a Receiver
should die, or be removed from office without any default on
his own part, during the fiscal year, and after he had received
and become responsible for public moneys exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand dollars; in such a case, the extent of the
act would seem fairly to entitle him to the full commission of
two thousand five hundred dollars; and yet, according to the
argument, he would be compelled to submit to an apportionment, which might reduce it to a quarter part thereof.
There is another consideration not unimportant in the construction of the act; it is, that the limitation of the compensation
which any Receiver is to receive for any one year, is not, including his salary, to exceed the sum of three thousand dollars. So
that here we have both salary and commissions united together
in the ascertainment of the amount; and, of course, the year,

JANUARY TERM,

1841.

165

(The United States v. Dickson.]

with reference to each, must have the same period of commencement and termination. If, therefore, the. salary is to be ascertainedby the official year, as has been already suggested, it
would se6m to be an irresistible conclusion, that the same period
must be assigned for the commissions.
Passing from these considerationc to another, which necessarily brings under review the second point of objection to the
charge of the Court beloxr; we are led to the general rule of law
which has always prevailed, and become consecrated almost as
a maxim in the interpretation of statutes, that where the eracting
clause is general in its language and objects, and a proviso is
afterwards introduced, that proviso is construed strictly, and takes
no case out of the enacting clause which does not fall fairly
within its terms. In short, a proviso carves special exceptions
only out of the enacting clause; and those who set up any such
exception, must establish it as being within the words as weil as
within the reasoxi thereof. Applying this rule to the dircumstar.:es of the present case, how doeb it stand? The enacting
clause gives to each Receiver a commission of one per cent. upon
all the public moneys received by him. This was precisely in
conformity to the antecedent laws. The proviso limits that per
centage to an amount not exceeding two thousand five hundred
dollars; for any one year. Until, then, the per centage of the
particular Receiver has reached that amount, in whatever period
of the year it may arrive, the proviso, according to its very terms,
has no operation: and when that maximum is reached, the per
centage ceases, whether any more public moneys are received
by that officer or not.. The case, then, of the present Receiver
falls directly within the enacting clause. He seeks, only the
maximum commissions upon the moneys actually received by
him during his continuance in office; and the proviso either does
not touch his case, or it only operates to cut off all subsequent
commissions from him,.for other moneys received during his
continuance in office. The proviso contains no limitations of his
per centage, by connecting it with, or making it dependent upon
the commissions, or the receipt of public moneys by his successor
in office. The proviso is, that he shall receive no more for any
one year; not that any other Receiver may not receive a like
compensation accruing from his subsequent appointment and

166

SU] REME COURT.
[The United States v. Dickson.]

receipts in office, for the portion of any year which is then
unexpired.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that there is no error in
the charge and opinion of the Court below; and, therefore, the
judgment is affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Sonthern, District of Mississippi and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby; affirmed.

