OCTOBER TERM, 1992
Syllabus

MISSISSIPPI ET AL. v. LOUISIANA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT
No. 91-1158.

Argued November 9, 1992-Decided December 14, 1992

After private plaintiffs brought suit against private defendants in the District Court to quiet title to certain land riparian to the Mississippi River,
Louisiana intervened in the action and fied a third-party complaint
against Mississippi seeking to determine the boundary between the two
States in the vicinity of the disputed land. Following this Court's denial of leave to Louisiana to file a bill of complaint against Mississippi in
this Court, the District Court found the land in question to be part of
Mississippi and quieted title in the plaintiffs. The Court of Appeals
reversed.
Held. The uncompromising language of 28 U. S. C. § 1251(a), which gives
to this Court "original and exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies
between two or more States" (emphasis added), deprived the District
Court of jurisdiction over Louisiana's third-party complaint against Mississippi. Though § 1251(a) is phrased in terms of a grant of jurisdiction
to this Court, the plain meaning of "exclusive" necessarily denies jurisdiction of such cases to any other federal court. See, e. g., California
v. Arizona, 440 U. S. 59, 63. The District Court's adjudication of a private action involving the location of the boundary between two States
does not violate § 1251(a), since that section speaks in terms of parties,
not claims or issues. But the adjudication of such an action would not
be binding on the States in any way. Because both of the courts below
intermixed the questions of title to real property and of the state boundary's location, it must be determined on remand whether on this record
the claims of title may fairly be decided without additional proceedings
in the District Court. Pp. 75-79.
937 F. 2d 247, reversed and remanded.
REHNQUIST, C. J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.
James W. McCartney argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were Robert R. Bailess, CharlesAlan
Wright, Mike Moore, Robert E. Sanders, and Richard H.

Page.

MISSISSIPPI v. LOUISIANA
Opinion of the Court

Gary L. Keyser, Assistant Attorney General of Louisiana,
argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief
were Richard P. Ieyoub, Attorney General of Louisiana, and
E. Kay Kirkpatrick, Assistant Attorney General.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was originally commenced by private plaintiffs
suing other private defendants in the District Court for the
Southern District of Mississippi to quiet title to certain land
riparian to the Mississippi River. The State of Louisiana
intervened in the action and filed a third-party complaint
against the State of Mississippi seeking to determine the
boundary between the two States in the vicinity of the disputed land. We hold that 28 U. S. C. § 1251(a), granting to
this Court original and exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies between two States, deprived the District Court
of jurisdiction of Louisiana's third-party complaint against
Mississippi.
The land in question lies along the west bank of the Mississippi River near Lake Providence, Louisiana. The private
plaintiffs, known as the Houston Group, alleged that they
own the land in fee simple as a result of a homestead patent
issued by the United States in 1888 and a deed issued by
Mississippi in 1933. Louisiana and the Lake Providence
Port Commission intervened in the title dispute and filed a
third-party complaint against Mississippi seeking a determination of the boundary between the States. Louisiana then
sought leave to file a bill of complaint against Mississippi in
this Court. Mississippi opposed the motion in view of the
pendency of the District Court action, and also emphasized
that the case was originally a dispute between private parties: "Houston brought the suit to establish the boundary line
to their land. It is incidental that the boundary line is also
alleged to be the State line." App. to Pet. for Cert. 86a.

Cite as: 506 U. S. 73 (1992)
Opinion of the Court

We denied leave to file, Louisiana v. Mississippi, 488 U. S.
990 (1988).
The District Court thereafter found that the thalweg, frozen by an avulsive shift in the river, was to the west of the
disputed land and thus placed it within Mississippi. Alternatively, the District Court concluded that the disputed land
was part of Mississippi because "Louisiana has acquiesced in
the exercise of the exclusive jurisdiction over the island by
...Mississippi."
App. to Pet. for Cert. 40a. Having found
the land to be part of Mississippi, the District Court then
considered the ownership question and quieted title in the
Houston Group.
The Court of Appeals reversed, rejecting the District
Court's rulings both on the location of the thalweg and on
acquiescence, Houston v. Thomas, 937 F. 2d 247 (CA5 1991).
We granted certiorari on these two questions and on a third
that we formulated: "Did the District Court properly assert
jurisdiction over respondents' third-party complaint against
petitioner State of Mississippi?" 503 U. S. 935 (1992). We
now reverse.
The constitutional and statutory provisions necessary to
our decision are these:
Article III,§ 2, of the Constitution:
"The judicial Power [of the United States] shall extend
Controversies between two or more States; ....
"In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public
Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State
shall be Party, the supreme Court shall have original
Jurisdiction."
...to

Title 28 U. S. C. § 1331: "The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States."
Title 28 U. S. C. § 1251(a): "The Supreme Court shall have
original and exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies between two or more States."

MISSISSIPPI v. LOUISIANA
Opinion of the Court

Mississippi, even though its contentions as to the boundary
between itself and Louisiana were rejected by the Court of
Appeals, urges us to find that the District Court had jurisdiction of the third-party complaint that Louisiana brought
against it. Mississippi argues that our refusal to allow Louisiana to file an original complaint to determine the boundary
between the two States must, by implication, have indicated
that the District Court was a proper forum for the resolution of that question. This is particularly true, Mississippi
argues, since its opposition to Louisiana's motion to file its
complaint in this Court was premised in part on the contention that the boundary question could be determined in the
then-pending action between the private landowners in the
District Court. Mississippi asserts that that court had jurisdiction by virtue of 28 U. S. C. § 1331, which confers jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under federal law on the
District Court.
If it were not for the existence of 28 U. S. C. § 1251(a), Mississippi's arguments would be quite plausible. We have said
more than once that our original jurisdiction should be exercised only "sparingly." See Wyoming v. Oklahoma, 502
U. S. 437, 450 (1992); Maryland v. Louisiana, 451 U. S. 725,
739 (1981); Arizona v. New Mexico, 425 U. S. 794, 796 (1976).
Indeed, Chief Justice Fuller wrote nearly a century ago that
our original "jurisdiction is of so delicate and grave a character that it was not contemplated that it would be exercised
save when the necessity was absolute." Louisianav. Texas,
176 U. S. 1, 15 (1900). Recognizing the "delicate and grave"
character of our original jurisdiction, we have interpreted
the Constitution and 28 U. S. C. § 1251(a) as making our original jurisdiction "obligatory only in appropriate cases," Illinois v. City of Milwaukee, 406 U. S. 91, 93 (1972), and as
providing us "with substantial discretion to make case-bycase judgments as to the practical necessity of an original
forum in this Court," Texas v. New Mexico, 462 U. S. 554,
570 (1983).

Cite as: 506 U. S. 73 (1992)
Opinion of the Court

We first exercised this discretion not to accept original actions in cases within our nonexclusive original jurisdiction,
such as actions by States against citizens of other States, see
Ohio v. Wyandotte Chemicals Corp., 401 U. S. 493 (1971), and
actions between the United States and a State, see United
States v. Nevada, 412 U. S. 534 (1973). But we have since
carried over its exercise to actions between two States,
where our jurisdiction is exclusive. See Arizona v. New
Mexico, supra; California v. West Virginia, 454 U. S. 1027
(1981); Texas v. New Mexico, supra. Determining whether
a case is "appropriate" for our original jurisdiction involves
an examination of two factors. First, we look to "the nature
of the interest of the complaining State," Massachusetts v.
Missouri,308 U. S. 1, 18 (1939), focusing on the "seriousness
and dignity of the claim," City of Milwaukee, supra, at 93.
"The model case for invocation of this Court's original jurisdiction is a dispute between States of such seriousness that
it would amount to casus belli if the States were fully sovereign." Texas v. New Mexico, supra, at 571, n. 18. Second,
we explore the availability of an alternative forum in which
the issue tendered can be resolved. City of Milwaukee,
supra, at 93. In Arizona v. New Mexico, for example, we
declined to exercise original jurisdiction of an action by Arizona against New Mexico challenging a New Mexico electricity tax because of a pending state-court action by three
Arizona utilities challenging the same tax: "[W]e are persuaded that the pending state-court action provides an appropriate forum in which the issues tendered here may be
litigated." 425 U. S., at 797 (emphasis in original).
But Mississippi's argument for jurisdiction in the District
Court here founders on the uncompromising language of 28
U. S. C. § 1251(a), which gives to this Court "original and exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies between two or more
States" (emphasis added). Though phrased in terms of a
grant of jurisdiction to this Court, the description of our
jurisdiction as "exclusive" necessarily denies jurisdiction of

MISSISSIPPI v. LOUISIANA
Opinion of the Court

such cases to any other federal court.' This follows from
the plain meaning of "exclusive," see Webster's New International Dictionary 890 (2d ed. 1942) ("debar from possession"), and has been remarked upon by opinions in our original jurisdiction cases, e. g., California v. Arizona, 440 U. S.
59, 63 (1979) ("[A] district court could not hear [California's]
claims against Arizona, because this Court has exclusive jurisdiction over such claims").
Because the District Court lacked jurisdiction over Louisiana's third-party complaint against Mississippi, the judgment
of the Court of Appeals is reversed insofar as it purports to
grant any relief to Louisiana against Mississippi. The District Court is conceded to have had jurisdiction over the
claims of the private plaintiffs against the private defendants, and in deciding questions of private title to riparian
property, it may be necessary to decide where the boundary
lies between the two States. Adjudicating such a question
in a dispute between private parties does not violate
§ 1251(a), because that section speaks not in terms of claims
or issues, but in terms of parties. 2 The States, of course,
are not bound by any decision as to the boundary between
them which was rendered in a lawsuit between private litigants. See Durfee v. Duke, 375 U. S. 106, 115 (1963).
Because both the District Court and the Court of Appeals
in this case intermixed the questions of title to real property
and of the location of the state boundary, we are not in a
position to say whether on this record the claims of title may
Neither party disputes Congress' authority to make our original jurisdiction exclusive in some cases and concurrent in others. This distinction
has existed since the Judiciary Act of 1789, § 13, 1 Stat. 80-81, and has

never been questioned by this Court, see Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,
12 Pet. 657, 722 (1838); Ames v. Kansas ex rel. Johnston, 111 U. S. 449,
469 (1884).
2Mississippi and Louisiana do not question the District Court's jurisdic-

tion over Louisiana's intervention in the title dispute. Louisiana's intervention is also unaffected by § 1251(a) because it does not seek relief
against Mississippi.

Cite as: 506 U. S. 73 (1992)

79

Opinion of the Court

fairly be decided without additional proceedings in the District Court. We therefore reverse the judgment of the
Court of Appeals insofar as it adjudicated the complaint filed
by Louisiana against Mississippi, with instructions that it
direct the District Court to dismiss the complaint for want
of jurisdiction. We remand the balance of the case to the
Court of Appeals for the necessary inquiry as to whether
further proceedings are required in order to adjudicate the
claims of title in this action.
It is so ordered.

