McCLOSKEY v. TOBIN.

107

Opinion of the Court.

McCLOSKEY

v. TOBIN, SHERIFF
COUNTY, TEXAS.

OF BEXAR

ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF TEXAS.
-No. 79.

Submitted November 12, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The rights under the Fourteenth Amendement of a layman engaged
in the business of collecting and adjusting claims are not infringed

by a state law prohibiting the solicitation of such employment. P.
108.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. R. H. Ward for plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. F. Looney, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, and Mr. Luther Nickels, Assistant Attorney General
of the State of Texas, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Article 421 of. the Penal Code of Te-:as defined, with
much detail, the offence of barratry. In McCloskey v.
San Antonio Traction Co., 192 S. W. Rep. 1116 (Texas),
a decree for an injunction restraining the plaintiff in
error from pursuing the practice of fomenting and adjusting claims was reversed on the ground that this section
had superseded the common law offence of barratry and
that by the Code "only an attorney at law is forbidden
to solicit employment in any suit himself or by an agent."
Article 421 was then amended (Act of March 29, 1917, c.
133) so as to apply to any person who" shall seek to ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

tain employment in any claim, to prosecute, defend,
present or collect the same by means of personal solicitation of such employment . . ." Thereafter McCloskey was arrested on an information which charged him
with soliciting employment to collect two claims, one for
personal injuries, the other for painting a buggy. He
applied for a writ of habeas corpus which was denied both
by the County Court and the Court of Criminal Appeals.
The case comes here under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code,
McCloskey having claimed below as here, that the act
under which he was arrested violates rights guaranteed
him by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The contention is, that since the State had made
causes of action in tort as well as in contract assignable,
Galveston &c. Ry. Co. v. Ginther, 96 Texas, 295, they had
become an article of commerce; that the business of obtaining adjustment of claims is not inherently evil; and
that, therefore, while regulation was permissible, prohibition of the business violates rights of liberty and
property and denies equal protection of the laws. The
contention may be answered briefly. To prohibit solicitation is to regulate the business, not to prohibit it. Compare Brazee v. Michigan, 241 U. S.340. The evil against
which the regulation is directed is one from which the
English law has long sought to protect the community
through proceedings for barratry and champerty. Co.
Litt. p. 368 (Day's Edition, 1812, *vol.2, ยง 701 [368, b.]);
1 Hawkins Pleas of the Crown, 6th ed., 524; Peck v.
Heurich, 167 U. S. 624, 630. Regulation which aims to
bring the conduct of the business into harmony with
ethical, practice of the legal profession, to which it is
necessarily related, is obviously reasonable. Ford v.
Munroe, 144 S.W. Rep. 349 (Texas). The statute is not
open to the objections urged against it.
Affinned.

