1450

OWOCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

State must be brought in from other States. But, so long
as there is no discrimination against the products of
another State, and none is shown from the mere fact that
the gasoline is produced in another State, the gasoline
thus stored and dealt in, is not beyond the taxing power of
the State. Wagner v. City of Covington, 251 U. S.95; and
the cases from this court cited therein.
Sales of the class last mentioned would be a subject of
taxation within the legitimate power of the State. But
from the averments of the bills it is impossible to determine the relative importance'of this part of the business as
compared with that which is non-taxable, and at this
preliminary stage of the cases we will not go into the
question whether the act is separable, and capable of being
sustained so far as it imposes a tax upon business legitimately taxable. That question may be-reserved for the
final hearing. The District Court did not err in granting
the temporary injunctions, and its orders are
Af rmed.

CAMERON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 205.

Argued January 29, 30, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

The inclusion of part of a national forest within a monument reserveunder the Act of June 8, 1906, c. 3060, 34 Stat. 225, by a proclamation of the President providing that both reservations shall stand

as to the common area but that the monument reserve shall be
dominant, and saving valid claims theretofore acquired, withdaws
such area, except as to such claims, from the operation cf lie mineral
land law. P. 454.
The Grand Canyon of the Colorado, in Arizona, is an "object of scien-

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
450.

.451

Argument for Appellants.

tific interest," within the meaning of the Act of June 8, 1906, aupra,
empowering the President to reserve such objects as "National
Monuments." P. 455.
Mineral character and an adequate discovery of mineral within the
location are essential'to the validity of a mining claim, and without
these the locator has not the right of possession. P. 456.
To-bring a mining claim within an exception of "valid claims" ina.
proclamation establishing a monument reserve, the claim must be
founded upon an adequate discovery of mineral made before the
reservation; a discovery made later can confer no rights upon the
claimant. Id.
To support a mining location the discovery must be such as to justify
a person of ordinary prudence in the further expenditure of his time
and means in an effort to develop a paying mine. P. 459.
A decision of the Secretary of the Interior, made upon an application
to patent a mining claim within a monument reserve, finding the
land claimed not mineral in character and the location not supported 1y any discovery antedating the reservation, and therefore
rejecting the application and adjudging the location invalid, is
conclusive as to the invalidity of the claim in a suit subsequently
brought by the Government to enjoin the claimant from occupying
and using the land for his private purposes and thus obstructing its
use by the public as a part of the reserve. Pp. 459, 464.
A mining location which has not gone to patent is of no higher quality,
and no more immune from attack and investigation, than unpatented claims under the homestead and kindred laws; and, so long
as the legal title remains in the United States, the Land Department,
in virtue of its general statutory duty and function, is empowered,
after proper notice and upon adequate hearing, to determine whether
such a location is valid, and, if found invalid, to declare it null and
void. P. 460.
250 Fed. Rep. 943, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William C. Prentiss, with whom Mr. Robert E.
Morrison and Mr. Joseph E. Morrison were on the brief,
for appellants:
Possessory title to a mining claim is acquired under
the mining laws wholly independently of the Land Department. Such title has the quality of a grant and is

. OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellants.

252 U. S.

property in the highest sense of the term. While, upon
application for patent, the Land Department ex necessitate must pass upon the validity of the location, it does so
administratively and not judicially. In case it refuses
patent, its action is not conclusive, final, or binding, even
.as to itself. 42 L. D. 584; 43 L. D. 79.
Where the department, rightly or wrongly, denies
patent to an applicant, without issuing patent to an adversary applicant, the effect is merely to wipe the appli.cation from the land records pro tempore. The department may afterward review its ruling, reinstate the
application or entry, and grant patent.
Where, as here, the Land Department undertakes to
go further and declare void the location upon which an
application for mineral patent is predicated, such action
is not conclusive, final, or binding, even as to itself.
,The department is without power to enter a judgment of
ejectment or in any manner to execute such an attempted
declaration of illegality of a possessory mining claim.
Congress has not empowered the Land Department to
pass upon the validity of a possessory mining claim otherwise than as involved in the actual issuance of patent to
the claimant or an adversary claimant, and, then subject
to limitations. Nor has Congress given the courts power,
or imposed upon them the duty, of enforcing a mere
declaration by the department of the invalidity of a possessory mining claim (not merged into disposition of the
title to the land by issuance of patent to another), even
assuming, for the sake of the argument, that Congress
would have the power so to legislate.
It is only by the issuance of patent that action of the
Land Department becomes- effective, and then within
limitations recognized by the courts.
The rule that decisions of the Land Department upon
questions of fact are binding upon the courts is raised as
an incident of, and in support of the integrity of patents,

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
450.

Argument for Appellants.

recognizes that action by. the Land Department upon applications for patent is not judicial but administrative,
and is based upon the assumption that Congress, in vesting the department with administration of the laws.
governing the disposition of the title to public lands, conferred upon it the power and duty of deciding questions
of fact involved in the granting of patents.
And the rule that decision by the Land Department of
questions of law involved in the issuance of patent is not
binding upon the courts, is recognition that the department acts administratively and not judicially.
.The statement in the opinion in Clipper Mining Co. v.
Eli Mining Co., 194 U. S. 220, to the effect that the department, in rejecting an application to patent a mining claim,
mayv go farther and set aside the location, is ,an obiter
dictum, as clearly appears from a consideration of that
case as it stood in the department. 7 Copp's L. 0. 36;
11 L. D. 441, 442; 22 L. D. 527, 528; 33 L. D. 660, 665;
34 L. D. 401, 409.
Jurisdiction to cancel mining claims was disclaimed in
34 L. D. 276, and in the Instructions of February 6, and
May 15, 1907, 35 L. D. 566; id. 565. The practice of investigating and passing upon mining locations in forest
reserves, administratively (H. H. Yard et al., 38 L. D.
59), was rejected in the unreported case of Nichols and
Smith, October 24, 1913.
Lane v. Cameron, 45 App. D. C. 404, went upon the
erroneous assumption that the power to determine the.
character of land as between the United States and a
mining locator was vested exclusively in the Land Department, and that the courts alone would be powerless,
which is contrary to Gauthier v. Morrison, 232 U. S. 452
(1 Lindley on Mines, 3d ed., § 108, pp. 188 et seq.), and
contrary to the practice of the Government in bringing
many suits attacking the possessory titles of oil land
claimants,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U S.

The logical and proper tribunals to try the issue of discovery, upon which the miner's title depends, are the
courts of the vicinage-not an administrative body
two or three thousand miles away acting both as prosecutor or plaintiff and judge or jury. Overman Silver Mining Co. v. Corcoran, 15 Nevada, 147; Erhardtv. Boaro, 113
U. S. 527.. We submit that the decision of the department, in
final analysis, resolves into a ruling, not that Cameron
had not made discovery sufficient to validate the location,
but thiat he had not developed a paying mine, and that,
in any view, it was not entitled to judicial recognition.
The attempted setting apart of the land as the Grand
Canyon National Monument was unauthorized, violative
of the Forest Reserve Laws, and void.
Mr. Aesistant' Attorney General Nebeker, with whom
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE Vx DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a suit by the United States to enjoin Ralph H.
Cameron and others from occupying, using for business
purposes, asserting any right to, or interfering with the
public use of, a. tract of land in Arizona, approximately
1500 feet long and 600 feet wide, which Cameron is claiming as * lode mining claim, and to require the defendants
to remove therefrom certain buildings, filth and refuse
placed theren in the course of its use by them as a livery
stable site, and otherwise. In the District Court there
was a decree for the United States, and this was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 250 Fed. Rep. 943.
The tract is; on? the southern rim of the Grand Canyon
of the Colprado, is immediately adjacent to the railroad

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

terminal and hotel buildings used by visitors to the canyon and embraces the head of the trail I overwhich visitors
descend to and ascend from the bottom of the canyon.
Formerly it was public land and open to acquisition under
the public land laws. But since February 20, 1893, it has
been within a public forest reserve I established and conT-6iiiued by proclamations of the President. under the Acts
of. MVardh 3, 1891, c.o561, § 24, 26 Stat. 1095, 1103, and
June 4, 189,7, c. 2, 30 Stat. 34-36; and since January 11,
1908, all but a minor part of it has been within a monument reserve 8 established by a proclamation of the President under the Act of June 8, 1906, c. 3060, 34 Stat. 225.
The forest reserve remained effective after the creation of
the monument reserve, but in so far as both embraced the
same land the monument reserve became the dominant
one. 35 Stat. 2175. The inclusion of the tract in the
forest reserve withdrew it from the operation of the public land laws, other than the mineral land law; and the
inclusion of the major part of it in the monument reserve
withdrew that part from the operation of the mineral
land law, but there was a saving clause in respect of any
"valid" mining claim theretofore acquired. The United
States still has the paramount legal title to the tract, and
also has the full-beneficial ownership if Cameron's asserted mining claim is not valid.
The defendants insist that the monument reserve
should be disregarded on the ground that there was no
authority for its creation. To this we cannot assent.
The act under which, the President proceeded empowered
him to establish reserves embracing "objects of historior scientific interest." The Grand Canyon, as stated in
his proclamation, ."is an object of unusual scientific in'The Bright Angel Trail.
.8Originally the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve and now the Tusayan
National Forest.
3 Called the Grand Canyon National Monument.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

terest."

252 U. S.

It is the greatest eroded canyon in the United

States, if not in the world, is over a mile in depth, has

attracted wide attention among explorers and scientists,
affords an unexampled field for geologic study, is regarded

as one of the great natural wonders, and annually draws
to its borders thousands of visitors.

The defendants also insist that in holding the United
States entitled to the relief sought the courts below gave
undue effect and weight to decisions of the Secretary of
the Interior dealing with Cameron's asserted claim and
pronouncing it invalid. Rightly to appreciate and dis-

pose of this contention requires a further statement.
The claim in question is known as the Cape Horn lode
claim and was located by Cameron in 1902 after the creation of the forest reserve and before the creation of the
monument reserve. To make the claim valid, or to invest
the locator with a right to the possession, it was essential
that, the land be mineral in character and that there be
an adequate mineral discovery within the limits of the
claim as located, Rev. Stats., § 2320; Cole v. Ralph,
ante' 286; and to bring the claim within the saving clause
in the-withdrawal for the monument reserve the discovery must have preceded the creation of that reserve.
Cameron applied to the land department for the issue
to him of a patent for the claim and similarly sought patents for other claims embracing other portions of the
trail into the canyon. A protest was interposed charging
that the land was not mineral, that there had been no
supporting mineral discoveries and that the claims were
located and used for purposes not contemplated by the
mineral land law; and the Secretary of the Interior directed that a hearing be had in the local land office to
enable the parties concerned,-the protestant, Cameron
and the Government,-to produce: evidence bearing on
the questions thus presented. 35 L. D. 495; 36 L. D. 66.
After due notice the hearing was had, Cameron fully

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

participating in it. This was shortly after the creation
of the monument reserve, In due course the evidence
was laid before the Commissioner of the General Land
Office and he concluded therefrom that the claims were
not valuable for mining purposes, and therefore were
invalid. The matter was then taken before the Secretary
of the Interior and that officer rendered a decision in
which, after reviewing the evidence, he said:
"It is not pretended that the applicant has as yet actually disclosed any body of workable ore of commercial
value; nor does the evidence reveal such indications and
conditions as would warrant the belief or lead to the conclusion that valuable deposits are to be found, save, apparently, in the case of the Magician lode claim. With
that possible exception, the probabilities of such deposits
occurring are no stronger or more evident at the present
time than-upon the day the claims were located. The
evidence wholly fails to show that there are veins or lodes
carrying valuable and workable deposits of gold, silver,
or copper, or any other minerals within the limits of the
locations. Sufficient time has elapsed since these claims
were located for a fair demonstration- of their mineral
possibilities."
And further:
"It follows from the foregoing that each of Cameron's
applications for patent . . . must be rejected and
canceled, and it is so ordered.
. "It is the further result of the evidence, and the Department holds, that the several mining locations, with
the apparent exceptio A of the Magician lode claim, do not
stand upon such disclosures or indications of valuable
mineral in rock in place therein, prior to the establishment of the National Monument and the withdrawal of
the lands therein embraced, as to bring them within the
saving clause of the Executive Order. The right of Cameron to continue possession or exploration of those claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

is hereby denied, and the land covered thereby is declared
to be and remain part of the Grand Canyon National
Monument as if such locations had not been attempted."
Directions were given for a further hearing respecting
the Magician claim, but this is of no moment here.
That decision was adhered to on a motion for review,
and in a later decision denying a renewed application by
Cameron for a patent for the claim here in question the
Secretary said:
"As the result of a hearing had after the creation of the
national monument, the Department expressly found
that no discovery of mineral had been made within the
limits of the Cape Horn- location, and that there was no
evidence before the Department showing the'existence
of any valuable deposits or any minerals within the limits
of the location.

.

.

.

So far as the portion of the

claim included within the exterior limits of the national
monument is concerned, no discovery which would defeat
the said monument can have been made since the date
of the previous hearing in this case, nor do I find that one
is claimed to have been made since the former decision in
any part of the alleged location."
After and notwithstanding these decisions Cameron
asserted an exclusive right to the possession and enjoyment of the tract, as if the lode claim were valid; and he
and his co-defendants, who were acting for or under him,
continued to occupy and use the ground for livery and
other business purposes, and in that and other ways obstructed its 'se by the public as a part of the reserves.
In this situation, and to put an erid to what the Government deemed a continuing trespass, purpresture and
public nuisance, the present suit was brought.
The courts below ruled that the decisions of the Secretary of the Interior should be taken as conclusively determining the non-mineral character of the land and the
absence of an adequate mineral discovery, and also as

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

showing that the matter before the Secretary was not
merely the application for a patent but also the status of
the claim,-whether it was valid or was wanting in essential elements of validity, and whether it entitled Cameron
to the use of the land as against the public and the Ooveiment. As before stated, the defendants co plain "dIthi
ruling. The objections urged agaihst it are, first, that the
' .ia.
Secretary's decisions show that he proceeded uporn,
misconception of what under the law constitutes an 4de7
quate mineral discovery, and, second, that although the'
Secretary had ample authority to determine whether
Cameron was entitled to a patent, he was without authority to determine the character of the land or the question of discovery, or to pronounce the claim invalid.
As to the first objection little need be said. A reading
of each decision in its entirety, and not merely the excerpts
to which the defendants invite attention, makes it plain
that the Secretary proceeded upon the theory that to support a mining location the discovery should be such as
would justify a person of ordinary prudence in the further
expenditure of his time and means in an effort to develop
a paying mine. That is not a novel pr mistaken test, but
is one which the land department long has applied and
this court has approved. Chrisman v. Miller, 197 U. S.
313, 322.
The second objection rests on the naked proposition
that the Secretary was without power to determine
whether the asserted lode claim, under which Cameron
was occupying and using a part of the reserves to the exclusion of the public and. the, reserve officers, was, a valid
claim. We say "naked proposition" because it is not
objected. that Cameon-did. not have a full and fair hearing, or that any-rau was pra-tised against him, but only
that the Secretary was without any power of decision in
the matter. In our opinio tihe prop6astion is not tenable.
By general statutory provisions 'the execution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

laws regulating the acquisition of rights in the public
lands and the general care of these lands is confided to
the land department, as a special tribunal; and the Secreraty of the Interior, as the head of the department, is
charged with seeing that this authority is rightly exercised to the end that valid claims may be recognized, invalid ones eliminated, and the rights of the public preserved. Rev. Stats., §§ 441, 453, 2478; United States v.
Schurz, 102 U. S.378, 395; Lee v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48,
52; Knight v. United States Land Association, 142 U. S.
161, 177, 181; Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S.316.
A mining location which has not gone to patent is of
no higher quality and no more immune from attack and
investigation than are unpatented claims under the homestead and kindred laws. If valid, 't gives to the claimant
certain exclusive possessory rights, and so do homestead
and desert claims. But no right arises from an invalid
claim of any kind. All must conform to the law under
which they are initiated; otherwise they work an unlawful
private appropriation in derogation of the rights of the
public.
Of course, the land department has no power to strike
down any claim arbitrarily, but so long as the legal title
remains in the Government it does have power, after
proper notice and upon adequate hearing, to determine
whether the claim is valid and, if it be found invalid, to
declare it null and void. This is well illustrated in
Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S.372, 383, where in giving
effect to a decision of the Secretary of the Interior canceling a preEmption claim theretofore passed to cash
entry, but still unpatented, this court said: "The party
who makes proofs, which are accepted by the local land
officers, and pays his money for the land, has acquired an
fiterest of which he cannot be arbitrarily dispossessed.
His interest is subject to state taxation. Carrollv. Safford,
: How. 441; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210. The

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

government holds the legal title in trust for him, and he
may not be dispossessed of his equitable rights without
due process of law. Due process in such case implies notice and a hearing. But this does not require that the
hearing must be in the courts, or forbid an inquiry and
determination in the Land Department." And to the
same effect is Michigan Land & Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168
U. S. 589, 593, where in giving effect to a decision of the
Secretary canceling a swamp land selection by the State
of Michigan theretofore approved, but as yet unpateited,
it was said: "It is, of course, not pretended that when an
equitable title has passed the land department has power
to arbitrarily destroy that equitable title. It has jurisdiction, however, after proper notice to the party claiming
such equitable title, and upon a hearing, to determine the
question whether or not such title has passbd. Cornelius
v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456; Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S.
372, 383; Parsonsv. Venzke, 164 U. S. 89. In other words,
the power of the department to inquire into the extent
and validity of the rights claimed against the Government does not cease until the legal title has passed."
True, the mineral land law does not in itself confer such
authority on the land department. Neither does it place
the authority elsewhere. But this does not mean that the
authority does not exist anywhere, for, in the absence of
some direction to the contrary, the general statutory
provisions before mentioned vest it in the land department. This is a necessary conclusion from this court's
decisions. By an Act of 1848 the title to public land in
Oregon then occupied as missionary stations, not exceeding six hundred and forty acres in any instance, was confirmed to the several religious associations maintaining
those stations, but the act made no provision for determining where the stations were, by whom they were
maintained or the area occupied. The land department
proceeded to a determination of these questions in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

exercise of its general authority, and in Catholic Biahop
of Nesqually v. Gibbon, 158 U. S. 155, 166, 167, where that
determination was challenged as to a particular tract, it
was said: "While there may be no specific reference in the
act of 1848 of questions arising under this grant to the
land department, yet its administration comes within
the scope of the general powers vested in that department. . . . It may be laid down as a general .rule
that, in the absence of some specific provision to the contrary in respect to any particular grant of public land, its
administration falls wholly and absolutely within the
jurisdiction of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior. It is not necessary that with each grant there
shall go a direction that its administration shall be under
the authority of the land department. It falls there unless there is express direction to the contrary." And in
Cosmos Exploration Co. v. Gray Eagle Oil Co., 190 U. S.
301, 308, where a claimant asserting a full equitable title
under the lieu land provision of the Forest Reserve Act
of 1897 questioned the authority of the land department
to inquire into and pass on the validity of his claim and
sought to have it recognized and enforced by a suit in
equity, it was said: "There can be, as we think, no doubt
that the general administration of the forest reserve act,
and also the determination of the various questions which
may arise thereunder before the issuing of any patent for
the selected lands, are vested in the Land Department.
The statute of 1897 does not in terms refer any question
that might arise under it to that department, but the
subject-matter of that act relates to the relinquishment
of land in the various forest reservations to the United
States, and to the selection of lands, in lieu thereof, from
the public lands of the United States, and the administration of the act is to be governed by the general system
adopted by the United States for the administration of

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.

450.

Opinion of the Court.

the laws regarding its public lands. Unless taken away
by some affirmative provision of law, the Land Department has jurisdiction over the subject." There is in the
mineral land law a provision referring to the courts controversies between rival mineral claimants arising out of
conflicting mining locations (Rev. Stats., §§ 2325, 2326),
but it does not reach or affect other controversies and so
is without present bearing. Creede & Cripple Creek Mining Co. v. Uinta Tunnel Mining Co., 196 U. S. 337, 356,
et seq.
It is rightly conceded that in the case of a conflict between a mining location and a homestead claim the department has authority to inquire into and determine the
validity of both and, if the mining location be found invalid and the homestead claim valid, to declare the former
null and void and to give full effect to the latter; and yet
it is insisted that the department is without authority, on
a complaint preferred in the public interest, to inquire
into and determine the validity of a mining location, and,
if it be found invalid, to declare it of no effect and recognize the rights of the public. We think the attempted
distinction is not sound. It has no support in the terms
of the mineral land law, is not consistent with the general
statutory provisions before mentioned, and if upheld
would encourage the use of merely colorable mining locations in the wrongful private appropriation of lands belonging to the public.
Instances in which this power has been exercisec in
respect of mining locations are shown in the Yard Case,
38 L. D. 59, and the Nichols-Smith Case (on rehearbg),
46 L. D. 20; instances in which its exercise has received
judicial sanction are Found in Lane v. Cameron, 45 App.
D. C. 404, and Cameron v. Bass, 19 Arizona, 246; and. an
instance in which its existence received substantial, if
not decisive, recognition by this court is found in Clipper
Mining Co. v. Eli Mining Co., 194 U. S. 220, 223, 234.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

The argument is advanced that the department necessarily is without authority to pronounce a mining location invalid, because it has within itself no means of executing its decision, such as dispossessing the locator. But
this is not a proper test of the existence of the authority,
for the department is without the means of executing
most of its decisions in the sense suggested. When it
issues a patent it has no means of putting the grantee in
possession, and yet its authority to issue patents is beyond question. When it awards a tract to one of two
rival homestead claimants it has no means of putting the
successful one in possession or the other one out, and yet
its authority to determine which has the better claim is
settled by repeated decisions of this court. And a similar
situation exists in respect of most of the claims or controversies on -which the department must pass in regular
course. Its province is that of determining questions of
fact and right under the public land laws, of recognizing
or disapproving claims according to their merits and of
*granting or refusing patents as the law may give sanction
for the one or the other. When there is occasion to enforce its decisions in the sense suggested, this is done
through suits instituted by the successful claimants or
by the Government, as the one or the other may have the
requisite interest.
Whether the tract covered by Cameron's location was
mineral and whether there had been the requisite discovery were questions of fact, the decision of which by
the Secretary of the Interior was conclusive in the absence of fraud or imposition, and none was claimed.
Catholic Bishop of Nesqually v. Gibbon, supra; Burfenning v. Chicago, St. Paul,etc., Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 321, 323.
Accepting the Secretary's findings that the tract was not
mineral and that there had been no discovery, it is plain
that the location was invalid, as was declared by the
Secretary and held by the courts below.

UNITED STATES v. SIMPSON.
450.

465"

Argument for the United States.

Of other complaints made by the defendants, it suffices
to say that, in our opinion, the record shows that the
Government was entitled to the relief sought and awarded.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SIMPSON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 444.

Submitted March 5, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

The transportation by their owner of five quarts of whiskey for his
personal use, in his own automobile, into a State whose laws prohibit the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors for beverage
purposes, is transportation in interstate commerce and violates the
Reed Amendment if the liquor is not intended for any of the purposes
therein excepted. P. 466.
257 Fed. Rep. 860, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for the United
States:
This case is ruled by United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420.

The judgment in the present case rests solely upon the
idea that, in order to be transportation in interstate commerce, transportation must be by common carrier. But
transportation, in order to constitute interstate commerce, need not be by common carrier, and may be
transportation by the owner of the goods. Railroad Company v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 469-70; Kirmeyer v. Kansas,

236 U. S. 568, 572; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; Pipe
Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548, 560; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,

203 U. S. 507, 512.

