HULL v. PHILA. & READING RY. CO.

' 475

Argument for Petitioner.

HULL, ADMINISTRATRIX OF HULL, &c. v. PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF.

IESTATE OF

MARYLAND.
No. 151.

Argued January 16; 1920.-Decided April 19, '1920.

The terms "employee" and "employed" in the Employers' Liability
Act are used in their natural sense, importing the conventional relation of employer and employee. P. 479.
Under an agreement for through freight service between two railroads,
each retained control of its own train crews while, on the other's
line, subject to regulations, orders and discipline. imposed. by the
other for the purpose of cosrdinating their movements 'to its own
operations 'and for insuring safety and furthering the general object
of the agreement; and the acts of each company's employees iyhile
on the line of the other were performed as part of their duty to their
general employer. Held, that an employee of one company did not
become an employee of the other, within the meaning of the Em,ployers' Liability Act, while so operating on the other's line. Id.
North CarolinaR. R. Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, distinguished.
132 Maryland, 540, affirmed.

THE case-is stated in the opinion.

Mr.. Charles D. Wagaman, with whom Mr. Omer T.
Kaylor and Mr. Frank G. Wagaman were on the brief,
for petitioner:
Where one in the general service of another performs
work in which that other aid:a third person are both
interested, he. remains the servant of that other or becomes the servant of -the third person according a the
work in its doing is the work of that other, or is, in its

doing, the work of the third person. And this principle
is true no matter who hires, pays or has the power to discharge the servant. Standard,Oil Co. v. Anderson, 212
U. S. 215; Murray v. Curl, L. R. 6 C..P. 24; Rourke v.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Respondent.

252 U. S.

White Moss Colliery Co., L. R. 2 C. P. Div. 205 (1877);
Byrne v. Kansas City &c. Ry. Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 605;
Donovan v. Construction Syndicate, [1893] 1 Q. B. 629;
Powell v. Construction Company, 88 Tennessee, 692;
Miller v. RailroadCompany, 76 Iowa, 655.
The law imposes upon a railroad corporation the nondelegable duty of the operation of its road. Central
TransportationCo. v. Pullman'sPalaceCar Co., 139 U. S. 24.
One who performs the non-delegable duty of another
with the knowledge and assent of that other becomes the
employee of him for whom he is performing the work.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Treadway's Administratrix, 120 Virginia, 739.
Responsibility of one for the manner of the performance
of the work of another always creates the relation of employee and employer. North CarolinaR. R. 'Co. v. Zachary,
232 U. S. 248.
Mr. Henry H. Keedy, Jr., for respondent, relied on the
following:
Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 84;
Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Wagner, 239 U. S. 452;
Fowler v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 229 Fed. Rep. 375;
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. West, 38 Oklahoma,
581; Little v. Hackett, 116 U. S. 366; Bentley, Shriver &
Co. v. Edwards, 100 Maryland, 652; Quarman v. Burnett,
6 M. & W. 499; Zeigler v. Danbury &c. R. R. Co., 52 Connecticut, 543; Tierney v. Syracuse &c. R. R. Co., 85 Hun,
146; Sullivan v. Tioga R. R. Co., 112 N. Y. 643; Bosworth
v. Rogers, 82 Fed. Rep. 975; Hamble v. Atchison, Topeka
& Santa Fe Ry. Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 410; Phillipsv. Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 64 Wisconsin, 475; MeAdow v.,Kansas City Western Ry. Co., 164 S. W. Rep.
188; Kastl v. Wabash R. R, Co., 1f4 Michigan, 53; Labatt,
Master. & Servant, 2d ed, 83, note c; P. W. & B. Ry. Co.
v. Bitzer, 58 Maryland, 372; Delaware, Lackawanna&

HULL v. PHILA. & READING RY. CO.
475.

Opinion of the Court.

Western R. R. Co. v. Hardy, 59 N. J. L. 35; Morgan v.
Smith, 159 Massachusetts, 570; Berry v. New York Central R. R. Co., 202 Massachusetts, 197.

MR.

JUSTICE

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought in a state court of Maryland
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22,
1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, as amended April 5, 1910, c. 143,
36 Stat. 291, by petitioner as administratrix of John M.
Hull, deceased,. to recover damages because of his death
occurring, as alleged, while he was employed by defendant
in interstate commerce. The trial court directed a verdict
in favor of defendant, the Court of Appeals of Maryland
affirmed the resulting judgment upon the ground that
the deceased at the time he was killed was not in the employ of defendant within the meaning of the act of Congress, 132 Maryland, 540; and upon this federal question
the case is brought here by certiorari.
The pertinent facts are not in dispute. John M. Hull,
at the time he was killed and for a long time before, was in
the general employ of the Western Maryland Railway
Company, an. interstate carrier operating, among other
lines, a railway from Hagerstown, Maryland, to Lurgan,
Pennsylvania, at which point it connected with a railway
owned and operated by defendant, the Philadelphia and
Reading Railway Company, which extended from Lurgan
to Rutherford, in the same State.. Through freight trains
were operated from Hagerstown to Rutherford over these
two lines, and Hull was employed-as a brakeman on such a
train at the time he received the fatal injuries. On the
previous day a crew employed by the Western Maryland
Railway Company, and of which he was a member, had'
taken a train hauled by a Western Maryland engine from
Hagerstown to Rutherford, and at the time in question
the same crew was returning with a train from Rutherford

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

to Hagerstown. Before starting they received instructions
from the yardmaster at Rutherford (an employee of defendant company) as to the operation of the train, including directions to pick up seven cars at Harrisburg.
They proceeded from Rutherford to Harrisburg, stopped
there for the purpose of picking up the seven cars, and
while this was being done Hull was run over and killed by
one of defendant's locomotives.
The through freight service was conducted under a
written agreement between the two railway companies,
which was introduced in evidence and constitutes the
chief reliance of petitioner. Its provisions, so far as they
need to be quoted, are as follows:
"2. Freight trains to run through between Hagerstown
and Rutherford in both directions and each Company
agrees to supply motive power in the above proportions
[based upon mileage] so as to equalize the service performed.
"4. Crews of each road to run through with their
engines over the line of the othe-r Company.
"5.Each Company to compensate the other for the use
of the other's, engines and crews on their line at the following rates per hour: . . . Time to begin at Rutherford
and Hagerstown when crew is called for. . . . Time
to cease when the engines arrive on the fire track at
Rutherford and Hagerstown. .
"6. The division of earnings of the traffic not to be
disturbed or in any way affected by this arrangement.
"7. Each Company to furnish fuel and other supplies to
its own engines and' crews; any furnished by one to the
other to be upon agreed uniform rates.
*

*

*

*

* .

*

*

*

"9. Neither Company to be expected to do the engine
cleaning and wiping for the other; where done, a charge of
seventy-five (75) cents per engine to be made.

HULL v. PHILA. & READING RY. CO.
475.

Opinion of the Court.

"10. Each Company to be responsible and bear all
damage and expenses to persons and property caused by
all accidents upon its road.
"16. Each Company to relieve and return as promptly
as practicable the engines and crews of the other at ends
of runs.
"17. Each Company to have the right to object and to
enforce objection to any unsatisfactory employee of the
other running upon its lines.
"18. All cases of violation of rules or other derelictions
by the employees of one Company while upon the road of
the other shall be promptly investigated by the owning
Company, and the result reported to the employing Company, with or without suggestions for disciplining, the
employing Company to report to the other the action
taken.
"19. Accident reports on prescribed forms to be
promptly made of all such occurrences, and where a crew
of one Company is operating upon the road of the other, a
copy must be sent to the proper officer of each Company.
"20. Employees of each Company to be required to
report promptly, on notice, to the proper officer of the
other, for investigations of accidents, etc., the fullest
cooperation to be given by the one Company to the otherin all such matters.
"21. The employees of each Company while upon the
tracks of the other shall be subject to and conform to the
rules, regulations, discipline and orders of the owning
Company."
We hardly need repeat the statement made in Robinson
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 84, 94, that in the
Employers' Liability Act Congress used the words "employee" and "employed" in their natural sense, -and
intended to'desiribe the conventional relation of employer
and employee.: The simple question is whether, under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

252 U. S.

facts as recited and according to the general principles
applicable to the relation, Hull had been transferred from'
the employ of the Western Maryland Railway Company
to that of defendant for the purposes of the train movement in which he was engaged when killed. He was not a
party to the agreement between the railway companies,
and is not shown to have had knowledge of it; but, passing
this, and assuming the provisions of the agreement can
be availed of by petitioner, it still is plain, we think, from
the whole case, that deceased remained for all purposescertainly for the purposes of the act-an employee of the
Western Maryland Company only. It is clear that each
company retained control of its own train crews ; that
what the latter did upon the line of the other road was
done as a part of their duty to the general employer;
and that, so far as they were subject while upon the tracks
of the other company to its rules, regulations, discipline,
and orders, this was for the purpose of cordinating their
movements to the other operations ,of the owning company, securing the safety of all concerned, and furthering
the general object of the agreement between the companies. See Standard Oil Co. v. Anderson, 212 U. S. 215,
226.
North Carolina R. R. Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, is
cited, but is not in point, since in that case the relation of
the parties was controlled by a dominant rule of local 1.w,
to which the agreement here operative has no analogy.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland did not err in its
disposition of the federal question, and hence its judgment is
Afirmed.
MR. JusTIcE CLARKE, dissenting.
The Western Maryland Railroad Company owned a line
of railroad, extending from Hagerstown, Maryland, to
Lurgan, where it connected with the line of the Reading

HULL v. PHILA. & READING RY. CO.
475.

CLARKE, J., dissenting.

Company, extending to Rutherford, in Pennsylvania.
The two companies entered into a contract by which
through freight trains, made up and manned by crews
primarily employed by either, should run through over
the rails of the other company to Rutherford or Hagerstown, as the case might be. A crew from either line,
arriving at the terminus of the other should return with a
train made up by the company operating the latter-together %ith any cars which might be "picked up" on the
way.
Thus, for the purposes of operation, the line over which
train crews worked was 81 miles in length, 34 miles of
Western Maryland track and 47 miles of Reading track,
and the relation of the men to the company, other than the
one which originally employed them, while on its line, was
defined by the contract quoted from in the opinion of the
court.
Five of the paragraphs of this contract seem to me decisive of what that relation was, and of this case, viz:
5. Each company to pay the other an agreed compensation for the service of its engines and crews while on its
line.
"10. Each Company to be responsible and bear all
damage and expenses to persons and property caused by all
accidents upon its road."
"17. Each Company to have the right to object to and
to enforce objection to any unsatisfactory employee of the
other running upon its lines.
"18. All cases of violation of rules or other derelictions
by the employees of one Company while upon the road of
the other shall be promptly investigated by the owning
Company, and the result reported to the employing Company, with or. without suggestions for disciplining, the
employing Company to report to the other the action
taken."
"21. The -employees of each Company while upon the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

252 U. S.

tracks of the other shall be subject to and conform to the rules,
regulations, discipline and orders of the owning Company."
The deceased brakeman, Hull, was killed on the Reading tracks at Harrisburg, thirty miles away from any
Western Maryland track, by the alleged negligence of a
Reading engineer, when engaged, under the direction of a
local Reading yardmaster, in "picking up" cars to* be
added to a train which was made up by the Reading
Company at Rutherford and dispatched by Reading
officials from that terminal.
Thus, when he was killed, Hull was working on the
Reading Railroad, subject to the "rules, regulations,
discipline and orders" of the Reading Company and at the
moment was acting under specific direction of a Reading
yardmaster. The Reading Company was paying for the
service which he was rendering when he was killed, it had
authority to cause his discharge if his service was not
satisfactory to it (paragraphs 17 and 18 of the contract,
supra), and it had specifically contracted to be responsible
for all damage to persons and property caused by accidents
on its line growing out of the joint operation.
It is admitted that the service he was rendering was in
the movement of interstate commerce, but upon the facts
thus stated it is concluded in the opinioii, that he was not
within the scope of the act providing that "Every common
carrier by railroad while engaging in commerce between
any of the several States . . . shall be liable in damages
to any person suffering injury while he is employed by such
-carrier in such commerce, or, in ease of the death," etc.,
(35 Stat. 65, c. 149, ยง 1).
I cannot concur in this decision of the court for the
reason that the case seems to me to be fuled by a conclusion as to the applicable law, stated in a strongly reasoned
.opinion in Standard Oil Co. v. Anderson, 212 U. S.215, in
this paragraph:
"One may be'in the general service of another, and,

HULL v. PHILA. & READING RY. CO.
475.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

nevertheless, with respect to particular work, may be
transferred, with his own consent or acquiescence, to the
service of a third person, so that he becomes the servant
of that person with all the legal consequences of the new
relation."
. By the contract of hiring Hull was in the general service
of the Maryland Company, but "by
his consent and
acquiescence," he .was transferred to the service of the
Reading Company whenever his train passed on to its
tracks., From that moment until his return to the Maryland Company's tracks again he was engaged exclusively
in the work of the Reading Company, that company paid
for his services, he was under its "rules, regulations, discipline and orders," and it had authority to cause his discharge if his service was not satisfactory. He was under
the control of that company as to what he was to do and as
to the details of the manner of doing it as completely as if
he had no other employer. He ceased for the time being
to be the servant of the Maryland Company and became,
the servant of the Reading Company (212 U. S. 215, 224).
The Federal Employers' Liability Act does not require
that a person shall be in the exclusive employ of a railroad
common carrier in order to come within its scope. It
provides that such carrier shall be "liable in damages to
any person suffering injury while he is employed [engaged] by
such carrierin such commerce," and it is impossible for me
to accept the conclusion that Hull, when in the pay of the
Reading Company, assisting in operating Reading interstate trains on Reading tracks, under the direction solely
of Reading officials, general and local, was not "employed"
by it in interstate commerce, within the meaning of this
provision.
We are not dealing here with mere words or with merely
"conventional relations," but with very serious realities.
Enacted as the Federal Employers' Liability Act was to
bring the United States law up to the humanitarian level

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

252 U. S.

of the laws of nany of the States, by abolishing the unjust
and irritating fellow servant rule, by modifying the often
harsh contributory negligence rule, and by otherwise
changing the common-law liability of interstate rail
carriers to their employees, it should receive a liberal
construction to promote its important purpose. Its terms
invite the application of the rule, widely applied by other
courts and clearly approved by this court, in the case cited,
that a man may be in the general service of one, and also,
with respect to a part of his service--to particular workbe in the service of another employer, so that he becomes
for the time being the servant of the latter "with all the
legal consequences of the new relation." The line of
demarcation could not be more clearly drawn than it was
in this case, and the rule seems to me to be sharply and
decisively applicable.
In the opinion of the court it is said: "It Is clear that
each company retained control of its own train crews. "
Upon the contrary, it seems to me, it is clear that neither
company retained any control whatever over the crews
primarily employed by it while they were on the line of the
other company.-"21. The employees of each Company
while upon the tracks of the other shall be subject to and
conform to the rules, regulations, discipline and orders of
the owning Company," was the contract between the two
companies under which they were operating when Hull was
negligently killed.

