OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Syllabus.

262 U. S.

COLE ET AL. v. RALPH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT
Nos. 172, 173. Argued December 8, 1919.-Decided March 15, 1920.
Where judgments of the District Court, rendered for the plaintiff on
verdicts in certain adverse suits, were reversed by the Circuit Court
'of Appeals upon a construction and application of the mining laws
without disposing of other questions presented; and, because of the
general interest of the federal questions so decided, writs of certiorari
were allowed to review such judgments of reversal, held, that this
court, although it might confine itself to the matters considered by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, would proceed to a complete decision,
since the parties united in presenting all the questions and the
litigation had been protracted. P. 290.
Assertion, of defendant's possession, in the answer, cures omission to
. aver it in the complaint, in ejectment.
Id.
To avoid a waiver, objections to defects of pleading should be timely
and not deferred for advantage at the trial. Id.
A contract for a specified shi~re in the proceeds bf a mining location
with a right to have it worked and made productive need not be
recorded, in Nevada, to be good inter partes. P. 291.
One who has such a contractual interest is a proper party to an adverse
suit brought to protect the claim, and, under the law of Nevada,
may be allowed to come in as a plaintiff before the trial. Id.
In Nevada, an interest in a mining claim arising from a husband's
location and deeded by him to his wife for a recited present money
consideration is community property, where it does not appear that
the consideration came from her separate property, or that the mining interest was treated as such, or that a gift to the wife was intended; and the husband may file an adverse claim against a hostile
application for patent, and sue to protect the claim in his own name.
P. 292.
The right of i mining locator to file an adverse claim and maintain an
adverse suit is not divested by prior attachment of his interest, but
his acts in that regard inure to the benefit of those who afterwards,
through the attachment case, succeed to his interest; and they may
be substituted as plaintiffs when such interest has fully passed to
them. Id.

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Syllabus.

Ani adverse claim is not invalidated by a misnomer of a claimant due
.to an inadvertence, by which no one is misled or harmed. P. 293.
Absence of revenue stamps does not make a deed invalid or inadmissible
in evidence under the Act of October 22, 1914. Id.
Rules of the mining law re-stated, respecting the rights of explorers,
those of lode locators and of placer locators, significance and distinction of discovery and assessment work, and the nature and effect
of adverse proceedings. Pp. 294, et seq.
A placer discovery will not sustain a lode location, nor.a lode discovery
a placer location. P. 295.
Location-the act or series of acts whereby the boundaries of the claim
are marked, etc.,-confers no rights in the absence of discovery.
P. 296.
Assessment work does not take the place of discovery. Id.
A junior placer location with earlier placer discovery prevails over a
senior lode location with later lode discovery. P. 297.
Evidence reviewed and held sufficient to go to the jury on the question
of prior discovery as between lode and placer claims, and as to
whether the latter were initiated by trespass or peaceably and
openly or even with acquiescence of the lode claimant. P. 299.
Evidence that placer claimants entered openly upon lode claims, where
some prospecting had recently been done and where there were
buildings, in charge of a watchman, which had been used by the
lode claimant in operations .on other claims and which the placer
claimants did not appropriate or disturb; and that they made their
discoveries and locations and remained several months, working and mining,-held enough, in the absence of any proof that they
met with resistance or resorted to hostile, fraudulent acts, to warrant a jury in finding no trespass upon the actual possession of the
lode claimant and acquiescence by him. Id.
The presence of buildings owned by a mining claimant, on his claim
but not used in connection with it, held evidence of his actual possession of the place where they stood and, in less degree, of the remainder of the claim; but ieffectual to prevent others from entering
peaceably and in good faith under the mining laws. P. 300.
An adverse placer claimant does not admit the validity of a pre-existing
lode location by posting a lode location notice through a mistake,
promptly corrected and not misleading. P. 303.
Generally, and specifically in Nevada, recitals of discovery, in location
notices, are self-serving declarations, not evidence against adverse
claimants. Id.
Revised Statutes, § 2332, provides that where a mining claim has been
held and worked for a period equal to the time prescribed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

local state or territorial statute of limitations for mining claims,
evidence of such possession and working for such period shall be
sufficient to establish a right to a patent in the absence of any adverse claim. Held, that it does not dispense with, or cure the absence of, discovery. P. 305.
To "work" a mining claim is to do something toward making it productiVe, such as developing or extracting an ore body after it has
been discovered. P. 307.
249 Fed. Rep. 81, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George B. Thatcher, with whom Mr. William C.
Prentiss was on the briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. Samuel Herrick and Mr. P. G. Ellis, with whom
Mr. Edwin W. Senior was on the briefs, for respondent:
Among the authorities relied on in support of their
claim under Rev. Stats., § 2332, and Nev. Rev. Laws,
1912, § 4951, were the following: Belk v. Meagher, 104
U. S. 279, 287; Glacier Mountain Min. Co. v. Willis, 127
U. S. 471; Reavis v. Fianza, 215 U. S. 16, 25; Costigan,
Mining Law, § 153, note 52; Buffalo Zinc Co. v. Crump, 70
Arkansas, 525; Harrisv. Equator Min. Co., 8 Fed. Rep.
863; Four Hundred Twenty Min. Co. v. Bullion Min. Co.,
3 Sawy. 634; Lindley on Mines, § 865, note 3; id., § 688;
Golden v. Murphy, 31 Nevada, 395; Anthony v. Jillson, 83
California, 296; Altoona Min. Co. v. Integral Min. Co.,
114 California, 100; Upton v. Santa Rita Min. Co., 14
N. Mex. 96; Vogel v. Warsing, 146 Fed. Rep. 949; Risch
v. Wiseman, 36 Oregon, 484; Snyder on Mines, §§ 353, 672;
Thomas v. South Butte Min. Co., 211 Fed. Rep. 105, 107,
108.
MR.JUSTJCE
the court.

VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

These suits relate to conflicting mining locations in
/Nevada and are what are commonly called adverse suits.

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Court.

The locations set up on one side are lode azid those on the
other placer, the former being designated as Salt Lake
No. 3, Midas, and Evening Star and the latter as Guy
Davis and Homestake. Joseph Ralph is the lode claimant
and the other parties are the placer claimants.
Ralph made application at the local land office for the
issue to him of a patent for the three lode claims, along
with thirteen otherg not here in question, and in due time
two adverse claims were filed in that proceeding, one
based upon the Guy Davis and covering most of the
ground within the Salt Lake No. 3, and the other based
upon the Homestake and covering a considerable portion
of the ground within the Midas and Evening Star. These
suits were brought in a state court in support of the adverse claims, and Ralph, the sole defendant, caused them
to be removed into the federal court, the parties being
citizens of different States. Afterwards some of the orig-.
inal plaintiffs were eliminated and others brought in, but
the citizenship remained diverse as before.
The cases were tried together to the court and a jury,
the latter returning general verdicts for the plaintiffs and
special verdicts finding that when the placer locations
were made no lode had been discovered within the limits
of any:of the lode locations. Judgments for the plaintiffs
were entered upon the verdicts and motions by the defendant for a new trial were overruled. Upon writs of
error the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgments
and ordered a new trial, one judge dissenting. 249 Fed.
Rep. 81. The cases are here upon writs of certiorari
which were granted because the ground upon which the
Circuit Court of Appeals put its decision-the construction and application of some of the mineral land laws-was
deemed of general interest in the regions where those
laws are operative.
The defendant does not rely entirely upon the ground
of decision advanced by the Circuit Court of Appeals,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

but urges at length that, if it be not well taken, the record
discloses other grounds, not considered by that court, for
reversing the judgments and ordering a new trial. And
he further urges that, if the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals be right, it is not sufficiently comprehensive
to serve as a guide to the court and the parties upon
another trial. The plaintiffs insist that the judgments in
the District Court were right and should be affirmed.
In the circumstances it is open to us to deal only with
the matter considered by the Circuit Court of Appeals
and to remand the cases to it for any needed action upon
other questions, or to proceed ourselves to a complete
decision. The latter course seems the better inasmuch as
counsel have united in presenting to us all questions
thought to arise upon the record and the litigation already
has covered a considerable period.
Criticism is made of the complaints. As presented in
the state court they fully met the requirements of the
local code, Rev. Laws 1912, § 5526, and there was no request after the removal into the federal court that they be
recast to meet any further requirements prevailing there.
Apart from the local code, each sufficiently stated a cause
of action in the nature of ejectment, save as some allegations were wanting in precision and it was left uncertain
whether the defendant was in possession. The latter
defect. was cured by an affirmative statement in the answer that the defendant was in possession. Texas & New
Orleans R. R. Co. v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408, 416. If the
other defects embarrassed the defendant he should have
interposed a timely objection, which doubtless would
have resulted in appropriate amendments. Instead, he
permitted the matter to pass until the trial was in progress and then sought to obtain some advantage from it
This he could not do; by his failure to make timely objection the defects had been waived. We here dispose of
a related question by saying that, in our opinion, the

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Court.

complaints, with the answers, put in issue the validity of
the lode locations, including the requisite mineral discovery.
The defendant insists that necessary parties did not
join in filing the adverse claims in the land office, that in
the suits there was a misjoinder of plaintiffs and a failure
to join essential plaintiffs, and that deeds showing title
in some of the plaintiffs were erroneously admitted in
evidence in that they were without the requisite revenue
stamps. 'We think this insistence is untenable in all its

phases.
As respects the Guy Davis placer, Davis and Faubert
were the original locatoi-s and Faubert soon conveyed a
fraction of his interest to Thatcher. These three filed the
adverse claim and brought the suit, the title being in
them at the time. Thereafter Faubert transferred his
remaining interest to Cole, Malley and Ross, and Thatcher
conveyed a fraction of his interest to Healey. Because of
these transfers, and with the court's approval, Faubert
was eliminated as a party and Cole, Malley, Ross and
Healey came in as plaintiffs. Thus the changes in title
pending the suit were followed by corresponding changes
in the parties plaintiff.
At all the times mentioned the title was in a sense affected by an outstanding contract, executed by the original
locators, which invested That~her and Forman with a
right to a specified share in the output or proceeds of the
claim, and possibly with a right to have it worked and
thereby made productive. The contract was not recorded,
but this is not material, for the contract was good between
the parties and no subsequent purchaser is calling it in
question. See Rev. Laws. 1912, §§ 1038-1040. Unlike
Thatcher, Forman had no interest in the claim other than
under this contract. He did not join in filing the adverse
claim or in bringing the suit, but with the court's approval
came in as a plaintiff before the trial. We think his in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

terest was not such as to make him an essential party to
the adverse claim or to the suit, and yet was such as to
make him an admissible party to either. Of course the
acts of those having the title in filing the adverse claim
and bringing the suit inured to his benefit. And had they
proceeded in his absence to a judgment in their favor the
same would have been true of it. But this does not prove
that he could not be admitted as a plaintiff. He had an
interest-a real interest-in the maintenance and protection of the claim which was the subject of the suit, and in
view of the liberal provisions of the local statute, Rev.
Laws 1912, §§ 4998, 5000, we think the court did not err
in allowing him to come in as a plaintiff. It is not asserted
that his presence was prejudicial to the defendant and we
perceive no ground for thinking it could have been.
As respects the Homestake placer, Murray Scott and John
J. Healey were the original locators and the title was still
in them when the adverse claim was filed and when the
suit was begun, unless there be merit in the defendant's
contention that Scott's interest had then passed to others
under attachment 'proceedings and that Healey's interest
had then passed to his wife. Neither branch of the contention is, in our opinion, well grounded. The attachment proceedings, although commenced before the adverse
claim was filed, did not result in a transfer of Scott's title
until after .the present suit was begun. The purported
conveyance of Healey's interest to his wife, to which the
defendant directs attention, recites that it was made upon
a consideration paid in money at the time, and this is in
no wise explained. There is no evidence that the consideration was paid out of any separate property of the
wife, or that the conveyance was intended as a gift to her,
or that she ever listed the subject of the conveyance as
her separate property. In these circumstances, according
to the laws of the State, the Healey interest was community property, of which the husband had the "entire

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

.293

Opinion of the Court.

management and control" and the "absolute power of
disposition." He could lease or convey it without the
wife's concurrence and could sue in respect of it in his
name alone. Rev. Laws 1912, §§ 2155-2160; Crow v.
Van Sickle, 6 Nevada, 146; Lake v. Bender, 18 Nevada,
361, 384-385; Adams v. Baker, 24 Nevada, 375; Malstrom
v. People's Ditch Co., 32 Nevada, 246, 260.
There was here a contract with Thatcher and Forman
like that relating to the Guy Davis, and this gave them a
real interest in the claim, as already explained.
The adverse claim was filed and the suit was brought
by Scott, Healey, Thatcher and Forman. Afterwards;
and following the consummation of the attachment proceedings, the entire interest of Scott was transferred to
Cole, Malley, Ross and Davis, and by reason of this, and
with the court's approval, Scott was eliminated as a
party And Cole, Malley, Ross and Davis came in as plaintiffs. Thus there was no misjoinder of plaintiffs, nor any
failure to join an essential party. Of course, those who
succeeded to Scott's interest pending the suit were entitled to the benefit of what he had done while he held the
title.
In one of the adverse claims Healey's name was giv en
as Frank J. instead of John J., but this was a mere inadvertence, did not mislead or prejudice anyone, and rightly
was disregarded by the District Court.
As to the absence of revenue stamps, it is true that the
deeds showing title in some of the plaintiffs-they were
produced in evidence over the defendant's objectionwere without the stamps required by the-Act 'of October
22, 1914, c. 331, § 22, Schedule A, 38 Stat. 762. But this;
neither invalidated the deeds nor made them inadmissible
as evidence. The relevant provisions of that act, while
otherwise following the language of earlier acts, do not
contain the words of those acts which made such an instrument invalid and inadmissible as evidence while not

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

properly stamped. Those words were carefully omitted,
as will be seen by contrasting §§ 6, 11, 12 and 13 of the
Act of 1914 with §§ 7, 13, 14 and 15 of the Act of 1898, c.
448, 30 Stat. 454. From this and a comparison of the acts
in other particulars it is apparent that Congress in the
later act departed from its prior practice of making such
instruments invalid or inadmissible as evidence while remaining unstamped and elected to rely upon other means
of*enforcing this stamp provision, such as the imposition
of money penalties, fines and imprisonment. The d-.
cisions upon which the defendant relies arose under the
earlier acts and were based upon the presence in them of
what studiously was omitted from the later one.
As a preliminary to considering other contentions it
will be helpful to refer to some features of the mineral
land laws, Rev. Stats., § 2318, et seq., about which there
can be no controversy, and also to what actually -was in
dispute at the trial and what not in dispute.
By those laws public lands containing valuable mineral
deposits are opened to exploration, occupation and acquisition for mining purposes; and as an inducement to
effective exploration the discoverer is given the right to
locate a substantial area embracing his discovery, to hold
the same and extract the mineral without payment of
rent or royalty, so long as he puts one hundred dollars'
worth of labor or improvements-called assessment
work-upon the claim each year; and to demand and receive a patent at a small sum per acre after he has put
five hundred dollars' worth of labor or improvements
upon the claim.
. In advance of discovery an explorer in actual occupation and diligently searching for mineral I is treated as a
licensee or tenant at will, and no right can be initiated or
As to the status of an explorer or locator on oil-bearing land in advance of discovery, see the special provisions in Acts of June 25, 1910,
c. 421, § 2, 36 Stat. 847, and March 2, 1911, c. 201, 36 Stat. 1015.

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Couit.

acquired through a forcible, fraudulent or clandestine
intrusion upon his possession. But if his occupancy be
relaxed, or be merely incidental to something other than
a diligent search for mineral, and another enters peaceably, and not fraudulently or clandestinely, and makes a
mineral discovery and location, the location so made is
valid and must be respected accordingly. Belk v. Meagher,
104 U. S. 279, 287; Union Oil Co. v. Smith, 249 U. S. 337,
346-348, and cases cited.
A location based upon discovery gives an exclusive
right of possession and enjoyment, is property in the
fullest sense, is subject to sale and other forms of disposal, and so long as it is kept alive by performance of
the. required annual assessment work prevents any ad-.
verse location of the land. Gwillim v. Donnellan, 115 U.
S. 45, 49; Swanson v. Sears, 224 U. S. 180.
While the two kinds of location-lode and placerdiffer in some respects,1 a discovery within the limits of
the claim is equally essential to both. But to sustain a
lode location the discovery must be of a vein or lode of
rock in place bearing valuable mineral (§ 2320), and to
sustain a placer location it must be of some other form
of valuable mineral deposit (§ 2329), one such being
scattered particles of gold found in the softer covering of
the earth. A placer discovery will not sustain a lode
location, nor a lode discovery a placer location. As is
said by Mr. Lindey, 2 § 323, "Gold occurs in veins of rock
in place, and when so found the land containing it must be
appropriated under the laws applicable to lodes. It is
also found in placers, and when so found the land containing it must be appropriated under the laws applicable to
Clipper Mining Co. v. Eli Mining Co., 194 U. S. 220, 229; Webb v.
American AsphaUum Co., 157 Fed. Rep. 203; San FranciscoChemical
Co. v. Duffield, 201 Fed. Rep. 830; Harry Lode Mining Claim, 41 L. D.

403.
2 Lindley on Mines, 3d ed.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

placers"; and again, § 419, "It is the mode of occurrence,
whether in place or not in place [meaning in rock in place],
which determines the manner in which it should be located."
Location is the act or series of acts whereby the boundaries of the claim are marked, etc., but it confers no right
in the absence of discovery, both being essential to a
valid claim. Waskey v. Hammer, 223 U. S. 85, 90-91;
Beals v. Cone, 27 Colorado, 473, 484, 495; Round Mountain
Mining Co. v. Round Mountain Sphinx Mining Co., 36
Nevada, 543, 560; New England &c. Oil Co. v. Congdon,
152 California, 211, 213. Nor does assessment work take
the place of discovery, for the requirement relating to
such work is in the nature of a condition subsequent to a
perfected and valid claim and has "nothing to do with
locating or holding a claim before discovery." Union Oil
Co. v. Smith, supra, p. 350. In practice discovery usually
precedes location, and the statute treats it as the initial
act. But in the absence of an intervening right it is no
objection that the usual and statutory order is reversed.
In such a case the location becomes effective from the
-date of discovery; but in the presence of an*intervening
right it must remain of no effect. Creede & Cripple Creek
Mining Co. v. Uinta Tunnel Mining Co., 196 U. S. 337,
348-351, and cases cited; Union Oil Co. v. Smith, supra,
p. 347.
When an application for a patent to mineral land is
presented at the local land office and an adverse claim is
filed in response to the notice required by the statute
(§ 2325) further proceedings upon the application must
be suspended to await the determination by a court of
competent jurisdiction of the question whether either
party, and, ifso, which, has the exclusive right to the
possession arising from a valid and subsisting location. A
suit appropriate to the occasion must be brought by the
adyerse claimant, and in that suit each party is deemed an

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Court.

actor and must show his own title, for the suit is "in aid
of the land department." If neither establishes the requisite title the judgment must so declare. Rev. Stats.,
§ 2326; Act March 3, 1881, c. 140, 21 Stat. 505; Jackson
v. Roby, 109 U. S. 440; Perego v. Dodge, 163 U. S. 160, .167;
Browvn v. Gurney, 201 U. S. 184, 190; Healey v. Rupp, 37
Colorado, 25, 28; Tonopah FractionMining Co. v. Douglass,
123 Fed. Rep. 936, 941. If final judgment be given in
favor of either party-whether the applicant for patent
or the adverse claimant-he may file in the land office a
certified copy of the judgment and then will be entitled,
as respects the area awarded to him, to go forward with
the patent proceedings and to have the judgment recognized and respected as a binding adjudication of his exclusive right to the possession. Rev. Stats., § 2326; Richmond Mining Co. v. Rose, 114 U. S. 576, 585; Wolverton
v. Nichols, 119 U. S. 485,'489; Iron Silver Mining Co. v.
Campbell, 135 U. S. 286, 299; Last Chance Mining Co. v.
Tyler Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683, 694; Perego v. Dodge, supra;
Clipper Mining Co. v. Eli Mining Co., 194 U. S. 220, 232.
The situation developed by the evidence presented and
admissions made in the course of the trial was as follows:
At the outset the land was public and unappropriated,
and.it remained such save as the locations in question or
some of them may have changed its status. The lode
locations were made, one in 1897 and the other two in
1907, and the placer locations in September, 1913. The
title under the latter already has been sufficiently traced.
That under the lode locations passed to the Glasgow &
Western Exploration Company soon after they were
made, and the defendant, Ralph, claims under a deed
executed by that company's liquidator in 1914. The
principal controversy was over the presence or absence of
essential discoveries within the lode locations, it being
denied on one-hand and affirmed on the other that a vein
or lode of rock in place bearing valuable mineral was dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

covered in each location before the placer locations were
made. It was not controverted, but, on the contrary,
conceded, that that point of time was the important one
in the inquiry. Thus when the presiding judge indicated
his view by saying, "My idea is that you can't take advantage of any discoveries made since the placer locations;
and I don't believe there can be any dispute about that,"
counsel for the defendant responded, "No, your Honor,
there is none," and on another occasion counsel said, "We
are undoubtedly limited to proving that there was a
discovery of mineral in place on each of our lode claims
prior to the location of the placer claims." In all partic'Aars other than discovery the regularity and perfection
o; the lode locations were conceded. Closely connected
with the controversy over lode discoveries was another
over the applicability and effect ofl § 2332 of the Revised
Statutes, but it will be passed for the moment and separately considered later. As to the placer claims, it was
shown that they were based upon adequate discoveries
of placer gold within their limits, and counsel for the defendant announied, "We don't deny this ground is of
Their boundaries were properly
placer character."
marked and the requisite notices were posted and certificates recorded. The only questions respecting their
validity that were presented and need present mention
were, first, whether at the time the placer locations were
made the lode locations had become valid and effective
claims, thereby precluding any adverse location of the
same ground, and next, if the lode locations had not then
become valid and effective, whether the placer locations
were initiated and made through wrongful intrusions or
trespasses upon any actual possession of the lode claimant.
The defendant, as is admitted in his brief in this court,
did not claim that any lode or vein was or should be excepted from the placer claims, but only that they were of
no effect for the reasons just indicated.

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Court.

The evidence bearing upon the presence or absence of
lode discoveries ' was conflicting. That for the plaintiffs
tended persuasively to show the absence of any such discovery before the placer claims were located, while that for
the defendant tended the other way. Separately considered, some portions of the latter were persuasive, but it was
not without noticeable infirmities, among them the following: The defendant testified that no ore was ever mined
upon any of the lode claims, and that "there was no mineral exposed to the best of my [his] knowledge which would
stand the cost of mining, transportation and reduction at
a commercial profit." In the circumstances this tended
to discredit the asserted discoveries; and of like tendency
was his unexplained- statement, referring to the claims
grouped in this patent application, that "some of them
have not a smell of ore, but they can be located and held
on the principle of being contiguous to adjacent claims,"an obviously mistaken view, of the law,--and his further
statement, referring to vein material particularly. relied
upon as a discovery, that he "would hate to try to mine
it and ship it.'.'
As respects the initiation and working of the placer
'The following extracts from Chrismanv. Miller, 197 U. S. 313, 322,
show what constitutes an adequate discovery:
"The mere indication or presence of gold or silver is not sufficient to
establish the existence of a lode. .The mineral must exist in such
quantities as to justify expenditure of money for the development of
the mine and the extraction of the mineral."
"Where minerals have been found and the evidence is of such a
character that a person of ordinary prudence would be justified in the
further expenditure of his labor and means, with a reasonable prospect
of success, in developing a valuable mine, the requirements of the
statute have been met."
"The facts which are within the observation of the discoverer, and
which induce him to locate, should be such as would justify a man of
ordinary prudence, not necessarily a skilled miner, in the expenditure
of his time and money in the development of the property."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

claims, the plaintiffs' evidence indicated that the locators
entered openly, made placer discoveries, performed the
requisite acts of location, excavated several shafts in the
"wash" from 35 to 57 feet in depth, ran drifts from the
bottom along the bed-rock, and mined a considerable
amount of plAcer gold; and that these acts covered a
period of between two and three months. None of this
was contradicted; and there was no evidence that the
locatos met with any resistance or resorted to any hostile,
fraudvlent or deceptive acts. But there was evidence of
such ownership of buildings, comparatively recent prospecting, and maintenance of a watchman, on the part of
the lode claimant 1 as made, it a fair question whether he
was in actual possession when the placer locators entered.
That he was in possession of the buildings and the ground
where they stood was made certain, but that he had any
actual possession beyond that was reasonably debatable
under the evidence.
The buildings were all on the same claim and covered
only a part of it. One was a mill formerly in use but then
dismantled and stripped of its machinery. All had been
used in connection with mining operations upon other
claims, but the operations had then been suspended. The
buildings were not disturbed by the placer locators, nor
was there any attempt to appropriate them. A watchma, was in charge, but so far as appears he made no objection to what was done. Although a witness for the
defendant and in his employ, he was not interrogated
upon this point. Of course, ownership of the buildings
did not in itself give the lode claimant any right in the
land or prevent others from entering peaceably and in
good faith to avail themselves of privileges accorded by
the mineral land laws; but the presence of the buildings
'The lode cliimant at that time was cither the liquidator oLthe
Glasgow & Western Exploration Company or the company itself.

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Court.

and his relation to them did have a bearing upon the
question of actual possession--a pronounced bearing as
respects the place where the buildings stood and a lesser
bearing as respects the other ground.
Even if the lode claimant was in actual possession of
all, it still was a disputable question under the evidence
whether there had not been such acquiescence in the acts
of the placer locators in going upon the ground, making
placer discoveries and marking their locations as gave
them the status of lawful discoverers and locators rather
than wrongful intruders or trespassers, that is to say, the
status of explorers entering by permission and then making discoveries. See Crossmanv. PcndeT, 8 Fed. Rep. 693.
The questions Qf fact to which we have adverted were
all submitted to the jury under a charge which was comprehensive, couched in plain terms, and in substantial
accord with the legal principles hereinbefore stated. And,
while the defendant criticises some portions of the charge,
we think they neither included nor omitted anything of
which he rightly can complain. As has been said, the
jury returned general verdicts for the plaintiffs, and also
special verdicts finding that no lode had been discovered
within any of the lode locations before the placer ones were
made.
But it is objected that the court, instead of requiring
the plaintiffs to take the burden of proving the absence of
essential lode discoveries, subjected the defendant to
the burden of proving that there were such discoveries.
This is not in accord with the record. It there appears
that the plaintiffs undertook at the outset to establish
the absence of any lode discovery and persisted in that
course, a large, if not the larger, part of their case in chief
being directed to that point. When they rested the defendant moved that the evidence produced by them "as
to the absence of lodes, or the failure or inability of the
witnesses to find or discover lodes, or mineral-bearing

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

rock in place" within the lode locations be stricken out
because not within the issues tendered by the plaintiffs'
complaints. The motion was denied and in that connection the court observed that the burden "undoubtedly"
was on the plaintiffs not only to show their own placer
discoveries, acts of location, etc., but also "that the
ground in dispute was open to location"; and the court
added, "Plaintiffs have, so far as the record discloses,
always insisted that there was no lode discovery, and that
the only discovery was of placer." There was also an
admission in the defendant's requested instructions that
the plaintiffs "in their case in chief" introduced evidence
tending to show that, "the ground comprised in the lode
mining claims . . . contained no lodes, veins or
mineral-bearing rock in place, and . . . that said

lode locations were therefore invalid." And the court in
charging the jury said, "The burden is on the plaintiffs
in the first instance to show that when they went on these
claims to locate the placers the ground was open to locption, and that there were at the time no valid, subsisting
locations where their discoveries were made." It therefore is plain that the burden of proof was dealt with and
carried in a manner which does not admit of criticism by
the defendant.
It is objected also that the court refused to direct
verdicts for the defendant. But what has been said sufficiently shows that, in our opinion, the evidence presented
several disputable questions of fact which it was the
province of the jury to determine. This was the view not
only of the judge who presided at the trial but of another
judge who in overruling the motion for a new trial said,
"I think that not only is there substantial evidence to
support the verdict, but the preponderance is upon that
side." Were we less satisfied than we are upon the point
we should hesitate to disturb the concurring conclusions
of those judges.

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Court.

It is urged that the court erred in not holding that the
placer claimants had admitted the validity of one of the
lode locations by relocating the ground as a lode claim.
A short statement of what was done will show, as we think,
that it did not involve any such admission. After the
placer claimants made their placer discovery a representative of theirs posted on the ground a notice stating that
they had relocated it as a lode claim. The next day he
substituted another notice stating that they had located it
as a placer claim. The first notice did not accord with
their discovery and the other did. Nothing was done or
claimed under the first and all the subsequent steps were
in accord with the other. Evidently the first was posted
by mistake and the other as the true notice. No one was
misled by the mistake and it was promptly corrected.
In these circumstances, the first notice was of no effect
and no admission could be predicated of it. Zeiger v.
Dowdy, 13 Arizona, 331.
The further objection is made that no probative force
was Oven to recitals of discovery in the recorded notices
of location of the lode claims. The notices were admit-ted
in evidence and no instruction was asked or given respecting the recitals. In one nothing is said about discovery,
and what is said in the other two is meager. But, passing
this, the objection .is not tenable. The general rul is
that such recitals are mere ex pare, self-serving declExa.
tions on the part of the locators, and not evidence of
discovery. Creede & Cripple Creek Mining Co. v. Uinta
Tunnel Mining Co., 196 U. S. 337, 352; Lindley on Mines,
3d ed., § 392; Mutchmor v. McCarty, 149 California, 603,
607; Strepey v. Stark, 7 Colorado, 614, 619; Magruder v..
Oregon & California R. R. Co., 28 L. D. 174. This rule
is recognized and. applied in Nevada. Fox v. Myers, 29
Nevada, 169, 186; Round Mountain Mining Co. v. Round
Mountain Sphinx Mining,Co., 36 Nevada, 543, 560.
Complaint is made because the defendant was not per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

mitted on the cross-examination of a witness for the
plaintiffs to show the contents of certain assay reports.
In his examination in chief the witness told of taking
twelve samples from openings made by the lode claimant
in the lode locations and of having the samples assayed.
Seven of the assay reports were produced at the plaintiffs'
request and put in evidence. They attributed to one
sample a mineral value of sixty-three cents per ton and to
the other six only a trace of mineral. In cross-examining
the witness the defendant called for the remaining reports
or their contents, but the plaintiffs objected and the
objection was sustained. In other respects the crossexamination proceeded without restriction and included
a full interrogation of the witness about the points from
which each of the twelve samples was taken. This interrogation disclosed that one of the reports put in evidence covered a sample taken from an opening made after
the location of the placer claims; and because of this that
report was stricken out at the defendant's request and
with the plaintiffs' consent. Near the close of the trial
the court recalled its-prior ruling and announced another
more favorable to the defendant. The witness was then
recalled and, after some further examination, three of the
remaining reports were put in evidence. They attributed
to one sample a mineral value of one dollar and thirtyfour cents per ton and to the other two only a trace of
mineral. Thus of the twelve reports all but two were
produced. These two, like the one stricken out, covered
samples taken from openings made after the placer claims
were located. The defendant did not call for them when
the witness was recalled or reserve any exception to the
new ruling, and it is more than inferable from the record
that he acquiesced in it. Of course, there is no merit in
the present complaint.
What we have said sufficiently disposes of all questions
other than that before mentioned respecting the applica-

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Court.

bility and effect of § 2332 of the Revised Statutes, which
provides:
"Where such person or association, they and their
grantors, have held and worked their claims for a period
equal to the time prescribed by the statute of limitations
for mining-claims of the State or, Territory where the
same may be situated, evidence of such possession and
working of the claims for such period shall be sufficient to
establish a right to a patent thereto under this chapter,
in the absence of any adverse claim."
The defendant, conceiving that the section could be
invoked in the absence of a mineral discovery, requested
the court to instruct the jury that if the lode claimant
held and worked the lode claims for a period of two yearsthe local prescriptive period for adverse possession, Rev.
Laws, 1912, § 4951,-before the placer claims were initiated, such holding and working were the full equivalent
of all that was essential to the validity of the lode claims,
including discovery. That request was refused and others
were then presented which differed from it only in that
they treated discovery as essential by coupling it with
holding and working. These were'.also refused, but no
complaint is made of this,-obviously because the jury
were told that under the evidence the lode claims should
be regarded as valid, if only the requisite discoveries were
made at any time before the placer claims were initiated.
The jury, as we have seen, found as matter of fact that
there was no such discovery.
The effect which must be given to § 2332 in circumstances such as are here disclosed-whether it substitutes
something else in the place of discovery or cures its absence-is the matter we have to consider. That the section is a remedial provision and designed to make proof
of holding and working for the prescribed period the legal
equivalent of proof of acts of location, recording and
transfer, and thereby to relieve against possible loss or

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

destruction of the usual means of establishing such acts,
is attested by repeated rulings in the land department
and the courts. But those rulings give no warrant for
thinking that it disturbs or qualifies important provisions
of the mineral land laws, such as deal with the character
of the land that may be taken, the discovery upon which
a claim must be founded, the area that may be included in
a single claim, the citizenship of claimants, the amount
that must be expended in labor or improvements to entitle the claimant to a patent, and the purchase price to
be paid before the patent can be issued. Indeed, the rulings have been to the contrary.
The view entertained and applied in the land department is shown in the following excerpt from a decision
by the Secretary of the Interior:
"One purpose of section 2332, . . . clearly shown
in the history of the proceedings in Congress attending
its consideration and passage there, was to lessen the
burden of proving the location and transfers of old claims
concerning which the possessory right was not controverted but the record title to which had in many instances
been destroyed by fire or otherwise lost because of the
insecurity and difficulty necessarily attending its preservation during the early days of mining operations.
"The section was not intended as enacted, nor as now
found in the Revised Statutes, to be a wholly separate
and independent provision for the patenting of a mining
claim. As carried forward into the Revised Statutes it
relates to both lode and placer claims, and being in pari
materia with the other sections of the Revision concerning
such claims is to be construed together 'with them, and
so, if possible, that they may all stand together, forming a harmonious body of mining law." Barklage v.
Russell, 29 L. D. 401, 405-406.
The views entertained by the courts in the mining
regions are shown in Harris v. Equator Mining Co., 8

COLE v. RALPH.
286.

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 863, 866, where the court ruled that holding
and working a claim for a long period were the equivalent
of necessary acts of location, but added that "this; of
course, was subject to proof of a lode in the Ocean Wave
ground, of which there was evidence"; in Humphreys v.
Idaho Gold Mines Co., 21 Idaho, 126, 140, where the
section was held to obviate the necessity for proving the
posting, etc., of a location notice, but not to dispense with
proof of discovery; in Upton v. Santa Rita Mining Co.,
14 N. Mex. 96, where the court held that the section
should be construed in connection with other provisions
of the mineral land laws, and that it did not relieve a
claimant coming within its terms from. Continuing to do
the assessment work required by another section; and in
Anthony v. Jillson, 83 California, 296, where the section
was held not to change the class who may acquire mineral
lands or to dispense with proof of citizenship.
As repects discovery, tbe section itself indicates that
no change was intended. Its words, "have held and
worked their claims," presuppose a discovery; for to
"work" a mining claim is to do something toward making it productive, such as developing or extracting an ore
body after it has been discovered. Certainly it was not
intended that a right to a patent could be founded upon
nothing more than holding and prospecting, for that
would subject non-mineral land to acquisition as a mining
claim. Here, as the verdicts show, therewas no discovery,
so the working relied upon could not have been of the
character contemplated by Congress.
The defendant places some reliance upon the decisions
of this court in Belk v. Meagher, 104 U. S. 279, and Reavi
v. Fianza, 215 U. S. 16, but neither contains any statement or suggestion that the section dispenses with a mineral discovery or cures its absence. The opinion in the
first shows affirmatively that there was a discovery and
that in the other shows that the controversy, although of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

recent origin, related to "gold mines" which had been
worked for many years.
The only real divergence of opinion respecting the section has been as to whether it is available in an adverse
suit, such as these are, or is addressed merely to the land
department. Some of the courts have held it available
only in proceedings in the department, McCowan v.
Maclay, 16 Montana, 234, and others in greater number
have held it available in adverse suits. Upton v. Santa
Rita Mining Co., supra, and cases cited. The latter view
has received the approval of this court. Reavis v. Fianza,
supra; Belk v. Meagher, supra.
We conclude that the defendant was not entitled to any
instruction whereby he could receive the benefit of § 2332
in the absence of a discovery, and therefore that the
District Court rightly refused to give the one in question.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the instruction
should have been given, and in this we think it erred.
Judgments of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Judgments of District Court affirmed.

PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. TOPPIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 147.

Argued January 16, 1920.-Decided March 15, 1920.

By the laws of Panama, a railroad company is liable for personal injuries resulting from the criminal negligence of its servant in running
an engine at a rate prohibited by the Panama Police Code. P. 310.
The rule of respondeat superior applies in Panama, in such cases, and
due care in selecting the servant is not a defense for the railroad
company. P. 311.

