SOUTH COVINGTON &c. RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 399
8.Syllabus.

..

Code.) The order conferred no new rights upon the
Power Company which that company could or did convey
to the Traction Company, nor give them a sanction that
they did not have, nor did it affect any rights of the
plaintiff.
From every federal constitutional standpoint, therefore,
the contentions of plaintiff are so obviously without merit
as to be colorless and whatever controversies or causes of
action it had were against the defendant companies as
rivals in eminent domain, or as owners of the lands, and,
diversity of citizenship not existing, the District Court of
the United States had no jurisdiction.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no
part in the. consideration or decision of this case.

-SOUTH COVINGTON & CINCINNATI STREET
RAILWAY COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF
KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

KENTUCKY.
No: 252. Argued March 18, 19, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.
A state law requiring interurban railroad companies to supply sepante
cars or compartments for white and -colored passengers, and .punishing failure to do so, is not an unconstitutional burden on interstf.te
commerce as applied to such a railroad, owned by a local corporation
and lying wholly within such State, while in control of an allied
street car company and in practice operated as part of a streetcar system over which the cars are run to and from a city in another
State (where such separation of races is illegal) and passengers are

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

carried through to destination without change for a single fare,
those traveling interstate greatly exceeding in number those traveling wholly within the State making the requirement. P. 403.
181 Kentucky, 449, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alfred C. Cassatt,with whom Mr. J. C. W. Beckham,
Mr. Richard P. Ernst and Mr. Frank W. Cottle were Dn
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Stephens L. Blakely, with whom Mr. Chas. I.
Dawson, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Railway Company was indicted for a violation of
a statute of Kentucky which required companies or persons running or operating railroads in the State, to furnish separate coaches or cars for white and colored
passengers.
The statute, as far as we are concerned with it, is as
follows: all corporations, companies or persons "engaged
in running or operating any of the railroads of this State,
either in part or whole, either in their own name or that of
others, are hereby required to furnish separate coaches or
cars for the travel or transportation of the white and
colored passengers on their respective lines of railroad.
Each compartment of a coach divided by a good iind substantial wooden partition, with a door therein, shall be
deemed a separate coach within the meaning of this act,
and each separate coach or compartment shall bear in
some conspicuous place appropriate-words in plain letters
indicating the race for which it is set apart." [Ky. Stats.,
ยง 795.]

SOUTH COVINGTON &c. RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 401
399.

Opinion of the Court.

It is also .provided that there shall be no difference or
discrimination in the quality of the coaches or cars. A
violation of the act is made a misdemeanor.
Interurban electric railroads are subject to the above
provisions. We may say in passing that the railway company denies that it is interurban, but admits that the fact
has been decided against it and accepts the ruling. It will
be considered, therefore, as interurban and being so it was
within the law and the charge of the indictment. The
charge is that the company at the time designated "then
and there had authority and was authorized to operate
a line of railroad ten miles in length between Covington
and Erlanger, aind beyond, through and by means of its
control, ownership and lease of and from the Cincinnati,
Covipgton and Erlanger Railway Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, an interurban railroad company authorized to
construct and operate an electric railroad ten miles in
length in this County between Covington and Erlanger
and beyond, and incorporated under the general railroad
laws of this Commonwealth, said defendant then and there
operating said line of railroad, the construction of which
by the Cincinnati, Covington and Erlanger Railway Company had theretofore been authorized." And having such
authority and control of the line of railroad, the company
violated the law of the State by not observing its requirement as to separate coaches.
The defense to the action was, and the contention here
is, not that the facts charged are not true, but that the
statute so far as it is attempted to be made applicable to
the company is an interference with interstate commerce,
and that the defense was made in the trial court in a
motion to dismss and for a new trial and also in the Court
of Appeals.
In support of the contention it is stated that the company's principal business was interstate commerce-the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

carriage of passengers between Cincinnati and the Kentucky cities across the Ohio River,-that the car in question was an ordinary single truck street car solely engaged
in interstate trips from Cincinnati, Ohio, through Covington, Kentucky, and a suburb about five miles distant, and
that eighty per cent. of the passengers carried were interstate.
The reply made by the State, and expressed by the
Court of Appeals, to the contention is that the railway
company is a Kentucky corporation and by its charter was
given authority "to construct, operate and manage street
railways in the City of Covington and vicinity"; "and
along such streets and public highways in the city as the
council shall grant the right of way to"; "and along such
roads or streets out of the city as the companies or corporations owning the same may cede the right to the use
of." And further "it may at any time, by agreement,
purchase, lease, consolidate with, acquire, hold or operate
any other street railway, or intersect therein, in Covington, Cincinnati, Newport or vicinity," etc.
The Court of Appeals further declared that the railway
company became in some way the owner of all of the
stocks of the Cincinnati, Covington and Erlanger Railway
Company, and that the corporations are operated under
the same general management, and "that the elder corporation operating in the name of the junior, actually constructed its road, and has been operating it from the
beginning, being the owner of the cars, which are operated
upon the road. The motive power is electricity and is the
property of the elder corporation.. The cars operated upon
the road are such as are ordinarily used upon street railroads, and such as the elder corporation uses upon the
street railroads of its system. A fare of five cents is
charged for passage from any point upon the road of the
Cincinnati, Covington and Erlanger Company, to any
point on the system of the South Covington and Cincin-

SOUTH COVINGTON &c. RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 403
399.

Opinion of the Court.

nati Street Railway Company and from one point to
another upon the entire system of the latter company, and
transfers are given for all connecting lines. Many persons,
who take passage upon the line of the Cincinnati, Covington and Erlanger Railway Company, at its terminus,
near Erlanger and at other places along its line, are transported' without change of cars, into Cincinnati, in the
State of Ohio, as it connects with the lines of the South
Covington and Cincinnati Street Railway Company, at its
terminus, in the City of Covington." Separate coaches
were not provided as required by the law.
These being the facts the Court of Appeals decided that
there was no interference with or regulation of interstate
commerce. "Each of the termini," the court said, "as
well as all the stations of the Cincinnati, Covington and
Erlanger Railway Company's road is within the State of
Kentucky." And it was concluded that "the -offense
charged and fdr which the" railway was "convicted was
the operation of the railroad, in an unlawful manner,
within the State, and in violation of one of the measures
enacted under the police powers of the State."
In answer and in resistance to the conclusion of the
-court, the railway company contends that it operates a
railway between designated termini, one being in Kentucky and the other in Ohio, that the price of a fare may
be the single one of five cents for the complete trip in the
same coach taken at or terminating at the respective
termini, and that therefore the car and passenger are
necessarily interstate. Thus viewed they undoubtedly
are, but there are other considerations. There was a
distinct operation in Kentucky,-an operation authorized
and required by the charters of the companies, and it is
that operation the act in question regulates, and does no
more, and therefore is not a regulation of interstate commerce. This is the effect of the ruling in South Covirgtgn
& CincinnatiStreet Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S.537. The

404

OCTOBER TERM, i'*DAY, VAN DEVANTER and PIiEy, JJ., dissenting. '.252 U. S.

regulation of the act affects interstate business incidentally and does not subject it t9 unreas-na b6lemands.
The cited case points out the equal: necessity, under our
system of government, to preserve the power of the States
within their sovereignties as to prevent the power from
intrusive exercise within the National sovereignty, and
an interurban railroad company deriving its powers from
the State, and subject to obligations under the laws of the
State, should not be permitted to exercise the powers
given by the State, and escape its obligations to the State
under the circumstances presented by this record, by run-.,
ning its coaches beyond the state lines. But we need not
extend the discussion. The cited case expresses the principle of decision and marks the limitation upon the-power
of a State and when its legislation is or, is nt an intd6rence with interstate commerce. And regarding its principle, we think, as we have said, the act in controversy does
not transcend that limitation.

Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY,

dissenting.

If the statute of the State of Kentucky, here involved,
as enforced by the decision under review imposes an unreasonable burden upon interstate commerce, the conviction should be reversed. To determine this question it is
necessary to have in mind precisely what the charge was,
and the nature of the traffic to which it was applied. The
South Covjngton & Cincinnati Street Railway Company
was charged with the offense of unlawfully running and
operating a coach or car by electricity on a railroad track
within the State of Kentucky, without causing or having
a separate coach for the transportation of white and
colored passengers on its said line of railroad to bear in
some conspicuous place appropriate words in plain letters
indicating the race for which it was set apart, and without
having its coach or car divided by a good and substantial

SOUTH COVINGTON &c. RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 405
399.

DAY, VAN DEVANTER

and

PiTNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

wooden partition, or other partition, dividing the same
into compartments with a door therein, and each separate
compartment bearing in some conspicuous place appropriate words in plain letters indicating the race for which
it was set apart.
.There is no conflict of testimony, and the record shows
that the Company was engaged in the operation of a street
railway system whose principal business was interstate
commerce, carrying passengers between Cincinnati and
Kentucky cities across the Ohio River; that the car in
question, described in the indictment, was an ordinary
single truck street car seating thirty-two passengers,
about twenty-one feet in length, inside measurement,
solely engaged in interstate trips from Cincinnati, Ohio,
through Covington, Kentucky, and well-populated territory adjacent thereto, to a point near Fort Mitchell, a
suburb, about five miles distant. Eighty per cent. of the
passengers carried were interstate. Not to exceed 6 per
cent. of the passengers carried at any time were colored
and on a large proportion of the trips no colored passengers
were carried.
The question for determination is: Whether under such
circumstances the requirement of the statute of the State
of Kentucky that railroad companies doing business in
that 'State shall be required to furnish separate coaches
and cars for the travel or transportation of white and
colored persons or cars with compartments, as described
in the indictment, is constitutional? The nature of the
traffic of the South Covington & Cincinnati Street Railway Company was considered by this court in South
Covington & CincinnatiStreet Ry. Co.'v. Covington, 235 U.
S. 537, and we held that the traffic between Kentucky
and Ohio on the same cars, under the same management,
and for a single fare constituted interstate commerce.
(See 235 U. S. 545, and cases cited.) In that case we held
that an ordinance of the City 6f Covington, which under-

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
DAY, VAN'DEvANTER

and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting. 252 U. S.

took to determine the number of cars and passengers to be
carried in interstate transportation was invalid as a burden upon interstate commerce; and that, as to certain
regulations affecting the safety and welfare of passengers,
the ordinance was valid until Congress saw fit to regulate
the interstate transportation involved.
It is true that a portion of the transportation involved in
the present case is over the track of a railroad company
organized under the laws of Kentucky. But that road had
no cars, conducted no railroad operations, and its stock
was owned and it was operated by the South Covington &
Cincinnati Street Railway Company. The car, for which
the indictment was returned, and the conviction had, was
operated only in interstate traffic, and, whether over one
road or the other, such operation was interstate commerce,
and plainly within the authority of Congress. In the
absence of congressional regulation the State had power
to make reasonable rules, not burdening interstate commerce, which should be enforced until Congress otherwise
enacted.
The question in this case then is: Was the application of
this statute a reasonable regulation? The traffic consists
in running a single car, of the character already described,
from Fountain Square, Cincinnati, a distance of about six

miles, to Fort Mitchell, a suburb of South Covington, Kentucky. How could this separate car or compartment statute be complied with? It is first suggested a separate car
-could be put on for the accommodation of colored passengers for the distance of the intrastate run on the Kentucky
side of the river. In view of the nature of the transportation and themeagre pAtronage compared with the expense
of such n undertaking,this method would be impracticable
without interrupting travel and entailing a great loss upon
the Company. Secondly, it is suggested, and this seems to
be the weight of the argument, that cars could be constructed with a separate compartment for the few colored

SOUTH COVINGTON &c. RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 407
399.

DAY,

VAN D

v

Tma and PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

persons who ride in the car after it reaches or before it
leaves Kentucky. It is admitted that this regulation would
not apply to interstate passengers, and colored passengers
going from Kentucky to Cincinnati, or going from Cincinnati to Kentucky on a through trip, would not be subject
to the regulation. The few colored passengers traveling
exclusively in the State of Kentucky in this car would thus
be discriminated against by reason of the different privilege
accorded to other colored passengers on the same car, a
condition not likely to promote the peace or public welfare.
As this transportation is also subject to regulation in the
State of Ohio (see ยง 12940, Ohio Gen. Code) and as by the
laws of that State no such separation of passengers is permitted, it follows that upon the same trip the traffic
would be the subject of conflicting regulations, calculated
to be destructive of the public policy which it is supposed
to be the design of this statute to promote; a condition
which we said in South Covington Street Railway Case,
supra, would breed confusion greatly to the detriment of
interstate traffic.
This case is quite different from Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.
Co. v. Kentucky, 179 U. S. 388, in which the statute now
under consideration was before the court, and wherein it
was held that the law was valid when applied to a carrier
operating an interstate road. The act was held to be
separable, and capable of being complied with within the
State by attaching a car for passengers traveling only
within the State. That case presented quite a different
situation from the operation of the single street car here
involved.
The present indictment is for running an ordinary street
car upon an interstate journey of only about six miles, with
80 per cent. of its travel interstate, and not over 6 per cent.
of the passengers colored, and -on many trips no colored
passengers at all. As we-have indioate,'tl " attachment
of the additional car upon the Kentuy side on soshort a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
'Counsel forPlaintiff in Error.

252 U. S.

journey would burden interstate commerce as to cost and
in the practical operation of the traffic. The provision
for a separate compartment for the use of only intrastate
colored passengers would lead. to confusion and discrimination. The same interstate transportation would be subject .to conflicting regulation.in the two States in which it
is conducted.
It seems to me that the statute in question as applied to
the traffic here involved is an unreasonable regulation and
burdensome to interstate commerce, and, therefore, beyond the power of the State. I think the judgment should
-be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTCE PITNEY
concur in this dissent.

CINCINNATI, COVINGTON & ERLANGER RAILWAY COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 253.

Argued March 18,19, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Decided on the authority of South Coving

& Cinnnati Stree R&.

Co. v. Kentuy, Antq, 399.

181 Kentucky, 449, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alfred C. Caosatt,with whom Mr. J. C. W. Beckham,
Mr.. Richard P. Ernst and Mr. Frank W. Cottle were on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

