LEE v. CENTRAL OF GA. RY. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

LEE v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.
No. 150.

Argued January 16, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

A rule of state pleading and practice, applied without discrimination
to cases of personal injury arising under the federal and state employers' liability laws, which prevents an injured employee from
suing jointly, in a single count, the railroad company under the
federal statute and a co-employee at common law, does not u.
fringe any right of such plaintiff derived from the federal statute.
P. 110.
21 Ga. App. 558, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.Mr. Alexander A. Lawrence, with whom Mr. Win. W.
Osborne was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. H. W. Johnson, with whom Mr. T. M. Cunningham,
Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.

An injured employee brought an action in a state court
of Georgia jointly against a railroad and its engineer, and
sought in a single count, which alleged concurring negligence, to recover damages from the company under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, and from the individual
defendant under the common law. Each defendant filed
a special demurrer on the ground of misjoinder of causes
of action and misjoinder of parties defendant. The de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

.252 U. S.

murrers were overruled by the trial court. The Court of
Appeals-an intermediate appellate court to which the
case went on exceptions-certified to the Supreme
Court of the State the question whether such joinder was
permissible. It answered in the negative (147 Georgia,
428). Thereupon the Court of Appeals reversed the judgment of the trial court (21 Ga. App. 558); and certiorari
to the Supreme Court of the State was refused. The
plaintiff then applied to this court for a writ of certiorari
on the ground that he had been denied rights conferred
by federal law; and the writ was granted.
Whether two causes of action may be joined in a single
count or whether two persons may be sued in a single
count are matters of pleading and practice relating solely
to the form of the remedy. When they arise in state
courts the final determination of such matters ordinarily
rests with the state tribunals, even if the rights there
being enforced are created by federal law. John v. Paullin, 231 U. S. 583; Nevada-California-OregonRailway v.
Burrus, 244 U. S.103. This has been specifically held in
cases arising under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Bombolis, 241 U. S.
211; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Mims, 242 U. S.532;
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Holloway, 246 U. S.
525. It is only when matters nominally of procedure are
actually matters of substance which affect a federal right,
that the decision of the state court therein becomes subject to review by this court. Central Vermont Ry. Co. v.
White, 238 U. S.507; New Orleans & NortheasternR. R. Co.
v. Harris,247 U. S. .367.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act does not modify
in any respect rights of employees against one another
existing at common law. To deny to a plaintiff the right
to join in one count a cause against another employee
with a cause of action against the employer, in no way
abridges any substantive right 3f the plaintiff against the

LEE v. CENTRAL OF GA. RY. CO.
109.

Opinioa of the Court.

employer. The argument that plaintiff has been discriminated against because he is an interstate employee
is answered, if answer be n4ecessary, by the fact that the
Supreme Court of Georgia had applied the same rule in
Western & Atlantic R. R. Co. v. Smith, 144 Georgia, 737
(22 Ga. App. 4&7), where it refused under the State Employers' Liability Act to permit the plaintiff to join with
the employer another railroad whose concurrent negligence was alleged to have contributed in producing the
injury complained of. If the Supreme Court of Georgia
had in this case permitted the joinder, we might have
been required to determine whether, in view ofthe practice
prevailing in Georgia, such decision would not imnair the
employer's opportunity to make the defences to which
it is entitled by the federal law. For, as statedby its Supreme Court in this case (147 Georgia, 428, 431): "If
the carrier and its engineer were jointly liable under the
conditions stated in the second question, a joint judgment
would result against them, and they would be equally
bound, regardless of the fact that the duties imposed upon
them are not the same. The jury would have no power
in such a case to specify the particular damages to be recovered of each, since Civil Code, ยง 4512 [providing for
verdicts in different amounts against the several defendants] is not applicable to personal torts."
But we have no occasion to consider this question.
Refusal to permit the joinder did not deny any right of
plaintiff conferred by federal law. Cases upon which
petitioner most strongly relies, Southern Ry. Co. v. Carson, 194 U. S. 136; Alabama Great Southern Ry. Co. v.
Thompson, 200 U. S. 206; Southern Ry. Co. v. Miller, 217
U. S. 209, are inapplical le to the situation at bar.
Affirmed.

