OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

here negligible because, in that view, the regulations relied
upon would do no more than extend the military authority,
because of a state of war, to the punishment, as military
crimes, of acts criminal under the state law, without the
slightest indication of purpose to exclude the jurisdiction
of state courts to deal with such acts as offenses against
the state law.
And this conclusion harmonizes with the principles of
interpretation applied to the Articles of War previous to
1916; Drury v. Lewis, 200 U. S. 1; Grafton v. United States,
206 U. S. 333; Franklin v. United States,'216 U. S. 559;
6 Ops. Atty. Gen. 413; and is, moreover, in accord with the
decided cases which have considered the contention of
exclusive power in the military courts as resulting from the
Articles of 1916 which we have here considered. People v.
Denman, 179 California, 497; Funk v. State, 208 S. W. Rep.
509; United States v. Hirsch, 254 Fed. Rep. 109.
It follows, therefore, that the contention as to the enlargement of military power, as the mere result of a state of
war, and the consequent complete destruction of state
authority,, are without merit and that the court was right
in so deciding and hence its judgment must be and it is
Affirmed.

CUYAHOGA RIVER POWER COMPANY v. NORTHERN OHIO TRACTION & LIGHT COMPANY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 102.

Argued March 17, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Plaintiff; a hydro-electric company organized under a general law of
Ohio, averred in its bill to quiet title, that its incorporation con-

stituted a contract whereby the State granted it a right of way for

CUYAHOGA CO. v. NORTHERN OHIO CO.
388.

389

Statement of the Case.

its plant, along a certain river, between the termini designated in
its articles, with the power of eminent domain to acquire title from
private owners; that these rights were crystallized by a resolution of
its board of directors adopting a detailed plan of power development and definitely and irrevocably fixing the location of its proposed
works on specific lands, surveyed by its engineers and essential to
the enterprise; that all this, supplemented by condemnation proceedings initiated but not as yet consummated, gave exclusive rights
to acquire the lands for plaintiff's corporate objects, through its
power of eminent domain; and that the purchase of such lands from
their owner by one of two defendant public service corporations,
also organized under general laws of Ohio, their transfer to the other
with the consent of the state Public Utilities Commission, and their
,occupation and use by the other for generating electric power, with
.asertibn of immunity from plaintiff's power of condemnation,
worked an impairment of plaintiff's contract, and a taking of its
property, by state action or agency. Held, that the asserted federal
qu stions were too plainly without merit to afford jurisdiction to the
District Court. P. 395. Sears v. City of Akron, 246 U. S. 242.
Afrmed.

TiE appeal is direct to this court, the laws and Constitution of the United States being asserted to be involved.
Upon motion of defendants (appellees) the bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction and equity. Its allegations,
therefore, become necessary to consider.
Plaintiff (appellant) was incorporated as a hydro-electric
power company on May 29, 1908, for the purposes specified in the act of the legislature of Ohio, passed in 1904, and
contained in §§ 10,128 and 10,134 of the Ohio General
Code of 1910.
The Articles of Incorporation filed May 29, 1908, with
the Secretary of State specified the streams across which
the dams were to be built and maintained, that is, the
streams in controversy, the Big Cuyahoga River and certain of its tributaries.
By said incorporation a contract was duly made and
entered into between the State and plaintiff whereby the
State granted to plaintiff a right of way over and along .the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Statement of the Case.

252 U.S.

Cuyahoga River between the designated termini and a
vested, ,ight and franchise to construct, maintain and
opera.te, within the limits of the right of way, a hydroelectric plant for the development of electric current 'and
*energy from the waters of the river, together with a right
or franchise to exercise the State's power of eminent domain in order to appropriate and acquire property necessaxy to carry out and perform the grant and make it
effective. The grant has not been repealed.
. The grants were accepted and are of great value and
*upon the faith of that, the capital stock of plaintiff was
subscribed for, and large expenditures and investments
made and obligations incurred, including bonds of the par
value of $150,000, and stock to the value of $210,000, all
*in a large part prior to December, 1910.
On June 4, 1908, plaintiff by its board of directors
-adopted a specific and detailed plan for the development
of the power and sale of the same to the public, and definitely located its propos6d improvements for that purpose
upon specifically described lands, which had previously
been entered. upon and surveyed by its engineers, and
then and there declared and resolved that the parcels
of land were necessary to carry out the purpose of the
plaintiff'g organization and that it thereby appropriated
and demanded them for its corporate purposes.. The
'parcels of land described in the resolution include all that
were necessary for the purpose of the corporation, and the
location of the improvement so fixed by the resolution was
permanent and irrevocable and conclusive upon plaintiff
and all other persons except as the same might be altered
by further act of the State.June 5, 1908, the plaintiff instituted a suit in the court
of proper jurisdiction, .tocondemn. or appropriate in
accordance with the statutes of Ohio, -the parcels of land
mentioned in the resolution, and the persons owning the
same were made parties. The suit was continuously pend-

CUYAHOGA CO. v. NORTHERN OHIO CO.
388.

391

Statement of the Case.

ing until a date subsequent to July 18, 1911, but at the
instance and request of one of the owners of the parcels,
and of the Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company,
called the Traction Company, the suit was not pressed for
trial against them until January, 1911, up to which date
certain negotiations in regard to the improvement of the
Company were proposed, but finally terminated in the
refusal of the owner of the land and the Traction Company
to sell the land to plaintiff.
December 20, 1910, pending the suit and negotiations,
the landowner executed a deed of the lands to The Northern Realty Company, conveying to it a fee simple title.
January 20, 1911, after unsuccessful negotiations with
the Realty Company, plaintiff instituted another suit for
the condemnation of the land, which suit was prosecuted in
the Probate Court (the court of jurisdiction) and is now
pending in the Supreme Court of the United States, undetermined, to which court it was carried by a writ- of error
from the Court of Appeals of Ohio.
January 31, 1911, and while the suit above mentioned
was pending, the Realty Company conveyid -the land
that had been conveyed to it, to the Northern Ohio Power
Company, and the latter company conveyed that and
other land which it had acquired, and all of its properties,
rights and franchises to the Traction Company and the
latter company entered upon the lands and now holds
possession of them and of the improvements erected
thereon.
Prior to January 20, 1911, no location or improvement
upon the lands above designated was made for the purpose
of utilizing them in the development of power and they
were actually employed for no use whatsoever, except a
small wooden structure intended and occasionally used
for dances and roller skating, a small portion of which
structure was within all of the parcels.
Between January 31, 1911, and February 24, 1914, there

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Statement of the Case.

252 U. S.

was erected upon the lands designated, a power-house and
other appliances for the generation of electric current and
energy by means of steam power, also a dam, a powerhouse and other appliances for the generation of electric
.curent and energy by the flow and fall of the waters of
the river..
(There is an allegation of the capacity of the plants
which may be omitted. Other allegations in regard to the,
various companies and the powers they possess and do not
possess also may be omitted. It is only necessary to say
that it is alleged that the Power Company had not, and
the Traction Company has not, power to use the designated lands or the waters of the river to operate the steam
power plant and the hydro-electric plant, or for the
development of such powers and, therefore, neither company had power to exercise. eminent domain for such
purposes, though asserting its -right and intention to do so,
and if it should do so, it woiild invade and injure rights of
plaintiff, inflicting "upon the plaintiff and the persons
interested therein a continuing, permanent and irreparable
injury, for which there is no adequate remedy at law. ")
From and after the time of the adoption of the resolution of June 4, 1908, the designated parcels of land were
subjected to plaintiff's public use and its rights and franchises, exclusive of all other persons and corporations; that
such rights and franchises were granted to plaintiff by the
State of Ohio under and by authority of plaintiff's contract
With. the State, and for the protection of which plaintiff is
entitled td and claims the protection of the Constitution
of the United States and of the Amendments thereof, as
well as § 5 of Article XIII of the constitution of the State.

of Ohio.
The effect and result of the Traction .Company's use of
.the designated parcels of land and of the waters of the
river is an appropriation, by. it of the rights and franchises
of plaintiff and the deprivation of its property for private

CUYAHOGA CO. v. NORTHERN OHIO CO.

388.

393

Counsel for Parties.

use without compensation and without due process of law,
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and an impairment of the contract of plaintiff with the State of Ohio within the meaning of Article I of the Constitution of the United States.
Plaintiff has at all times and since its incorporation,
actively and diligently and in good faith proceeded to
carry out and accomplish its corporate purpose.
In April, 1909, the plaintiff amended its resolution of
June 4, 1908, and enlarged its proposed plant and the output and product thereof and obtained a grant from the
-State over the additional portion or section of the Cuyahoga River so as to carry out the amended plan, and it
provides for the utilization of the designated parcels of
land necessary to the plaintiff's rights and franchises..
(The additional capacity is alleged.)
The prayer is that plaintiff's rights and franchises be
established and adjudged; that the proceedings complained of be decreed a violation of the plaintiff's rights,
and of the constitution of Ohio and the Constitution of the
United States, and a taking its property without due process of law. And that an injunction be granted against
their further exercise; that defendants be required to remoire the structures and devices already erected upon the
lands, or 'to convey them to the plaintiff, and that a
receiver be appointed to take possession of the lands and
structures. An accounting is also prayed, and general
relief.
Mr. Carroll G. Walter, with whom Mr. William Z.
Davis and Mr. John L. Wells were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. John E. Morley and Mr. J. S. Cta.-, with whom
Mr. S. H. Tolles and Mr. T.-H. Hogsett were on the briefs,
for appellees.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

-

252 U. S.,

MR. JUSTICE McKEiNA, after stating the case as s.bove,.
delivered the opinion of the court.

As we have said, a motion was made to dismiss the bill.
The grounds of the motion were that there was no jurisdiction in the court, the controversy not arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and that the
bill did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against defendants or either of them.
There is an assertion, in words, of rights under the Constitution of the United States, and the only question now
presented is whether the assertion is justified by the
allegations of the bill. Putting the question concretely,
or rather the contention which constitutes its foundation,
the District Court said, "The contention of the plaintiff
is that by virtue of its charter, it has appropriated the
potentialities of the river and its tributaries within the
boundaries by it designated in its resolution of improvement, and that it is entitled, because of its incorporation
under the general laws of the State, to exclude any use of
the water power of these streams of the nature of the use
which it anticipates enjoying in the future while it proceeds, however dilatorily, to make its improvements in
detail and to complete its ambitious scheme. In brief, its
proposition is that its charter is equivalent to a contract
with the State of Ohio giving it the exclusive right to the
employment of the benefits which nature has conferred
upon the public through the forces of these streams to the
end that, until it finds itself, able to completely occupy all
the territory which it has privately designated to be
necessary for its use, the public shall not have the advaAtage of any portion not immediately occupied by it
through the employment of the resources thereof by
another public utility company."
The coiut rejected the contention holding that it was
not tenable under the law and constitution of Ohio. To

CUYAHOGA CO. v. NORTHERN OHIO CO.
388.

395

OpiniOn of the Court.

sustain this view the court cited prior Ohio cases, and certain cases on the docket of the court, and, as an inference
fPom them, declared that it was" not true in Ohio that the
character of complainant gave to it 'a vested right seemingly unlimited in time to exclude the rest of the world
from the water sheds it chose' simply by declaring by
resolution just what territory it hoped in the future to
occupy to carry out its purposes" and further, "the terms
of Section 19, Art. I of the, Ohio constitution militate
against plaintiff's claim. Until appropriation is completed
as provided by the condemnation laws of the State, the
Traction Company's right to dominion over its holdings
is inviolate. Wagner v. Railway Co., 38 0. S.. 32." The
court also cited Sears v. City of Akron, 246 U. S. 242 (then
just delivered) expressing the view that if the case had
been brought to the court's attention sooner, a les extended discussion of the motion to dismiss could have
been made.
We concur with the District Court both in its reasoning
and its deductions from the cited cases. The contention of
plaintiff is certainly a bold one and seemingly erects into'a
legal principle, that unexecuted intention, or partly executed intention, has the same effect as exectted intention,
and that the declaration of an enterprise gives the same
right as its consummation. Of course, there must be a first
step in every project as well as a last step, and in enterprises
like those we are considering there may be attainment
under the local law of a right invulnerable to opposing assertion. And this plaintiff contends. To be explicit it contends that as against the Power Company and the Traction
Company, they being its competitors in the same field of
enterprise, its resolution of June 4, 1908, constituted an
appropriation of the waters of the river, and a definite location of "its proposed improvement for that purpose
upon specifically described parcels, of land previously entered upon and surveyed by its engineers." Whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

resolution had that effect under the Ohio laws we are not
called upon to say. Indeed, we are not so much coincerned
with the contention as the ground of it. Plaintiff alleges
as a ground of it, a contract with the State of Ohio, by its
incorporation, "wherein and whereby said State duly
granted to the plaintiff a right of way over and along said
Cuyahoga River" between the designated termini, with
the rights and franchises which we have mentioned, together "with the right or franchise of exercising the
State's power of eminent domain in order to appropriate
and acquire all property necessary to carry out and perform said grant and make the same effective" and that
the acts of defendants, having legislative sanction of the
State, impair plaintiff's contract.
It is manifest, therefore, that the determining and effective element of the contention is the charter of the State,
and plaintiff has proceeded in confidence in it against
adverse adjudications. One of the adjudications is Sears
v. City of Akron, supra. The elemental principle urged
here was urged there, that is, there was urged there as here,
that the charter of the company constituted a contract
with the State, and that the contract was to a conclusive
effect executed by the resolution of the board of directors
of plaintiff on June 4, 1908, such resolution constituting an
appropriation of .the lands described therein, they being
necessary to be acquired in order to construct and maintain the improvement specified in the plaintiff's charter
and resolution. The principle was rejected and it was
deeided that the. incorporation of plaintiff was not a contract by the State with reference to the riparian rights,
and that if plaintiff acquired riparian rights or specific
rights in the use and flow of the water, that "would be
property acquired under the charter, not contract rights
expressed or implied in the grant of the charter."
The case is determinative of ,he plaintiff's contention
here, and it is manifest if plaintiff has any rights, they

CUYAHOGA CO. v. NORTHERN OHIO CO.
388.

397

Opinion of the Court.

are against defendants as rival companies or against them
as land owners, rights under the charter, not by the
charter, considered as a contract express or implied. The
District Court recognized the distinction and confined its
decree accordingly. The court refused to speculate as to
-what plaintiff might be able to do hereafter in the assertion of rights against the Traction Company, but declared
that it was against public policy to accede to the contention of plaintiff that, in the absence of specific acquirement,
plaintiff could prevent an owner of property within its
territory from occupying or using the same, without
condemnation proceedings being had and compensation
paid or secured for such property.
The court, therefore, was considerate of the elements of
the case and of plaintiff's rights both against defendants
as rival companies or as land owners, and necessarily, as
we have said, if either or both of them b'e regarded as
involved in the case, its or their assertion cannot be made
in a federal court unless there be involved a federal
question. And a federal question not in mere form but in
substance, and not in mere assertion, but in essence and
effect. The federal questions urged in this case do not
satisfy the requirement. The charter as a contract is the
plaintiff's reliance primarily and ultimately. Independent
of that it has no rights or property to be taken, that is,*
independently of the resolution of June 4, 1908, there was
no appropriation or condemnation of the land. Wagner
v. Railway Co., 38 Ohio St. 32.
Having nothing independently of its charter and the
resolution of June 4, 1908, it could be divested of nothing
and it must rely upon the assertion of a contract and thE
impairment of it by the State or some agency of the State
exercising the State's legislative power. That there is such
agency is the contention, but what it is exactly it is not
easy to say. We, however, pick out of the confusion of the
bill, with the assistance of plaintiff's brief, that the rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

it acquired, and by what. they are impaired, are as follows:
By the resolution of June 4, 1908, the lands described in
the bill (Exhibit A) became, and ever since have been,
subjected to plaintiff's public use and subject to its rights
of way and franchises exclusive of all other persons or corporations, that the Traction Company asserts and claims
that. by reason of purchases of the rights and franchises of
The Northern Ohio Power Company sanctioned by the
orders of. the Public Utilities Commission as set forth in
the bill, and th~e construction by the Traction Company
of power plants upon the designated tracts of land, they,
the tracts of land, have become subject to a public use and
cannot be appropriated by paintiff. And it is said (in the
Traction Company bases its claim upon the
brief)
state that-the
laws, that is, the incorporation of the
defendant
Power Company and the Public Utilities Commission's
orders.
" It is manifest that there was no state legislative or other
action against any charter rights which plaintiff possessed.
What the Traction Company may, or does claim, cannot
be attributed to the State (its incorporation antedated
that of plaintiff), and it would be a waste of words to do
more than say that the incorporation of plaintiff under the
general laws of the State did not preclude the incorporation of the Power Company under the same general laws.
What rights, if any, the Power Company thereby acquired
against plaintiff is another question.. There remains then,
only the order of the Public Utilities Commission, authorizing the conveyance by the Power Company of the latter's
rights and franchises to the Traction Company, to complain of as an impairment. of plaintiff's asserted contract.
But here again we are not disposed to engage in much discussion. The -Commission's order may or may not have
been the necessary condition to a conveyance by the
Power Company of whatever rights it had to the Traction
Company. (§ 614-60, Page and Adams Ohio General

SOUTH COVINGTON &c. RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 399
8.Syllabus.

..

Code.) The order conferred no new rights upon the
Power Company which that company could or did convey
to the Traction Company, nor give them a sanction that
they did not have, nor did it affect any rights of the
plaintiff.
From every federal constitutional standpoint, therefore,
the contentions of plaintiff are so obviously without merit
as to be colorless and whatever controversies or causes of
action it had were against the defendant companies as
rivals in eminent domain, or as owners of the lands, and,
diversity of citizenship not existing, the District Court of
the United States had no jurisdiction.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no
part in the. consideration or decision of this case.

-SOUTH COVINGTON & CINCINNATI STREET
RAILWAY COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF
KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

KENTUCKY.
No: 252. Argued March 18, 19, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.
A state law requiring interurban railroad companies to supply sepante
cars or compartments for white and -colored passengers, and .punishing failure to do so, is not an unconstitutional burden on interstf.te
commerce as applied to such a railroad, owned by a local corporation
and lying wholly within such State, while in control of an allied
street car company and in practice operated as part of a streetcar system over which the cars are run to and from a city in another
State (where such separation of races is illegal) and passengers are

