OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

joined in sub-section 16, §24, and § 736 became §49,
Judicial Code.
What constitutes a cause arising "under" the laws of.
the United States has been often pointed out by this court.
One does so arise where an appropriate statement by the
plaintiff, unaided by any anticipation or avoidance of
defenses, discloses that it really and substantially involves
a dispute or controversy respecting the validity, construction or effect of an act of Congress. If the plaintiff thus
asserts a right which will be sustained by one construction
of the law, or defeated by another, the case is one arising
under that law. Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152
U. S. 454; Boston & Montana Mining Co. v. Montana Ore
Purchasing Co., 188"U. S. 632; Devine v. Los Angeles, 202
U. S. 313; Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S. 74; Hopkins v.
Walker, 244 U. S. 486, 489. Clearly the plaintiff's bill.
discloses a case wherein its right to recover turns on the
construction and application of the National Banking
Law; and we think the proceeding is one to enjoin the
Comptroller under provisions of that law within the true
intendment of the Judicial Code.
The decree below must be
Reversed.

BURNAP v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 228.

Argued March 12, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

The power to remove from public office or employment is, in the
absence of any statutory provision to the contrary, an incident of the
power to appoint, and the power to suspend is an incident of the
power of removal. P. 515.
In § 169, Rev. Stats., which authorizes each "head of a Department"

BURNAP v. UNITED STATES.
512.

513

Counsel for Appellant.

to employ clerks, messengers, laborers, etc., and other employees,
"head of a Department" means the Secretary in charge of a great
division of the executive branch, who is a member of the Cabinet,
and does not include heads of bureaus or lesser divisions. P. 515.
The term "employ" as thus used is the equivalent of appoint. Id.
The terms "clerks" and "other employees," as used in Rev. Stats.,
§ 169, include persons filling positions which require technical skill.
learning and professional training. Id.
Whether the incumbent is an officer or an employee is determined by
the manner in which Congress has specifically provided for the creation of the several positions, their duties and appointment thereto.
P. 516.
Although the Office of Public Buildings and Grounds is part of the
bureau of the Chief of Engineers, in the War Department, appointment of a landscape architect (whose employment is authorized by
general appropriation acts) is not to be made by the Secretary of
War under the general authority of Rev. Stats., § -169, but by the
Chief of Engineers, under the specific authority given him by § 1799,
to employ in such office and in and about the public buildings and
grounds under his control such persons as may be appropriated for
from year to year. Id.
The power to remove such landscape architect is with the Chief of
Engineers as an incident of the -power of appointment, and is not
affected by the fact that the appointment, acquiesced in by the Chief
of Engineers, was made without authority by the Secretary. P. 518.
In the absence of regulations prescribed by the President through the
War Department under Rev. Stats., § 1797, and assuming the regulations governing the classified Civil Service as applied to the Engineer Department at large do not affect the Office of Public Buildings and Grounds, the power of the Chief of Engineers to remove
the landscape architect is to be exercised in the manner prescribed
by the Act of August 24, 1912, c. 389, § 6, 37 Stat. 555, and Civil
Service Rule XII. P. 519.
The landscape architect in the Office of Public Buildings and Grounds
is not an officer but an employee. Id.
53 Ct. Clms. 605, affirmed.

THE, case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. ,King
and Mr. William E. Harvey were on the brief, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney. General Davis, with whom Mr
Harvey D. Jacob was on the brief, for the United States.

MR.JUSTICE BRANDEis delivered the opinion of the
court.

On July 1, 1910, Burnap entered upon duty in the Office
of Public Buildings and Grounds as landscape architect at
the salary of $2400 a year, having been appointed to that
position by the Secretary of War. On September 14, 1915,
he was suspended, upon charges, from duty and pay; and
on August 3, 1916, he was discharged "in order to promote
the efficiency of the service." His successor was not
appointed until July 20, 1917. Burnap contends that his
suispension and discharge were illegal and hence inoperative; that he retained his position until his successor was
appointed; and that until such appointment he was entitled to his full salary. United States v. Wickersham, 201U. S.390. His claim for such salary was rejected by the
Auditor of the War Department (of which the Office of
Public Buildings and Grounds is a part), and, upon appeal,
also by the Comptroller of the Treasury. Then this suit
was brought in the Court of Claims. There his petition
was dismissed and the case comes here on appeal.
Burnap rests his claim mainly upon the fact that he was
appointed by the Secretary of War, contending that, therefore, only the Secretary of War could remove him (21 Ops.
Atty. Gen. 355), and that no action tantamount to a reinoval by the Secretary was taken until his successor was
appointed. Before discussing the nature and effect of the
action taken, it is necessary to consider the general rules of
law governing appointment and removal in the civil service
of the United States, the statutes relating to the Office
of Public Buildings and Grounds and those providing for
the appointment of a landscape architect therein.
First. The Constitution (Art. II, § 2) bonfers upon the

BURNAP v. UNITED STATES.
512.

Opinion of the Court.

President the power to nominate, and with the advice and
consent of the Senate to appoint, certain officers named
and all other officers established by law, whose appointments are not otherwise therein provided for; but it
authorizes Congress to vest the appointment of inferior
officers either in the President alone, in the courts of law
or in the heads of departments (6 Ops. Atty. Gen. 1). The
power to remove is, in the absence of statutory provision
to the contrary, an incident of the power to appoint. Ex
parte Hennen, 13 Pet. 230, 259, 260; Blake v. United States,
103 U. S. 227, 231; United States v. Allred, 155 U. S. 591,

594; Keim v. United States, 177 U. S. 290, 293, 294; Reagan
v. United States, 182 U. S. 419, 426; Shurtleff v. United
States, 189 U. S. 311, 316. And the power of suspension is
an incident of the power of removal.
Section 169 of the Revised Statutes provides that:
"Each head of a Department is authorized to employ in
his Department such number of clerks of the several classes
recognized by law, and such messengers, assistant messengers, copyists, watchmen, laborers, and other employ~s,
and at such rates of compensation, respectively, as may
be appropriated for by Congress from year to year."
The term head of a Department means, in this connection, the Secretary in charge of a great division of the
executive branch of the Government, like the State,,
Treasury, and War, who is a member of the Cabinet. It
does not include heads of bureaus or lesser divisions.
United States v. Germaine, 99 U. S. 508, 510. Persons
employed in a bureau or division of a department are
as much employees in the department within the meaning
of § 169 of the Revised Statutes as clerks or messengers
rendering service under the immediate supervision of the
Secretary. Manning's Case, 13 Wall. 578, 580; United
States v. Ashfield, 91 U. S. 317, 319. The term employ is
used as the equivalent of appoint. 21 Ops. Atty. Gen.
355, 356. The term clerks and other employees, as there

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

used, is sufficiently broad to include persons filling positions which require technical skill, learning and professional training. 29 Ops. Atty. Gen. 116,123; 21 Ops. Atty.
Gen. 363, 364; 20 Ops. Atty. Gen. 728. The distinction
between officer and employee in this connection does not
rest upon differences in the qualifications necessary to fill
the positions or in the character of the service to be performed. Whether the incumbent is an officer or an employee is determined by thermanner in which Congress has
specifically provided for the creation of the several positions, their duties and appointment thereto. 15 9ps. Atty.
Gen. 3; 17 Ops. Atty. Gen. 532; 26 Ops. Atty. Gen. 627; 29
-Ops. Atty. Gen. 116; United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385;
United States v. Moore, 95 U. S. 760, 762; United States v.
Perkins, 116 U. S. 483; United States v. Mouat, 124 U. S.
303; United States v. Hendee, 124 U. S.309; United States
v. Smith, 124 U. S. 525; Auffmordt v. Hedden, 137 U. S.
310; United States v. Schlierholz, 137 Fed. Rep. 616;
Martin v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 198.
Second. The powers and duties of the Office of Public
Buildings and Grounds had their origin in the Act of July
16, 1790, c. 28, 1 Stat. 130, which authorized the President
to appoint three Commissioners to lay out a district for the
permanent seat of the Government. By Act of May 1,
1802, c. 41, 2 Stat. 175, the offices of 9ommissioners were
abolished and their duties devolved upon a Superintendent, to be appointed by the President. By Act of April 29,
1816, c. 150, 3 Stat. 324, the office of Superintendent was
abolished and his duties devolved upon a Commissioner of
Public Buildings. By Act of March 2, 1867, c. 167, § 2,
14 Stat. 466, the office of Commissioner was abolished and
his duties devolved upon the Chief of Engineers. By
§ 1797 of the Revised Statutes as amended by Act of April
28, 1902, c. 594, 12 Stat. 152, it is declared that the Chief
of Engineers has "charge of the public buildings and
grounds in the District of Columbia, under such regula-

BURNAP v. UNITED STATES.
512.

Opinion of the Court.

tions as may be prescribed by the President, through the
War Department." And § 1812 requires the Chief of Engineers, as Superintendent of Public Buildings and Grounds,
to submit annual reports to the Secretary of War to accompany the annual message of the President to Congress.
Third. There is no statute which creates an office of
landscape architect in the Office of Public Buildings and
Grounds nor any which defines the duties of the position.
The only authority for the appointment or employment of
a landscape architect in that office is the legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation Act of June 17, 1910, c.
297, 36 Stat. 504 (and later appropriation acts in the.same
form, 36 Stat. 1207; 37 Stat. 388, 766; 38 Stat. 482, 1024;
39 Stat. 93), which reads as follows:
"PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.

"Office of Public Buildings and Grounds: Assistant
Engineer, two thousand four hundred dollars; assistant
and chief clerk, two thousand four hundred dollars; clerk
of class four; clerk of class three; clerk and stenographer,
one thousand four hundred dollars; messenger; landscape
architect, two thousand four hundred dollars; surveyor,
and draftsman, one thousand five hundred dollars; in a14
fourteen thousand three hundred and forty dollars. '
(Then follow the foremen and night and day watchmen m%,
the parks.)
Prior to July 1, 1910, similar appropriation acts had
provided for a "landscape gardener" at the same salary.
There is no statute which provides specifically by whom
the landscape architect in the Office of Public Buildings
and Grounds shall be appointed. As the Office of Public
Buildings and Grounds is a part of the bureau of the Chief
of Engineers, and that bureau is in the War Department,
the Secretary of War would, under § 169, have the power
to appoint the landscape architect as an employee in his
department, in the absence of other provision dealing with

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.
252 U. S.
the subject. 21 Ops. Atty. Gen. 355.
But § 1799 of the
Revised Statutes provides that:
"The Chief of Engineers in charge of public buildings
and grounds is authorized to employ in his office and about
the public buildings and grounds under his control such
number of persons for such employments, and at such rates
of compensation, as may be appropriated for by Congress
from year to year."
This more specific provision excludes positi6ns in the
office of Public Buildings and Grounds from the operation
of the general provision of § 169 conferring the power of
appointment upon the heads of departments. Compare
10 Dec. of Comptroller of Treas. 577, 583. The appointment of Burnap by the Secretary of War, instead of by the
Chief of Engineers, was without authority in law.
Fourth. As the power to remove is an incident of the
power to appoint, the Chief of Engineers would clearly
have had power to remove Burnap, if the appointment had
been made by him instead of by the Secretary of War.
The fact that Burnap was, by inadvertence, appointed by
the Secretary, does not preclude .the Chief of Engineers
from exercising in respect to him the general power to remove employees in his office conferred, by implication, in
§ 1799 of the Revised Statutes. The defect in Burnap's
original appointment was cured by the acquiescence of
the Chief of Engineers throughout five years, so that
Burnap's status was better than that of a mere de facto
officer. But it was not superior to what it would have been
if he had been regularly appointed by the Chief of Engineers. United States v. Mouat, 124 U. S. 303.
Fifth. The queetion remains, whether there was a legal
exercise by the Chief of Engineers of his power of removal.
The suspension ;A Burnap was by letter from his immnediate superior, the officer in charge of the Office' of Public
Puildings and Grounds under the Chief of Engineers; and
to the latter the papers were promptly transmitted. The

BURNAP v. UNITED STATES.
512.

Opinion of the Court.

discharge was by direct command of the Chief of Engineers. Both the suspension anid the discharge purported
to be ordered pursuant to Paragraph 13 of § 5 of General
Orders Number 5 of the Office of Chief of Engineers, 1915,
being regulations governing the classified Civil Service: as
applied to the Engineer Department at Large, approved
by the Civil Service Commission and the Secretary of
War.1 Burnap contends that the provisions of that paragraph were inapplicable to his position; (1) because these
regulations relate to the Engineer Department at Large
and the Office of Public Buildings and Grounds is not
included therein; and (2) because they relate to employees
and that the landscape architect was an officer, not an
employee. As has been shown Burnap was an employee.
But the main contention is wholly immaterial. If Paragraph 13 does not apply to the position of landscape
architect, the exercise of the right of removal which rested
in the Chief of Engineers was governed only by the provisions of the Act of August 24, 1912, c. 389, § 6, 37 Stat.
555,2 and Civil Service Rule XII. For no regulations
'Par. 13: "Discharge for Cause.-Discharge for cause of any
regularly appointed classified employee will be subject to the provisions
of Civil Service Rule XII and cannot be made without the approval of
the Chief of Engineers. An employee may be suspended without pay,
by the officer in charge, who should at once furnish the employee with a
statement in writing of the charges against him and give him a reasonable time within which to make answer thereto in writing. As soon as
reply is received, or in case no reply is received within the time given.
him, all papers should be submitted to the Chief of Engineers with'
full statement of the facts in the case and the officer's recommendations."
'C. 389, § 6: "No person in the classified civil service of the United
States shall be removed therefrom except for such cause as will promote
the efficiency of said service and for reasons given in writinl,, and the
person whose removal is sought shall have notice of the same amd of
any charges preferred against him, and be furnished with a copy
thereof, and also be allowed a reasonable time for personally answering
the same in writing; and affidavits in support thereof; etc."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

relating to the matter appear to have been "prescribed
by the President, through the War Department" under
the authority reserved in Revised Statutes, § 1797, as
amended. It is not contended that the procedure adopted
in suspending and removing Burnap disregarded any requirement of the Act of 1912 or of the Civil Service Rule.
Nor are we asked to review the discharge as having been
made witiout adequate cause. The power of removal was
legally exercised by the Chief of Engineers; and no irregularity has been tointed out in the suspension which was
incident to it.
Sixth. As the power of discharge was vested in the Chief
of Engineers and was unaffected by the fact that the
appointment had been inadvertently made by the Secretary of War, we have no occasion to consider the contention of Burnap, that it was beyond the Secretary's power
to delegate to the Chief of Engineers authority to remove
employees' in his* bureau. Nor need we consider the
contention of the Government, that the action taken was
tantamount to a removal by the Secretary, because the
discharge was ordered by the Chief of Engineers after
consideration of the matter at Burnap's request by the
Secretary of War, a reference of it by him to the Judge
Advocate General, and a return of the papers by the Secretary of War to the Chief of Engineers for action in accordance with the Judge Advocate General's suggestions.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.

