OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Syllabus.

252 U. S.

"A party may be retained by verbal promise, or by
invitation, for a declared or known purpose. If such a
statute could be evaded or set at naught by elaborate
contrivances to engage without enlisting, to retain without hiring, to invite without recruiting, . . . it would
be idle to pass acts of Congress for the punishment of this
or any other offence." 7 Ops. Atty. Gen. 367, 378, 379.
This discussion of the record makes it sufficiently clear
that there was substantial evidence before the Commissioner and the court tending to show that ยง 10 of the
Criminal Code had been violated and that there was
probable cause for believing the appellant guilty of conspiring: with Naranjo and Mendoza to compass that
violation, as charged in the indictment, and therefore
the order of the District Court must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES AT THE RELATION OF KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 413. Argued December 10, 1919.-Decided March 8, 1920.
The Valuation Act of March 1, 1913, requires the Interstate Commerce
Conimission to ascertain and report, inter alia, the present cost of
condemnation and damages or of purchase of the lands, rights of way
and terminaLs of carriers in excess of their original cost or'present
value, apart from improvements. Held, that a refusal of the Commission to receive and act upon evidence to this end was not justified by the supposed impossibility of performing the statutory duty

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
178.

179

Argument for Defendant in Error.

or the difficulties involved in so doing, and that a railroad company
whose interests were affected was entitled to the writ of mandamus.
P. 187.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Louis Marshall and Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with
whom Mr. Samuel Untermyer was on the brief, for plaintiff inerror.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor defendant in error:
To estimate the present cost of condemnation and damages or of purchase of lands included in plaintiff in error's
railroad is impossible, because it necessarily involves unwarrantable and unlawful assumptions.
In the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, this court
entertained the opinion that an estimate of the present'
cost of acquisition of the lands included in the right of way,
yards, and terminals of a carrier could be made only upon
the theory that the railroad would be removed before the
estimate would be made, and it is apparent that no other
theory would be tenable. The court points out that upon
the assumption of the nonexistence of the railroad it is
impossible for anyone to describe either the conditions
that would exist or the exigencies of the hypothetical
owners of the property, and says in emphatic language
that an attempt to estimate what would be the actual cost
of acquiring the right of way under such cicumstances
would be to indulge in mere speculation. In other words,
this court says that what plaintiff in error is asking the
court to require the Commission to do cannot, as a matter
of law, be done. The court, however, does not stop here.
It proceeds to demonstrate why such an estimate cannot
be made. It shows that the uses and values of lands in the
vicinity of the railroad are largely the result of the construction and operation of the railroad; that it would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

252 U. S.

impossible to determine the extent to which such uses and
values have been so influenced, and that to assume that
they would not be affected if the railroad were removed,
and base upon that theory an estimate of reacquiring the
lands, or its equivalent, an estimate of the present cost of
condemnation and damages, or of purchase, would be
improper and unjustifiable and produce a result which
could not be accepted as evidence by a court. This court
clearly states, in substance, that the estimate of present
cost of condemnation and damages, or of purchase, which
plaintiff in error is asking the court to compel the Commission to make is an estimate which is wholly beyond reach
of any process of rational determination. In this connection it points out that the appraisers of the lands involved
in the Minnesota Rate Cases, in an attempt to estimate
the cost of acquiring the lands, were presented with an
impossible hypothesis.
As shown in the answer herein, the evidence introduced
before the Commission in connection with the valuation
of the lands included in plaintiff in error's railroad establishes that at the time the railroad was constructed a portion of said lands was donated to, and another portion
purchased by, plaintiff in error, and that plaintiff in error
obtained title to still another portion through condemnation proceedings. It is evident that, upon the assumption
of the removal of the railroad and its reproduction, it is
impossible to ascertain the portion of said lands which
would be so donated, or the portion thereof which would
have to be purchased by plaintiff in error, or the portion
thereof plaintiff in error would have to acquire title to
through condemnation proceedings.
It is further apparent that the removal of the railroad
and its immediate reproduction would not damage in any
manner or to any extent any of the lands adjoining or
adjac3nt to the railroad or the owners of such adjoining
or adjacent lands.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
178.

181

Argument for Defendant in Error.

It is also clear that to determine, upon the assumption
of the removal of the railroad, that the title to the lands
included therein would revert to or be vested in the owners
of said adjoining lands, would be unjustifiable and improper.
The court will not, by issuing a writ of mandamus, require something to be done which it is impossible to do.
Silsby Mfg. Co. v. Allentown, 153 Pa. St. 319.
The decision of this court in the Minnesota Rate Cases
is directly in point and should be given dontrolling influence. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Smith, 210 Fed.
Rep. 632; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 208 Fed. Rep. 35; Ann Arbor R. R. Co. v.
Fellows, 236 Fed. Rep. 387.
This court has approved the Commission's interpretation of the court's decision in the Minnesota Rate Cases.
See Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., 246 U. S. 178.
In finding the present market value of plaintiff in error's
common-carrier lands, as measured by the "fair average
of the normal market value of lands in the vicinity having
a similar character," the Commission must of course consider conditions as they now are, including the existence
of the railroad, but in estimating what it would cost to
reacquire such lands, that is, the reproduction cost, or the
present cost of condemnation and damages or of purchase,
of the lands, the Commission would have to treat the railroad as nonexistent and speculate, enter into the realm
of mere conjecture, as to what the market value of the
lands would be under such circumstances.
Plaintiff in error's contention that it will lose something
to which it is entitled, unless the remedy it asks for is applied, is based upon speculation, and is not justified by
the facts. It is asking the court to assist it in obtaining
for its common-carrier lands a special railway value, in
excess of the amount invested in them and beyond the
value of similar property owned by others.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

Mr. W. G. Brantley, Mr. Sanford Robinson and Mr.
Leslie Craven, by leave of court, filed a brief as amici curim.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Act of Congress of March 1, 1913, c. 92, 37 Stat.
701, amending the "Act to regulate commerce," imposed
the duty upon the Interstate Commerce Commission
(ยง19a) to "investigate, ascertain, and report the value
of all the property owned or used by every common carrier
subject to the provisions of this Act." Specifying the
steps to be taken in the performance of the general duties
thus imposed, the same section commanded as follows:
".First. In such investigation said commission shall
ascertain and report in detail as to each piece of property
owned or used by said common carrier for its purposes as
a common carrier

. . . the cost of reproduction new,

the cost of reproduction less depreciation, and an analysis of the methods by which these several costs are obtained, and the reason for their differences, if any.
"Second. Such investigation and report shall state in
detail and separately from improvements the original
cost of all lands, rights of way, and terminals owned or
used for the -purposes of a common carrier, and ascertained as of the time of dedication to public use, and the
present value of the same, and separately the original
and present cost of condemnation and damages or of purchase in excess of such original cost or present value.
"Fifth. . . [7th par.]. Whenever the commission
shall have completed the tentative valuation of the
property of any common carrier, as herein directed, and
before such valuation shall become final, the commission
shall give notice by registered letter to the said carrier, . . . stating the valuation placed upon the sev-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY.v. INT. COM. COMM.
178.

183

Opinion of the Court.

eral classes of property of said carrier, and shall allow
thirty days in which to file a protest of the same with the
commission.
.
"If notice of protest is filed the commission shall fix a
time for hearing the same, and shall proceed as promptly
as may be to hear and consider any matter relative and
material thereto. . . . All final valuations by the
commission and the classification thereof shall be published and shall be prima facie evidence of the value of the
property in all proceedings under the Act to regulate
commerce as of the date of the fixing thereof, and in all
judicial proceedings for the enforcement of the Act approved February fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty
seven, commonly known as 'the Act to regulate commerce"
and the various Acts amendatory thereof, and in all judicial proceedings brought to enjoin, set aside, annul, or
suspend, in whole or in part, any order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission."
Pursuant to these requirements the Commission proceeded to investigate and report the value of the property
of the Kansas City Southern Railway Company. Upon
completing a tentative valuation, the Commission gave
the notice required by the statute to the Railway Company, which thereupon filed a protest against such valuation on the ground that in making it the Commission had
failed to consider 'and include the "present cost of condemnation and damages or of purchase in excess of such
original cost or present value." Upon the subject of the
protest, the Railway Company took a large amount of
testimony and much was also taken by the Commission,
both parties having incurred considerable expense in the
matter.
Pending this situation, in order that the excessive expense of taking each individual parcel and showing what
it would cost to acquire it or a right of way over it by purchase or condemnation might be avoided, an agreement

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

was entered into between the Director of the Bureau of
Valuation of the Commission, C. A. Prouty, and the Railway Company, that in the event the Commission should
decide that evidence upon the cost of acquiring land by
purchase or condemnation would be received by it, the
Bureau of Valuation would recommend to the Commission
the percentage or multiplier of the naked value of the
land, to be used for the purpose of reaching the railway
cost of acquiring the same.
At that time there was also pending a protest concerning a tentative valuation made by the Commission as to
the property of the Texas Midland Railroad Company,
raising the same question as to error committed in failing
to carry out the provisions of the statute concerning the
present cost of condemnation, etc., in which case the Commission overruled the protest, holding that the provision
of the statute in question was not susceptible of being enforced or acted upon for reasons stated by the Commission in part as follows (1 I. C. C. Val. Rep. 54 et seq.):
"However, the direction in paragraph 'Second' for the
ascertainment of the present cost of condemnation and
damages or of purchase in effect calls for a finding as to
the cost of reproduction of these lands. Must this be
done, and can this be done? It seems elementary that
the cost of reproduction can be estimated only by assuming that the thing in question is to be produced again, and
that if it is to be produced again, it is to be taken as not
existent. It seems sophistry to contend that the lands of
the railroad can be produced again at a cost to the railroad without first making the assumption that they are
no longer lands of the railroad; and this necessary assumption carries with it the mental obliteration of the railroad
itself.
"Considerable testimony was produced to the effect
that in the acquisition of a railroad right of way it is necessary for the carrier to pay sums in excess of the value of

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
178.

185

Opinion of the Court.

the land if measured by the present or market value of
similar contiguous lands, and this because of the elements
which have been enumerated and embraced in the protest, such as cost of acquisition, damages to the severed
property, cost of buildings and other improvements, accrued taxes and various incidental rights.
"We are unable to distinguish' between what is suggested by the carrier in this record and nominally required
by the act and what was condemned by the court [in the
Minnesota Rate Cases] as beyond the possibility of rational
determination; nor is there any essential difference in the
actual methods there employed and those now urged
upon us. Before we can report figures as ascertained, we
must have a reasonable foundation for our estimate, and
when, as here, if the estimate can be made only upon inadmissible assumptions, and upon impossible hypotheses,
such as those pointed out by the Supreme Court in the
opinion quoted, our duty to abstain from reporting as an
ascertained fact that which is incapable of rational ascertainment, is clear.
*
"Because of the impossibility of making the self-contradictory assumptions which the theory requires when
applied to the carrier's lands, we are unable to report the
reproduction cost of such lands or its equivalent, the
present cost of acquisition and damages, or of purchase in
excess of present value. The present value of lands as
found by us appears in the final valuation; appended
hereto."
Applying the ruling thus made to the protest which was
pending in this case, the Commission gave notice to the
Railway that the agreement made with the Director of
the Bureau of Valuation concerning the method of proof
would be treated as not further operative; and thereafter
when an offer was made by the Railway before an exam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

iner of the Commission of further testimony concerning
the subject in hand, it was excluded because in conflict
with the ruling announced in the Midland Case. The
Commission sustained this action of the examiner on the
ground that that officer had rightly held that the ruling
in the Midland Case was controlling; and the Commission
therefore decided that no further testimony on the particular subject would be heard in this case, and that it
would make no report concerning that subject.
This suit was then brought to obtain a mandamus to
compel the Commission to hear the proof and act upon it
under the statute. The amended petition, after reciting
the facts as we have outlined them and making the appropriate formal averments to justify resort to mandamus,
alleged:
"That the reusal of respondent to investigate and find
such present cost of condemnation and damages or of purchase in excess of original cost or present value of relator's
lands will result in great wrong and injury to relator; by
way of illustration, such refusal will result in a finding by
respondent of a value of but $60,000 with respect to pareels of land acquired by relator by judicial award in condemnation proceedings during four years immediately
preceding such valuation at an actual cost to relator of
$180,000; and in the aggregate will result in a finding with
respect to said lands at least $5,000,000 less than the
value so directed by the Act of Congress above mentioned
to be found."
It was further averred, with considerable elaboration,
.that the petitioner stood ready to produce proof to meet
the requirements of the statute which was neither speculative nor impossible to be acted upon, since it would
conform to the character of proof usually received in
judicial proceedings involving the exercise of eminent
domain.
The Commission in its answer, either stating or con-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
178.

187

Opinion of the Court.

ceding the history of the case as we have recited it, and
summarily reiterating the grounds for the refusal by the
Commission to receive the proof or report concerning it,
challenged the right to the relief sought. A demurrer to
the answer as stating no defense was overruled by the
trial court, which denied'relief without opinion. In the
Court of Appeals, two judges sitting, the judgment of
the trial court was affirmed by a divided court, also without opinion, and the case is here on writ of error to review
that judgment.
It is obvious from the statement we have made, as well
as from the character of the remedy invoked, mandamus,
that we are required to decide, not a controversy growing
out of duty performed under the statute, but one solely
involving an alleged refusal to discharge duties which the
statute exacts. Admonishing, as this does, that the issue
before us is confined to a consideration of the face of the
statute and the non-action of the Commission in a matter
purely ministerial, it serves also to furnish a ready solution of the question to be decided, since it brings out in
bold contrast the direct and express command of the
statute to the Commission, to act concerning the subject
in hand, and the Commission's unequivocal refusal to
obey such command.
It is true that the Commission held that its non-action
was caused by the fact that the command of the statute
involved a consideration by it of matters "beyond the
possibility of rational deterpination," and called for "inadmissible assumptions," and the indulging in"impossible
hypotheses" as to subjects "incapable of rational ascertainment," and that such conclusions were the necessary
consequence of the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352.
We are of opinion, however, that, considering the face
of the statute and the reasoning of the Commission, it
results that the conclusion of the Commission was erroneous, an error which was exclusively caused by a mistaken

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

conception by the Commission of its relation to the subject, resulting in an unconscious disregard on its part of
the power of Congress and an unwitting assumption by
the Commission of authority which it did not possess.
And the significance which the Commission attributed to
the ruling in the Minnesota Rate Cases, even upon the assumption that its view of the ruling in those cases was not
a mistaken one, but illustrates in a different form the disregard of the power of Congress which we have just
pointed out, since, as Congress indisputably had the authority to impose up')n the Commission the duty in question, it is impossible to conceive how the Minnesota Rate
ruling could furnish ground for refusing to carry out the
commands of Congress, the cogency of which consideration is none the less manifest though it be borne in mind
that the Minnesota Rate Cases were decided after the
passage of the act in question.
Finally, even if it be fuAher conceded that the subjectmatter of the valuations in question which the act of Congress expressly directed to be made necessarily opened a
wide range of proof and called for the exercise of close
scrutiny and of scrupulous analysis in its consideration
and application, such assumption, we are of opinion, affords no basis for refusing to enforce the act of Congress,
or what is equivalent thereto, of exerting the general
power which the act of Congress gave, and at the same
time disregarding the essential conditions imposed by
Congress upon its exercise.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore reversed
with directions to reverse that of the Supreme Court and
direct the Supreme Court to grant a writ of mandamus
in conformity with this opinion.

