CHESBROUGH v. NORTHERN TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

CHESBROUGH v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY,
EXECUTOR OF SCHREIBER, ET AL.
ERROR

TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

THE

FOR

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 206. Argued January 30, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.
Judgment sustained as in accord with a stipulation to abide the final
result of Chesbrough v. Woodworth, 244 U. S. 72. P. 83.
In an action in tort the amount involved is the damages claimed if the
declaration discloses nothing rendering such a recovery impossible
and no bad faith appears. P. 84.
After a case of that character has been removed by defendant from a
state court and judgment rendered against him in the District Court
and Circuit Court of Appeals, it would require very clear error to
justify this court in denying the jurisdiction upon the ground that
the requisite amount was not involved. Id.
251 Fed. Rep. 881, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas A. E. Weadock for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward S. Clark, with whom Mr. John C. Weadock
was on the brief, for defendants in error.

Memorandum opinion under direction of the court,
by MR. JUSTICE McRE YoOLDS.
Each of the three defendants in error instituted a

suit against plaintiff in error for damages suffered by
reason of his action as a director of the Old Second Na-

tional Bank, Bay City, Michigan. These were consolidated in the District Court, and thereafter all parties
stipulated that, as the facts were approximately the same
as in Woodworth v. Chesbrough et al. (No. 137), the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

"causes shall in all respects and as to all parties therein,
be governed and concluded by the final result in the
said case " and "that if and when final judgment is
entered upon the verdict heretofore rendered in said
case Number 137, or on any verdict that may hereafter
be rendered therein and when proceedings (if any) for
the review of ssid judgment have been concluded or
abandoned so that execution may be issued thereon,
then judgment shall be forthwith entered and execution
issued in the above entitled causes," for specified amounts.
A judgment against Chesbrough in No. 137 having
been affirmed here (244 U. S. 72), the District Court,
purporting to enforce the stipulation, entered judgments
for defendants in error; and this action was properly
approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 251 Fed.
Rep. 881. See 195 Fed. Rep. 875; 221 Fed. Rep. 912.
Plain provisions of the stipulation were rightly applied.
The objection, based upon alleged insufficiency of the
amount involved, which plaintiff in error urges to the
District Court's jurisdiction of the cause first instituted
by Mrs. Smalley in the state court and thereafter removed upon his petition, is without merit. The action
is in tort; alleged damages exceed the prescribed amount;
the declaration discloses nothing rendering such a recovery impossible; no bad faith appears. At this stage
of the cause it would require very clear error to justify
a negation of the trial court's jurisdiction. Smithers v.
Smith, 204 U. S. 632, 642, 643.
The judgment of the court below is

Affirmed.

