152

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MOHNEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF LUCAS COUNTY,
STATE OF OHIO.

No. 196. Argued January 27, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.
A railroad employee was injured through a collision while traveling on
his company's line between points in Ohio by means of a pass, good
only between those points and.within that State and containing a
release from liability for negligence. His purpose was to continue
the journey, partly over a line of another carrier in Ohio on which he
would pay fare, and thence over one of his company into another
State by means of another pass, the terms of which were not disclosed by the evidence. Held, that his travel, at time of injury, was
intrastate, so that the validity of the release depended on the laws of
Ohio. P. 155.
A stipulation on a free pass purporting to release the carrier from all
liability for negligence is ineffective where injury to the passenger
results from the wilful and wanton negligence of the carrier's servants. P. 157.
Affirmed.
THE case is stated in

the opinion.

Mr. Howard Lewis, with whom.Mr. Frederick W. Gaines
was on the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. Albert H. Miller, with whom Mr:A. Jay Miller and

Mr. Charles H. Brady were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The respondent, whom we shall refer to as the plaintiff,
brought suit against the petitioner, defendant, to recover.
damages for severe injuries which he sustained in a rearend collision on defendant's railroad, which he averred
was caused by the gross negligence of the engineer of the

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO. v. MOHNEY.
152.

153

Opinion of the Court.

train following that on which he was a passenger, in failing to look for and heed danger signals, which indicated
that the track ahead was occupied. The plaintiff was
employed by the defendant as an engineer, with a run
between Air Line Junction, at Toledo, and Collinwood, a
suburb of Cleveland, wholly within the State of Ohio. As
an incident to his employment he was given an annual
pass, good between Air Line Junction and Collinwood,
which contained the release following: "In consideration
of receiving this free pass, each of the persons named
thereon, using the same, voluntarily assumes all risk of
accidents, and expressly agrees that the company shall
not be liable under any circumstances, whether of negligence of itself, its agents, or otherwise, for any injury to
his or her person, or for any loss or injury to his or her
property; and that as for him or her, in the use of this
pass, he or she will not consider the company as a common
carrier, and liable to him or her as such.
"And, as a condition precedent to the issuing and use
thereof, each of the persons named on the face of this pass
states that he or she is not prohibited by law from receiving free transportation, and that the pass will be lawfully used."
Having been informed that his mother had died at her
home near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the plaintiff, desiring
to attend her funeral, applied to the defendant for, and
obtained, a pass for himself and wife from Toledo to
Youngstown, Ohio, via Ashtabula, and was promised that
another pass for himself and wife would be left with the
agent of the company at Youngstown, good for the remainder, the interstate part, of the journey to Pittsburgh. But the line of the defendant via Ashtabula to
Youngstown was much longer and required a number of
hours more for the journey than it did to go via Cleveland,
using the Erie Railroad from that city to Youngstown, and
for this reason, the record shows, the plaintiff Mohney,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

'before leaving home, decided that his wife should not
accompany him and that he would make the journey by a
train of the defendant, which used its own rails to Cleve.
land, and from ClevelaTd to Youngstown used.the tracks
of the Erie Railroad Company, and at Youngstown returwd fo thc road of the defendant, over which it ran to
Pittsburgh. The transportation which he had received
Nia Ashtabula could not be used over the shorter route
and therefore the plaintiff presented his annual pass for
transportation from Toledo to Cleveland, intending to
pay his fare from Cleveland to Youngstown over the Erie
Railroad, leave the train at.,the Erie station at Youngstown, inquire by telephone as to the time and place of the
burial of his mother, and then go to the New York Central
station, a half mile away, obtain the pass which was to be
left there for him, and go forward to Pittsburgh on the
next convenient train.
The train on which Mohney was a passenger was
wrecked between Toledo and Cleveland. It had come
to a stop at a station and the second section of the train
ran past two block signals, indicating danger ahead, and
collided with the rear car of the first section, in which
Mohney was riding, causing him serious injury.
The case was tried on stipulated facts and the testimony of the plaintiff. The trial court concluded that
Mohney, at the time he was injured, was on an intrastate
journey using an intrastate pass, and that by the law of
Ohio the release upon it was void as against public policy.
Thereupon, a j'ury being waived, the court entered judgment in plaintiff's favor.
The State Court of Appeals, differing with the trial
court, concluded that Mohney Was an interstate passenger
when injured and that the release on the pass was valid,
under the ruling in Charleston & Western CarolinaRy. Co.
v. Thompson, 234 U. S. 576. But the court went further
and affirmed the judgment on two grounds; by a divided

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO. v. MOHNEY.
152.

155

Opinion of the Court.

court, on the ground that the pass was issued to Mohney
as part consideration of his employment, and, all judges
concurring, for the reason that "we are clearly of the
opinion that the negligence in this case, under the evidence,
Was willful and wanton." For these reasons it was held
that the release on the pass did not constitute a defense to
the action.
The Supreme Court of the State denied a motion for an
order requiring the Court of Appeals to certify the record
to it for review and the case is here on writ of certiorari.
The propriety of the use of the annual pass by Mohney
for such a personal journey and that the release on it was
not valid under Ohio law, were not questioned, and the
sole defense urged by the Railroad Company was, and
now is, that his purpose to continue his journey to a
destination in Pennsylvania rendered him an interstate
passenger, subject to federal law from the time he entered
the train at Toledo and that the release on the pass was
valid, under 234 U. S. 576, supra.
The three freight cases on which the defendant relies
for its contention that the plaintiff was an interstate
passenger when injured, all proceed upon the principle
that the essential character of the transportation and not
the purpose, or mental state, of the shipper determines
whether state or national law applies to the transaction
involved.
Thus, in Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, the owner's state
of mind in relation to the logs, his intent to export them,
and even his partial preparation to do so, did not exempt
them from state taxation, because they did not pass
within the domain of the federal law until they had "been
shipped, or entered with a common carrier for transportation to another State, or [had] been started upon such
transportation in a continuous route or journey."
In Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission and Young, 219 U. S. 498, 527, the cotton seed

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

cake and meal, although billed to Galveston, were "all
destined for export and by their delivery to' he Galveston,
Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway they must be considered as having been delivered to a carrier for transportation to their foreign destination. . .
The case,
therefore, 'comes under Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517."' The
mental purpoIe of Young, andAh* attempted practice by
iiltrastate billing, was to keep within the domain of'the
state law, but his contracts, express and implied, brought
the discrimination complained of in the case within the
scope
of the Interstate Commerce Act.
In Ohio
Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225
U. S.
101, the Commission attempted to regulate the rate on
"lake-cargo coal," because it was often billed from the
mines to Huron, or other ports within the State, but this
court found that the established "lake-cargo coal" rate
was intended to apply, and in practice did apply, only
"to such coal as [was] in fact placed upon vessels for
carriage beyond the State" and obviously "by every fair
test 'the transportation of this coal from the mine to the
upper lake ports is an interstate carriage." For this
reason the enforcement of the order of the state commission was enjoined as an attempt to regulate and control
interstate commerce. Here again it was the committing
of a designated kind of coal to a carrier for transportation
in interstate commerce that rendered the federal law applicable.
To what extent the analogy between the shipments of
property and the transportation of passengers may profitably be pressed, we need not inquire, for in this case the
only contract between the carrier defendant and the
plaintiff was the annual pass issued to the latter. This
written contract, with its release, is the sole reliance of the
defendant. But that contract in terms was good only
between Air Lin e Junction and Collinwood, over a line
of track wholly,within Ohio, and the company was charged

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO. v. MOHNEY.
152.

157

Opinion of the Court.

with notice when it issued the pass that the public policy
of that State rendered the release upon it valueless. The
purpose of the plaintiff to continue his journey into Pennsylvania would have been of no avail in securing him
transportation over the Erie line to Youngstown, for that
he must pay the published fare and very surely the release on the pass to Collinwood would not have attached
to the ticket to Youngstown. Whether there was a
similar release on the pass to Pittsburgh, which Mohney
expected to get at Youngstown, the record does not disclose and it is of no consequence whether there was or not.
The contract which the defendant had with its passenger
was in writing and was for an intrastate journey, and it
cannot be modified by the purpose of Mohney to continue
his journey into another State, under a contract of carriage
with another carrier, for which he would have beer. obliged
to pay the published rate, or by an intended second contract with the defendant in terms which are not disclosed.
The mental purpose of one of the parties to a written contract cannot change its terms. Southern Pacific Co. v.
Arizona, 249 U. S. 472. For these reasons the judgment
of the trial court was right and should have been affirmed.
But the Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment on two
grounds, one of which was that all of the judges were
"clearly of the opinion that the negligence in the case,
under the evidence, was willful and wanton." This court
does not weigh the evidence in such cases as we have here,
but it has been looked into sufficiently to satisfy us that
the argument that there is no evidence whatever in the
record to support such a finding cannot be sustained.
A carrier by rail is liable to a trespasser or to a mere licensee wilfully or wantonly injured by its servants in charge
of its train (Commentaries on the Law of Negligence,
Thompson, §§ 3307, 3308, and 3309, and the same sections
in White's Supplement thereto), and a sound public policy
forbids that a less onerous rule should be applied to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

passenger injured by like negligence when lawfully upon
one of its trains. This much of protection was due the
plaintiff as a human being who had intrusted his safety
to defendant's keeping. Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler,
227 U. S. 601, 603; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Maucher, 248 U. S. 359, 363.
The evidence in the record as to the terms and conditions upon which the pass was issued to the plaintiff is so
meager that, since it is. not necessary to a decision of the
case, we need not and do not consider the extent to which
the case of Charleston & Western Carolina Ry. Co. v.
Thompson, 234 U. S. 576, is applicable to an employee
using a pass furnished to him seemingly as a necessary
incident to his employment.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTiCE DAY

and MR. JusTicE VAN DEVANTER

concur in the result, being of opinion that Mohney was
using the annual pass in an interstate journey and that
to, such a use of the pass the Ohio law was inapplicable,
but that the releasing clause on the pass did not cover or
embrace his injury because the latter resulted from wilful
or wanton negligence, as to which such a clause is of no
force or effect.

