MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
239.

Syllabus.

The leaflet was not even distributed among those in the
military or the naval service. It was distributed among
civilians; and since the conviction on the first count has
been abandoned here by the Government, we have no
occasion to consider whether the leaflet might-have discouraged voluntary enlistment or obedience to the provisions of the Selective Draft Act.
The fundamental right of free men to strive for better
conditions through new legislation and new institutions
will not be preserved, if efforts to secure it by argument
to fellow citizens may be construed as criminal incitement to disobey the existing law-merely, because the
argument presented seems to those exercising judicial
power to be unfair in its portrayal of existing evils, mistaken in it assumptions, unsound in reasoning or intemperate ir. language. No objections more serious than
these can, in my opinion, reasonably be made to the
arguments presented in "The Price We Pay."

STATE OF MINNESOTA v. STATE OF WISCONSIN.
IN EQUITY.
No. 16, Original.

Argued October 16, 17, 1919.-D'ecided
March 8, 1920.

Part of the boundary between Wisconsin and Minnesota is described
in the Wisconsin Enabling Act of August 6, 1846, as running westwardly, through Lake Superior "to the mouth of the St. Louis River;
thence up the main channel of said river to the first rapids in the
same, above the Indian village, . . . ; thence due south," etc.
As given in the Minnesota Enabling Act of February 26, 1857, from
the opposite direction, the line follows the boundary of Wisconsin

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

until the same intersects the St. Louis River, "thence down said
river to and through Lake Superior," etc. The St. Louis River
loses its well-defined banks, deep, narrow channel, and obvious
'current, characteristic of a river, before reaching Lake Superior
proper, emptying or merging into Upper St. Louis Bay, which joins
with Lower St. Louis Bay and this with Allouez and Superior Bays,
all of the same level as Lake Superior and connected with it by a
narrow "entry." Held, upon historical and other facts and circumstances, that the mouth of the river, as intended by the Wisconsin Enabling Act, is this "entry" or opening and not where the
river, in a stricter sense of the term, debouches into Upper St.
Louis Bay. P. 279.
At the date of the Wisconsin Enabling Act, Upper and Lower St.
Louis Bays, parts of St. Louis River as herein dofined, were broad
sheets with irregular, indented shores, with no definite, uninterrupted channel extending throughout their entire length, and with
no steady current controlling navigation. Such vessels as plied there
then and long thereafter, until dredging improvements intervened,
moved freely in different directions, and drew less than 8 feet, the
depths of the entry from Lake Superior and of the waters of the
Lower Bay being too slight for vessels drawing more. The Lower
Bay was shallow, with a ruling depth of eight feet, and had no welldefined channel. In the Upper Bay there was a narrow, winding
channel near the Minnesota shore with a ruling depth of ten, possibly
eight, feet; but a more direct, median course could be and customarily was pursued by vessels for approximately one mile until a
deeper channel was encountered, and this was long regarded by
officers and representatives of the two States as approximately the
boundary. Held, that the boundary runs through the middle of the
Lower Bray to a deep channel leading into the Upper Bay, to a point,
thence westward along the aforesaid more direct median course
through waters not less than eight feet deep, approximately one
mile to the deep channel to which it leads, and thence, following
this, up-stream'. P. 280.
In applying the rule of the Thalweg (Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S.
158), the deepest water and the principal navigable channel are not
necessarily the same. It refers to actual or probable use in the
ordinary course; and to adopt in this case a narrow, crooked channel
close to shore in preference to a safer and more direct one with sufficient water would defeat its purpose. P. 281.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
273.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. D. Bailey and Mr. H. B. Fryberger, with whom
Mr. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General of the State of
Minnesota, Mr. Oscar Mitchell and Mr. Louis Hanitch
were on the briefs, for complainant.
Mr. M. B. Olbrich, Deputy Attorney General of the
State of Wisconsin, with whom Mr. John J. Blaine,
Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin, was on the
brief, for defendant.
MR. JusTicE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
We are asked to ascertain and establish the boundary
line between the parties in Upper and Lower St. Louis
Bays. Complainant claims to the middle of each bayhalfway between the shores. The defendant does not
seriously question this claim as to the lower bay, but
earnEstly maintains that in the upper one the line follows
a sinuous course near complainant's shore. Since 1893 a
deep channel has been dredged through these waters and
harbor lines have been established. According to Wisconsin's insistence, its border crosses and recrosses this
channel and intersects certain docks extending from the
Minnesota shore, leaving portions of them in each State.
See Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S.379; Norton v. Whiteside,
239 U. S.144.
"An Act to enable the People of Wisconsin Territory to
form a Constitution and State Government, and for the
Admission of such State into the Union," approved
August 6, 1846, c. 89, 9 Stat. 56, described the boundary
in part as follows: "Thence [with the northwesterly
boundary of Michigan] down the main channel of the
Montreal River to the middle of Lake Superior; thence
[westwardly] through the centre of Lake Superior to the
mouth of the St. Louis River; thence up the main channel

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

of said river to the first rapids in the same, above the
Indian village, according to Nicollet's map; thence due
south to the main branch of the River St. Croix," etc., etc.
With the boundaries described by the Enabling Act, Wisconsin entered the Union May 29, 1848 (c. 50, 9 Stat. 233).
"An Act to authorize the people of the Territory of
Minnesota to form a Constitution and State Government,
preparatory to their Admission in the Union," approved
February 26, 1857, c. 60, 11 Stat. 166, specifies a portion
of the boundary thus: "Thence by a due south line to the
north line of the State of Iowa; thence east along the
northern boundary of said State to the main channel of the
Mississippi River; thence up the main channel of said
river, and following the boundary line of the State of
Wisconsin, until the same intersects the Saint Louis River;
thence down said river to and through Lake Superior, on the
boundary line of Wisconsin and Michigan, until it intersects the dividing line between the United States and
the British possessions." With boundaries as therein de13cribed, Minnesota became a State May 11, 1858 (c. 31,
ilStat. 285).
The present controversy arises from conflicting interpretations of the words-"thence [westwardly] through
the centre of Lake Superior to the mouth of the St. Louis
River; thence up the main channel of said river to the. first
rapids in the same, above the Indian village, according to
Nicollet's map." The situation disclosed by an accurate
survey gives much room for differences concerning the
location of the "mouth of the St. Louis River" and "the
main channel of said river." Nicollet's Map of the
"Hydrographical Basin of the Upper Mississippi River,"
published in 1843, and drawn upon a scale of 1:1,200,000approximately twenty miles to the inch-is too small
either to reveal or to give material aid in solving the
difficulties. A sketch from it-approximately on original
scale-is printed on the next page.

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
Opinion of the Court.

During 1823-1825 'Lieutenant Bayfield of the British
Navy surveyed and sounded the westerly end of Lake
SKETCH FROM SECTION OF NICOLLET'S MAP.

On original scale: 20 miles to 1 inch.

Superior and the lower waters of St. Louis River. A chart
compiled from data so obtained (1:49,300,--4108 feet to
the inch) and published in 1828, shows the general configuration and lays the proper sailing course southward of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

Big Island. Prior to 1865 this was the' only available
chart and navigators often used it.
The first accurate map of these waters was drawn from
surveys and soundings made under direction of Captain
George W. Meade in 1861 and is now on file in the Lake
Survey Office at Detroit. After being reduced one-halfto a scale of 1:32,000 or approximately, two inches to a
mile-it was engraved and published in 1865 or 1866.
Known as the Meade Chart, this reproduction is accepted
by both parties as adequately disclosing conditions
existing in 1846. A rough sketch based upon the chartabout one-third of its size-and also a photographic
reproduction of a portion of the original map, are printed
on succeeding pages j284, 285.]
Minnesota and Wisconsin Points are low narrow strips
of sand-the former six miles in length, the latter approximately three. Between them there is a narrow opening
known as "The Entry," and inside lies a bay (Allouez and
Superior) nine miles long and a mile and a half wide. A
narrow channel between Rice's Point and Connor's
Point leads into Lower St. Louis Bay, approximately a
mile and a half wide and three miles long. Passing south
of Grassy Point another channel leads. into irregular
shaped Upper St. Louis Bay with Big Island at its southwesterly end. Southeast of this Island begin the well
defined banks, deep narrow channel and obvious current
characteristic of a true river; these continue through many
windings to the falls above the Indian village noted on
Nicollet's Map.
Meade's Chart indicates: A depth of not over eight feet
across the bar at "The Entry." A deep channel through
Superior Bay; rathershallow water with a ruling depth of
eight feet in Lower St. Louis Bay; eight feet of water on a
fairly direct course, about a mile in length, from the deep
channel south of Grassy Point and east of Fisherman's
Island to the deep water immediately westward of the

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
273.

Opinion of thq Court.

bar, about seven-eighths of a mile northeast of Big Island.
It further discloses a curving channel along the west side
of Grassy Point and thence close to the Minnesota shore
and around Big Island, with a depth of fifteen
or more
feet except at the bar, where there are only ten, possibly
eight, feet. To the south of Big Island lies the well-known
and formerly much used course indicated on Lieutenant
Bayfield's Map.
The level of the water within all the bays is substantially
the same as in Lake Superior; such current as exists flows
in opposite directions according to the wind and movement within the Lake. The shores are irregular and much
indented.
Since 1893 the United States have dredged a twenty-two
foot channel through Upper St. Louis Bay and around
Grassy Point; thence through Lower St. Louis Bay (where
there are two branches) and between Rice's and Connor's
Points; thence through Superior Bay to "The Entry" and
into the Lake. Extensive docks have been constructed
from the Minnesota shore in both the upper and lower
bays; those extending southwest from Grassy Point cross
the boundary claimed by Wisconsin. The general situation of 1846 continued until long after 1861, but during the
last thirty years extensive improvements required for a
large and busy harbor have produced great changes.
The complainant maintains that within the true intendment of the statute the "mouth of the St. Louis River"
is southeast of Big Island, where end the banks, channel
and current characteristic of a river and lake features
begin. On the other hand the defendant insists, and we
think correctly, that such mouth is at the junction of
Lake Superior 'and the deep channel between Minnesota
and Wisconsin Points-" The Entry."
It is unnecessary to specify the many facts and circumstances, historical and otherwise, which lead to the conclusion stated. They, seem adequate notwithstanding

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

some troublesome objections based upon the peculiar
hydrographic conditions.
Treating "The Entry" as the mouth of the St. Louis
River, where is the line "thence up the main channel of
said river to the first rapids," etc.? This must be determined upon consideration of the situation existing in 1.846,
which the parties admit remained substantially unchanged
until after the Meade survey. No alterations now material have come about through accretion or erosion.
The line through Superior Bay is not here called in
question. But let it be noted that no vessel drawing more
than eight feet could have passed into that bay from Lake
Superior; that within "The Entry" there were only
small boats of light draft; and that navigation long remained rather primitive.
Lower St. Louis Bay was shallow, with a ruling depth of
eight feet, and had no well-defined channel. From the
deep water at the southern tip of Grassy Point a vessel
drawing less -than eight feet bound north of Big Island
and beyond could have tur'ned northwest and followed the
narrow winding channel near the Minnesota shore with a
ruling depth of ten, possibly eight, feet. Or it could have
proceeded westward, approximately one mile, over a more
direct course with a depth of eight feet or more, until it
came to the deeper channel about seven-eighths of a mile
northeast of Big Island. This latter course is indicated
by the red trace "A, B, C" on Minnesota's Exhibit No.
1-Meade's Chart. For many years officers and representatives of both States regarded the boundary as on or
near this line. And, considering all the circumstances,
we think it must be accepted as the main channel within
intendment of the statute. No current controlled navigation and vessels proceeding in opposite directions
followed the same general course.
Both parties say that in 1846 "practically all of Upper
and Lower St. Louis Bays between the shores were navi-

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
273.

281'

Opinion of the Court.

gable for such vessels as were accustomed to use said bays
at said time for the purpose of navigation, and there was
no defined course, or channel, in said bays, which said
vessels followed, but, owing to the depth of the water,
they were permitted and accustomed to travel across
said bays in any direction." For very many years subsequent to 1846 there were no vessels with eight foot draft
upon these waters; and probably none of such size regu ..
larly plied there until 1890 or later.
The course south of Big Island shown on the Bayfield
map was never accepted as the boundary and need not
be further considered. Wisconsin's claim to that island
is not denied.
Manifestly, from the description heretofore given, the
waters between Big Island and Lake Superior were broad
sheets without any definite uninterrupted deep channel
extending throughout their entire length. Also, there
was no steady, controlling current. Such vessels as plied
there in 1846 and long thereafter moved with freedom in
different directions. The evidence convinces us that as
navigation gradually increased prior to 1890, the northerly course in Upper St. Louis Bay commonly followed
by vessels going to or coming from points above Big
Island was not along the narrow curving channel skirting Grassy Point but over the shorter one near the middle
of the bay.
This court approved the doctrine of Thalweg as opposed
to the physical middle line, in Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S.
1, and has adhered thereto. Louisiana v. Mississippi,
202 U. S. 1; Washington v. Oregon, 211 U. S. 127; 214
U. S. 205; Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158. "When
a navigable river constitutes the boundary between two
independent States, the line defining the point at which
the jurisdiction of the two separates is well established
to be the middle of the main channel of the stream. The
interest of each State in the navigation of the river admits

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
-

Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

of no other line. The preservation by each .of its equal,
right in the navigation of the stream is the subject of
paramount interest.
. . Thus the jurisdiction of each
State extends to the thread of the stream, that is, to the
'mid-channel,' and, if there be several channels, to the
middle of the principal one, or, rather, the one usually
followed." (Iowa v. Illinois, supra, pp. 7, 13.) "As to
boundary lakes and landlocked seas, where there is no
necessary track of navigation, the line of demarcation
is drawn in the middle, and this is true of narrow straits
separating the lands of two different States." (Louisiana
v. Mississippi, supra, p. 50.)
The doctrine of Thalweg, a modification of the morb
ancient principle which required equal division of territory,
was adopted in order to preserve to each State equality
of right in the beneficial use of the stream as a means of
communication. :Accordingly, the middle of the principal channel-of navigation is commonly accepted as the
boundary. Equality in the beneficial use often would
be defeated, rather than promoted, by fixing the boundary
on a given line merely because it connects points of greatest depth. Deepest water and the principal navigable
channel are not necessarily the same. The rule has direct
reference to actual or probable use in the ordinary course,
and common experience shows that vessels do not follow
a narrow crooked channel close to shore, however deep,
when they can proceed on a safer and more direct one
with sufficient water.
As we view the whole record, the claim
of Wisconsin
cannot prevail unless the doctrine of Thalweg requires
us to say that the main channel' is the deepest one. So
to apply it here would defeat its fundamental purpose.
The ruling depth in the waters below Upper Bay was
eight feet, and practically this limited navigation to
vessels of no greater draft. For these there was abundant
water near the middle line. Under such circumstances

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
273.

283

Opinion of the Court.

Minnesota would be deprived of equality of right both
in navigation and to the surface if the boundary line were
drawn near its shore.
A decree will be entered declaring and adjudging as
follows: That the boundary line between the two States
must be ascertained upoD a consideration of the situation existing in 1846 and accurately disclosed by the
Meade Chart. That when traced on this chart the boundary runs midway between Rice's Point and Connor's
Point and through the middle of Lower St. Louis Bay to
and with the deep channel leading into Upper St. Louis
Bay and to a point therein immediately south of the
southern extremity of Grassy Point; thence westward
along the most direct course, through water not less than
eight feet deep, eastward of Fisherman's Island and as
indicated by the red trace "A, B, C," on Minnesota's
Exhibit No. 1, approximately one mile, to the'deep channel and immediately west of the bar therein; thence with
such channel north and west of Big Island up stream to
the falls.
Within thirty days counsel may present a proper decree
for carrying this opinion intoI effect. The costs will be
equally divided between the States.
It seems appropriate to repeat the suggestion, made
in Washington v. Oregon, supra, 217, 218, that the parties
endeavor with consent of Congress to adjust their, bound-

aries.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs concurs in the result.

SHORE LINE-SKETCHED FROM MEADE'S CHART.

Scale: About two-thirds of an inch to I mile.

okC

<0

*

FROM

A PHOTOGRAPH-PORTION OF ORIGINAL MEADE MAP WEST OF

GRASSY POINT, ON FILE IN OFFICE U.

S.

ENoINERS.

Scale: Aboui 1 mile to 8 inches.
(The words "Fishermans Island" have been added.)

4---

To The Falls

To Lake Superior------

