UNITED STATES v. SCHRADER'S SON, INC.

85

Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. A. SCHRADER'S SON, INC.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT. OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 567.

Argued January 22, 23, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

A manufacturer of patented articles sold them to its customers, who
were other manufacturers and jobbers in several States, under their
agreements to observe certain resale prices fixed by the vendor. Held
that there was a combination restraining trade in violation of § 1 of
the Anti-Trust Act. P. 98. Dr. Mile8 Medical Co. v. Park & Sons
Co., 220 U. S. 373,-followed; United Stale8 v. Colgate & Co., 250 U.
S. 300, distinguished.
264 Fed. Rep. 175, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Henry S. Mitchell, Special

Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United States:
. The defendant's patents have no bearing on the case.
On this point we merely refer to the opinion of the District Court, holding that the decisions of this court establish that patented and unpatented articles are on the
same footing with respect to fixing resale prices; that defendant's so-called "license agreements'.' were mere sell-

ing agreements; and that defendant's use of the term
"royalties" was merely intended to give color to its un-

tenable theory that the patents justified what was done.
The conclusive interpretation of the indictment (United
States v. Carter, 231 U. S: 492, 493; United States v. Miller,

223 U. S.599, 602) was that it charged a system of resale
price-fixing contracts, between a manufacturer and wholesalers of its products, obligating the wholesalers to adhere
to uniform specified resale prices, eliminating competition
between the wholesalers, enhancing their prices to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

252 U. S.

tailers, and enhancing the prices paid by the consuming
public.
In Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S.
373, this court vigorously denounced a system of resale
price-fixing contracts between a manufacturer and dealers
in its products, as against the public interest, upon the
ground that it was as if the dealers had agreed amongst
themselves, as condemned in United States v. Addysyn
Pipe & Steel Co., 85 Fed Rep. 271; 175 U. S. 211, to fix
prices and suppress competition.
In United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, the indictment did not charge the defendant with selling its
products to dealers under agreements which obligated the
latter not to resell except at prices fixed by the company.
The District Court erroneously construed § 1 of the
Sherman Act, which prohibits combinations in restraint
of trade, as only applying where there is a violation of § 2,
which prohibits monopolization. That construction i;3
opposed to the declaration of this court in Standard Oil
Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 50, 57; nor is it supported
by the Colgate Case. It is opposed to the Dr. Miles Medical Case.
If the statute is to be construed according to the Dr.
Miles Medical Case as intended to prevent combinations
tending to enhance prices paid by the public, the construction adopted by.the District Court is untenable. For the
tendency to enhance prices paid by the public not only
exists in a combination, but is fulfilled although no retailers are included in the combination, but only wholesalers; and the District Court so interpreted the present
indictment.' The enhancement of the prices at which the
wholesalers sell' to the retailers is, of course, transmitted
'by the retailers to the public; and is ultimately borne by
the public. It is analogous to the case of a price-fixing
agreement between competing manufacturers, which is
unlawful although the enhancement of prices is transmit-

UNITED STATES v. SCHRADER'S SON, INC.
85.

87

Argument for the United States.

ted to the public through dealers not in the agreement
with the manufacturers.
The District Court was mistaken in considering that
the construction of the Sherman Act which it adopted was
supported by § 2 of the Clayton Act (38 Stat. 730). That
section has no apparent bearing on resale price fixing.
The District Court apparently overlooked that the enactment deals only with a person's selling prices to his
customers, and in no way touches his fixing their prices
to their customers, which alone is involved in this case.
Large profits can not be justified as reasonable because
they encourage the distribution of articles needed by the
public; for the principle of that justification would sanction taking advantage of the public necessity, e. g., for coal
or food. However, the reasonableness, or unreasonableness, of resale prices does not determine the legal status
of the combination which fixes them.
In the Dr. Miles Medical Case the combination was condemned, although the court had to assume that the prices
fixed were reasonable, as was expressly pointed out. (220
U. S. 412.) See Thomsen v. Cayser, 243 U. S. 66; Salt Co.
v. Guthrie, 35 Oh. St. 666. All such combinations are injurious to the public interest in the extreme facility which
they afford for arbitrarily advancing prices through the
united action of the dealers in obedience to the will of the
manufacturer. Resale price-fixing combinations are not
saved from condemnation by their advantages to the participants. We may dismiss as wholly baseless the familiar
contention that to condemn a resale price-fixing combination deprives the manufacturer of the advantage of
exercising his undoubted right to suggest resale prices
and to select as his customers those dealers who adhere to
the suggested prices.
That undoubted right was referred to by this court in
the Colgate Case. But that indictment was held bad on
the ground that it did not charge the existence of agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

252 U. S.

ments obligating the dealers to adhere to the indicated
resale prices. The manufacturer can, of course, suggest
resale prices and select as his customers dealers who adhere to them, without restricting the dealers either by
assurances and promises to so adhere, or by contracts obligating them. to do so.
Another inadequate argument for resale price-fixing
combinations is that they protect the manufacturer's
legitimate interest in the good will of his products against
a poor opinion of their value created by dealers selling
them at ruinoils prices as a bait to procure sales of other
articles on which to recoup. Let us assume this practice to
be harmful and dishonest, and that the manufacturer may
legitimately withhold his goods from dealers addicted
thereto. But, obviously, he may protect himself in that
respect without creating a combination imposing absolute
uniformity of price on all dealers, and thus preventing
deviation from such price by efficient dealers who find
smaller profits adequate and desire to content themselves
with these in a manner that is fair, and honorable, and
entirely beneficial to the public.
The real advantages of resale price-fixing combinations
to the participants consist in the enhancement of prices
which constitutes a disadvantage to the public. A liberal
part of the enhanced price is distributed to the dealers in
the combination in the form of profits consisting in the
difference between their fixed buying prices and their fixed
selling prices. This induces the dealers to promote the
sales of the articles whose prices are so fixed rather than
of other articles the prices of which are not fixed and are
consequently kept down by competition amongst the
dealers. A manufacturer is, of course, benefited when the
dealers promote the sales of his products rather than of
other products; and his profits are, of course, increased.'
But as for such considerations we merely note what this
court said in the Dr. Miles Medical Case (p. 408), after

UNITED STATES v. SCHRADER'S SON, INC.
85.

89

Argument for Defendant in Error.

condemning resale price-fixing combinations as injurious
to the public interest.
Mr. Frank M. Avery, with whom Mr. Eugene V. Myers,
Mr. Carl Everett Whitney and Mr. Earl A. Darr were on
the brief, for defendant in error:
The indictment does not charge an offense. - There
must be an unreasonable restraint of trade. A covenant
in partial restraint is prima facie reasonable. Northwestern Salt Co. v. Electrolytic Alkali Co. (1914), A. C. 461;
Haynes v. Doman (1899), 2 Ch. 13. Thomsen v. Cayser,
243 U. S. 66, showed an unreasonable combinatian.
The allegation that the defendant's goods are patented
plus an allegation that defendant regularly sells and ships
large quantities to tire manufacturers and jobbers in the
Northern District of Ohio and throughout the United
States, who in turn resell and reship large quantities (collectively stated) to jobbers, manufacturers, retail dealers
and the public, falls far short of charging facts showing
an unreasonable restraint or combination. The channels
of interstate commerce may be glutted with valves, etc.;
there may be many or few manufacturers thereof; defendant's agreements may be necessary, owing to the state of
the trade in defendant's particular goods; there is no
averment to show how many tire manufacturers or jobbers there are in Northern Ohio or in the United States,
nor what proportion of them have contracted with defendant; there is nothing to show what percentage of the
goods is handled by the retail trade--this retail trade not
being restricted at all; there is no allegation as to What
percentage of valves is sold by the tire manufacturers or
jobbers to the consuming puiblic. Furthermore,' no allegation of unreasonableness or of facts upon which unreasonableness can be predicated is found in the indictment
itself or as interpreted by the District Court, and the
agreements annexed to the indictment show that defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

252 U. S.

ant has an interest in the resale price which it Afxes. Dr.
Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, decides that where a vendor hab parted with all of his interest, and has also received the full consideration, he cannot control the resale price. But here, under its license
agreements, defendant has a direct and substantial property interest in the resale lprice, namely, certain percentages of the list prices or gross selling prices, reserved as
royalties under its patents. These royalties are in addition to the initial price and are not payable unless and
until the goods have been used or sold by the defendant's
vendees; and the percentage of the resale price which defendant is to receive is based on the amount of the resale
price which the vendee actually receives, which must not
be less than a minimum price, but which may be more;
and, therefore, the amount of the defendant's compensation is dependent upon the amount of the resale price
wherr the resale comes to be made. In none of the cases
which have been befcre this court did the vendor have
this interest or property in the resale price.
Where a vendor has a pecuniary interest in maintaining the resale price, and no monopoly is effected, he may
lawfully contract with vendees to adhere to fixed prices.
Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. P-rk & Sons Co., -upra;Fisher
Flouring Mills Co. v. Swanson, 76 Washington, 649; Rawleigh Medical Co. v. Osborne, 177 Iowa, 208.
At common law such agreements are valid; nothing in
the Sherman Act makes them illegal; and this court has
made it clear that in the cases heretofore decided it has
decided no more than was directly in issue in them.
In each of those cases the vendor had received the full
price for his article, all that he ever was to get for it, and
still sought to annex conditions to the resale. In the case
at bar the defendant has not received the full price for it,
since a very substantial part depends upon the resale and
upon the amount of the resale price. The hypothesis of

UNITED STATES v. SCHRADER'S SON, INC.
85.

91

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the Government assumes that defendant has parted with
the title to the goods and therefore has no property interest in the goods when resold. This overlooks the fundamental fact that the sales are on condition, that, on resale, the vendee will pay the defendant something more.
The defendant, under the circumstances, may have only
a fanciful interest or no interest in the goods themselves,
but it has a very real, substantial and pecuniary interest
in the resale price.
It must be remembered that the defendant can legally
refrain from any dealing with any person whomsoever and
the consequence of this legal right is that if it chooses to
deal it can deal on its own terms so long as it does not
seek to project itself beyond that line where it does not
have a property interest in the thing sought to be accomplished.
Until defendant receives its part of the resale price,
the transaction is not without the operation of the patent
law. If, under such circumstances, the patent law and the
Sherman Law clash, the patent law will prevail. Bement
v. National Harrow Co. 186 U. S. 70.
Whether title passes when the goods reach the wholesalers is immaterial, the real question being whether
the patentee has received the full consideration it charges
for releasing the goods from the patent monopoly. In
the present instance, defendant has not received any part
of such consideration "mtil after the sale by the wholesaler is made.
We think the District Court overlooked the fact that
the patent right concerns itself exclusively with 'the right
of a patentee to control goods in which he has no property
interest. It has been decided many times that the law
grants to the patentee no right of manufacture, use or sale
which he did not have before. In other words, with regard to the patented devices which he owns, the law neither subtracts from, nor adds to, them. It is solely with

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

252 U. S.

the goods which he does not own that the law concerns
itself.
Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1, announced no new doctrine, but merely an extension of an, old one-that a
patentee having unconditionally sold and having received
the consideration for release from the patent monopoly,
could not afterwards control the patented goods. Cf.
Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 How. 539; Adams v. Burke,
17 Wall. 453; Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wall. 544. The
monopoly not being dependent upon ownership of the
goods, it is clear that the mere passage of title, if it really
passed in this case; does not take the goods from under
the patent monopoly.
In the Colgate Case the manufacturer effected a practical price-fixing for his goods in the hands of his customers
and could enforce these fixed prices by a refusal to deal
with the customers if they did not adhere to them. Such
price-fixing, in effect, was held reasonable. The question
which then arises is: Would it be a crime under the
Sherman Act to secure precisely this effect by means
of a written agreement?
It seems -to us that the Colgate decision is a standard
by which the acts of any defendant charged with pricefixing can be measured, and that the Sherman Act should
not be construed to make out a crime where the same
result is secured, and the only difference is that the
customer, instead of acquiescing in what the manufacturer
wishes, merely says that he will acquiesce, in writing.
To put the matter in another way, it is a reasonable
thing to do under the Sherman Act what a man has a
perfect right to do under the general law.
This defendant has effected no result which Colgate
did not effect. On the contrary, Colgate went away
beyond the effect produced, or even desired, by this
defendant. Defendant's main purpose is to obtain a
distribution of its goods. When they are in the hands

UNITED STATES v. SCHRADER'S SON, INC.
85.

93

Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the retailers and widely distributed, defendant's interest ceases. The retailers may freely compete. In the
Colgate Case the goods were in effect controlled by the
manufacturer while in the hands of the retailers.
We are aware that there is a technical difference be-.
tween goods which in theory may be freely sold by the
dealer, and goods which in theory cannot be sold by the
dealer except at a fixed price. But this distinction is
merely a form of words when the actual facts are considered.
Colgate's dealers had the technical right to sell Colgate
goods at any price they pleased. As a matter of fact,
however, they could not sell them at any price they
pleased without incurring the penalty of being unable
to get more goods. Colgate's intent and purpose was to
fix resale prices. Both the indictment itself and the
District Court in the case at bar stated that the effect
of Colgate's act was the fixation of prices and the suppression of competition.
We wish to make perfectly clear this point. Is the
Sherman Act to be interpreted so that it does not cover
this effectual fixation of prices by one who has the intent
and purpose of fixing prices and who proceeds to adopt
means to secure this result, and at the same time interpreted to include one who has the same intent and purpose and who chooses the same means with the only
difference that he secures the written agreement of the
dealer to observe the fixed prices? Would this be a reasonable interpretation of the act, to make a man's liberty
depend upon a shadow leaving him scot-free to violate
the substance of the law?
In the Miles Case the price-fixing contracts were so
extended and so widespread as to include practically
the entire trade, wholesale and retail. Such a complete
and perfected system has the elements of monopoly
within it and would be so dangerous to the public wel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

fare as to induce the court to believe it unreasonable,
under the Sherman Act.
MR. JusTiCE, MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Defendant in error, a New York corporation, manufactured at Brooklyn, under letters patent, valves,
gauges and other accessories for use in connection with
automobile tires, and regularly sold and shipped large
quantities of these to manufacturers and jobbers throughout the United States. It was indicted in the District
Court, Northern District of Ohio, for engaging in a
combination rendered criminal by § 1 of. the Sherman
Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, which declares
illegal "every contract, combination in the form of
trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade
or commerce among the several States, or with foreign
nations." After interpreting the indictment as indicated
by quotations from its opinion which follow, the District Court sustained a demurrer thereto, basing the judgment upon construction of that act. 264-'Fed. Rep. 175.
"The substantive allegations of this indictment are
that defendant is engaged in manufacturing valves,
valve parts, pneumatic-pressure gauges, and various
other accessories; that it sells and ships large quantities
of such articles to tire manufacturers and jobbers in the
Northern District of Ohio and throughout the United
States; that these tire manufacturers and jobbers resell
and reship large quantities of these products to (a)
jobbers and vehicle manufacturers, (b) retail dealers,
and (c) to the public, both within and without the
respective States into which the products are shipped;
that these acts have been committed within three years
next preceding the presentation of this indictment and
within this district; that the defendant executed, and

UNITED STATES v.SCHRADER'S SON, INC.
86.

95

Opinon of the Court.

caused all the said tire manufacturers and jobbers to
whom it sold its said products to execute with it, uniform
contracts concerning resales of such products; that every
manufacturer and jobber was informed by the defendant and well knew when executing such contracts that
identical contracts were being executed and adhered to
by the other manufacturers and jobbers; that these contracts thus executed purported to contain a grant of a
license from the defendant to resell its said products
at prices fixed by it to (a) jobbers and vehicle manufacturers similarly licensed, (b) retail dealers, and (c)
the consuming public; that all these contracts provided
(that the) [concerning] products thus sold to tire manufacturers and jobbers (provided) that they should not
resell such products at prices other than those fixed by
the defendant. Copies of these contracts are identified
by exhibit numbers and attached to the indictment.
It is further charged that the defendant furnished to
the tire manufacturers and jobbers who entered into
such contracts lists of uniform prices, such as are shown
in said exhibits, which the defendant fixed for the resale
of its said products to (a) jobbers and vehicle manufacturers, (b) retail dealers, and (c) the consuming
public, respectively; and that the defendant uniformly
refused to sell and ship its products to tire manufacturers
and jobbers who did not enter into such vontracts and
adhere to the uniform resale prices fixed and listed by
the defendant. Further, that tire manufacturers and
jobbers in the northern district of Ohio and throughout
the United States uniformly resold defendant's products
at uniform prices fixed by the defendant and uniformly
refused to resell such products at lower prices, whereby
competition was suppressed and the prices of such products to retail dealers and the consuming public were
.
maintained and enhanced.
"Thus it will be observed that the contract, combina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

tion, or conspiracy charged comes merely to this: That
the defendant has agreed, combined, or conspired with
tire manufacturers and with jobbers by the selling or
agreeing to sell valves, valve parts, pneumatic pressure
gauges, and various accessories, with the further understanding or agreement that in making resales thereof
they will sell only at certain fixed prices. It will be
further observed that the retailers, to whom the jobbers
in ordinary course of trade would naturally sell rather
than to the consuming public, and who in ,turn sell and
distribute these articles to and among the ultimate
consumers, are not included within the alleged combination or conspiracy.
"The so-called license agreements, exhibited with the
indictment, are in my opinion, both in substance and
effect, only selling agreements. The title to the valves,
valve parts, pneumatic pressure gauges, and other automobile accessories passed to the so-called licensees and
'
licensed jobbers ."
The court further said:
"Defendant urges that there is a manifest inconsistency between the reasoning, if not between the holdings,
of these two cases [Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons
Co., 220 U. S. 373, and United States v. Colgate & Co.,
250 U. S. 300]; that if the basic principles announced in
the latter case are to be taken in the ordinary sense imported by the language the present case falls within the
Colgate Case, and that, properly construed, neither section 1 nor 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law makes the
defendant's conduct a crime. The Dr. Miles Medical
Company Case standing alone would seem to require that
this demurrer be overruled and a holding that the Sherman Anti-Trust Law is violated and. a crime committed,
merely upon a showing of the making by defendant and
two or more jobbers of the agreements set up in the indictment, certainly if the jobbers were competitors in the

UNITED STATES v. SCHRADER'S SON, INC.
85.

97

Opinion of the Court.

same territory. That case has been frequently cited as establishing this proposition.

.

.

.

The retailers are not in

the present case included. They may compete freely with
one another and may even give away the articles purchased by them. No restriction is imposed which prevents them from selling to the consumer at any price, even
though it be at a ruinous sacrifice and less than the price
made to them by the jobber. Personally, and with all
due respect, permit me to say that I can see no real difference upon the facts between the Dr. Miles Medical Company Case and the Colgate Company Case.: i*The only
difference is that in the former the arrangement for marketing its product was put in writing, whereas in the latter the wholesale and retail dealers observed the prices fixed
by the vendor. This is a distinction without a difference.
The tacit acquiescence of the wholesalers and retailers in
the prices thus fixed is the equivalent for all practical purposes of an express agreement.
"Granting the fundamental proposition stated in the
Colate Case, that the manufacturer has an undoubted
right to specify resale prices and refuse to deal with anyone who fails to maintain the same, or, as further stated,
the act does not restrict the long-recognized right of a
trader or manufacturer engaged in an entirely private
business freely to exercise his own independent discretion
as to the parties with whom he will deal, and that he, of
course, may announce in advance the circumstances under
which he will refuse to sell, it seems to me that it is a distinction without a difference to say that he may do so by
the subterfuges and devices set forth in the opinion and
not violate the Sherman Anti-Trust Act; yet if he had done
the same thing in the form of a written agreement, adequate only to effectuate the same purpose, he would be
guilty of a violation of the law. Manifestly, therefore, the
decision in the Dr. Miles Medical Case must rest upon
some other ground than the mere fact that there were

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

agreements between the manufacturer and the wholesalers.
"The point, however, which I wish to emphasize is that
the allegations of this indictment, not alleging any purpose,
or facts from which such a purpose can be inferred, to
monopolize interstate trade, within the prohibition and
meaning of section 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and
the last clause of section 2 of the Clayton Act, does not
charge a crime under section 1 of the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act as that act should be construed."
Our opinion in United States v. Colgate & Co. declared
quite plainly:
That upon a writ of error under the Criminal Appeals
Act, (c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246) "we have no authority to
revise the mere interpretation of an indictment and are
confined to ascertaining whether the court in a case under
review erroneously construed the statute." "We must
accept that court's interpretation of the indictments and
confine our review to the question of the construction of
the statute involved in its decision." That we were cons
fronted by an uncertain interpretation of an indictment
itself couched in rather vague and general language, the
meaning of the opinion below being the subject of serious
controversy. The "defendant maintains that looking
at the whole opinion it plainly construes the indictment
as alleging only recognition of the manufacturer's undoubted right to specify resale prices and refuse to deal
with anyone who failed to maintain the same." "The position of the defendant is more nearly in accord with the
whole opinion and must be accepted. And as counsel for
the Govermnent were careful to state on the argument
that this conclusion would require affirmation of the judgment below, an extended discussion of the principles involved is unnecessary." And further: "The purpose of
the Sherman Act is to prohibit monopolies, contracts and
combinations which probably would unduly interfere with

UNITED STATES v. SCHRADER'S SON, INC.
85.

99

Opinion of the Court.

the free exercise of their rights by those engaged, or who
wish to engage, in trade and commerce-in a word to preserve the right of freedom to trade. In the absence of any
purpose to create or maintain a monopoly, the act does
not restrict the long recognized right of trader or manufacturer engaged in an entirely private business, freely to
exercise his own independent discretion as to parties
with whom he will deal. And, of course, he may announce
in advance the circumstances under which he will refuse
to sell."
The court below misapprehended the meaning and effect of the opinion and judgment in that cause. We had
no intention to overrule or modify the doctrine of Dr.
Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., where the effort
was to destroy the dealers' independent discretion through
restrictive agreements. Under the interpretation adopted
by the trial court and necessarily accepted by us, the indictment failed to charge that Colgate & Company made
agreements, either express or implied, which undertook
to obligate vendees to observe specified resale prices;
and it was treated "as alleging only recognition of the
manufacturer's undoubted right to specify resale .prices
and refuse to deal with anyone who failed to maintain the
same."
It seems unnecessary to dwell upon the obvious difference between the situation presented when a manufacturer merely indicates his wishes concerning prices and
declines further dealings with all who fail to observe them,
and one where he enters into agreements-whether express or implied from a course of dealing or other circumstances-with all customers throughout the different
States which undertake to bind them to observe fixed resale prices. In the first, the manufacturer but exercises
his independent discretion concerning his customers and
there is no contract or combination which imposes any
limitation on the purchaser. In the second, the parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

are combined through agreements designed to take away
dealers' control of their own affairs and thereby destroy
competition and restrain the free and natural flow of
trade amongst the States.
The principles approved in Dr. Miles Medichl Co. v.
Park & Sons Co., should have been applied. The judgment below must be reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs

in the result.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS dis-

sent.

MILWAUKEE ELECTRIC RAILWAY & LIGHT
COMPANY v. STATE OF WISCONSIN EX REL.
CITY OF MILWAUKEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.

No. 55.

Argued November 10, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

When it is claimed that the obligation of a contract is impaired by a
state law, this court inclines to accept the construction placed upon
the contract by the Supreme Court of the State, if the matter is
fairly in doubt. P. 103.
A street railway franchise declared it the duty of the grantee company
"at all times to keep in good repair the roadway between the rails
and for one foot on the outside of each rail as laid, and the space between the two inside rails of its double tracks with the same material
as the city shall have last used to pave or repave these spaces and the
street previous to such repairs," unless the company and the city
agreed on some other material. In the absence of such an agreement,
held, that the company's obligation extended to the use of materials

