HIAWASSEE POWER CO. v. CAROLINA-TENN. CO. 341
Counsel for Parties.

HIAWASSEE RIVER POWER COMPANY v. CAROLINA-TENNESSEE POWER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 208.

Argued January 30, 1920.-Decided March 22, 1920.

The question whether a special act of a state legislature chartering a
power company contravenes the equal protection and privileges and
immunities clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment because it grants
powers of eminent domain not conferred on a rival company organized under a general law, is not necessarily decided by a ruling of a
state trial court, in a suit by the former company against the latter
to quiet title, admitting the special charter in evidence over defendant's objection that it is void under the state bill of rights and
constitution and violates the Fourteenth Amendment; nor is such
question raised in the state Supreme Court by an assignment alleging
merely that the trial court erred in admitting such evidence, and not
mentioning the Amendment. P. 342.
A constitutional question not presented by assignment of errors or
otherwise, or passed upon, in the state Supreme Court, does not
afford jurisdiction under Jud. Code, ยง 237; an attempt to raise it by
the petition for a writ of error from this court and the assignment
filed here, is too late, and allowance of the writ by the chief justice
of the state court does not cure the omission. P. 343.
Writ of error to review 175 N. Car. 668, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Eugene R. Black, with whom Mr. Sanders McDaniel,
Mr. J. N. Moody, Mr. Felix Alley and Mr. Zebulon Weaver

were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Julius C. Martin, with whom Mr. Thos. S. Rollins
and Mr. Geo. H. Wright were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Carolina-Tennessee Power Company, a public
utility, was incorporated by a private law of North Carolina with broad powers, including that of taking by eminent domain riparian lands of and water rights in any
non-navigable stream of the State. It filed locations for
two hydro-electric plants on the Hiawassee River and
proceeded to acquire by purchase and by condemnation
the lands and water rights necessary for that development.
Thereafter the Hiawassee River Power Company was
organized under the general laws of the State and threatened to locate and develop on that river hydro-electric
plants which would necessarily interfere with the development undertaken by the Carolina-Tennessee Company.
The latter brought in the Superior Court of Cherokee
County a suit in the nature of a bill to quiet title. The
case was tried in that court with the aid of a jury. Many
issues of fact were raised and many questions of state law
presented. A decree entered for the plaintiff below was
reversed by the Supreme Court of the State and a new
trial was ordered (171 N. Car. 248). The second trial
resulted also in a decree for plaintiff below which was
affirmed by the state Supreme Court (175 N. Car. 668).
The case comes here on writ of error.
The federal question relied upon as giving jurisdiction
to this court is denial of the claim that the private law incorporating the Carolina-Tennessee Company is invalid,
because it conferred upon that company broad powers of
eminent domain, whereas the general law, under which the
Hiawassee Company was later organized, conferred no
such right; the contention being that thereby the guaranty
of the Fourteenth Amendment of privileges and immuities and equal protection of the laws had been violated
But this claim was not presented to nor passed upon by the

HIAWASSEE POWER CO. v. CAROLINA-TENN. CO. 343
341.

Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the State. The only basis for the contention that it was so presented is the fact, that, when the
Carolina-Tennessee Company offered in evidence at the
trial in the Superior Court the private law as'its charter,
objection was made to its admission "on the ground that
the same was in terms and effect a monopoly and a void
exercise of power by the State Legislature which undertook to provide it, it being opposed and obnoxious to the
bill of rights and the Constitution and in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment;" and that the admission of this
evidence is among the many errors assigned in the Supreme
Court of the State. The law, whether valid or invalid, was
clearly admissible in evidence, as it was the foundation of
the equity asserted in the bill. No right under the Federal
Constitution was necessarily involved in that ruling. The
reference to the "bill of rights and the Constitution"
made when objecting to the admissibility of the evidence
was to the state constitution and the point was not again
called to the attention of that court. Compare Hulbert v.
Chicago, 202 U. S. 275, 279, 280. The claim of invalidity
under the state constitution was specifically urged in that
court as a reason why the Carolina-Tennessee Company
should be denied relief and the claim was passed upon
adversely to the plaintiff in error; but no reference was
made in that connection to the Fourteenth Amendment.
If a general statement that the ruling of the state court
was against the Fourteenth Amendment were a sufficient
specification of the claim of a right under the Constitution
to give this court jurisdiction (see Clarke v. McDade, 165
U. S. 168, 172; Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S.
238, 248; Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 212, 217, 224), still
the basis for a review by this court is wholly lacking here.
For the Fourteenth Amendment was mentioned only in
the trial court. In the Supreme Court of the State no mention was made of it in the assignment of errors; nor was it,
so far as appears by the record, otherwise presented to or

344.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Interlocutory Decree.

252 U. S.

passed upon by that court. The denial of the claim was
specifically set forth in the petition for the writ of error to
this court and in the assignment of errors filed here. But
obviously that was too late. Chicago, Indianapolis &
Louisville Ry. Co. v. McGuire, 196 U. S. 128, 132. The
omission to set it up properly in the Supreme Court of the
State was not cured by the allowance of the writ of error
by its Chief Justice. Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524,
529; Hulbert v. Chicago, 202 U. S. 275, 280; Marvin v.
Trout, 199 U. S. 212, 223.
We have no occasion, therefore, to consider whether the
claim of denial of rights under the Fourteenth Amendment
was of the substantial character which is required to support a writ of error. Equitable Life Assurance Society v.
Brown, 187 U. S. 308, 311. Compare Henderson Light &
Power Co. v. Blue Ridge InterurbanRy. Co., 243 U.S. 563.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdition.

STATE OF ARKANSAS v. STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
INTERLOCUTORY DECREE.
No. 7, Original.

IN EQUITY.

Entered March 22, 1920, upon motion submitted
March 8, 1920.

Decree appointing, empowering and instructing commissioners to
locate, etc., part of the boundary between the two States.

THIS CAUSE came on to be heard by this court on
the motions aud suggestions of counsel for the respective
parties for the appointment of a commission to run, locate,
and designate the boundary line between the States of
Arkansas and Mississippi as indicated in the opinion of
this court delivered on the 19th day of May, 1919, and

