OKLAHOMA GIN CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
Opinion of the Court.

OKLAHOMA

GIN

COMPANY
OKLAHOMA.

v.

STATE

OF

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 32. Argued January 23, 24, 1919; restored to docket for reargument April 21, 1919; submitted October 9, 1919; order for oral argument entered October 20, 1919; reargued December 17, 1919.-Decided
March 22, 1920.

The provision of the Oklahoma law concerning penalties for disobedience of an order of the Corporation Commission fixing rates, held
void, following Oklahoma Operating Co. v. Love, ante, 331, as depriving a cotton ginning company of opportunity for judicial review.
P. 340.
63 Oklahoma, 10, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. B. Ames for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, with whom Mr. Paul A. Walker was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Corporation Commission of Oklahoma having
found under ยง 8235 of the Revised Laws of 1910 that the
Oklahoma Gin Company and four other concerns in the
town of Chandler had combined and raised the charges for
ginning cotton, on October 17,, 1913, fixed a schedule of
rates lower than those then in force. The company thereafter charged rates in excess of those so fixed; and three
separate complaints against it alleging violation of the
order were filed with the Commission. Being summoned

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

to show cause why it should not be punished for contempt
the company admitted violation of the order, but alleged
that it was void, among other reasons, because ยง 8235 was
in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. After a full
hearing at which new evidence was introduced, the Commission affirmed, on October 10, 1914, the rates fixed;
made a finding that the violation of the order was wilful;
imposed on the company a fine of $500 and costs under
each of the three separate complaints; directed refund of
all amounts collected in excess of prescribed rates; and
declared also: "A fine will be imposed for each day the
order has been violated, and the matter as to the number
of days and the amounts of fines to be imposed upon the
defendant, other than those mentioned in the information,
will be left open for adjustment upon taking of,evidence as
to the number of days violated." An appeal was taken by
the company to the Supreme Court of the State, which
affirmed the order and, thereafter, denied two petitions
for rehearing. The case comes here on writ of error under
ยง 237 of the Judicial Code as amended.
This case was argued and submitted with Oklahoma
OperatingCo. v. Love, decided this day, ante, 331. For the
reasons set forth in the opinion in that case the provision
concerning penalties for disobedience to an order of the
Commission was void because it deprived the company of
the opportunity of a judicial review. The judgment must,
therefore, be reversed. It is unnecessary to consider other
contentions of plaintiff in error.
Reversed.

