OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
252 U. S.

Syllabus.

We need but refer to gome of the cases in which this
principle has been declared.

Embree v.

Kansas City

Road District, 240 U. S. 242; Withnell v. Ruecking Construction Co., 249 U. S. 63; Hancock v. Muskogee, 250 U.
S. 454; Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182.
We find no merit in the contention that a federal-constitutional right was violated because of the refusal to
transfer the cause from the division of the Supreme Court
of Missouri, which heard it, to the court in banc. See
Moore v. Missouri, 159 U. S. 673, 679.

Affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. WARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 198. Submitted January 28, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act places a co-employee's negligence, when the ground of the action, in the same relation as that of
the employer as regards assumption of risk. P. 22.
It is inaccurate to charge without qualification that a servant does not
assume a risk created by his master's negligence, the rule being otherwise where the negligence and danger are so obvious that an ordinarily careful person, under the circumstances, would observe and
appreciate them. P. 21.
But the defense of assumed risk is inapplicable when the injury arises
from a single act of negligence creating a sudden emergency without
warning to the servant or opportunity to judge of the resulting
danger. P. 22.
Where a switchman, when about to apply the brake to stop a "cut" of
freight cars was thrown to the ground by a jerk due to delay in uncoupling them from a propelling engine when the engine was slowed,
held, that he had a right to assume that they would be uncoupled at

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. p. WARD.
18.

Opinion of the Court.

the proper time, as usual, and did not assume the risk of a coemployee's negligent failure to do so. Id.

The error of a charge that contributory negligence will prevent recovery in an action under the Federal Liability Act, being favorable
to defendants, does not require reversal of a judgment against them.
P.' 23.
The Seventh Amendment does not forbid a jury of less than twelve in a
case under the Federal Employers' Liability Act tried in a state
court. " Id. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co. v. Brown, 241

U. S. 223.
68 Oklahoma,

-,

affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. R. J. Roberts, Mr. W. H. Moore, Mr. Thomas P.
Littlepage, Mr. Sidney F. Taliaferro and Mr. W. F. Dickinson for petitioners. Mr. C. 0. Blake and Mr.-John E.
Du Mars were on the brief.
Mr. W. S. Pendleton for respondent. Mr. T. G. Cutlip
was on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Suit was brought in the Superior Court, Pottawatomie
County, Oklahoma, against the Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Railway Company and A. J. Carney to recover
damages for injuries alleged to have been received by
Ward while he was employed as a switchman of the railway company in its yards at Shawnee. He recovered
a judgment which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma, 68 Oklahoma, ---. The ground upon which
recovery was sought against the railway company and
Carney, who was an engine foreman, was that Ward,
while engaged in his duty as a switchman, was suddenly
thrown from the top of a box car upon which he was about
to apply a brake. The petition alleged, and the testimony tended to show, that Ward was engaged as a switch-

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

man on a cut of cars which it was the duty of the engine
foreman to cut loose from the engine pushing the cars in
order that Ward might gradually stop the cars by applying the brake. It appears that at the time of the injury
to Ward, the cut of cars had been pushed up an incline
by the engine, over an elevation, and as the cars ran down
the track the effect was to cause the slack to run out
between them permitting them to pull apart sufficiently
to be uncoupled, at which time it was the duty of the
engine foreman to uncouple the cars. The testimony
tended to support the allegations of the petition as to the
negligent manner in which this operation was performed
at the time of the injury, showing the failure of the engine
foreman to properly cut off the cars at the time he directed
the engineer to retard the speed of the engine, thereby
causing them to slow down in such manner thatwhen the
check reached the car upon which Ward was about to set
the brake, he was suddenly tlfrown from the top of the car
with the resulting injuries for which he brought this action.
The railway company and Carney took issue upon the
allegations of the petition, and set up contributory negligence and assumption of risk as defenses. The trial
court left the question of negligence on the part of the
company and the engine foreman to the jury, and also
instructed it as to assumption of risk by an employee of
the ordinary hazards of the work in which he was engaged,
and further charged the jury as follows:
"You are further instructed that while a servant does
not assume the extraordinary and unusual risks of the
employment yet oi accepting employment he does
assume all the ordinary and usual risks and perils incident thereto, whether it be dangerous or otherwise, and
also all risks which he knows or should, .inthe exercise
of reasonable care, know to exist. He does not, however,
assume such risks as are created by the master's negligence nor such as are latent, or are only discoverable at

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. WARD.
18.

Opinion of the Court.

the time of the injury, The doctrine of an assumption of
risk is wholly dependent upon the servant's knowledge,
actual or constructive, of the dangers incident to his employment. Where he knew, or in the exercise of reasonable and ordinary care, should know the risk to which he
'is exposed, he will, as a rule, be held to have assumed
them; but where he either does not know, or knowing,
does not appreciate such risk, and his ignorance or nonappreciation is not due to negligence or want of due care
on his part, there is no assumption of risk on the part of
the servant preventing a recovery for injuries."
Treating the case, as the court below did, as one in
which the injury occurred while the petitioners and respondent were engaged in interstate commerce, this
charge as to the assumption of risk was not accurate, in
stating without qualification that the servant did not
assume the risk created by the master's negligence. We
have had occasion to deal with the matter of assumption
of risk in cases where the defense is applicable under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, being those in which
the injury was caused otherwise than by the violation of
some statute enacted to promote the safety of employees.
As this case was not one of the latter class, assumption of
risk was a defense to which the defendants below were
entitled. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492;
Jacobs v. Southern Ry. Co., 241 U. S. 229.
As to the nature of the risk assumed by an employee in
actions brought under the Employers' Liability Act, we
took occasion to say in' Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
DeAtley, 241 U. S. 310, 315: "According to our decisions,
the settled rule is, not that it is the duty of an employee
to exercise care to discover extraordinary dangers that
may arise from the negligence of the employer or of those
for whose conduct the employer is responsible, but that
the employee may assume that the employer or his agents
have exercised proper care with respect to his safety until

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

notified to the contrary, unless the want of care and the
danger arising from it are so obvious that an ordinarily
careful person, under the circumstances, would observe
and appreciate them." The Federal Employers' Liability Act places a co-employee's negligence, when it is the
ground of the action, in the same relation as that of the
employer upon the matter of assumption of risk. 241 U.
S. 313. See also Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. ProffUi,
241 U. S. 462, 468; ErieR. R. Co. v. Purucker,244 U. S.320.
.Applying the principles settled by these decisions to the
facts of this case, the testimony shows that Ward had
neither warning nor opportunity to judge of the danger
to which he was exposed by the failure of the engine foreman to cut off the cars. In the absence of notice to the
contrary, and the record shows none, Ward had the right
to act upon the belief that the usual method would be
followed and the cars cut off at the proper time by the
engine foreman so that he might safely proceed to perform
his duty as a switchman by setting the brake to check the
cars which should have been detached. For the lack of
proper care, on the part of the representative of the railway company while Ward was in the performance of his
duty, he was suddenly precipitated from the front end of
the car by the abrupt checking resulting from the failure
to make the disconnection. This situation did not make
the doctrine of assumed risk a defense to an action for
damages because of the negligent manner of operation
which resulted in Ward's injury, and the part of the charge
complained of though inaccurate could have worked
no harm to the petitioners. It was a sudden emergency, brought about by the negligent operation of that
particular cut of cars, and not a condition of danger,
resulting from the master's or his representatives' negligence, so obvious that an ordinarily prudent person in
the situation in which Ward was placed had opportunity
to know and appreciate it, and thereby assume the risk.

PENNA. GAS CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
18.

23

Syllabus.

The trial court also charged that contributory negligence by Ward would prevent a recovery. This charge
was more favorable to the petitioners than they were
entitled to, as under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act contributory negligence is not a defense, and only
goes in mitigation of damages. The giving of this charge
'could not have been prejudical error requiring a reversal
of the judgment.
Another assignment of error, dealt with by the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma, that a jury of less than twelve returned the verdict, conforming to the state practice, does
*not seem to be pressed here. In any event it is disposed of
by St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co. v. Brown, 241
U. S. 223.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma and the same is
Affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA GAS COMPANY v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION, SECOND DISTRICT,
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

NEW YORK.
No. 330.

Argued December 8, 9, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The transmission and sale of natural gas, produced in one State and
transported and furnished directly to consumers in a city of another
State by means of pipe lines from the source of supply in part laid in
the city streets, is interstate commerce (p. 28); but, in the absence
of any contrary regulation by Congress, is subject to local regulation of rites. P. 29. Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249
U. S. 236, distinguished.
225 N. Y. 397, affirmed.

