KENNEY v. SUPREME LODGE.
408.

Counsel for Petitioner and Plaintiff in Error.

interstate, the regulation embodied in the statute and for
which the conviction was had, as to -both roads, is an unreasonable and burdensome interference with interstate

commerce.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JusTIcE PITNEY

concur in this dissent.

KENNEY, ADMINISTRATOR OF KENNEY, v.
SUPREME LODGE OF THE WORLD, LOYAL
ORDER OF MOOSE.
CERTIORARI AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE OF ILIJNOIs..
Nos. 269, 303.

Argued March 23, 1920.-Decided April 19,. i923.

A statute denying jurisdiction to the icourts of Illinois in'actions for
damages occasioned by death occurling m another State in consequence of wrongful conduct was construed Sy the Supreme- Court.
of the State as applying equally to an action on a -ister-state judgment founded on such a cause of action. Hdd, that, so applied, it
contravened the full faith dan .credit clause of the Constitution.
P. 414.
The law of Alabama, which gives a right of action in that State for
death by wrongful act, cannot, by its declaration that such actions
may not be maintained elsewhere, affect the right to enforce by
action in another State a judgment, recovered- on such a cause of
action in Alabama. P. 415.'
A judgment of a state supreme court givinga meaning and effect to
a statute of the State which brings it in conflict with the Federal
Constitution is reviewable by writ of error. P. 416.
285 Illinois, 188, reversed; writ of certio ari dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-

Mr. G. R. Harsh for petitioner and plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Respondent and Defendant in Error. 252 U. S.

Mr. E. J. Henning, with whom Mr. Ralph C. Putnam
was on the briefs, for respondent and defendant in error:
The matter sought to be reviewed in this court can only
be considered upon writ of certiorari, and not by writ of
error."" Philadelphia & Reading C. & I. Co. v. Gilbert,
245 U. S. 162; Bruce v. Tobin, 245 U. S. 18; Ireland v.
Woods, 246 U. S. 327; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum,
247 U. S. 477. The writ of certiorari should be dismissed
because the application was not timely submitted under
the rules of this court and the statutes of the United
States.
A state court is free to determine its own jurisdiction,
without reference to the full faith and credit clause of the
Federal Constitution. Anglo-American Provision Co. v.
Davis Provision Co., 191 U. S. 373.
Where an action is brought upon a judgment of a sister
State, the court may always examine the nature of the
cause of action upon which the judgment is founded for
the purpose of determining if it would have jurisdiction
of the real subject-natter of the action, and, if it appears
that the court would not have jurisdiction of the original
action, it will not have jurisdiction of an action on the
judgment. Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S.
265. In the Pelican Case, the binding force-of the judgment was not questioned; it was given full faith and credit
as a judgment, but the court said, "we have no jurisdiction of an action of that nature." Fauntleroy v. Lum,
210 U. S. 230, follows the rule laid down in the Pelican
Case and the Anglo-American Provision Co. Case. It
clearly distinguishes between an attack upon the judgment or an inquiry into the merits uf the judgment and
the determining of a question of jurisdiction. Christmas
v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290, establishes no contrary doctrine,
as is clearly shown by the discussion in the Anglo-American Provision Co. Case.
That the Illinois statute is jurisdictional is held by

KENNEY v. SUPREME LODGE.
411.

Opinion of the Court.

Dougherty v. American McKenna Co., 255 Illinois, 369,
and Walton v. Pryor, 276 Illinois, 563. It makes no distinction as to citizenship, and as here applied it does not
violate the full faith and credit or privileges and immunities provisions of the Constitution. See Dougherty v.
American McKenna Co., supra, relying on Chambers v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co, 207 U. S. 142.
The provision of the Alabama statute that an action for
death by wrongful act shall, be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction within the State of Alabama and not
elsewhere is jurisdictional, and no court outside of the
State of Alabama has jurisdiction of the subject-matter
of such an action.
It has the effect of making the action local and unenforceable in other jurisdictions. 40 Cyc. 46; 22 Ency.
P1. & Pr. 786; Eachus v. Trustees, 17 Illinois, 534; Ellenwood v. Marietta Chair Co., 158 U. S. 195; Coyne v. Southern Pacific Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 683; 12 Corpus Juris, 441;
.Southern Pacific Co. v. Dusablon, 48 Tex. Civ. App. 203;
Pollard'v.Bailey, 20 Wall. 520.
We observe that both Alabama and Illinois, through
their legislatures, have declared that the Illinois courts
shall not have jurisdiction of an action for a death occasioned in Alabama. The principle is plain and universal
that the form of the action cannot change its substance
and vest jurisdiction where it is in fact lacking. Nor did
the Constitution change this rule of law. The full faith
and credit clause does not purpcrt to vest courts with
jurisdiction contrary to the laws of the States, and this
principle is fully recognized in Anglo-American Provision
Co. v. Davis Provision Co., 191 U. S. 373.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of debt brought in Illinois upon a
judgment recovered in Alabama. The defendant pleaded

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

to the jurisdiction that the judgment was for negligently
causing the. death of the plaintiff's intestate in Alabama.
The plaintiff demurred to the plea, setting up Article IV,
§§ 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the United States. A
statute of Illinoi provided that no action should be
brought or prosecuted in that State for damages occasioned by death occurring in another State in consequence of wrongful conduct. The Supreme Court of
Illinois held that as by the terms of the statute the original
action could not have been brought there, the Illinois
Courts bad no jurisdiction of a suit upon the judgment.
The Circuit Court of Kane County having ordered that
the demurrer be quashed its judgment was affirmed.

285 Illinois, 188.
In the court below and in the argument before us reliance was placed upon Anglo-American Provision Co. v.
Davis Provision Co., No. 1, 191 U. S. 373, and language
in Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S. 265, the
former as showing that the clause requiring full faith and
credit to be given to judgments of other States does not
require a State to furnish a court, and the latter as sanctioning an inquiry into the nature of the original cause of
action in order to determine the jurisdiction of a court to
enforce a foreign judgment founded upon it. But we are
of opinion that the conclusion sought to be built upon
these premises in the present case cannot be sustained.
Anglo-American Provision Co. v. Davis Provision Co.
was a suit by a foreign corporation on a foreign judgment
against a foreign corporation. The decision is sufficiently
explained without more by the views about foreign corporations that had prevailed unquestioned since Bank oJ
Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 589-591, cited 191 U. S. 375.
Moreover no doubt there is truth in the proposition that
the Constitution does not require the State to furnish a
court. But it also is true that there are limits to the power
of exclusion and to the power to consider the nature of

KENNEY v. SUPREME LODGE.
411.

Opinion of the Court.

the cause of action before the foreign judgment based
upon it is given effect.
In Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, it was held that
the courts of Mississippi were bound to enforce a judgment rendered in Missouri upon a cause of action arising
in Mississippi and illegal and void there. The policy of
Mississippi was more actively contravened in that. case
than the policy of Illinois is in this. Therefore the fact
that here the original cause of action could not have been
maintained in Illinois is not an answer to a suit upon the
judgment. See Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243. But this being true, it
is plain that a State cannot escape its constitutional
obligations by the simple device of denying jurisdiction
in such cases to courts otherwise competent. The assumption that it could not do so was the basis of the decision in InternationalTextbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91,
111, 112, and the same principle was foreshadowed in
General Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U. S. 211, 216, 220, 228, and
in Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 235, 236. See Keyser
v. Lowell, 117 Fed. Rep. 400; Chambers v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 142,. 148, and cases cited.
Whether the Illinois statute should be construed as the
Mississippi act was construed in Fauntleroy v. Lum was
for the Supreme Court of the State to decide, but read as
that court read it, it attempted to achieve a result that
the Constitution of the United States forbad.
Some argument was based upon the fact that the statute
of Alabama allowed an action to be maintained in a court
of competent jurisdiction within the State "and not
elsewhere." But when the cause of action is created the
invalidity of attempts to limit the jurisdiction of other,
States to enforce it has been established by the decisions
of this court; Tennessee Coal, Iron & R. R. Co. v. George,
233 U. S. 354; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v.
Sowers, 213 U. S. 55; and had these decisions been other-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

wise they would not have imported that a judgment
rendered exactly as required by the Alabama statute was
not to have the respect due to other judgments of a sister

State.
As the judgment below upheld a statute that was invalid as construed the writ of error was the proper proceeding and the writ of certiorari nmst be dismissed.
Judgment reversed.

STATE

OF' MISSOURI v. HOLLAND,
STATES GAME WARDEN.

UNITED

APPEAL FRO1M THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 609. Argued March 2, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Protection of its quasi sovereign right to regulate the taking of game
is a sufficient jurisdictional basis, apart from any pecuniary interest,
for a bill by a State to enjoin enforcement of federal regulations
over the subjeqt alleged to be unconstitutional. P. 431.
The Treaty of August 16, 1916, 39 Stat. 1702, with Great Britain,
providing for the protection, by close seasons and in pther ways, of
migratory birds in the United. States and Canada, and binding each.
power to take and propose' to their law-making bodies the necessary
measures for carrying it out, is within the treaty-making power
conferred by Art. II, § 2, of the Constitution; the Act of July 3,
1918, c. 128, 40 Stat. 755, which prohibits the killing, capturing or
selling any of the migratory birds included in the terms of the treaty,
except as permitted by regulations compatible With those terms to
be made by the Secretary of Agriculture, is valid under Art. I, § 8,
of the Constitution, as a necessary and proper means of effectuating
the treaty; and the treaty and statute, by bringing such birds within
the-paramount protection and regulation of the Government dc. .wu0
infringe property rights or sovereign powers, respecting such birds,
reserved to the States by the Tenth Amendment. P. 432.

