MANNERS v. MOROSCO.
Argument for Petitioner.

MANNERS v. MOROSCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 370.

Argued March 2, 1920.-Decided March 22, 1920.

Plaintiff, a dramatic author, granted defendant the "sole and exclusive license and liberty to produce, perform and represent" his
copyrighted play in the United States and Canada, defendant agreeing to produce it "not later than January first, 1913, and to 'continue . . . for at least seventy-five performances during the
season of 1913-1914 and for each theatrical season thereafter for a
period of five years;" in default of 75 performances in any one, theatrical year, all of defendant's rights were to revert to plaintiff; the
play was to be presented in first-class theaters with competent companies and with a designated actress in the title r6le, a percentage
of the gross receipts going to plaintiff as royalties; if it failed, it was
to be let to stock companies, and the royalties thus accruing were
to be divided equally between the parties; rehearsal and production
were to be under the plaintiff's direction; no changes in the play
were to be made without his approval, and he was to have the right
to print and publish it, but not within six months of its first production without defendant's consent.
Held: (1) That the grant was not limited to five years' duration. P. 325.
(2) It did not convey the right to represent the play in motion pictures.
Id.
(3) There was an implied covenant by the grantor not to use the reserved motion picture rights to the destruction of the rights granted.
P. 326.
(4) Plaintiff is entitled to an injunction against representation in
motion pictures, but upon condition that he also shall abstain from
representing or authorizing representation in that form in Canada or
the United States. Id.
258 Fed. Rep. 557, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. David Gerber,- with whom Mr. William J. Hughe8
was on the briefs. for petitioner:

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

252 U. S.

The situation of the parties at the time the contract
was entered into, and their acts in performance thereunder, are at war with the belated claim of respondent
that he had, the right to use the drama as the basis for a
photoplay.
The contract is not a grant or assignment-but a
license to produce the play in the United States and
Canada, subject .to "the terms, conditions and limitations "therein expressed, and every" term," "condition"
or "limitation" is applicable only to a production of the
play as a spoken drama, and inappropriate to the use of
petitioner's literary work as the basis for a scenario for
a photoplay or screen performance. Heap v. Hartley,
42 L. R. Ch. Div. 461; London Printing & Publishing
Alliance v. Cox, 7 Times L. R. 738; Neilson v. Horniman,
26 Times L. R. 188; Stevens v. Benning, 1 Kay & J. 168;
Tuck v. Canton, 51 L. J. (N. S.) pt. 2, pp. 363-365; Lucas
v. Cooke, 13 L. R. Ch. Div. 872; McIntosh v. Miner, 37
App. Div. 483; Harper Bros. v. Klaw, 232 Fed. Rep. 609,
612; Universal Film Mfg. Co. v. Copperman, 218 Fed.
Rep. 577-578; Photo Drama Motion Picture Co. v. Social
Uplift Film Corp., 213 Fed. Rep. 374-377; New Fiction
Publishing Co. v. Star Co., 220 Fed. Rep. 994-995; London v. Biograph Co., 231 Fed. Rep. 696-697; Klein v.
Beach, 239 Fed. Rep. 108, 110.
The modification of the contract, made July 20, 1914,
somewhat reflects what~was in the minds of the parties
in January, 1912.
The word "represent " used in the contract, cannot
be construed as referring to a motion picture, as distinct
from the play. Routledge v. Low, L. R. 3; H. L.; 100;
Black v. Imperial Book Co., 8 Ont. L. R. 9; Smiles v.
Belford, 1 Ont. App. 436; Murray v. Elliston, 5 Barn. &
Ald. 657; Duck v. Bates, 13 L. R. Q. B. 843; Chappell v.
Boosey, 21 L. R. Ch. Div. 232.
The provision that the author would not exercise Ids

MANNERS v. MOROSCO.

317.

Argument for Petitioner.

right to print the play until six months after its production in New York City, is not a limitation of the reserved
rights possessedby the author. Its purpose is to delay
the exercise by the author of his undoubted right to
publish the play until six months after the stage representation in New York City, not otherwise to- limit or grant
to respondent his reserved rights.
The fact that petitioner retained the motion picture
rights is not inconsistent with a license limited to a representation of the play as a spoken drama.
It would be an act of folly for the author to destroy
'the value of his play as a spoken drama'by giving motion
picture performances. He might also have published
his play without copyright protection six months after
its first representation in New York City, and thus have
made it common property. With the loss of-his commonlaw rights would have fallen the rights. claimed by respondent. Soci~t6 Des Films Menchen v. Vitagraph Co.,
251 Fed. Rep. 258.
By the amendment to ยง 5 of the Copyright Act of 1912,
37 Stat. 488, motion picture photoplays are classified
apart from dramatic or musical compositions (subdivisions Iand m). These rights are 6eparable; "there might
be a copyright for a dramatization of the old sort (acted
on a stage) and also a copyright for a dramatization of
the new sort (arranged in motion pictures)." PhotoDrama
Motion Picture Co. v. Social Uplift Film Corp., 220 Fed.
Rep. 448, 449.
In Klein v. Beach, 239 Fed. Rep. 108, the exclusive
right to dramatize a book for presentation "on the
stage " was held to exclude the presentation by means
of motion pictures (see contract set forth at length in
232 Fed. Rep. 242).
In England, a contract covering the "acting rights"
is held not to include cinema rights, nor do the words
"English performances," embrace them. Ganthony v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Respondent.

252 U. S.

G. R. J. Syndicate, Ltd.; and Wyndham v. A. E. Huebsch
& Co., Ltd. ("The Author," Vol. XXVI, No. 1, of
Oct. 1, 1915, pp. 16, 17.) Kalem Co. v. Harper Bros., 222
U. S. 55, distinguished.
The license was not the grant of a right in perpetuity.
Grant v. Maddox, 15 M. & W. 737; Broadway Photoplay
Co. v. World Film Corp., 225 N. Y. 104.
Mr. Charles H. Tuttle, with whom Mr. William Klein
was on the brief, for respondent:
The agreement, as modified, did not terminate by selflimitation at the end of the six theatrical seasons. It
was not an agreement for personal services or for a naked
license, but a contract of bargain and sale, whereby
property was granted and conveyed. Frohman v. Fitch,
164 App. Div. 231, 233.
It goes without saying that where property is conveyed,
the conveyance is presumed to be absolute and not revocable at will or for a temporary period, in the absence
of clear words of limitation. Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Pennsylvania Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 849, 867, 862.
The provision for at least 75 performances each theatrical season for a specified time was not a grant by the
plaintiff but a covenant by the defendant--a statement of
the least he was to do. Furthermore, the contract of
modification constituted a plain recognition by both
parties that the original contract was not limited to the
period mentioned and that the only question which was
to be considered open, was whether that contract carried
the motion picture rights.
The modified contract also shows that the defendant
received not a mere personal privilege, but property rights
which the parties did not intend should expire by selflimitation at the end of the period referred to in the
original contract.
Any construction of the contract as modified, whereby

MANNERS v. MOROSCO.
317.

Argument for Respondent.

it would be limited to the period of seasons mentioned
in the original agreement, would be harsh and oppressive
to the defendant.
Quite apart from the special features and circumstances,
the absolute character of this grant as not limited to any
fixed period of. years would follow as a matter of law.
6, Ruling Case Law, ยง281; Western Union Tel. Co. V.
Pennsylvania Co., supra, 861; McKell v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co., 175 Fed. Rep. 321, 329; White v. Hoyt, 73
N. Y. 505, 511; Duryea v. Mayor, 62 N. Y. 592, 597.
Even if the contract as modified is to be limited to the
period of seasons mentioned in the original contract, the
action must fail because premature. That period does
not expire until the season of 1918-1919.
The contracts between the parties conferred upon the
defendant as part of the production rights, the right to
produce the play in motion picture form. The granting
clause 'of the original contract conveyed all the production
rights.
I The comprehensive force of the word "exclusive"
when used in a conveyance of dramatic rights, and its
clear purpose to prevent, competitive production, have
been well stated in Photo Drama Motion Picture Co. v.
Social Uplift Film Corp., 213 Fed. Rep. 374, 376; affd. 220
Fed. Rep. 448.
The word "represent" is peculiarly appropriate to a
motion picture representation of a play.
Section 4952, Rev. Stats., gave the author of a dramatic composition not only the sole right of printing it but
also the sole right "of publicly performing or representing it or causing it to be performed or represented by
others."
In Kalem Co. v. Harper Bros., 222 U. S. 55, this court
held that a motion picture representation of "Ben Hur"
was an infringement of the author's copyright, since. it
was a representation of the story dramatically. See

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Respondent.

252 U. S.

Daly v. Palmer, 6 Blatchf. 256, 6 Fed. Cas. 1132, Case
No. 3552.
Furthermore, unquestionably the grant of an exclusive
right to produce, perform and represent a play purports
a grant of the exclusive dramatic rights, and the" dramatic,
rights include motion picture rights," unless that meaning is narrowed by the addition of other words. Before
the present contract was made, dramatic rights had acquired that definite and judicially determined meaning
by virtue of Kalem Co. v. Harper Bros., supra. If the
parties to the present contract intended this form of
grant to have any less meaning, language was available
to reveal that intent. Tully, v. Triangle Film Corp., 229
Fed. Rep. 297.
, In addition to the breadth of the granting clause itself,
there are other provisions in the agreement which prove
incontestably the mutual intent to convey the entire
right to place the play before the American public in any
form.
. The expression of certain reservations in favor of the
piaintiff was an exclusion of all others.
The courts will not easily accept a construction which
would permit the plaintiff to produce motion pictures in
competition with the defendant's production on the stage.
The courts have frequently discerned the destructive
consequences of a motion picture production of the play,
synchronously with its production on the stage. Harper
Bros. v. Klaw, 232 Fed. Rep. 609, 613; Frohman v.
Fitch, 164 App. Div. 231, 233-234; Photo Drama Motion
Picture Co. v. Social Uplift Film Corp., 213 Fed. Rep.
374, 377.
The supplemental contract illustrates the intent of
the parties to transfer to the defendant 'the- ownership
of the play for all production purposes.
The unbroken tenpr of judicial decisions interpreting
similar agreements establishes incontestably that the

MANNERS v. MOROSCO.
317.

Opinion of the Court.

motion picture rights were included. Frohman v. Fitch,
supra; Klein v. Beach, 239 Fed. Rep. 108, 109; 232 Fed.
Rep. 240, 246; HarperBros. v. Klaw, 232 Fed. Rep. 609,
613; Lipzin v. Gordin, 166 N. Y. S. 792; Hart v. Fox, 166
N. Y. S. 793; Photo Drama Motion Picture Co. v. Social
Uplift Film Corp., 220 Fed. Rep. 448; Kalem Co. v. Harper
Bros., 222 U. S. 55; s. c. 169 Fed. Rep. 61, 63; Klaw v.
General Film Co., 154 N. Y. S. 988; Universal Film Mfg.
Co. v. Copperman, 212 Fed. Rep. 301; affd. 218 Fed.
Rep. 577; Liebler v. Bobbs-Merrill Co., 162 App. Div. 900;
Drone, Copyright, p. 588; Brackett's Theatrical Law,
p. 61; Lee v. Simpson, 3 C. B. 871.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit by the author of a play called Peg 0' My
Heart to restrain the defendant, Morosco, from representing the play in motion pictures, in violation of the plaintiff's copyright; and also, although this is a subsidiary
question, from producing the play at all. The defendant
justifies under an agreement of January 19, 1912, and a
supplemental agreement of July 20, 1914, both set forth in
the bill. The ground upon which the right to produce the
play in any way was denied was that the agreement gave
rights only for five years. This construction was rejected
by the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals.
'Both Courts held also that the agreement conveyed the
right to represent the play in moving pictures and on that
ground dismissed the bill. 254 Fed. Rep. 737. 258 Fed.
Rep. 557.
By the first agreement the plaintiff, party of the first
part "does grant" to Morosco, the party of the second
part, "the sole and exclusive license and liberty to produce, perform and represent the said play in the United
States of America and the Dominion of Canada," subject
to the terms and: conditions of the contract. Morosco

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

agrees "to produce the play not later than January first,
1913, and to continue the said play for at least seventy-five
performances during the season of 1913-1914 and for each
theatrical season thereafter for a period of five years."
He agrees further to pay specified percentages on the gross
weekly receipts as royalties, and that "if during any one
theatrical year . .
said play has not been produced
or presented ior seventy-five performances, then all rights
*of the said party of the second part shall cease and determine and shall immediately revert to the said party of the
first part." Morosco further agrees to present the play in
first-class theatres with competent companies and with
Miss Laurette Taylor (the stage name of the author's wife),
in the title r6le; the play to have a production in New York
and to be continued on the road for at least one season or
longbr if considered advisable by both parties. No alterations, eliminations or additions are to be made without the
approval of the author and the rehearsals and production
of the play are to be under his direction. The author to
have the right to print and publish the play but not
within six months after the production of the play in New
York City without consent. Morosco is not to let or
transfer his rights without the author's consent. "Should
the play fail in New York City and on the road .
it shall be released for stock;" i. e., let to stock companies,
with an equal division of royalties between plaintiff and
defendant. By an addendum, after Miss Taylor should
have finished her season her successor in the r6le of "Peg"
for any subsequent tours shall be mutually agreeable to
both parties. The contract is declared binding upon the
parties, "their heirs, executors, assigns, administrators and
successors."
The second agreement, in order to adjust controversies
and to modify the first, authorized Morosco "as long as
this contract is in force" to "produce, perform and represent' the play with or in as many companies as he saw fit,

MANNERS v. MOROSCO.
317.

325

Opinion of the Court.

without engaging Laurette Taylor and'without consulting
the plaintiff as to the cast, rehearsals or.pro0duction of the
play. Morosco also was authorized to let or sell any df his
rights under the contracts; but he was not to be released.
from his personal liabilit ',topay'the royalties as specified
in the contracts. The pla might be 'released for stock
whenever the net profits realized from all the companies
producing the play should be less than $2,000, and then
the royalties received from the stock theatres were to be
divided equally. For four years from date neither party
without consent of the other was to produce or give leave
to produce the play by moving pictures and after the, the
rights of the parties were to be determined by and under
the original agreement as if the supplemental agreement
had not been made.
As to the duration of the defendant's rights.we agree
with the Courts below. We perceive no ground for con-.
verting the defendant's undertaking to,continue the play
for seventy-five performances during the season of" 19131914, and for each season thereafter for five years, into a
limit of the plaintiff's grant of rights. As was said in the
District Court, it is a statement of the least that defendant
was to do, not of the most that he was to have. The plaintiff was secured sufficiently by the forfeiture in case the
play should not have been produced for seventy-five performances. The provisions in both contracts as to the
release for stock are somewhat of an additional indication
that it was expected that the arrangement was to last as
long as the public liked the play well enough to make it
pay, provided the defendant kept his half of the bargain
performed.
On the question principally argued we are of opinion
that the majority below was wrong. The thing granted
was "the sole and exclusive license and liberty to produce,
perform and represent" the play within the territorial
limits stated, subject to the other terms of the contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

It may be assumed that those words might carry the right
to represent the play in moving pictures if the other
terms pointed that way, but to our mind they are inconsistent with any such intent. We need not discuss the
abstract question whether, in view of the fact that such a
mode of representation was familiar, it was to be expected
that it should be mentioned if it was to be granted or
should be excluded if it was to be denied. Every detail
shows that a representation by spoken drama alone is
provided for. The play is to be continued for seventy-five
performances for the theatrical seasons named. This applies only to the regular stage. The royalties are adapted
only to that mode of presentation. Harper Bros. v. Klaw,
232 Fed. Rep. 609, 612. The play is to be presented in
first-class theatres with a competent company and with
Miss .Laurette Taylor in the title role, which, of course,
does not mean in moving pictures. The stipulations
against alterations, eliminations or additions, and that the
rehearsals and production of the play shall be under the
direction of the author, denote the same thing, and clearly
indicate that no other form of production is contemplated.
The residuary clause, so to speak, by which the play is to
drop to stock companies shows the lowest point to which
the author was willing to let it go.
The Courts below based their reasoning upon the impossibility of supposing that the author reserved the right
to destroy the value of the right granted, however that
right may be characterized, by retaining pow3r to set up
the same play in motion pictures a few doors off with a
much smaller admission fee. We agree with the premise
but not with the conclusion. The implied assumption of
the contract seems to us to be that the play was to be produced only as a spoken drama, with respect for the
author's natural susceptibility concerning a strict adhesion to the text. We need not amplify the .argument
presented below against the reservation of the right in

MANNERS v. MOROSCO.
317.

CLARKE and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

question. ks was said by Judge Hough in a similar case,
"there is implied a negative covenant on the part of the
[grantor] not to use the ungranted portion of the copyright estate to the detriment, if not destruction, of the
licensees' estate. Admittedly if Harper Bros. (or Kaw &
Erlanger, for the matter of that) permitted photo-plays of
Ben Hur to infest the country, the market for the spoken
play would be greatly impaired, if not destroyed." Harper
Bros. v. Klaw, 232 Fed. Rep. 609, 613. The result is that
the plaintiff is entitled to an injunction against the representation of the play in moving pictures, but upon the terms
that the plaintiff also shall abstain from presenting or
authorizing the presentation of the play in that.form in
Canada or the United States.
Decree reversed. Injunction to issue upon the condition
that the plaintiff shall neither represent nor authoriethe
representation of the play Peg 0' My Heart in moving
pictures while the contract with the defendant remains in
force.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE, with whom concurred MR. JusTICE PITNEY, dissenting.

The decision of this case involves the construction of
the written contract of January 19, 1912, as modified by
that of July 20, 1914, and, centering its attention upon
the claim of the defendant to moving picture rights, the
court, dismisses in a single paragraph provisions in these
contracts which seem to me to so clearly limit the rights
of the defendant to a term expiring possibly in May, 1918,
but certainly not later than May, 1919, that I cannot
concur in the conclusion arrived at by my associates.
.The court says:
"As to the duration of the defendant's rights we agree
with the Courts below. We see no ground for converting
-the defendant's undertaking to 'continue the play for
seventy-five performances during the season of 1913-1914,

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKz and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

and for each season thereafter for five years, into a limit
of the'plaintiff's grant of rights. As was said in the District Court, it is a statement of the least that defendant
was to do, not of the most that he was to have."
This expression that the third paragraph of the contract of January 19, 1912, "is a statement of the least
that defendant was to do, not of the most that he was to
have," is repeated in the opinion of each of the three
courts as the sufficient reason for concluding, as the District Court said, that the contract gave to the defendant
"all the rights mentioried for all time." It is not the first
time that a catchy phrase has diverted attention from
less picturesque realities.
My. reasons for concluding that the rights of the defendant were limited, as the court says his obligations
were limited, to a term expiring not later than the close
of the theatrical season of 1918-1919 may be briefly
stated.
The grant which it is concluded gave the defendant
the "exclusive license and liberty to produce, perform
and represent" the: play involved "for all time" is in
these words:
"First: The party of the first part hereby grants
o...
.- to the party of the second part subject to the
terms, conditions and limitations hereinafter expressed, the
sole and exclusive license and liberty to produce, perform
and represent the said play in the United States" and
Canada.
In terms this is a "license" and in terms also it is
subject to "conditions and limitations" to follow in.
the contract,-which are found in the third and fifth
paragraphs.
The third paragraph reads:
"The party of the second part Idefendant] agrees to
produce the play not later than January first, 1913, and
to continue the said play for at k-ast seventy-five per-

MANNERS v. MOROSCO.

317.

CLARKE

and PITNEY, JJ., dioenting.

formances during the season 1913-1914 and for each
theatrical season thereafter for a period of five years."
The fifth paragraph provides that if the defendant shall
fail to produce the play seventy-five times in any one
theatrical year "then all rights of the said party of the
second part [the defendant] shall cease and determine

and shall immediately revert to the said party of the first
part."
This third paragraph expresses the agreement of the
parties as to what the defendant was to do in consideration of the grant by the plaintiff in the first paragraph,
and reading it and the fifth paragraph together, as one,
we have the extreme extent and time limit of the defendant's obligation and the penalty, forfeiture, is provided for
the failure to perform at any time within that limit. The
court says that the third paragraph expresses "the least',
[all] that defendant was to do," so that his obligation under
the contract ended with the five-year period, which obviously would be not later than the close of the theatrical
season of 1918-1919. This being true, when did the reexpire?
ciprocal obligation of the plaintiff
That the obligation of the plaintiff continued "for all
time" is apparently derived wholly from the inference, as
stated by the District Court, that the parties, if they 4ad
intended otherwise, "could readily have fixed a time
limit in paragraph 'First' by the addition of words such
as 'for

.

.

.

years from' or 'until' a stated date."

It is very true that the parties could have written their
contract in a different form, and certainly with much
more precision of statement,, than that in which they did
write it, but it is also true that in making it in their own
way and terms they granted a general license in the first
paragraph, but made it subject to the "terms, conditions
and limitations" thereinafter to be expressed, and that
they then went forward and expressed in the third paragraph the five-year limitation as we have seen it. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKU and PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting'

252 U. S.

court holds that this five-year limitation applies to the
defendant's obligation to perform but that it does ot
apply to the plaintiff's license to produce. I think it 1pplies to both. Plainly the parties were undertaking t6 set
down in their contract the mutual obligations which each
intended to assume-those of the one in consideration of
those of the other. The author granted the privilege of
producing the play and the defendant agreed to produce
it for at least seventy-five performances during each of five
years. After that, the court concludes, the defendant

was no longer bound by the contract to do anything which
could advantage the plaintiff and therefore, clearly, the
plaintiff should not continue thereafter under obligation
to the defendant, unless the intention to be so bound is
unmistakably expressed in his contract. The "natural
and normal" inference is that when tle obligation of one
party to such a contract as we have here is ended it was
the intention that the obligation of the other party should
end also.
The inference that the license to produce continued
after the obligation to produce expired, in my judgment,
can be sustained only by neglecting the specific provision
of the first paragraph, that the license granted is subject
to the limitations which should follow, and which did
follow in the third paragraph. It involves imposing, by
judicial construction, heavy and unusual burdens upon
the author of a successful dramatic composition in the
interest of a commercial producer-a result which courts
should not strain themselves to accomplish.
A penalty of foreiture being provided for failure of
the defendant to perform at any tiine, I cannot see any
substantial reason for inserting .the five-year limitation
excelt to fix a limit for the expiration of all rights of both
parties and this, it seems to me, was its only function.
The provision in the first contract that if the play should
fail "in New York City and on-the road," and in the

OKLAHOMA OPERATING CO. v. LOVE.
317.

Syllabus.

second that if the net profits for "one theatrical season"
should be less than two thousand dollars, the play should
be "released for stock" and the royalties divided equally
between the parties, would have ample scope for application within the five-year period and therefore cannot properly be made the basis for the implied continuance of the license beyond that term..
For the reasons thus briefly stated, I think that the
parties expressed with sufficient clearness their intention
that their mutual relations should all terminate with the
expiration of the five-year period, and therefore I dissent
from the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

concurs in this opinion.

OKLAHOMA OPERATING COMPANY v. LOVE
ET AL., COMPOSING THE CORPORATION COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF -OKLAHOMA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 129. Argued January 23, 24, 1919; restored to docket for reargument April 21, 1919; submitted October 9, 1919; order for oral argument entered October 20, 1919; reargued December 17, 1919.-Decided
March 22, 1920.
Under the constitution and laws of Oklahoma, an order of the state
Corporation Commission declaring a laundry to be a monopoly and
its business public, and limiting its rates, was not reviewable directly., by appeal, mandamus, prohibition or otherwise, in any court
of the State, and the only recourse for .securing a judicial test of the
adequacy of the rates fixed was to disdoey the order and to appeal
to the state Supreme Court from further action of the Commission,

