OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

252 U. S.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CANTON, PENNSYLVANIA, v. WILLIAMS, COMPTROLLER OF
THE CURRENCY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 618. Argued March 3, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.
A cause of action arises "under" the laws of the United States when
an aplwropriate statement by the plaintiff, unaided by any anticipation or avoidance of defenses, discloses that it really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy respecting the validity, construction or effect of an act of Congress. P. 512.
A suit by a national bank to restrain the Comptroller of the Currency
from alleged unlawful and malicious practices, wherein plaintiff's
right turns on construction and application of the National Banking
Law, is a suit to enjoin him under that law, within the intendment of Jud. Code, §§ 24, 49, must be brought in the district where
the bank is established and may be maintained upon service made
elsewhere-in this case in the District of Columbia. P. 509.
260 Fed. Rep. 674, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John B. Stanchfield, with whom Mr. M. J. Martin,
Mr. John P. Kelly, Mr. Charles A. Collin and Mr. Henry
P. Wolff were on the brief, for appellant.
The Solicitor General and Mr. La Rue Brown, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. A. F.
Myers was on the brief, for appellee:
The District Court did not have jurisdiction of the
person of the defendant. He was not personally served
in the Middle District of Pennsylvania. Service of process
outside the district in which suit is brought cannot be
had without express statutory authority. Winter v.
Koon, Schwarz & Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 273; Cely v. Griffin,

FIRST NATL. BANK v. WILLIAMS.
504.

Argument for Appellee.

113 Fed. Rep. 981; Tokand v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300; Green
v. Railway Co., 205 U. S. 530; Hughes, Federal Procedure,
264, 265. As the bill was originally drawn against the defendant individually, the service was insufficient, and no
amendment at the hearing could cure the defect of the
original service.
There is no statute expressly authorizing the service
of process outside the district. Because a statute may
provide for the bringing of suit in a district other than
that in which the defendant resides, it does not follow
that the defendant may be served outside the district
in which suit is brought. Thus, § 51 of the Judicial Code,
providing that suits based alone on diversity of citizenship may be brought in the place of residence of either the
plaintiff or the defendant, does not dispense with the
necessity for personal service in the district in which
suit is brought. Rose, The Federal Courts, § 239; see also
note to § 1033, Comp. Stats. 1916, vol. I, pp. 1154-1156.
Any implication of authority to serve process outside the
district, in order to override the rule requiring express
sthtutory authority, would have to be so plain as to negative any contrary inference. United States v. Congress
Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199, is not inconsistent with
this view.
Sections 24 (16) and 49, Judicial Code, relate to injunction proceedings brought under the national banking
laws. The only proceedings of that nature are those
provided by Rev. Stats., §5237,-to enjoin proceedings
by the Comptroller on account of an alleged refusal by a
bank to redeem its circulating notes. The present suit
is not of that class. Section 380, Rev. Stats., merely provides for the conduct of cases specifically authorized by
the national banking act.
The District Court' did not have jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of the suit. Jurisdiction was not conferred
by § 5198, Rev. Stats.
The proviso to that section

506,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

252 U. S.

(added by the Act of February- 17, 1875) is in no sense
a rednactment of § 57 of the Act of 1864; it is not general
in scope, but only confers jurisdiction in the cases against
nationaLbanks in cases arising under the national banking act, The interpretation placed on § 57 of the Act
of 1864 in Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498, has no application to § 5198. See First Natl. Bank of Charlotte v. Morgan, 132 ILL S. 141, 143.
Nor was jurisdiction of the subject-matter conferred
by § 24 (16) of the Judicial Code, derived from § 57
of the Act of 1864; Rev. Stats., § 629 (10), (11). The
eontention tha, as the words "or any receiver acting
under his direction, as provided by said title," first appeared in Rev. Stats., § 629, the closing words "as provided by said title" must be construed as applicable only
to the preceding portion of the new clause, and that therefore the District Court, under said 'section, has jurisdic*tion of all suits to enjoin the Comptroller, and not merely
suits "as provided by said title," is untenable. The
section is expressly. limited to suits brought by national
banks "under the provisions of title 'National Banks,'
Revised Statutes." Furthermore, Rev.. Stats., § 629,
was expressly repealed by the Judicial Code, § 297. If
provision for receivers acting under the direction of the
Comptroller had first been made in the Revised Statutes,
it might' with some force be argued that the words "as
provided by said title" referred only to the preceding
words. But such is not the case. See §§ 26-29, Act of
1863, and §§ 47-50, Act of 1864. As above pointed out,
the only provision of "said title" for suits against the
Comptroller is contained in § 5237.
. The contentions here made by complainant were for
the most part adversely decided in Van Antwerp v. Hulburd, 7 Blatchf. 426, .which has never been overruled or
questioned. That case shows conclusively that §§ 24
(16) and 49, Jud. Code, and § 380, Rev. Stats., (all of

FIRST NATL. BANK v. WILLIAMS.
504.

Argument for Appellee.

which were derived from the Act of 1864) cannot be relied
upon to give the court below jurisdiction over the subjectmatter of this suit or to authorize it to serve process outside of the Middle District of Pennsylvania.
This suit is one between citizens of different States
and involves federal questions.' It cannot, thereforb, be
maintained in the Middle District of Pennsylvania. It is
not a suit for a statutory injunction under § 5237, Rev.
Stats., and jurisdiction. cannot therefore be maintained
under §§ 24..(16) and 49 of the Judicial Code. If jurisdiction is to be maintained at all, it must be under §L24
(1) and 51 of the Judicial Code. Except in suits for statutory injunctions, national banks have no greater rights
than other citizens in the matter of suing in the federal
courts, and, where federal jurisdiction is based upon diversity of citizenship only, the defendatit must be found
and served within the district where suich suit is brought.
But § 51 cannot be invoked as authority for the court's
jurisdiction; the jurisdiction is not founded only on diverse citizenship but federal questions also
axe involved,
-the court is called upon to determine the Comptro;er's
powers under Rev. Stats., §§ 5211, 5213, 5240.
Where a suit involves federal questions in addition to
diversity of citizenship, it can only be brought in the district of the residence of the defendant. This suit could not,
therefore, be maintained in the Middle District of Pennsylvania, even though personal service had been effected
upon the defendant. See Macon Grocery Co. v. Atlantic
Coast Line, 215 U. S. 501; Male v.. Atchison &c. Ry. Co.,
240 U., S. 97,- 102 Cound v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe 'Ry. Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 527; Memphis v. Board bf
Directors, 228 Fed. Rep. 802; Whittaer v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 176' Fed. Rep. 130;zAunderland'v. C1 icago
&c. Ry. Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 877; Smith v. Detrait &c.
R. R. Co., 175 Fed.-/Rep. 606; Newell v. Baltimore &c.
R. R. Co., 181 Fed. Rep. 698.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

The defendant did not waive objection to the defective
service by interposing a second motion to dismiss after the
preliminary motions made on the special appearance had
been denied.
MR. JusTcC, McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the court.

Appellant, whose place of business is within the Middle
District of Pennsylvania, brought this suit in the United
States District Court for that District, seeking an injunction to prevent John Skelton Williams, Comptroller of the
Currency, from doing certain things under color of his
office declared to be threatened, unlawful, arbitrary and
oppressive.

The bill alleges that, in order to injure complainant's
president, towards whom he entertained personal ill will,
the Comptroller determined to destroy its business and to
that end he had maliciously persecuted and oppressed it
for three years, in the following ways among others: By
often demanding special reports and infbrmation beyond
the powers conferred upon him by law; by disclosing
confidential and official information concerning it to banks,
Members of Congress, representatives of the.press, and the
public generally; by inciting litigation against it and its
officers; by publishing and disseminating false statements
charging it with unlawful acts and improper conduct and
reflecting upon its solvency; and by distributing to depositors, stockholders and others alarming statements intended to affect its crddit, etc., etc. And further that,
unless restrained, he would continue these and similar
malicious and oppressive practices.
/
Williams is a citizen of Virginia, officially stationed at
Washington. He was not summoned while in the Middle
District of Pennsylvania, but a subpcena was served upon

him in Washington by the United States marshal. Having

FIRST NATL. BANK v. WILLIAMS.
504.

Opinion of the Court.

specially appeared he successfully challenged the jurisdiction of the court; and the cause is here upon certificate to
that effect.
Generally, a District Court cannot acquire jurisdiction
over an individual without service of process upon him
while in the district for which it is held. But here a national bank seeks to enjoin the Comptroller, and the claim
is that by statutory direction the proceeding must be had
in the district where the association is located and not
elsewhere. The court below took the contrary view. 260
Fed. Rep. 674.
Determination of the matter requires consideration of
three sections of the Judicial Code.
"Sec. 24. The district courts shall have original jurisdiction as follows:
"Sixteenth. Of all cases commenced by the United
States, or by direction of any officer thereof, against any
national banking association, and cases for winding up the
affairs of any such bank; and of all suits brought by any
banking association established in the district for which
the court is held, under the provisions of title 'National
Banks,' Revised Statutes, to enjoin the Comptroller of the
Currency, or any receiver acting under his direction, as
provided by said title. And all national banking associations established under the laws of the United States shall,
for the purposes of all other actions by or against them,
real, personal, or mixed, and all suits in equity, be deemed
citizens of the States in which they are respectively located."
"Sec. 49. All proceedings by any national banking
association to enjoin the Comptroller of the Currency,
under the provisions of any law relating to national banking associations, shall be had in the district where such
association. is located."
- "Sec. 51. Except as provided in the five succeeding
sections, no person shall be arrested in one district for trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

in another, in any civil action before a district court; and,
except as provided in the six succeeding sections, no civil
suit shall be brought in any district court against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant; but where
the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action
is between citizens of different states, suit shall be brought
only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or
the defendant."
If j§ 24 and 49 properly construed restrict this proceeding to the district where the bank is located, they displace
I 51pro itanto and authorize service of process upon defendant wherever found. United States v: Congress Construetion Co., 222 U. S. 199, 203.
It is said for appellee that both §§ 24 and 49 relate to injunction proceedings brought under the National Banking
Law-such proceedings as are thereby expressly authorized and no others. And further that such law only
authorizes suit by a bank to enjoin the Comptroller when
he undertakes to act because of its alleged refusal to redeem circulating notes. Rev. Stats., § 5237.
The Act of February 25, 1863, establishing National
Banks, c. 58, 12 Stat. 665, 681"Sec. 59. And be it further enacted, That' suits, actions,
and proceedings by and against any association under this
act may be had in any circuit, district, or territorial court
of the United States held within the district in which
such association may be established."
An Act to provide a National Currency, secured by a
Pledge of United States bonds, approved June 3, 1864, c.
106, 13 Stat. 99, 1 16 "Sec. 57. And be it further enacted, That suits, actions,
and proceecrungs, against any association under this act,
may be had in any circuit, district, or territorial court of
the Uhited States held within the district in which such
agsociation may be established; or in any state, county, or

FIRST NATL. BANK v. WILLIAMS.
504.

511

Opinion of the Court.

municipal court in the county or city in which said association is located, having jurisdiction in similar cases: Provided, however, That all proceedings to enjoin the comptroller under this act shall be had in a circuit, district, or
territorial court of the United States, held in the district
in which the association is located."
In -Kennedy v. Gibson (1869), 8 Wall. 498, 506, this court
ruled that § 57 should be construed as if it read, "And be it
further enacted, That suits, actions, and proceedings, by
and against," etc., the words "by and" having been
accidentally omitted. "It is not to be'supposed that
Congress intended to exclude associations from suing in
the courts where they can be sued." "Such suits may still
be brought by the associations in the courts of the United
States." And it further held, "that receivers also may
sue in the courts of the United States by virtue of the act,
without reference to the locality of their personal citizenship."
The Revised Statutes"Sec. 629. The circuit courts shall have original jurisdiction as follows:
"Tenth. Of all suits by or against any banking association established in the district for which the court is heu,
under any law providing for national banking associations.
"Eleventh. Of all suits brought by [or against] any
banking association established in the district for which
the court is held, under the provisions of Title 'The
National Banks,' to enjoin the Comptroller of the Currency, or any receiver acting under his direction, as provided 'by said title."
"Sec. 736. All proceedings by any national banking
association to enjoin the Comptroller of the Currency,
under the provisions of any law relating to national banking associations, shall be had in the district where such an
association is located."
Parts of the foregoing sub-sections 10'and 11 were

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

joined in sub-section 16, §24, and § 736 became §49,
Judicial Code.
What constitutes a cause arising "under" the laws of.
the United States has been often pointed out by this court.
One does so arise where an appropriate statement by the
plaintiff, unaided by any anticipation or avoidance of
defenses, discloses that it really and substantially involves
a dispute or controversy respecting the validity, construction or effect of an act of Congress. If the plaintiff thus
asserts a right which will be sustained by one construction
of the law, or defeated by another, the case is one arising
under that law. Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152
U. S. 454; Boston & Montana Mining Co. v. Montana Ore
Purchasing Co., 188"U. S. 632; Devine v. Los Angeles, 202
U. S. 313; Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S. 74; Hopkins v.
Walker, 244 U. S. 486, 489. Clearly the plaintiff's bill.
discloses a case wherein its right to recover turns on the
construction and application of the National Banking
Law; and we think the proceeding is one to enjoin the
Comptroller under provisions of that law within the true
intendment of the Judicial Code.
The decree below must be
Reversed.

BURNAP v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 228.

Argued March 12, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

The power to remove from public office or employment is, in the
absence of any statutory provision to the contrary, an incident of the
power to appoint, and the power to suspend is an incident of the
power of removal. P. 515.
In § 169, Rev. Stats., which authorizes each "head of a Department"

