PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

PIERCE ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR

TO THE

DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 234.

Argued November 18, 19, 1919.--Decided March 8, 1920.

The decision in another case of a constitutional question which formed
the jurisdictional basis for a direct writ of error previously sued out
under Jud. Code, § 238, does not divest this court of its jurisdiction
to determine the other questions raised in the record. P. 242.
In order to constitute a conspiracy, within § 4 of the Espionage Act,
to commit a substantive offense defined in § 3, it is not essential that
the conspirators shall have agreed in advance upon the precise
method of violating the law; and, while the averment of the conspiracy cannot be aided by the allegations of overt acts and the
.conspiracy is not punishable unless such acts were committed, they
need not be in themselves criminal, still less constitute the very
crime which is the object of the conspiracy. P. 243.
Averments in such an indictment that defendants unlawfully, wilfully
or felonioisly committed the forbidden acts import an unlawful
motive. P. 244.
Whether statements contained in a pamphlet circulated bi defendants
tended to produce the consequences forbidden by the Espionage Act,
(§ 3), as alleged, held a matter to be determined by the jury, and not
by the court on demurrer to the indictment. Id.
Evidence in the case examined and held sufficient to warrant the jury's
finding that defendants, in violation of the Espionage Act, conspired to commit, and committed, the offense of attempting to cause
insubordination and disloyalty and refusal of duty in the military
and naval forces, and made and conveyed false statements with
intent to interfere with the operation and success of those forces, in
the war with Germany, by circulating pamphlets and other printed
matter tending in the circumstances to produce those results. P. 245.
The fact that defendants distributed such pamphlets with a full understanding of their contents furnished of itself a ground for attributing
to them an intent, and for finding that they attempted, to bring
about any and all such consequences as reasonably might be anticipated from their distribution. P. 249.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

In a prosecution for circulating false statements with intent to interfere with the operation and success of the military and naval forces,
in violation of the Espionage Act, § 3, where the falsity of the statements in question appears plainly, as a matter of common knowledge
and public fact, other evidence on that subject is not needed in order
to sustain a verdict of guilty. P. 250.
In such eases it is for the jury to determine whether the statements
circulated should be taken literally or in an innocent, figurative
sense, in view of the class and character of the people among whom
the statements were circulated. P. 251.
To circulate such false statements recklessly, without effort to ascertain
the truth, is equivalent to circulating them with knowledge of their
falsity. Id.
The fact that the statements in question do not, to the common understanding, purport to convey anything new but only to interpret or
comment on matters pretended to-be facts of public knowledge, does
not remove them from the purview of § 3 of the Espionage Act.
P. 252.
The insufficiency of one of several counts of an indictment upon which
concurrent sentences have been imposed does not necessitate reversal where the other counts sustain the total punishment inflicted.
Id.
Affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick A. Mohr for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom
Mr. W. C. Herron was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiffs in error were jointly indicted October 2, 1917,
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York, upon six counts, of which the 4th and
5th were struck out by agreement at the trial and the 1st

is now abandoned by the Government.

The 2d-count charged that throughout the period from

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

Opinion of the Court.

April 6, 1917, to the date of the presentation of the indictment, the United States being at war with the Imperial
German Government, defendants at the City of Albany,
in the Northern District of New York and within the
jurisdiction, etc., unlawfully and feloniously conspired
together and with other persons to the grand jurors unknown to commit an offense against the United States,
to wit, "The offense of unlawfully, feloniously and willfully attempting to cause insubordination, disloyalty and
refusal of duty in the military and naval forces of the
United States when the United States was at war and to
the injury of the United States in, through, and by personal solicitations, public speeches and distributing and
publicly circulating throughout the United States certain
articles printed in pamphlets called 'The Price We Pay,'
which said pay.phlets were to be distributed publicly
throughout the Northern District of New York, and
which said solicitations, speeches, articles and pamphlets
would and should persistently urge insubordination, disloyalty and refusal of duty in the said military and naval
forces of the United States to the injury of the United
States and its military and naval service and failure and
refusal on the part of available persons to enlist therein
and should and would through and by means above mentioned obstruct the recruiting and enlistment service of
the United States when the United States was at war to
the injury of that service and of the United States." For
overt acts if'wa alleged that certain of the defendants,
in the City of Albany at times specified, made personal
solicitations and public speeches, and especially that they
published and distributed to certain persons named and
other persons to the grand jurors unknown certain pamphlets headed "The Price We Pay," a copy of which was
annexed to the indictment and made a part of it.
The 3d count charged that during the same period and
on August 26, 1917, the United States being at war, etc.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

defendants at the City of Albany, etc., wilfully and feloniously made, distributed, and conveyed to certaii. persons
named and others to the grand jurors unknown certain
false reports and false statements in certain pamphlets
attached to and made a part of the indictment and headed
"The Price We Pay," which false statements were in
part as shown by certain extracts quoted from the pamphlet, with intent to interfere with the operation and success
of the military and naval forces of the United States.
The 6th count charged that at the same place, during
the same period and on August 27, 1917, while the United
States was at war, etc., defendants willfully and feloniously attempted to cause insubordination, disloyalty,
mutiny, and refusal of duty in the military and naval
service of the United States by means of the publication,
circulation, and distribution of "The Price We Pay "
to certain persons named and others to the grand jurors
unknown.
A general demurrer was overruled, whereupon defendants pleaded not guilty and were put on trial together,
with the result that Pierce, Creo, and Zeilman were found
guilty upon the 1st, 2d, 3d and 6th counts, and Nelson
upon the 3d count only. Each defendant was separately
sentenced to a term of imprisonment upon each count on
which he had been found guilty; the several sentences of
Pierce, Creo, and Zeilman, however, to run concurrently.
The present direct writ of error was sued out under
§ 238, Judicial Code, because of contentions that the
Selective Draft Act and the Espionage Act were unconstitutional. These have since been set at rest. Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366; Schenck v. United
States, 249 U. S. 47, 51; Frohwerk v. United States, 249
U. S. 204; Dcbs v. United States, 249 U. S. 211, 215.
But our jurisdiction continues for the purpose of disposing of other questions raised in the record. Brolan v.
United States, 236 U. S. 216.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

Opinion of the Court.

It is insisted that there was error in refusing to sustain
the demurrer, and this on the ground that (1) the facts
and circumstances upon which the allegation of conspiracy rested were not stated; (2) there was a failure to
set forth facts or circumstances showing unlawful motive
or intent; (3) there was a failure to show a clear and present danger that the distribution of the pamphlet would
bring about the evils that Congress sought to prevent by
the enactment of the Espionage Act; and (4) that the
statements contained in the pamphlet were not such as
would naturally produce the forbidden consequences.
What we have recited of the 2d count shows a sufficiently definite averment of a conspiracy and overt acts
under the provisions of Title I of the Espionage Act.1
The 4th section makes criminal a conspiracy "to violate
the provisions of sections two or three of this title,"
provided one or more of the conspirators do any act to
I Extract from Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217, 219.
Sec. 3. Whoever, when the United States is at war, shall willfully
make or convey false reports or false statements with intent to interfere with the operation or success of the military or naval forces of the
United States or to promote the success of its enemies and whoever,
when the United States is at war, shall willfully cause or attempt to
cause insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or refusal of duty, in the
military or naval forces of the United States, or shall willfully obstruct
the recruiting or enlistment service of the United States, to the injury
of the service or of the United States, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than twenty years, or

both.
Sec. 4. If two or more persons conspire to violate the provisions of
sections two or three of this title, and one or more of such persons does
any act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the parties to such
conspiracy shall be punished as in said sections provided in the case of
the doing of the act the accomplishment of which is the object of such
conspiracy. Except as above provided conspiracies to commit offenses
under this title shall be punished as provided by section thirty-seven of
the Act to codify, revise, and amend the penal laws of the United States
approved March fourth, nineteen hundred and nine.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

effect the object of the conspiracy. Such a conspiracy,
thus attempted to be carried into effect, is none the less
punishable because the conspirators fail to agree in
advance upon the precise method in which the law shall
be violated. It is true the averment of the conspiracy
cannot be aided by the allegations respecting the overt
acts. United States v. Britton, 108 U. S. 199, 205; Joplin
Mercantile Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 531, 536. On
the other hand, while under § 4 of the Espionage Act, as
under § 37 of the Criminal Code, a mere conspiracy, without overt act done in pursuance of it, is not punishable
criminally, yet the overt act need not be in and of itself
a criminal act; still less need it Constitute the very crime
that is the object of the conspiracy. United States v.
Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78, 86; Goldman v. United States,
245 U. S. 474, 477.
As to the second point: Averments that defendants
un'awfully, willfully, or feloniously committed the forbidden acts fairly import an unlawful motive; the 3rd
courit specifically avers such a motive; the conspiracy
charged in the 2d and the willful attempt charged in the
6th necessarily involve unlawful motives.
The third and fourth objections point to no infirmity
in the averments of the indictment. Whether the statements contained in the pamphlet had a natural tendency
to produce the forbidden consequences, as alleged, was
a question to be determined not upon demurrer but by
the jury at the trial. There was no error in overruling
the demurrer.
Upon the trial, defendants' counsel moved that the
jury be directed to acquit the defendants, upon the
ground that the evidence was not sufficient to sustain a
conviction. Under the exceptions taken to the refusal
of this motion it is urged that there was no proof (a) of
conspiracy, (b) of criminal purpose or intent, (c) of the
falsity of the statements contained in the pamphlet cir-

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

Opinion of the Court.

culated, (d) of knowledge on defendants' part of such
falsity, or (e) of circumstances creating a danger that its
circulation would produce the evils which Congress
sought to prevent; and further (f) that the pamphlet itself could not legitimately be construed
as tendjing to
produce the prohibited consequences.
The pamphlet-"The Price We Pay "-was a highly
colored and sensational document, issued by the national office of the Socialist Party at Chicago, Illinois,
and fairly to be construed as a protest against the further
prosecution-of the war by the United States. It contained much in the way of denunciation of war in general,
the pending war in particular; something in the way of
assertion that under Socialism things would be better;
little or nothing in the way of fact or argument to support
the assertion. It is too long to be quoted in full. The
following extracts will suffice; those indicated by italics
being the same that were set forth in the body of the 3d
count:
"Conscription is upon us; the draft law is a fact!
"Into your homes the recruiting officers are coming.
They will take your sons of military age and impress them
into the army;
"Stand them up in long rows, break them into squads
and platoons, teach them to deploy and wheel;
"Guns will be put into their hands; they will be taught
not to think, only to obey without questioning.
"Then they will be shipped thru the submarine zone
by the hundreds of thousands to the bloody quagmire of
Europe.
"Into that seething, heaving swamp of torn flesh and
floating entrails they will be plunged, in regiments, divisions and armies; screaming as they go.
"Agonies of torture will rend their flesh from their sinews, will crack their bones and dissolve their lungs; every
pang will be multiplied-in its passage to you.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

"Black death will be a guest at every American fireside. Mothers and fathers and sisters, wives and sweethearts will know the weight of that awful vacancy left by
the bullet which finds its mark.
"And still the recruiting officers will come; seriing age
after age, mounting up to the elder ones and taking the

younger ones as they grow to soldier size;
"And still the toll of death will grow.
*

*

*

*

*

.*

*

*

"The manhood of America gazes at that seething,
heaving swamp of bloody carrion in Europe, and say
'Must we-be that!'
"You cannot avoid it; you are being dragged, whipped,
lashed, hurled into it; Your flesh and brains and entrails
must be crushed out of you and poured into that mass of
festering decay;
"It is the price you pay for your stupidity-you who
have rejected Socialism.
*

*

*

*

"Food prices go up like skyrockets; and show no sign
of bursting and coming down.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"The Attorney General of the United States is so busy
sending to prison men who do not stand up when. the Star
Spangled Banner is played, that he has no time to protect
the food* supply
from* gamblers.
,*
*
*
*
*
*
"This war began over commercial routes and ports
and rights; and underneath all the talk about democracy
versus autocracy, you hear a continual note, and undercurrent, a subdued refrain;
"'Get ready for the commercial war that will follow
this war.'
"Commercial war preceded this war; it gave rise to this
war; it now gives point and meaning to this war;
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

Opinion of the Court.

"This, you say, is a war for the rights of small nations
and the first land sighted when you sail across the Atlantic is the nation of Ireland, which has suffered from
England for three centuries more than what Germany
has inflicted upon Belgium for three years.
"But go to it! Believe everything you are told-you
always have, and doubtless always will, believe them.
"For this war - as every one who thinks or knows
anything will say, whenever truth-telling becomes safe
and possible again,-This war is to determine the question, whether. the chambers of commerce of the allied
nations or of the Central Empires have the superior right
to exploit undeveloped countries.
"It is to determine whether interest, dividends and
profits shall be paid to investors speaking German or
those speaking English and French.
"Our entry into it was determined by the certainty that
if the allies do not win, J. P. Morgan's loans to the allies
will be repudiated, and those American investors who bit on
his promises would be hooked."
These expressions were interspersed with suggestions
that the war was the result of the rejection of Socialism,
and that Socialism was the "salvation of the human race."
It Was in evidence that defendants were members of
the Socialist Party-a party "organized in locals throughout the country"-and affiliated with a local ,branch
in the City of Albany. There was evidence, that at a
meeting of that branch, held July 11, 1917, at which
Pierce was present, the question of distributing "The
Price We Pay " was brought up, sample copies obtained
from the national oiganization at .Chitago having been
produced for examination and 'consideration; that the
pamphlet was discussed, as well as the question of ordering a large number of copies from the national organization for distribution; it was stated that criminal proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

ings were pending in the United States District Court
for the District of Maryland against parties indicted for
distributing the same pamphlet; some of the members
present, one of them an attorney, advised against its
distribution, and a motion was adopted not to distribute
it until it was known to be legal. However, some action
appears to have been taken towards procuring copies for
distribution, for on July 17th a large bundle of them,
said to have been 5,000 copies, was delivered at Pierce's
house by the literature agent of the Albany local. At a
meeting held July 25 the subject was again brought up,
it having become known that in the criminal proceedings
before mentioned the court had directed a verdict.of acquittal; thereupon the resolution of July 11 was rescinded
and distributors were called for. On July 29, defendants
Pierce, Creo, and Zeilman met at Pierce's house about
half past 5 o'clock in the morning, and immediately began
distributing the pamphlets in large numbers throughout
the City of Albany. Each of them took about 500 copies,
and having agreed among themselves about the division
of the territory, they went from house to house, leaving
a copy upon each doorstep. They repeated th.s on successive Sundays until August 26, when they were arrested.
Nelson acted with them as a distributor on the latter
date, and perhaps on one previous occasion.
There was evidence that in some instances a leaflet entitled "Protect Your Rights," and bearing the Chicago
address of the national office of the Socialist Party, was
folded between the pages of the pamphlet. The leaflet
was a fervid appeal to the reader to join the Socialist
Party, upon the ground that it was the only organization
that was opposing the war. It declared among other
things: "This organization has opposed war and conscription. It is still opposed to war and conscription.
. . . Do you want to help in this struggle? . . . The
party needs you now as it never needed you before. You

PIERCE v. UNITED STATFS.
239.

Opinion of the Court.

need the party now as you never needed it before. Men
are going to give up their lives for a cause which ygqu are
convinced is neither great or noble, will you ttihn begrudge your best efforts to the cause that you feel certain
is both great and noble and in which lives the only hope
and promise of the future? " And there was evidence
of declarations made by Pierce on the 16th and 17th of
August, amounting to an acknowledgment of a treasonable purpose in opposing the draft, which he sought to
excuse on the ground that he had "no use for England."
It was shown without dispute that defendants distributed the pamphlet-"The Price We Pay "-with
full understanding of its contents; and this of itself furnished a ground for attributing to them an intent to bring
about, and for finding that they attempted to bring about,
any and all such consequences as reasonably might be
anticipated from its distribution. If its probable effect
was at all disputable, at least the jury fairly might believe
that, under the circumstances existing, it would have a
tendency to cause insubordination, disloyalty, and refusal
of duty in the military and naval forces of the United
States; that it amounted to an obstruction of the recruiting and enlistment service; and that it was intended to
interfere with the success of our military and naval forces
in the war in which the United States was then engaged.
Evidently it was intended, as the jury found, to interfere
with the conscription and recruitment services; to cause
men eligible for the service to evade the draft; to bring
home to them, and especially to their parents, sisters,
wives, and sweethearts, a sense of impending personal
loss, calculated to discourage the young men froRk entering the service; to arouse suspicion as to whether the
chief law officer of the. Government was not more concerned in enforcing the strictness of military discipline
than in protecting the people against improper speculation
in their food supply; and to produce a belief that our

OCTOBER TERM 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

participation in the war was the product of sordid and
'sinister motives, rather than a design to protect the interests and maintain the honor of the United States.
What interpretation ought to be placed upon the pamphlet, what would be the probable effect of distributing it
in the mode adopted, and what were defendants' motives
in doing this, were questions for the jury, not the court,
to decide. Defendants took the witness-stand and severally testified, in effect, that their sole purpose was to gain
converts for Socialism, not to interfere with the operation
or success of the naval or military forces -of the United
States. But their evidence was far from conclusive, and
the jury very reasonably might find-as evidently they
did-that the protestations of innocence were insincere,
and that the real purpose of defendants-indeed, the
real object of the pamphlet-was to hamper the Government in the prosecution of the war.
Whether the printed words would in fact produce as a
proximate result a material interference with the recruiting
or enlistment service, or tile operation or success of the
forces of the United States, was a question for the jury to
decide in vievW of all the circumstances of the time and considering the place ajd manner of dIistribution. Schenck
v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52; Frohwerk v. United
States, 249 U. S.204, 208; Debs v. United States, 249 U. S.
211, 215.
Concert of action on the part of Pierce, Creo, and Zeilman clearly, appeared, and, taken in connection with the
nature of the pamphlet and their knowledge of its contents, furnished abundant evidence of a conspiracy and
overt acts to sustain their conviction upon the second
coumt.
The validity of the conviction upon the third count
(the only one that includes Nelson) ,-depends upon whether
there was lawful evidence of the falsity of the statements
contained in the pamphlet and tending to show that,

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

251

-Opinion of the Court.

knowing they were false, or disregarding their probable
falsity, defendants willfully circulated it, with intent to
interfere with the operation or success of the military or
naval forces of the United States. The criticism of the
evidence admitted to show the untruth of the statements
about the Attorney General and about J. P. Morgan's
loans to the Allies is not well founded; the evidence was*
admissible; but we hardly see that it was needed to convince a reasonable jury of the falsity of these and other
statements contained in the pamphlet. Common knowledge (not to mention the President's Address to Congress
of April 2, 1917, and the Joint Resolution of April 6 declaring war, which were introduced in evidence) would
have sufficed to show at least that the statements as to the
causes that led to the entry of the United States into the
war against Germany were grossly false; and such common
knowledge went to prove also that defendants knew they
were untrue. That they were false if taken in a literal
sense hardly is disputed. It is argued that they ought not
to be taken literally. But when it is remembered that the
pamphlet was intended to be circulated, and so far as
defendants acted in the matter was circulated, among
readers of all classes and conditions, it cannot be said as
matter of law that no considerable number of them would
understand the statements in a literal sense and take them
seriously. The jury was warranted in finding the statements false in fact, and known to be so by the defendants,
or else distributed recklessly, without effort to ascertain
the truth (see Cooper v. Schlesinger, 111 U. S. 148, 155),
and circulated willfully in order to interfere with the success of the forces of the United States. This is sufficient
to sustain the conviction of all of the defendants upon the
third count.
There being substantial evidence in support of the
charges, the court would have erred if it had peremptorily
directed an acquittal upon any of the counts. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

'question whether the effect of the evidence was such as to
overcome any reasonable doubt of guilt was for the jury,
not the court, to decide.
It is suggested that the clause of § 3-"Whoever, when
the United States is at war, shall willfully make or convey false reports or false statements with intent to interfere with the operation or success of the military or naval
forces of the United States or to promote the success of its
enemies "-cannot be construed to cover statements that
on their face, to the common understanding, do not purport to convey anything new, but only to interpret or
comment on matters pretended to be facts of public
knowledge; and that however false the statements and
with whatever evil purpose circulated, they are not
punishable if accompanied with a pretense of commenting
upon them as matters of public concern. We cannot
accept such a construction; it unduly restricts the natural
meaning of the clause, leaves littlelfor it to operate upon,
and disregards the context and the circumstances under
which the statute was-passed. In effect, it would allow the
professed advocate of disloyalty to escape responsibility
for statements however audaciously false, so long as he
did but reiterate what had been said before; while his
ignorant dupes, believing his statements and thereby persuaded to obstruct the recruiting or enlistment service,
would be punishable by fine or imprisonment under the
same section.
Other assignments of error pointing to rulings upon
evidence and instructions given or refused to be given to
the jury are sufficiently disposed of by what we have said.
The conceded insufficiency of the first count of the indictment does not warrant a reversal, since the sentences
imposed upon Pierce, Creo, and Zeilman did not exceed
that which lawfully might have been imposed under the
second, third, or sixth counts, so that the concurrent sentence under the first cc ,ntadds nothing to their punish-

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

ment. Claassen v. United States, 142 U. S. 140, 146;
Evans v. United States, (2 cases) 153 U. S. 584, 595, 608;
Putnam v. United States, 162 U. S. 687, 714; Abrams v.
United States, 250 U. S. 616, 619.
Judgments affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, dissenting, delivered the following opinion in which MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurred.

What is called "distributing literature" is a means
commonly used by the Socialist Party to increase its
membership and otherwise to advance the cause it advocates. To this end the national organization with headquarters at Chicago publishes such "literature" from
time to time and sends sample copies to the local organizations. These, when they approve, purchase copies and
call upon members to volunteer for service in making the
distribution locally. Sometime before July 11, 1917, a
local of the Socialist Party at Albany, New York, received from the national organization sample copies of a
four-page leaflet entitled "The Price We Pay," written
by Irwin St. John Tucker, an Episcopal clergyman and a
man of sufficient prominence to have been included in the
1916-1917 edition of "Who's Who in America." The
proposal to distribute this leaflet came up for action at a
meeting of the Albany local held on July 11, 1917. A
member who was a lawyer called attention to the fact
that the question whether it was legal to distribute this' leaflet was involved in a case pending in Baltimore in the
District Court of the United States; and it was voted "not
to distribute 'The Price We Pay' until we know if it is
legal." The case referred to was an indictment under the
Selective Draft Act for conspiracy to obstruct recruiting by
means of distributing the leaflet. Shortly after the July
11th meeting it became known that District Judge Rose
had directed an acquittal in that case; and at the next meet-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

ing of the local, held July 25th, it was voted to rescind
the motion "against distributing 'The Price We Pay' and
call for distributors." Four members of the local, two of
them native Americans, one a naturalized citizen, and the
fourth a foreigner who had filed his first naturalization
papers, volunteered as distributors. They distributed
about five thousand copies by hand in Albany.
District Judge Rose in directing an acquittal had said
of the leaflet in the Baltimore case:
"I do not think there is anything to go to the jury in
this case.
"You may have your own opinions about that circular;
I have very strong individual opinions about it, and as to
the wisdom and fairness of what is said there; but so far as
I can see it is principally a circular intended to induce
people to subscribe to Socialist newspapers and to get
recruits for the Socialist Party. I do not think that we
ought -o attempt to prosecute people for that kind of thing.
It may be very unwise in its effect, and it may be unpatriotic at that particular time and place, but it would be
going very far indeed, further, I think than any law that
I know of would justify, to hold that there has been made
out any case here even tending to show that there was an
attempt to persuade men not to obey the law."
In New York a different view was taken; and an indictment in- six-counts was found against the four distributors. Two of the counts were eliminated at the trial.
On the other four there were convictions, and on each a
sentence of fine and imprisonment. But. one of the four
counts was abandoned by the Government in this court.
remain for consideration count three, which :harges
aThere
violation
of § 3 of the Espionage Act by making false
reports and false statements, with the intent "to interfere
with the operation and success of the military and naval
forces"; and counts two and six, also, involving § 3 of the
Espionage Act, the one for conspiring, the other for at-

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRBANIS and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

tempting, "to cause insubordination, disloyalty and refusal of duty in the military and naval forces." Demurrers
to the several counts and motions that a verdict be directed
for the several defendants were overruled.
In considering the several counts it is important to note
that three classes of offences are included in § 3 of the
Espionage Act, and that the essentials of liability under
them differ materially. The first class, under which
count three is drawn, is the offence of making or conveying false statements or reports with intent to interfere
with the operations or success of the military and naval
forces. The second, involved in counts two and six is that
of attempting to cause insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or refusal of duty. With the third, that of obstructing the recruiting and enlistment service, we have, since
the abandonment of the first count, no concern here. Al-,
though the uttering or publishing of the words charged be
admitted, there necessarily arises in every case-whether
the offence charged be of the first class or of the secondthe question whether the words were used "in such circumstances and are of such a nature as to create a clear and
present danger that they will bring about the substantive
evil that Congress has a right to prevent," Schenck v.
United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52; and also the question
whether the act of uttering or publishing was done willfully, that is, with the intent to proddce the result which
the Congress sought to prevent. But in cases of the first
class three additional elements of the crime must be established, namely:
(1) The statement or report must be of something
capable of being proved false in fact. The expression of
an opinion, for instance, whether sound or unsound,
might conceivably afford a sufficient basis for the charge
of attempting to cause insubordination, disloyalty or
refusal of duty, or for the charge of obstructing recruiting;
but, because an opinion is not capable of being proved

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDs.m

and HoLMEs, JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

false in fact, a statement of it cannot be made the basis of a
prosecution of the first class.
(2) The statement or report must be proved to be
false.
(3) The statement or report must be known by the
defendant to be false when made or conveyed.
In the case at bar the alleged offence consists wholly in
distributing leaflets which had been written and published
by others. The fact of distribution is admitted. But
every other element of the two classes of crime charged
must be established in order to justify conviction. With
unimportant exceptions to be discussed later, the only
evidence introduced to establish the several elements of
both of the crimes charged is the leaflet itself; and the
leaflet is unaffected by extraneous evidence which might
give to words used therein special meaning or effect. In
order to determine whether the leaflet furnishes any
evidence to establish any ot the above enumerated elements of the offences charged, the whole. leaflet must
necessarily be read. It is as follows:
"THE PRICE WE PAY.
By Irwin St. John Tucker.
I.
"Conscription is upon us: the draft law is a factl
Into your homes the recruiting officers are coming.
They will take your sons of military age and impress them
into the army;
Stand them up in .long rows, break them into squads and
platoons, teach them to deploy and wheel;
Guns will be put into their hands; they will be taught
not to think, only to obey without questioning.
Then they will be shipped thru the submarine zone by
the hundreds of thousands to the bloody quagmire of
Europe.
Into that seething, heaving swamp of torn flesh and

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRA-DEIS

and HoLMS, JJ., dissenting.

floating entrails they will be plunged, in regiments, divi.
sions and armies, screaming as they go.
Agonies of torture will rend their flesh from their sinews,
will crack their bones and dissolve their lungs; every pang
will be multipli~d in its passage to you.
Black death will be a guest at every American fireside.
Mothers and fathers and sisters, wives and sweethearts
will know the weight of that awful vacancy left -by the
bullet which finds its mark.
And still the recruiting officers will *come; seizing age
.after age, mounting up to the elder- ones and taking the
younger ones as they grow to soldier size;
And still the toll of death will grow,
Let them come! Let death and desolation make barren
every Home! Let the agony of war crack every parent's
heart! Let the horrors and miseries of the world-downfall
swamp the happiness of every hearthstone!
Then perhaps you will believe what we have been
telling you! For war is the price of your stupidity, you
who have rejected Socialism!

II.
"Yesterday I saw moving pictures of the*Battle qf the
Somme. A company of Highlanders was shown, young
and handsome in their kilts and brass helmets and bright
plaids.
They laughed and joked as they stood on the screen in
their ranks at ease, waiting the command to advance.
The camera shows rank after rank, standing strong and
erect, smoking and chaffing with one another;
Then it shows a sign: 'Less than 20 per cent. of these
soldiers were alive at the close of the day.'
Only one in five remained of all those laddies, when
sunset came, the rest were crumpled masses of carrion
under their torn plaids.
Many a highland home will wail and croon for many a

258

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIs

and HoLMEs, JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

year, because of these crumpled masses of carrion, wrapped
in their plaids, upon a far French hillside.
I saw a regiment of Germans charging downhill against
machine gunfire. They melted away like snowflakes
falling into hot water.
The hospital camps were shown, with hundreds and
thoutands of wounded men in all stages of pain and
suffering, herded like animals, milling around like cattle
in the slaughter pens.
All the horror and agony of war were exhibited; and at
the end a flag was thrown on the screen and a proclamation said: 'Enlist for your Country!' The applause was
very thin and scattering; and as we went out, most of the
men shook their heads and said:
'That's a hell of a poor recruiting scheme!'
For the men of this land have been fed full with horror
during the past three years; and tho the call for volunteers
posters scream
has become wild, frantic, desperate; tho the
from every billboard, and tho parades and red fire inflame
the atmosphere:in every town;
The manhood of America gazes at that seething, heaving swamp of bloody carrion in Europe, and say 'Must
we-be that!'
You cannot avoid it; you are being dragged, whipped,
lashed, hurled into it; Your flesh 4nd brains and entrails
must be crushed out of you and poured into that mass of
festering decay;
It is the price you pay for your stupidity-you who have
rejected Socialism.
III.
"Food prices go up like skyrockets; and show no sign of
bursting and coming down.
Wheat, corn, potatoes, are far above the Civil War
mark; eggs, butter, meat-all these things are almost
beyond a poor family's reach.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

Bu&NDEis and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

The Attorney General of the United States is so busy
sending to prison men who do not stand up when the Star
Spangled Banner is played, that he has no time to protect
the food supply from gamblers.
Starvation begins to stare us in the face-and we, people
of the richest and most productive land on earth-are told
to starve ourselves yet further because our allies must be
fed.
Submarines are steadily sending to the fishes millions of
tons of food stuffs; and still we build more ships, and send
more food, and more and more is sunk;
Frantically we grub in the earth and sow and tend and
reap; and then as frantically load the food in ships, and
then as frantically sink with them-

We, the 'civilized nations' of the world!
While the children of the poor clamor for their bread and
the well to do shake their heads and wonder what on earth
the poor folks are doing;
The poor folks are growling and muttering with savage
side-long glances, and are rolling up their sleeves.
For the price they pay for their stupidity is getting
beyond their power to pay!
IV.
"Frightful reports are being made of the ravages of
venereal diseases in the army training camps, and in the
barracks where the girl munition workers live.
One of the great nations lost more men thru loathsome
immoral diseases than on the firing line, during the first
18 months of the war.
Back from the Mexican border our boys come,spreading
the curse of the great Black Plague among *hundreds of
thousands of homes; blasting the lives of innocent women
and unborn babes,
Over. in Europe ten millions of women are deprived of
their husbands, and fifty millions of babies can never be;

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANqDEIs

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

Of those women who will have their mates given back
to them, there are twenty millions who will have ruined
wrecks of men; mentally deranged, physically broken,
morally rotten;

Future generations of families are made impossible;
blackness and desolation instead of happiness and love will
reign where the homes of the future should be;
And all because you believed the silly lie, that 'Socialism would destroy the home!'
Pound on, guns of the embattled host; wreck yet more
homes, kill yet more husbands and fathers, rob yet more
maidens of their sweethearts, yet more babies of their
fathers;
That is the price the world pays for believing the monstrous, damnable, outrageous lie that Socialism would
destroy the home!
Now the homes of the world are being destroyed; every
one of them would have been saved by Socialism. But
you would not believe. Now pay the price!
V.
"This war, you say, is all caused by the Kaiser; and we
are fighting for democracy against autocracy. Once
dethrone the Kaiser and there will be permanent peace.
That is what they said about Napoleon. And in the
century since Napoleon was overthrown there has been
more and greater wars than the world ever saw before.
There were wars before Germany ever existed; before
Rome
before Egypt dominated the ages.
Warruled;
has been universal; and the cause of war is always
the same. Somebody wanted something somebody else
possessed and they fought over the ownership of it.
This war began over commercial routes and ports and
rights; and underneath all the talk about democracy
versus autocracy, you hear a continual note, and undercurrent, a subdued refrain;

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRANDEIS and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

'Get ready for the commercial war that will follow this

war.'
Commercial war preceded this war; it gave rise to this
war; it now gives point and meaning to this war;
And as soon as the guns are stilled and the dead are
buried, commercial forces will prepare for the next bloody
struggle over routes and ports and rights, coal mines ar d
railroads;
For these are the essence of this, as of all other wars!
This, you say, is a war for the rights of small nations and
the first land sighted when you sail across the Atlantic is
the nation of Ireland, which has suffered from England for
three centuries more than what Germany has inflicted
upon Belgium for three years.
But go to it! Believe everything you are told--you
always have and doubtless always will, believe them.
Only do retain this much reason; when you have paid
the price, the last and uttermost price; and have not received what you were told you were fighting for-namely
Democracy-'
Then remember that the price you paid was not the
purchase price for justice, but the penulty price for your
stupidity!
VI.
"We are beholding the spectacle of whole nations
working as one person for the accomplishment of a single
end-namely killing.
Every man, every woman, every child, must 'do his
bit' in the service of destruction.
We have been telling you for, lo, these many years that
the whole nation could be mobilized and every man, woman and child induced to do his bit for the service of
humanity but you have laughed at us.
Now you call every person traitor, slacker, pro-enemy
who will not go crazy on the subject of killing; and you

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIs

and HoLMEs,JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

have turned the whole energy of the nations of the world
into the service of their kings for the purpose of killingkilling-killing.
Why would you not believe us when we told you that
it was possible to coperate for the saving of life?
Why were you not interested when we begged you to
work all together to build, instead to destroy? To preserve, instead of to murdei?
Why did you ridicule us and call us impractical dreamers when we prophesied a world-state of fellowworkers,
each man creating for the benefit of all the world, and
the whole world creating for the benefit of each man?
Those idle taunts, those thoughtless jeers, that refusal
to listen, to be fair-minded--you are paying for them
now.

Lo, the price you pay! Lo, the price your children
will pay. Lo, the agony, the death, the blood, the unforgettable sorrow, The price of your stupidity I
For this war-as every one who thinks or knows anything will say, whenever truth-telling becomes safe and
possible again,-=This war is to determine the quetion,
whether the chambers of commerce of the allied nations
or of the Central Empires-have the superior right to exploit undeveloped countries.
It is to determine whether interest, dividends and profits shall be paid to investors speaking German or those
speaking English and French.
Our entry into it was determined by the certainty that
if the allies do not win, J. P. Morgan's loans to the allies
will be repudiated, and those American investors who
bit on his promises would be hooked.
Socialism -would have settled that question; it would
detdrmine that to every producer-shall be given all the
value of what he produces; so that nothing would be left
over fo4 exploiters or investors.

-

263

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRANDEIS

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

With that great question settled there would be no
cause for war.
Until the question of surplus profits is settled that way,
wars will continue; each war being the prelude to a still
vaster and greater outburst of hell;
Until the world becomes weary of paying the stupendous price for its own folly;
Until those who are sent out to maim and murder one
another for the profit of bankers and investors determine
to have and to hold what they have fought for;
Until money is no more sacred than human blood;
Until human life refuses to sacrifice itself for private
gain;
Until by the explosion of millions of tons of dynamite
the stupidity of the human race is blown away, and Socialism is known for what it is, the salvation of the human
race;
Until then-you will keep on paying the price!
IF THIS INTERESTS YOU, PASS IT ON.
Subscribe to The American Socialist, published'weekly
by the National Office, Socialist Party, 803 West Madison
Street, Chicago, Ill., 50 cents per year, 25 cents for 6
months. It is a paper without a muzzle.
Cut this out or copy it and send it to us. We will see
that you promptly receive the desired information.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

:

To the National Office, Socialist Party, 803 W. Madison
St., Chicago, Ill.
I am interested in the Socialist Party and its principles.
Please send me samples of its literature.
Name ......................... ......
Address ..............................
C ity .......... State ...............
First: From this leaflet, which is divided into six

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEis and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

chapters, there are set forth in count three, five sentences
as constituting the false statements or reports wilfully
conveyed by defendants with the intent to interfere with
the operation and success of the military and naval
forces of the United States.
(a) Two sentences are culled from the first chapter.
They follow immediately after the words: "Conscription
is upon us; the draft law is a fact "-and a third sentence culled follows a little later. They are:
"Into your homes the recruiting officers are coming.
They will take your sons of military age and impress them
into the army. . . I And still the recruiting officers
will cone; seizing age after age, mounting up to the elder
ones and taking the younger ones as they grow to soldier
size."
To prove the alleged falsity of these statements the
Government gravely called as a witness a major in the
regular army with 28 years' experience, who has been
assigned since July 5, 1917, to recruiting work. He
testified that "recruiting " has to do with the volunteer
service and has nothing to do with the drafting system
and that the word impress has no place in the recruiting
service. The subject of his testimony was a matter not
of fact but of law; and as a statement of law it was erroneous. That "recruiting is gaining fresh supplies for the
forces, as well by draft as otherwise " had been assumed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for that circuit in Masses
Publishing Co. v. Patten, 246 Fed. Rep. 24 (decided eleven
days before this testimony was given), and was later expressly held by this court in Schenck v. United States, 249
U. S. 47, 53. The third of the sentences charged as false
was obviously neither a statement nor a report, but a
predictiQn; and it was later verified.' That the prediction
IOn May 20, 1918, c. 79,40 Stat. 557, Congress, by joint resolution,
extended the draft to- males who had since June 5, 1917, attained the
age of twenty-one and authorized the President to extend it to those

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRANDi.s

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

made in the leaflet was later verified is, of course, immaterial; but the fact shows the danger of extending
beyond its appropriate sphere the scope of a charge of
falsity.
(b) The fourth sentence set forth in the third count
as a false statement was culled from the third chapter of
the leaflet and is this:
"The Attorney General of the United States is so busy
sending to prison men who do not stand up when the Star
Spangled Banner is played, that he has not time to protect the food supply from gamblers."
To prove the falsity of this statement the Government
called the United States Attorney for that district who
testified that no federal law makes it a crime not to stand
up when the" Star Spangled Banner " is played and that
he has no knowledge of any one being prosecuted for failure to do so. The presiding judge supplemented this
testimony by a ruling that the Attorney General, like
every officer of the Government, is presumed to do his
duty and not to violate his duty and that this presumption
should obtain unless evidence to the contrary was adduced.
The Regulations of the Army (No. 378, Edition of 1913,
p. 88) provide that if the National Anthem is played in
any place those present, whether in uniform or in civilian
clothes, shall stand until the last note of the anthem. The
regulation is expressly limited in its operation to those
belonging to the military service, although the practice
was commonly observed by civilians throughout the war.
thereafter attaining that age. Underthis act, June, 5, 1918, was fixed
as the date for the Second Registration. Subsequently, August 24,
1918, was fixed for the supplemental registration of all coming of age
between June 5, 1918, and August 24, 1918. 40 Stat. 1834., 4O.Sitat.

1781. By Act of August 31, 1911, c. 166, 40 Stat. 955, the provisions
of the draft law were extended to persons between the ages of eighteen
and forty-five. 'Under this act, September 12, 1918, was fixed as the
date for the Third Registration. 40 Stat. 1840.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
13ANDES and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

There was no federal law imposing such action upon them.
The Attorney General, who does not enforce Army Regulations, was, therefore, not engaged in sending men to
prison for that offence. But when the passage in question
is read in connection with the rest of the chapter, it seems
clear that it was intended, not as a statement of fact, but
as a criticism of the Department of Justice for devoting
its efforts to prosecutions for acts or omissions indicating
lack of sympathy with the war, rather than to protecting the community from profiteering by prosecuting violators of the Food Control Act. (August 10, 1917, c. 53,
40 Stat. 276.) Such criticisms of governmental operations,
though grossly -unfair as an interpretation of facts or
even wholly unfounded in fact, are not "false reports or
false statements with intent to interfere with the operation or success of the military or n'tval forces."
(c) The remaining sentence, set forth in count three
as a false statement, was culled from the sixth chapter
of the leaflet and is this:
"Our entry into it was determined by the certainty
that if the allies do not win, J. P. Morgan's loans to the
allies will be repudiated, and those American investors
who bit on his promises would be hooked."
To prove the falsity of this statement the Government
introduced the address made by the President to Congress
on April 2, 1917, which preceded the adoption of the
Joint Resolution of April 6, 1917, declaring that a state
of war exists between the United States and the Imperial
German Government (c. 1, 40 Stat. 1). This so-called
statement of fact-which is alleged to be false--is merely
a conclusion or a deduction from facts. True it is
the kind of conclusion which courts call a conclusion
of fact, as distinguished from a conclusion of law; and
which is sometimes spoken of as a finding of ultimate
fact as distinguished from an evidentiary fact. But, in
its essence it is the expression of a judgment-like the

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES, JJ.,

267

dissenting.

statements of many so-called historical facts. To such
conclusions and deductions the declaration of this court
in American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty,
187 U. S. 94, 104, is applicable:
"There is no exact standard of absolute truth by which
to prove the assertion false and a fraud. We mean by
that to say that the claim of complainants cannot be the
subject of proof as of an ordinary fact; it cannot be proved
as a fact to be a fraud or false pretense or promise, nor
can it properly be said that those who ass ume to heal
bodily ills or infirmities by a resort to this method of cure
are guilty of obtaining money under false pretenses,
such as are intended in the statutes, which evidently do
not assume to deal with mere matters of opinion upon
subjects which are not capable of proof as to their falsity."
The cause of a war-as of most human action-is
not single. War is ordinarily the result of maniy cooperating causes, many different conditions, acts and motives.
Historians rarely agree in their judgment as to what was
the determining factor in a particular war, even when they
write under circumstances where detachment and the
availability of evidence from all sources minimize both
prejudice and other sources of error. For individuals,
and classes of individuals, attach significance to those
things which are significant to them. And, as the contributing causes cannot be subjected, like a chemical
combination in a test tube, to qualitative and quantitative analysis so as to weigh and value the various elements, the historians differ necessarily in their judgments.
One finds the determining cause of war in a great mal,
another in an idea, a belief, an economic necessity, a
trade advantage, a sinister machination, or an accident.
It is for this reason largely that men seek to interpret
anew in each age, and often with each new genleratioI.
the important events in the world's history.
That all who voted for the Joint Resolution of April 6,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

1917, did not do so for the reasons assigned by the President in his address to Congress on April 2, is demonstrated
by the discussions in the House and in the Senate. 1 That
debate discloses also that both in the Senate and in the
House the loans to the Allies and the desire to ensure
their repayment in full were declared to have been instrumental in bringing about in our country the sentiment in
favor of the war. 2 However strongly we may believe
I See 55 Cong. Rec. 253, 254, 344, 354, 357, 407.
2Discussion jn the Senate April 4, 1917:
d *
there is no doubt in any mind but the enormous amount
of money loaned to the allics in this country has been instrumental in
bringing about a public sentiment in favor of our country taking a
course that would make every bond worth a hundred cents on the
dollar and making the payment of every dibt certain and sure." (55
Cong. Rec. p. 213.)
Discussion in the House April 5, 1917.
"Since the loan of $500,000,000 was made by Morgan to the allies
their efforts have been persistent to land our soldiers in the French
trenches." (55 Cong. Rec. p. 342.)
"Already we have loaned the allies, through our banking system, up
to December 31, 1916, the enormous sum of $2,325,900,000 in formal
loans. Other huge sums have been loaned and millions have been
added since that date. 'Where your treasures are, there will be your
heart also.' That is one of the reasons why we are about to eiter
this war. No wonder the Morgans and the munition makers desire
war. . . . Our financiers desire that Uncle Sam underwrite these
and other huge loans and fight to defend their financial interests, that
theie may be no final loss." (55 Cong. Rec. p. 362.)
"I believe that all Americans, except that limited although influental class which is willing to go on shedding other men's blood to protect
its investments and add to its accursed profits, have abhorred the
thought of war." (55 Cong. Rec. p. 386).
"Likewise, Mr. Chairman, the J. Pierpont Morgans and their
associates, who have floated war loans running into millions which
they now want the United States to guarantee by entering the European
war. . . ." (55 Cong. Rec. p. 372.)
"These war germs are both epidemic and contagious. They are in
the air, but somehow or other they multiply fastest in the fumes
around the munition factories. You will not find many in our climate.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

that these loans were not the slightest makeweight, much
less a determining factor, in the country's decision, the
fact that some of our representatives in the Senate andthe House declared otherwise on one of the most solemn
occasions inthe history of the Nation, should help us to
understand that statements like that here charged to
be false are in essence matters of opinion and judgment,
not matters of fact to be determined by a jury upon or
Without evidence; and that even the President's address,
which set forth high moral grounds justifying our entry
into the war, may not be accepted as establishing beyond
a reasonable doubt that a statement ascribing a base
motive was criminally false. All the alleged false statements were an interpretation and discussion of public
facts of public interest. If the proceeding had been for
libel, the defence of privilege might have been interposed.
Gandia v. Pettingill, 222 U. S. 452. There is no reason
to believe that Congress, in prohibiting a special class of
false statements, intended to interfere with what was obviously comment as distinguished from a statement.
The presiding judge ruled that expressions of opinion
were not punishable as false statements under the act; but
he left it to the jury to determine whether the five sentences in question were statements of facts or expressions
of opinion. As this determination was to be made from
the reading of the leaflet unaffected by any extrinsic evidence the question was one for the court. To hold that
a jury may make punishable statements of conclusions or
of opinion, like those here involved, by declaring them
to be statements of facts and to be false would practically
deny members of small political parties freedom cf criticism and of discussion in times when feelings run high
and the questions involved are deemed fundainental.
They also multiply pretty fast in Wall Street and other money centers.
I am opposed to declaring war to save the speculators." (55 Cong.
Rec. p. 376.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRrmEis and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

There is nothing in the act compelling or indeed justifying such a construction of it; and I cannot believe that
Congress in passing, and the President in approving, it
conceived that such a construction was possible.
Second: But, even if the passages from the leaflet set
forth in the third count could be deemed false statements
within the meaning of the act, the convictions thereon
were unjustified because evidence was wholly lacking
to prove any one of the other essential elements of the
crime charged. Thus there was not a particle of evidence
that the defendants knew that the statements were false.
They were mere distributors of the leaflet. It had been
prepared by a man of some prominence. It had been
published by the national organization. Not one of the
defendants was an officer even of the local organization.
One of them, at least, was absent from the meetings at
which the proposal to distribute the leaflet was discussed.
There is no evidence that the truthfulness of the statements contained in the leaflet had ever been questioned
before this indictment was found. The statement mainly
relied upon to sustain the conviction-that concerning
the effect of our large loans to the Allies-was merely a
repetition of what had been declared with great solemnity
and earnestness in the Senate and in the House while
the Joint Resolution was under discussion. The fact that
the President had set forth in his noble address worthy
grounds for our entry into the war, was not evidence that
these defendants knew to be false the charge that base
motives had also been operative. The assertion that
the great financial interests exercise a potent, subtle and
sinister influence in the important decisions of our Government had often been made by men high in authority.
Mr. Wilson, himself a historian, said before he was President and repeated in the New Freedom that: "The
masters of the Government of the United States are the
combined capitalists and manufacturers of the United

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
239.

BRhEIs

and HOLims, JJ., dissenting.

States." I We may be convinced that the decision to
enter the great war was wholly free from such base influences but we may not, because such is our belief, permit a jury to find, in the absence of evidence, that it was
proved beyond a reasonable doubt that these defendants
knew that a statement in this leaflet to the contrary was
false.
Nor was there a particle of evidence that these statements were made with intent to interfere with the operation or success of the military and naval forces. So far as
there is any evidence bearing on the matter of intent, it
is directly to the contrary. The fact that the local refused
to distribute the pamphlet until Judge Rose had directed
a verdict of acquittal in the Baltimore case shows that its
members desired to do only that which the law permitted.
The tenor of the leaflet itself shows that the intent of the
writer and of the publishers was to advance the cause of
Socialism; and each defendant testified that this was
his only purpose in distributing the pamphlet. Furthermore, the nature of the words used and the circumstances
under which they were used showed affirmatively that
they did not "create a clear and present danger," that
thereby the operations or success of our ziilitary and
naval forces would be interfered with.
The gravamen of the third count is the charge of wilfully conveying in time of war false statements with the
intent to interfere with the operation and success of our
military or naval forces. One who did that would be
called a traitor to his country. The defendants, humble
members of the Socialist Party, performed as distributors
of the leaflet what would ordinarily be deemed merely
a menial service. To hold them guilty under the third
IPage 57. Then follows: "It is written over every intimate page of
the records of Congress, it is written all through the history of conferences at the White House, that the suggestions of economic policy in

this country have come from one source, not many sources."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRwmDIs and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

252 U. S.

count is to convict not them alone, but, in effect, their
party, or at least its responsible leaders, of treason, as that
word is commonly understood. I cannot believe that
there is any basis in our law for such a condemnation on
this record.
Third: To sustain a conviction on the second or on
the sixth count it is necessary to prove that by cobperating
to distribute the leaflet the defendants conspired or attempted wilfully to "cause insubordination, disloyalty,
mutiny, or refusal of duty, in the military or naval forces."
Nd evidence of intent so to do was introduced unless it.
be found in the leaflet itself. What has been said in
respect to the third count as to the total lack of evidence
of evil intent is equally applicable here.
A verdict should have been directed for the defendants
on these counts also because the leaflet was not distributed
under such circumstances, nor was it of such a nature, as
to create a clear and present danger of causing either insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny or refusal of .duty in
the military or naval forces. The leaflet contains lurid
and perhaps exaggerated pictures of the horrors of war.
Its arguments as to the causes of this war may appear to
us shallow and grossly unfair. The remedy proposed
may seem to us worse than the evil which, it is argued,
will be thereby removed. But the leaflet, far from counselling disobedience to law, points to the hopelessness of
protest, under the existing system, pictures the irresistible
power of the military arm of the Government, and indicates that acquiescence is a necessity. Insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny and refusal of duty in the military or naval forces are very serious crimes. It is not
conceivable that any man of ordinary intelligence and
normal judgment would be induced by anything in the
leaflet to commit them and thereby risk the severe punishment prescribed for such offences. Certainly there was
no clear and present danger that such would be the result.

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
239.

Syllabus.

The leaflet was not even distributed among those in the
military or the naval service. It was distributed among
civilians; and since the conviction on the first count has
been abandoned here by the Government, we have no
occasion to consider whether the leaflet might-have discouraged voluntary enlistment or obedience to the provisions of the Selective Draft Act.
The fundamental right of free men to strive for better
conditions through new legislation and new institutions
will not be preserved, if efforts to secure it by argument
to fellow citizens may be construed as criminal incitement to disobey the existing law-merely, because the
argument presented seems to those exercising judicial
power to be unfair in its portrayal of existing evils, mistaken in it assumptions, unsound in reasoning or intemperate ir. language. No objections more serious than
these can, in my opinion, reasonably be made to the
arguments presented in "The Price We Pay."

STATE OF MINNESOTA v. STATE OF WISCONSIN.
IN EQUITY.
No. 16, Original.

Argued October 16, 17, 1919.-D'ecided
March 8, 1920.

Part of the boundary between Wisconsin and Minnesota is described
in the Wisconsin Enabling Act of August 6, 1846, as running westwardly, through Lake Superior "to the mouth of the St. Louis River;
thence up the main channel of said river to the first rapids in the
same, above the Indian village, . . . ; thence due south," etc.
As given in the Minnesota Enabling Act of February 26, 1857, from
the opposite direction, the line follows the boundary of Wisconsin

