UNITED STATES v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.

485

Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.
No. 134. Argued January 14, 15, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.
A drawee who pays a draft drawn to the drawer's order, upon which
the drawer's signature, as well as his endorsement, is forged, cannot
recover the money from a bona fide holder for value, guilty ol! no
bad faith or negligence contributing to the success of the forgery.

P. 493.
In order to recover money as paid under mistake of fact, the plaintiff
must show that the defendant cannot in good conscience retain it.
Id.
250 Fed. Rep. 105, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Spellacy, with whom
Mr. Leonard B. Zeisler and Mr. Charles H. Weston were

on the briefs, for the United States:
The plaintiff may recover, since the defendant. did not
change. its position to its prejudice in reliance on the fact
of payment and since its indorser was guilty of acts of
negligence contributing to the success of the forgery.
The law recognizes no such thing as a holder in due course
of a negotiable instrument void in its inception because
of the forgery of the drawer's signature. If plaintiff is
permitted to assert as against the Howard National Bank
that the drawer's signature was forged, it may also do so
against the defendant. As between plaintiff and the Howard National Bank this case is not within the rule that
one who has paid a check drawn upon him cannot deny
the genuineness of the drawer's signature, but within the
exceptions to it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

252 U. S.

The Howard National Bank must have known that
for almost two months prior, to the presentation of this
check Sumner had not been acting as quartermaster.
This circumstance alone should have aroused its suspicion
as to the authority of Howard to cash the check. It is
true that Howard's endorsement on the check was not
necessary for negotiation; but the universal custom of
bankers, of which this court will take judicial notice,
requires a person receiving payment of a check or draft
to endorse his name on it as a form of receipt and as a
means of identification. Morse, Banks and Banking,
5th ed., ยง 391. This is especially true where the check is.
being cashed by a bank on whom it is not drawn.
The check when presented to the Treasurer showed no
endorsements intervening between that .of Sumner and
the bank, and the Treasurer was justified in believing
that the money had been paid to Sumner in person. The
bank's guaranty of Sumner's endorsement amounted to a
representation- that it knew it to be genuine. Since his
signatures as drawer and endorser were indistinguishable,
such a guaranty could not but allay any suspicion plaintiff
might have as to the genuineness of his signature as drawer.
It certainly amounted to a statement that the bank did
not intend to call on the Treasurer to verify the signature.
Had plaintiff been doubtful of the signature it might well
rely upon that guaranty as evidence that the drawer's
signature was genuine. Further, had Howard's endorsement appeared on the check, the plaintiff would have had
notice that the money had not been paid to Sumner
directly and the case might have called upon it to scrutinize the drawer's signature with more. care. This is sufficient to defeat -defendant's claim. Danvers Bank v.
Salem Bank, 151 Massachusetts, 280, 283; Ford & Co. v.
Bank, 74 S.Car. 180; People's Bank v. Franklin Bank, 88
Tennessee, 299; Greenwald v. Ford, 21 S..Dak. 28; McCall
v. Coming, 3 La. Ann. 409; Farmers' National Bank v.

UNITED STATES v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
485.

497

Argument for the United States.

Farmers' & Traders' Bank, 159 Kentucky, 141; Canadian 1Baik of Commerce v. Binghm, 30 Washington,
484; National Bank v. Bangs, 106 Massachusetts, 441;1
Williamsburgh Trust Co. v. Turn Suden, 120 App. Div.
518; Ronvant v. San Antonio National Bank, 63 Texas,
610.
The general rule that money paid under a mistake of.
fact may be recovered, however negligent the party
paying may have been in making the mistake, unless the
payment has caused sdch a change in the position of the
other party that it would be unjust to require him to refund, has been modified in the class of cases.under consideration only to the extent that where the mistake
is that of a drawee in failing to discover the forgery of
his drawer's signature, he cannot recover where the person receiving the money has been free from negligence,
or affirmative action, contributing to the success of the
deception. The drawee is bound to know the signature of
one who draws upon him, and his failure to detect a
forgery is negligence as a matter of law. The rule applies
only where the holder is himself entirely free from fault
and slight circumstances have been laid hold of to show
negligence on his part so as to take the case out of the
operation of the exceptional rule. See cases cited supra,
and Ellis v. Trust Company, 4 Oh. St. 628; First National
Bank v. State Bank, 22 Nebraska, 769; Woods v. Colony
Bank, 114 Georgia, 683; Newberry Bank v. Bank of Columbia, 91 S. Car. 294.
The doctrine that a check payable to a fictitious person is payable to bearer is inapplicable., The plaintiff is
not barred from recovery in this case by negligence in
failing sooner to discover and notify the bank of the forgery. Even if it "was negligent in this respect, that
would not avail the defendant, for the latter was itself
negligent in cashing the draft under suspicious circumstances without inquiring into the right to receive the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

252 U. S.

money. Leather Manufacturers' Bank v. Morgan, 117
U. S. 96, distinguished.
All the authorities which lay down the rule that it is
the duty of a depositor to exercise reasonable diligence to
discover forgeries of, his checks and that if the bank
suffers a loss because of his negligence in failing to promptly
discover and notify the bank of forgeries, the depositor
cannot recover money paid out, recognize that where the
bank has itself been guilty of negligence in paying a forged
check it cannot receive a credit for the amount. New
York Produce Exchange Bank v. Houston, 169 Fed. Rep.
785, 788; Merchants National Bank v. Nichols & Co., 223
Illinois, 41, 52; National Dredging Co. v. Farmers Bank,
.6 Penn. (Del.), 580, 590; Brixen v. National Bank, 5 Utah,
504; United States v. National Bank of Commerce, 205
Fed. Rep. 433, 436; Danvers Bank v. Salem Bank, 151
Massachusetts, 280.
Mr. Henry Root Stern for defendant in error:
The drawee of a check or draft is bound, at his peril,
to know the drawer's signature and cannot, after payment
to an innocent holder for value, recover back the amount
from the latter. Price v. Neal, 3 Burr., 1354; United
States Bank v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheat. 333; United
States v Bank of New York, 219 Fed. Rep. 648; National
Park Bank v. Ninth National Bank, 46 N. Y. 77; Bank of
St. Albans v. Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank, 10 Vermont,
141; First National Bank of Belmont v. First National
Bank of Barnesville, 58 Ohio St. 207; State National Bank
v. Bank of Magdalena,21 N. Mex. 653; Bergstrom v. RitzCarlton Restaurant & Hotel Co., 171 App. Div. 776; Germania Bank v. Boutell, 60 Minnesdta, 189; Ames, 4 Harvard Law Review, 275.
This is equally true, even though the endorsement of
the purported payee also is forged. Postal TelegraphCable Co. v. Citizens' National Bank, 228 Fed. Rep. 601;

UNITED STATES v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK. 489
485.

Argumnent for Defendant in Error.

State Bank v. Cumberland Savings Bank, 168 N. Car. 605;
Deposit Bank of Georgetown v. Fayette National Bank,
90 Kentucky, 10; First National Bank v. Marshalltown
State Bank, 107 Iowa, 327; Howard & Preston v. Mississippi Valley Bank of Vicksburg, 28 La. Ann. 727; Bank
of England v. Vagliano Bros., L. R. (1891) A. C. 107;
National Park Bank v. Ninth National Bank, 46 N. Y.
77; National Bank of Commerce v. United States, 224 Fed.
Rep. 679; s. c., 205 Fed. Rep. 433; 2 Parsons on Notes
and Bills, 591; Robinson v. Yarrow, 7 Taunt. 455; Cooper
v. Meyer, 10 B. & C. 468; Beeman v. Duck, 11 M. & W.
251; Williams v. Drexel, 14 Maryland, 566.
Inasmuch as the individual drawing this instrument did
not intend that the person named as payee therein should
have any interest in it or even possession, such payee was,
within the negotiable instruments law, a "fictitious"
payee, and hence the instrument was payable to bearer,
and the endorsement surplusage.
The record fails to disclose any facts sufficient to justify
a finding that the Howard National Bank was negligent.
Dedham National Bank v. Everett National Bank, 177
Massachusetts, 392.
Both parties having moved for the direction of a verdict,
the exception to the finding of the trial judge in favor of
the defendant does not permit the plaintiff to raise the
question of the negligence of the Howard National Bank
for review by this court upon writ of error.
Even assuming that the Howard National Bank was
negligent in cashing the check, such negligence could not
be charged to the defendant bank, which was a bona fide
purchaser for value. Merchants National Bank v. Santa
Maria Sugar Co., 162 App. Div. 248; National Park
Bank v. Seaboard Bank, 114 N. Y. 28; Rickerson RollerMill Co. v. FarrellFoundry & Machine Co., 75 Fed. Rep.
554; National Park Bank v. Ninth National Bank, 46
N. Y. 77; Jones v. Miners, etc., Bank, 144 Mo. App. 428;

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

Pennington County Bank v. Moorehead FirstState Bank, 110
Minnesota, 263; Raphael v. Bank of England,.17 C. B. 161;
United States v. Bank of New York, 219 Fed. Rep. 648.
The stipulated facts establish such negligence on the
part of the plaintiff as will, irrespective of any other question in the case, preclude its right to recovery. The general
verdict directed in favor of the defendant necessarily
constituted a finding, of such negligence which this court
will not disturb upon writ of error. Leather Manufacturers'
Bank v. Morgan, 117 U. S. 96, 115; Marks v. Anchor
Savings Bank, 252 Pa. St. 304, 310; Gloucester Bank v.
Salem Bank, 17 Massachusetts, 32; United States v. Central National Bank, 6 Fed. Rep. 134; Salas v. United
States, 234 Fed. Rep. 842; United States v. Bank of New
York, 219 Fed. Rep. 648, 649.
MR. JusTicE MCRYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Plaintiff in error sued the defendant bank, at law, to
recover money paid out under mistake of fact. The complaint alleged:
"First. That at all the times hereinafter mentioned, the
plaintiff was and is a corporation sovereign, and the
defendant was and is an association organized for and
transacting the business of banking in the city, State, and
Southern District of New York, under and pursuant to the
provisions of the acts of Congress in such case made and
provided;
"Second. That on or about the 18th day of December,
1914, the defendant presented to the Treasurer of the
United States at Washington, D. C., for payment, a draft
in the sum of $3,571.47, drawn on the Treasurer of the
United States, payable to the order of E. V. Sumner, 2d
Lt., 2d Cay., A. Q. M., and purporting to be drawn by
E. V. Sumner, Acting Quartermaster, U. S. A., and to be
endorsed by E. V. Sumner, 2d Lt., 2d Cay., A. Q. M., the

UNITED STATES v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
485.'

491

Opinion of the Court.

Howard National Bank, and .the defendant; a copy of said
draft and the indorsements on the back thereof is hereto
attached and marked Exhibit A,' and made a part hereof;
I

(Ex. A.)

[Face.]
OrIcE oF Tm QUARTERMASTER.

Fort Ethan Allen,.Vermont.
War
December
15, 1914.
Quartermaster
.444
Thesaur Amer
15-51.
(Shield)
Treasurer of the United States
Septent Sigil.
Pay to the order of E. V. Sumner, 2d Lt., 2d Cay., A. Q. M.. .. $3571.47
Thirty-five hundred seventy-one & 47/100 dollars.
Object for which drawn: Vo. No. Cash transfers.
E. V. Sumner,
Acting Quartermaster, U. S. A. 21789.
[Back.]
Form Approved. by the
Comptroller of the
Treasury
January 27, 1913.
This check must be indorsed on the line below by the person in
whose favor it is drawn, and the name must be spelled exactly the same
as it is on the-face of the check.
If indorsement is made by mark (X) it must be witnessed by t-wo
persons who can write, giving their place of residence in full.
E. V. Sumner,
(Sign on this line)
2d Lt., 2d Cay., AQM.
Pay Chase National Bank
New York, or Order,
Restrictive endorsements guaranteed.
Howard Nat'l Bank,
58-3 Burlington, Vt. 58-3,
M. T. Rutter, Cashier.
Received payment from
The Treasurer of the Ltnited Stateg
Dec. 16, 1914.
f-74 The Chase National Bank 1-74
Of the City of New York.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

"Third. That at the date of the presentation of said
draft by the defendant to the Treasurer of the United
States, the defendant was a depository of the funds of
the United States of America, and payment of said draft
to the defendant was thereupon made by the plaintiff, by
passing a credit for the amount of said draft to the defendant upon the accounts of the defendant, as depository for
the funds of the plaintiff;
"Fourth. That the name of said E. V. Sumner, 2d Lt.,
2d Cay., A. Q. M., endorsed upon the back of said draft,
was forged and had been wrongfully and fraudulently
written upon the same by a person other than the said E.
V. Sumner, without his knowledge or consent, and no part
of the proceeds of said draft were ever received by him;
"Fifth. That the payment of said draft made by the
plaintiff to the defendant, as described in paragraph three
of this complaint, was made under a mistake of fact and
without knowledge that the signature of the said E. V.
Sumner, 2d Lt., 2d Cay., A. Q. M., payee thereof, had been
forged upon the back of said draft;
"Sixth. That the plaintiff has duly requested the
defendant to repay to it the amount of said draft, to wit,
$3,571.47, but the defendant has failed and refused to pay
the same or any part thereof to the plaintiff.
"Wherefore, the plaintiff demands judgment against
the defendant in the sum of $3,571.47, with interest
thereon from the 18th day of December, 1914, together
with the costs and disbursements of this action."
The bank denied liability and among other things
claimed that the same person wrote the name E., V. Sumner upon the draft both as drawer and indorser. The facts
were, stipulated.
It appears: Lieutenant Sumner, Quartermaster and
Disbursing Officer at Fort Ethan Allen, near Burlington,
Vermont, had authority to draw on the United States
Treasurer. Sergeant Howard was his finance clerk and so

UNITED STATES v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
485.

493

Opinion of the Court.

known at the Howard National Bank of Burlington.
Utilizing the official blank form, Howard manufactured
in toto the draft in question-Exhibit A. Having forged
Lieutenant Sumner's name both as drawer and indorser
he cashed the instrument over the counter at the Howard
National Bank without adding his own name. That bank
immediately indorsed and forwarded it for collection and
credit to the defendant at New York City; the latter
promptly presented it to the drawee (The Treasurer),
received payment and credited the proceeds as directed.
Two weeks thereafter the Treasurer discovered the forgery
and at once demanded repayment which was refused. Before discovery of the forgery the Howard National Bank
withdrew from the Chase National Bank sums aggregating
more than its total balance immediately after such proceeds were credited; but additional subsequent credit
items had maintained its balance continuously above the
amount of the draft.
Both sides asked for an instructed verdict without more.
The trial court directed one for the defendant (241 Fed.
Rep. 535) and judgment thereon was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 250 Fed. Rep. 105. If important, the record discloses substantial evidence to support
the finding necessarily involved that no actual negligence
or bad faith, attributable to defendant, contributed to
success of the forgery. Williams v. Vreeland, 250 U. S.
295, 298.
The complaint placed the demand for recovery solely
upon the forged indorsement-neither negligence nor badfaith is set up. If the draft had been a valid instrument
with a good title thereto in some other than the collecting
bank, nothing else appearing, the drawee might TC:over as
for money paid under mistake. Hortsman v .Hen'Maw, 11
How. 177, 183. But here the whole instrumet was forged,
never valid, and nobody had better right to it t.qan the
collecting bank.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919..
Opinion of Vie Court.

252 U. S.

Price v. Neal (1762), 3 Burrow's, 1354,1357, held that it
is incumbent on the drawee to know the drawer's hand and
that if the former pay a draft upon the latter's forged name
to an innocent holder not chargeable with fault there can
be no recovery. "The plaintiff can not recover the money,
unless it be against conscience in the defendant to retain
it." "But it can never be thought unconscientious in the
defendant, to retain this money, when he has once received it upon a bill of exchange indorsed to him for a fair
and valuable consideration, which he had bona fide paid,
without the least privity or suspicion of any forgery."
And the doctrine so announced has been approved and
adopted by this court. Bank of United States v. Bank of
Georgia, 10 Wheat. 333, 348. Hoffman & Co. v. Bank of
Milwaukee, 12 Wall. 181, 192. Leather Manufacturers'
Bank v. Morgan, 117 U. S. 96, 109. United States v. National Exchange Bank, 214 U. S. 302, 311.
In Bank of United States v: Bank of Georgia, through
Mr. Justice Story, this court said concerning Pricev. Neal:
"There were two bills of exchange, which had been paid
by the drawee, the drawer's handwriting being a forgery;
one of these bills had been paid, when it became due, without acceptance; the other. was duly accepted, and paid at
maturity. Upon discovery of the fraud, the drawee.
brought ain action against the holder, to recover back the
money'so paid,.both parties being admitted to be equally
innocent. Lord Mansfield, after adverting to the nature
of the action, which was for money had and received, in
which no recovery could be had, unless it be against conscience for the defendant to retain it, and that it could not
be affirmed, that it was unconscientious for the defendant
to retain it, he having paid a fair and valuable consideration for the bills, said, 'Here was no fraud, no wrong; it was
incumbent upon the plaintiff to be satisfied, that the bill
drawn upon him was the drawer's hand, before he accepted
or paid it; but [it] was not inr;umbent upon the defendant

UNITED STATES v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
485.

495

Opinion of the Court.

to inquire into it. There was a A6,ice givenby the defendant to the plaintiff, of A bill drawn upon him, and he sends
his servant to pay it, and take it up; the, other bill he
actually accepts, after which, ' the defendant, innocently
and bona fide, discounts it; the plaintiff lies by for a considerable time after he has paid these bills, and then found
out that they were forged. He made no objectioll to'them,'
at the time of paying them; whatever neglect there Was,
was on his side. The defendant-had actual encouragement
from the plaintiff for negotiating the second bill, from the
plaintiff's having, without any scruple or hesitation, paid
the first; and he paid the whole value bonafide. It is a misfortune which has happened without the defendant's
fault or neglect. If there was no neglect in the plaintiff,
yet there is no reason to throw off the loss from one innocent man, upon another innocent man. But, in this case,
if there was any fault or negligence in any one, it certainly
was in the plaintiff, and not in the defendant.' The whole
reasoning of this case applies with full force to that now
before the court. In regard to'the first bill, there was no
new credit given by any acceptance, and the holder was in
possession of it, before the time it was paid or acknowledged. So that there is no pretence to allege, that there
is any legal distinction between the case of a holder before
or after the acceptance. Both were treated in this judgment as being in the same predicament, and entitled to
the same equities. The case of Price v. Neal has never
since been departed from; and in all the subsequent
decisions in which it has been cited, it has had the uniform
support. of the court, and has been deemed a satisfactory
authority.'
Does the mere fact that the name of Lieutenant Sumner was forged as indorser as well as drawer prevent application here of the established rule? We think not. In
order to recover plaintiff must show that the defendant
cannot retain the money with good conscience. Both are

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

innocent of intentional fault. The drawee failed to detect
the forged signature of the drawer. The forged indorsement puts him in no worse position than he would occupy
if that were genuine. He cannot be called upon to pay
again and the collecting bank has not received the proceeds
of an instrument to which another held a better title. The
equities of the drawee who has paid are not superior to
those of the innocent collecting bank who had full right to
act upon the assumption that the former knew the drawer's signature or at least took the risk of a mistake concerning it. Bank of England v. Vagliano Bros., L. R. App.
Cas. [1891] 107; Dedham Bank v. Everett Bank, 177
Massachusetts, 392, 395; Deposit Bank v. Fayette Bank, 90
Kentucky, 10; NationalPark Bank v. Ninth NationalBank,
46 N. Y. 77, 80; Howard v. Mississippi Valley Bank, 28 La.
Ann. 727; FirstNationalBank v. MarshalltownState Bank,
107 Iowa, 327; State Bank v. Cumberland Savings & Trust

Co., 168 N. Car. 606; 4 Harvard Law Review, 297, Article
by Prof. Ames. And see, Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S.

389, 396.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissents.

BOEHMER v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 191. Argued March 10, 11, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Section 4 of the Safety Appliance Act of 1893, in requiring grab irons
or handholds "in the ends and sides of each car," should be interpreted and applied in view of practical railroad operations, and does

