UNITED STATES v. SIMPSON.
450.

465"

Argument for the United States.

Of other complaints made by the defendants, it suffices
to say that, in our opinion, the record shows that the
Government was entitled to the relief sought and awarded.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SIMPSON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 444.

Submitted March 5, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

The transportation by their owner of five quarts of whiskey for his
personal use, in his own automobile, into a State whose laws prohibit the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors for beverage
purposes, is transportation in interstate commerce and violates the
Reed Amendment if the liquor is not intended for any of the purposes
therein excepted. P. 466.
257 Fed. Rep. 860, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for the United
States:
This case is ruled by United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420.

The judgment in the present case rests solely upon the
idea that, in order to be transportation in interstate commerce, transportation must be by common carrier. But
transportation, in order to constitute interstate commerce, need not be by common carrier, and may be
transportation by the owner of the goods. Railroad Company v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 469-70; Kirmeyer v. Kansas,

236 U. S. 568, 572; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; Pipe
Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548, 560; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,

203 U. S. 507, 512.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

No appearance for defendant in error.
MB. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is an indictment under ยง 5 of the Act of March 3,
1917, known as the Reed Amendment, c. 162, 39 Stat.
1069, which declares that "whoever shall . . . cause
intoxicating liquors to be transported in interstate commerce, except for scientific, sacramental, medicinal, and
mechanical purposes, into any State . . . the laws of
which . . . prohibit the manufacture or sale therein of
intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes shall be punished," etc.; and the question for decision is whether the
statute was applicable where the liquor-five quarts of
whiskey-was transported by its owner in his own automobile and was for his personal use, and not for an excepted purpose. The District Court answered the question in the negative and on that ground sustained a
demurrer to the third count, which is all that is here in
question, and discharged the accused. 257 Fed. Rep. 860.
We think the question should have been answered the
other way. The evil against which the statute was directed was the introduction of intoxicating liquor into a
prohibition State from another State for purposes other
than those specially excepted,-a matter which Congress
could and the States could not control. Danciger v.
Cooley, 248 U. S. 319, 323. The introduction could be
effected only through transportation, and whether this
took one form or another it was transportation in interstate commerce. Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; United
States v. Chavez, 228 U. S. 525, 532-533; United States v.
Mesa, 228 U. S. 533; Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548, 560;
United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420. The statute makes no
distinction between different modes of transportation and
we think it was intended to include them all, that being

UNITED STATES v. SIMPSON.
465.

CLARKu, J.,

dissenting.

the natural import of its words. Had Congress intended
to confine it to transportation by railroads and other
common carriers it well may be assumed that other words
appropriate to the expression of that intention would have
been used. And it also may be assumed that Congress
foresaw that if the statute were thus confined it could
be so readily and extensively evaded by the use of automobiles, auto-trucks and other private vehicles that it
would not be of much practical benefit. See Kirmeyer v.
Kansas, 236 U. S. 568. At all events, we perceive no
reason for rejecting the natural import of its words and
holding that it was confined to transportation for hire or
by public carriers.
The published decisions show that a number of the
federal courts have regarded the statute as embracing
transportation by automobile, and have applied it in
cases where the transportation was personal and private,
as here. Ex parte Westbrook, 250 Fed. Rep. 636; Malcolm
v. United States, 256 Fed. Rep. 363; Jones v. United States,
259 Fed. Rep. 104; Berryman v. United States,259 Fed.
Rep. 208.
That the liquor was intended for the personal use of the
person
transporting it'is not material, so long as
it was not
for any of the purposes specially excepted. This was
settled in United States v. Hill, supra.
We conclude that the District Court erred in construing
the statute and sustaining the demurrer.
Judgment reversed.
MI JUSTICE CLARKE,

dissenting.

The indictment in this case charges that the defendant,
being in the City of Cheyenne, Wyoming, "bought, paid
for and owned" five quarts of whiskey and thereafter, in
his own automobile, driven by himself, transported it into
the City of Denver, Colorado, intending to there devote it
to his own personal use. Colorado prohibited the manu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

252 U. S.

facture and sale therein of intoxicating liquor for beverage
purposes. The court decides that this liquor was unlawfully "transported in interstate commerce," from Wyoming into Colorado within the meaning of the Act of Congress of March 3, 1917 (39 Stat. 1069).
With this conclusion I cannot agree.
By early (Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 193) and by
recent decisions (Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223
U. S. 1, 46) of this court and by the latest authoritative
dictionaries, interstate commerce, in the constitutional
sense, is defined to mean commercial, business, intercourse--including the transportation of passengers and
property-carried on between the inhabitants of two or
more of the United States,-especially (we are dealing here
with property) the exchange, buying or selling of commodities, of merchandise, on a large scale between the
inhabitants of different States. The liquor involved in this
case, after it was purchased and while it was being held for
the personal use of the defendant, was, certainly, withdrawn from trade or commerce as thus defined-it was no
longer in the channels of commerce, of trade or of business
of any kind-and when it was carried by its owner, for his
personal use, across a state line, in my judgment it was
not moved or transported in interstate commerce, within
the scope of the act of Congress relied upon or of any
legislation which Congress had the constitutional power
to enact with respect to it at the time the Reed Amendment was approved. The grant of power to Congress is
over commerce,-not over isolated movements of small
-amounts of private property, by private persons for their
personal use.
I think the Hill Case, 248 U. S. 420, was wrongly decided and that the judgment of the District Court in this
case should be afliftned.

