344.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Interlocutory Decree.

252 U. S.

passed upon by that court. The denial of the claim was
specifically set forth in the petition for the writ of error to
this court and in the assignment of errors filed here. But
obviously that was too late. Chicago, Indianapolis &
Louisville Ry. Co. v. McGuire, 196 U. S. 128, 132. The
omission to set it up properly in the Supreme Court of the
State was not cured by the allowance of the writ of error
by its Chief Justice. Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524,
529; Hulbert v. Chicago, 202 U. S. 275, 280; Marvin v.
Trout, 199 U. S. 212, 223.
We have no occasion, therefore, to consider whether the
claim of denial of rights under the Fourteenth Amendment
was of the substantial character which is required to support a writ of error. Equitable Life Assurance Society v.
Brown, 187 U. S. 308, 311. Compare Henderson Light &
Power Co. v. Blue Ridge InterurbanRy. Co., 243 U.S. 563.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdition.

STATE OF ARKANSAS v. STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
INTERLOCUTORY DECREE.
No. 7, Original.

IN EQUITY.

Entered March 22, 1920, upon motion submitted
March 8, 1920.

Decree appointing, empowering and instructing commissioners to
locate, etc., part of the boundary between the two States.

THIS CAUSE came on to be heard by this court on
the motions aud suggestions of counsel for the respective
parties for the appointment of a commission to run, locate,
and designate the boundary line between the States of
Arkansas and Mississippi as indicated in the opinion of
this court delivered on the 19th day of May, 1919, and

ARKANSAS v. MISSISSIPPI.
344.

345

Interlocutory Decree.

thereupon and on consideration thereof, It is ordered,
adjudged and decreed as follows, viz:
1. The true boundary line between the States of Arkansas and Mississippi, at the places in controversy in this
cause, aside from the question of the avulsion of 1848,
hereinafter mentioned, is the middle of the main channel
of navigation of the Mississippi River as it existed at
the Treaty of Peace concluded between the United States
and Great Britain in 1783, subject to such changes as
have occurred since that time through natural and gradual
processes.
2. By the avulsion which occurred about 1848, and
which resulted in the formation of a new main channel
of navigation, the boundary line between said States was
unaffected, and remained in the middle of the former
main channel of navigation as above defined.
3. The boundary line between the said States should
now be located along that portion of said river, or the
bed of said river, which ceased to be the main channel of
navigation as the result of said avulsion, according to
the middle of the main navigable channel .as it existed
immediately prior to the time qf said avilsion.
4. A commission consisting of Samuel S. Gannett,
Washington, D. C., Charles H. Miller, Little Rock,
Arkansas, and Stevenson Archer, Jr., Greenville, Mississippi, competent persons, is here and now appointed
by the court, to run, locate and designate the boundary
line between said States along that portion of said river
which ceased to be a part of the main navigable channel
of said river as the result of said avulsion, in accordance
with the above principles:. Commencing at a point in
said Mississippi River about one mile southwest from
Friars Point, Coahoma County, Mississippi, where the
main navigable channel of said river, prior to said avulsion, turned and flowed in a southerly direction, and
thence following along the middle of the former main

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Interlocutory Decree.

252 U. S.

channel of navigation by its several courses and windings
to the end of said portion of said Mississippi River which
ceased to be a part of the main channel of navigation of
said river as the result of said avulsion of 1848.
5. In the event the said Commission cannot now locate
with reasonable certainty the line of the river as it ran
immediately before the avulsion of 1848, it shall report
the nature and extent of the erosions, accretions and
changes that occurred in the old channel of navigation
as the result of said avulsion, and in said report, if necessary to be made in obedience to this paragraph of the
decree, said Commission shall give its findings of fact and
the evidence on which same are based.
6. Before entering upon the discharge of their duties,
each of said Commissioners shall be duly sworn to perform faithfully, impartially and without prejudice or
bias the duties hereinafter imposed; said oaths to be taken
before the Clerk of this court, or before the clerk of any
District Court of the United States, or before an officer
authorized by law to. administer an oath in the State of
Arkansas or Mississippi, and returned with their report.
Said Commission is authorized and empowered to make
examination of the territory in question, and to adopt
all ordinary and legitimate methods in the ascertainment
of the true location of the said boundary line; to examine
and consider carefully th3 printed record in this cause
and the opinion of this court delivered on May 19, 1919,
and to take such additional evidence under oath as may
be necessary and authorized to enable said Commission
to determine said boundary line, but such evidence shall
be taken only upon notice to the parties with permission
to attend by counsel and cross-examine the witnesses;
to compel the attendance of witnesses and require them
to testify; and al evidence taken and all exceptions
thereto and rulings thereon shall be preserved, certified
and returned with the report of said Commissioners; and

ARKANSAS v. MISSISSIPPI.
344.

Interlocutory Decree.

said Commission shall do all other matters necessary to
enable it to discharge its duties and to obtain the end to
be accomplished conformably to this decree.
7. It is further ordered that should any vacancy or
vacancies occur in said Board of Commissioners by reason
of death, refusal to act, or inability to perform the duties
required by this decree, the Chief Justice of this court is
hereby authorized'and empowered to appoint another
commissioner or commissioners to supply such vacancy
or vacancies, the Chief Justice acting upon such information in the premises as may be satisfactory to him.
8. It is further ordered that said Commissioners do
proceed with all convenient dispatth to discharge their
duties conformably to this decree, and they are authorized,
if they deem it necessary, to request the co-operation and
assistance of the state authorities of Arkansas and Mississippi, or either of those States, in the performance of
the duties hereby imposed.
9. It is further ordered that the Clerk of this court
shall forward at once to the Governor of each of said
States of Arkansas and Mississippi and to each of the
Commissioners hereby appointed a copy of this decree
and of the opinion of this court delivered herein May 19,
1919, duly authenticated.
10. Said Commissioners shall make a report of their
proceedings under this decree as soon as practicable on
or before the first day of October, 1920, and shall return
with their report an itemized statement of services performed and expenses incurred by them in the performance
of their duties.
11. All other matters are reserved until the coming
in of said report, or until such time as matters pertaining
to this cause shall be properly presented to this court for
its consideration.

.Per MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WrMT.
March 22, 1920.

