OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

injunction and receiver; and on the filing of such response
the State of Texas or any claimant claiming under a patent
lease or. permit from that State shall be at liberty to request any modification of this order deemed essential or
appropriate for the right or full protection of the interest
of such State or claimant.
9. Either the plaintiff, the State of Oklahoma, or the
intervener, the United States, may by an amendment
of its pleading make any claimant claiming under the
State of Texas or any other claimant a party to the cause
and have the requisite process issued and served, so that
all parties claiming an interest in the subject-matter may
be before the court. And the like permission is granted to
the State of Texas in respect of parties claiming under
the State of Oklahoma or the United States.

CALDWELL v. PAR KER, SHERIFF OF CALHOUN
COUNTY, ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THER UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN

No. 636.

DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

Argued March 4, 5,.1920.-DecidQd April 19, 1920.

The jurisdiction to try and punish for the crime of murder, committed
by a person in the federal military service upon a civilian while the
nation is at war, but in a place within the jurisdiction of a State

where hostilities are not present and where martial law has not been
proclaimed, is not vested exclusively in a military court-martial by
the Articles of War of 1916; and conviction and sentence of a soldier,

in such circumstances, in the state court, are not void. So held, where
no demand for the culprit had been made upon the State by the military authorities. P. 385.

Affirmed.

CALDWELL v. PARKER.
36.

Argument for Appellant.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry E. Davis and Mr. Charles D. Kline, with
whom Mr. James A. Cobb was on the brief, for appellant:
Comparing former Article 58, Rev. Stats., § 1342, with
present Article 92, it is first particularly to be noted that,
whereas the former used the expression that the offenses,
therein mentioned "shall be punishable" (of whichlanguage as used in the Enrolment Act of March 3, 1863,
this court in Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509, remarked:
"It simply declares that the offences shall be 'punishable,' not that they shall be punished by the military
courts; and this is merely saying that'they may be thus
punished") the present Article 92 distinctly provides
that "any person subject to military law Who commit,$"
either crime in the Article mentioned, of which murder
is one, "shall suffer death or imprisonment for life, as a
court-martial may direct." The difference in.language
between the two sections, 0ldand new, cannot be regarded
as accidental and must be regarded as industrious.- As
Congress is to be presumed to have had in mind the language of this court in the Coleman Case, this 'conclusion is
inevitable. Congress, instead of providing that the offenses mentioned should be "punishable," intended that
the offender should suffer the prescribed penalty, to be
inflicted by the designated tribinal, namely, a courtmartial.
By existing Article 74 it is required of the commanding
officer, and of lim only, upon application of the civil authorities, and upon such application only, to delive to
the latter, or to aid in apprehending or securing for the
latter, for trial, a soldier accused of crime, except one who
is at the thne held by the military authorities as prescribed, and also, "except in time of war;" and the penalty
incurrable by the commanding officer who upon such application refuses or wilfully neglects to do as required is

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

to be visited upon him only in time of peace. Again,
whereas present Article 92 provides that a soldier committing murder shall suffer the prescribed penalty by
sentence of a court-martial, it further provides that no
soldier accused of such offense shall be tried by that
tribunal if the offense be committed "in time of peace"
If, therefore, these Articles are so to be read as to give
effect to each and all of their provisions, they mean this:
that in time of peace a soldier charged with murder must
be tried by the civil authorities and cannot be tried by
the military, but that in time of war the military authority
over the soldier is primary, paramount and,exclusive.
From another viewpoint this conclusion seems equally
unavoidable. The citizen-by which is meant every citizen-is under obligation to, national military service, and
the right of the nation to, require such service is paramount; the army of which the citizen becomes a member
is a body of men whose business is war, and what is more,
the body which the nation has formed and is using as its
instrumentality to carry on war; and so impossible is it
to say that the services of every citizen capable of bearing
arms may not become indispensable for the "defense of the
country, that it follows as a corollary that every, citizen
must be kept in a situation and condition to render those
services at any and every moment of his time.
When, therefore, the citizen becomes a member of the
army in time of war, he is, for the time being and for the
purposes of the services due by and required of him, withdrawn from civil life and transferred to a separate and
distinct realm, namely, therealm of military life. He
ceases for the time being. to be of the civil citizenry and
becomes a member of the military citizenry, and is subject accordingly to the laws and regulations governing
the latter and not to those governing the former: all this,
of course, during a state of war. And if this. be so, no
civil authority may for the time being lay hand upon him

CALDWELL v. PARKER.
376.

Argument for Appellant.

because of any act for which, except for his temporary
condition, he would have been amenable to the civil law
and its authorities.
The language of this court in the Coleman Case respecting the exclusiveness, or the contrary, of the jurisdiction of the military tribunal under the section of the
Enrollment Act under consideration is plainly obiter
dictum, and should therefore not be, and is not, controlling.
The cases of Ex parte Mason, 105 U. S. 696; Grafton v.
United States, 206 U. S. 333, and Franklin v. United
States, 216 U. S. 559, arose in time of peace, and under the
former, and not the present, Articles of War; and the
language of the court in each of those cases is to be restricted in application accordingly. [Counsel also cited
Tennessee v. Hibdom, 23 Fed. Rep. 795; Ex parte King,
246 Fed. Rep. 868; and Kepner v. United States, 195
U. S. 100, 128.]
In the judgment now under review it is recited that
there is no averment in the petition that the military
authorities at any time demanded the surrender of the
petitioner. Of this it ought to suffice to say that the failure
of those authorities to put their jurisdiction in play cannot be said to cancel or abrogate it.
Nor would the case be affected if the fact were that any
one in military authority had delivered the petitioner to
the civil authorities for trial: as respects this, it suffices to
say that no one in military authority has any right so
to do; that no one but the commanding officer is charged
with the duty of delivering an accused soldier to the civil
authorities, 'and that in time of war that obligation is not
even on him.
Mr. J. Q. Smith, Attorney General-of the State of Alabama, and Mr. Niel P. Sterne, with whom Mr. Benjamin
Micou was on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

The Solicitor General and Mr. H. S. Ridgely, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curiae, in behalf of the United
States.
MR. CHMF JUSTICE WHrrE delivered the opinion of the
court.

Pending the existence of a state of war with Germany
the appellant, a soldier in the Army of the United States
serving in a camp in Alabama, was tried and convicted for
the murder of a civilian at a place within the jurisdiction
of the State and not within the confines of any camp or
place subject to the control of the civil or military authorities of the United States. The conviction was reviewed
and affirmed by the Supreme Court of Alabama and was
reexamined and reaffirmed on rehearing.
The case is here to reverse the action of the court below
in refusing on writ of habeas corpus a discharge which was
prayed on the ground that, under the circumstances
stated, the sentence was void because the state court had
no jurisdiction whatever over the subject of"the commission of the crime, since under the Constitution and laws
of the United States that power was exclusively vested in a
court-martial.
As there was no demand by the military authorities for
the surrender of the accused, what would have been the
effect of such a demand, if made, is not before us. The
contention of a total absence of jurisdiction in the state
court is supported in argument, not only by the appellant,
but also by the United States in a brief which it has filed
as amicus curia. These arguments, while differing in
forins of expression, rest upon the broad assumption that
Congress in reenacting the Articles of War in 1916, by an
exercise of constitutional authority, vested in the military
courts-during a state of war exclusive jurisdiction to try
and punish persons in the military service for offenses

CALDWELL v. PARKER.
376.

Opinion of the Court.

committed by them which were violative of the law of the
several States. In other words, the proposition is that
under the Act of 1916, by mere operation of a declaration
of war, the States were completely stripped of authority
to try and punish for virtually all offenses against their
laws committed by persons in the military service. As in
both arguments differences between the provisions of the
Act of 1916 and the previous Articles are relied upon to
sustain the accomplishment of the result contended for, we
must briefly consider the prior Articles before we come to
test the correctness of the conclusion sought to be drawn
from the Articles of 1916.
The first Articles of War were adopted in 1775. By
them the generic power of courts-martial was established
as follows:
"L. All crimes, not capital, and all disorders and neglects, which officers and soldiers may be guilty of, to the
prejudice of good order and military discipline, though not
mentioned in the articles of war, are to be taken cognizance
of by general or regimental court-martial, according to the
nature and degree of the offence, and be punished at their
discretion."
It cannot be disputed that the effect of this grant was to
confer upon courts-martial as to offenses inherently military an exclusive authority to try and punish. In so far,
however, as acts which were criminal under the state law
but which became subject to military authority because
they could also appropriately be treated as prejudical to
good order and military discipline, a concurrent power
necessarily arose, although no provision was made in the
Articles regulating its exercise. But this omission was
provided for in Article 1 of § X of the revised Articles
adopted in 1776, as follows:
"Whenever any officer or soldier shall be accused of a
capital crime, or of having used violence, or committed any
offence against the persons or property of the good people

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

of any of the United American States, such as is punishable
by the known laws of the land, the commanding officer and
officers of every regiment, troop, or party, to which the
person or persons so accused shall belong, are hereby required, upon application duly made by or in behalf of the
party or parties injured, to use his utmost endeavors to
deliver over such accused person or persons to the civil
magistrate; and likewise to be aiding and assisting to the
officers of justice in apprehending and securing the person
or persons so accused, in order to bring them to a trial. If
any commanding officer or officers shall wilfully neglect or
shall refuse, upon the application aforesaid, to deliver over
such accused person or persons to the civil magistrates, or
to be aiding and assisting to the officers of justice in appre•hending such person or persons, the officer or officers so
offending shall be cashiered."
In view of the terms of this Article and the fact that it
was diawn from the British Articles, where the supremacy
of the civil law had long prevailed, it results that its provisions gave the civil courts, if: not a supremacy of jurisdiction, at least a primary power to proceed against
military offenders violating the civil law, although the
same acts were concurrently within the jurisdiction of the
military courts because of their tendency to be prejudicial
to good order and military discipline.
And in harmony with this view, the Articles in question
were applied up to 1806, in which year they were rednacted
without change as Articles 99 and 33 of that revisipn, and
were in force in 1863, in the Enrollment'Act of which year,
it was provided (Act of Marcxi 3, 1863, c. 75, § 30, 12 Stat. 736):
"That in time of war, insurrection, or rebellion murder, assault and battery with an intent to kill, manslaughter, mayhem, wounding by shooting or stabbing
with an intent to commit murder, robbery, arson, burglary, rape, assault and battery with an intent to commit

CALDWE.'
376.

v. PARKER.

388

Opinion of the Court.

rape, and larceny, shall be punishable by the sentence of a
general court-martial or military commission, when
committed by persons who are in the military service of
the:United States, and subject to the articles of war; and
the punishments for such offences shall never be less than
those inflicted by the laws of the state, territory, or district in which they may have been committed."
It is to be observed that by this section there was given
to courts-martial, under the conditions mentioned,. power
to punish for capital crimes, from which their authority
had been from 1775 expressly excluded; and power was
also given to deal, under the conditions stated and in the
manner specified, .with other enumerated offenses over
which they had not prior to the passage of the act had
jurisdiction, presumably because such acts had not in
practice been treated as within the grant of authority to
deal with them as prejudicial to good order and military
discipline.
In 1874, when the Articles of War were revised and reenacted (Rev. Stats., § 1342), the generic grant of power
to punish acts prejudicial to good order 'and military
discipline was re xpressed in Article 62, substantially as it
existed from 1775. The -provisions of .§30 of the Act of
1863, supra, were in so many words made to constitute
Article 58; and the duty put upon military officials, to
surrender to state officers on demand persons in the
military service charged with offenses against the State,
was reenacted in Article 59, qualified, however, with the
words, '".except in time of war." Thus the Articles stood
until they were reenacted in the Revision of 1916, as
follows:
The general grant of authority as to acts prejudicial to
gQod order and military discipline was reenacted in Article
96, substantially as it had obtained from the beginning.
The capital offenses of murder and rape, as enumerated in'
§ 30 of the Act of 1863, were placed in P, distinct Article

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

qnd power was given to military courts to prosecute and
punish them, as. follows:
"Art. .92. Murder-Rape.-Any person subject to
military law who commits murder or rape shall suffer
death or imprisonment for life, as a court-martial may
(be) direct; but no person shall be tried by court-martial
for murder or rape committed within the geographical
limits of the States of the Union and the District of Columbia in time of peace." (39 Stat. 664.)
The remaining offenses enumerated in the Act of 1863
were placed in a separate Article, as follows:
'(Art. 93. Various Crimes.-Any person subject to
military law who commits manslaughter, mayhem, arson,
burglary, robbery, larceny, embezzlement, perjury, assault
with intent to commit any felony, or assault with intent
to do bodily harm, shall be punished as a court-martial
may direct." (39 Stat. 664.)
And finally, the duty to respond to the demand of the
state authorities for the surrender of military offenders
against the state criminal laws was reenacted as it had
prevailed from the beginning, subject however to express
regulations to govern in case of conflict between state and
federal authority, and again subject to the qualification,
"except in time of war," as first expressed in the Revision
of 1874, theArticle being as follows:
"Art. 74. Delivery of Offenders to Civil Authorities.When any person subject to military law, except one who
is held by the military authorities to answer, or who is
awaiting trial or result of trial, or who is undergoing
sentence for a crime or offense punishable under these
articles, is accused of a crime or offense committed within
the gpographical limits of the States of the Union and the
District of Columbia, and punishable by the laws of the
land, the commanding officer is required, except in time of
war, upon application duly made, to use his utmost endeavor to deliver over such accused person to the civil

CALDWELL v. PARKER.
376.

Opinion of the Court.

authorities, or to aid the officers of justice in apprehending
or securing him, in order that he may be brought to trial.
Any commanding officer who upon such application refuses or willfully neglects, except in time of war, to deliver.
over such accused person to the civil authorities or to aid
the officers of justice in apprehending and securing him
shall be dismissed from the service or suffer such .other
punishment as a court-martial may direct." (39 Stat.
662.)
Comprehensively considering these provisions, it is
that they contain no direct and clear expression
apparent
of -a purpose
on. the part of Congress, conceding for the
sake of the argument that authority existed under the
Constitution to do so, to bring about, as the mere result of
a declaration of war, the complete destruction of state authority and the extraordinary extension of military power
iqpon which the argument rests. This alone might be sufficient to dispose of the subject for, as said in Coleman v.
Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509, 514, "With. the known hostility
of the American people to any interference by the military
with the .regular administration of justice in the civil
courts, no such intention should be ascribed to Congress in
the absence of clear and direct language to that effect."
Certainly, it cannot be assumed that the mere existence
of a state of war begot of necessity the military power as-.
serted,..since the Articles of War, originally adopted in
1.775, were, as we have seen, in the very midst of the War
for Independence, modified in 1776 to make certain the
o
preservation of the civil power.
But the :contention relied upon is directly based upon
the words, "except in time of war," as qualifying the duty
of the military officers to respond to the demaid by state
authority for the surrender of military Offenders against
the.- state criminal laws, impced by Article 74, and the
'grant in Article 92, expressed'in the form of a negative
pregnant, of authority to courts-martial to try capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

crimes when committed by an officer or soldier within the
geographical limits of the United States and the District
of Columbia in time of war. Both these provisions took
their origin in the Act of 1863 and were drawn from the
terms of that act as rexpressed in the Revision of 1874:
By its very terms, however, the Act of 1863 was wholly
foreign to the destruction of state and the enlargement of
military power here relied upon. It is true, indeed, that
by that act authority was for the first time given, as
pointed out in the Coleman Case, 97 U. S. 509, 514, to
courts-martial or military commissions to deal with capital
and other serious crimes punishable under the state law.
But the act did not purport to increase the general powers
of courts-martial by defining new crimes, or by bringing
enumerated offenses within the category of military crimes
as defined from the beginning,, as we have already pointed
out, but, simply cdntemplated endowing the military
authorities with power, not to supplant, but to enforce,
the state law. As observed by Winthrop, in his work on
Military Law, 2d ed., p. 1033, it was intended to provide,
through the military authorities, means of enforcing and
punishing crimes against the state law committed by
persons in the military service where, as the result of the
ezfstence of martial law or of military operations, the
courts of the State were not open and military power was
therefore needed to enforce the state law. And it was
doubtless this purpose indicated by the text, to which we
lave already called attention, which caused the court in
the CoZleman Case to say that that statute had no application-to territory where "the civil courts were open and in
the undisturbed exercise of their jurisdiction." (P. 515.)
As in 1866 it was settled in Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2,
that a state of war, in the absence of some occasion for the
declaration of martial law or conditions consequent on
military operations, gave no power to the military authorities where the civil courts were open and capable of per-

CALDWELL v. PARKER.
376.

Opinion of the Court.

forming their duties, to disregard their authority or
frustrate the..exercise by them of their normal and legitimate jurisdiction, it is indeed open to grave doubt whether
it was the purpose of Congress, by the words "except in
time of war," or the cognate words which were used with
reference to the jurisdiction conferred in capital cases, to
do more than to recognize the right of the military authorities, in time of war, within the areas affected by military
operations or where martial law was controlling, or where
civil authority was either totaily suspended or obstructed,
to deal with the crimes specified,-a doubt which'if solved,
against the assumption of general military power, would
demonstrate, not only the jurisdiction of the state-courts.
in this case, but the entire absence of jurisdiction in. the
military tribunals. And this doubt becomes additionally
serious when the Revision of 1874 is considered, since
that revision the Act of 1863 was in terms reenacted and
the words "except in time of war, " appearing for the first
time in Article 59 of that revision, could have been alone
intended to qualify the time'of wr with which the act
dealt, that is, a condition resulting from-a state of war
which prevented or interfered with the discharge of their
duties. by the civil courts.
Into the investigation of the: subject of whether it was
intended by the provision "except in time of war," contained in the Articles of 1916, to do more thain me~t the
conditions exacted by the actual exigencies of war like
those contemplated by the Act of 1863, and which were
within the purview of military authority, a&pointed out
in Px parte Milligan, we do not feel called upon to enter.
Wesay this because even though it be conceded that the
purpose of Congress by the Article. of 1916, departing from
everything which had gone before, was to give to military
courts, as the mere. result of a state of war, the power to
punish as military offenses the crimes specified when com-.
mitted by. those in the military service, such admission. is

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

here negligible because, in that view, the regulations relied
upon would do no more than extend the military authority,
because of a state of war, to the punishment, as military
crimes, of acts criminal under the state law, without the
slightest indication of purpose to exclude the jurisdiction
of state courts to deal with such acts as offenses against
the state law.
And this conclusion harmonizes with the principles of
interpretation applied to the Articles of War previous to
1916; Drury v. Lewis, 200 U. S. 1; Grafton v. United States,
206 U. S. 333; Franklin v. United States,'216 U. S. 559;
6 Ops. Atty. Gen. 413; and is, moreover, in accord with the
decided cases which have considered the contention of
exclusive power in the military courts as resulting from the
Articles of 1916 which we have here considered. People v.
Denman, 179 California, 497; Funk v. State, 208 S. W. Rep.
509; United States v. Hirsch, 254 Fed. Rep. 109.
It follows, therefore, that the contention as to the enlargement of military power, as the mere result of a state of
war, and the consequent complete destruction of state
authority,, are without merit and that the court was right
in so deciding and hence its judgment must be and it is
Affirmed.

CUYAHOGA RIVER POWER COMPANY v. NORTHERN OHIO TRACTION & LIGHT COMPANY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 102.

Argued March 17, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Plaintiff; a hydro-electric company organized under a general law of
Ohio, averred in its bill to quiet title, that its incorporation con-

stituted a contract whereby the State granted it a right of way for

