OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

are combined through agreements designed to take away
dealers' control of their own affairs and thereby destroy
competition and restrain the free and natural flow of
trade amongst the States.
The principles approved in Dr. Miles Medichl Co. v.
Park & Sons Co., should have been applied. The judgment below must be reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs

in the result.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS dis-

sent.

MILWAUKEE ELECTRIC RAILWAY & LIGHT
COMPANY v. STATE OF WISCONSIN EX REL.
CITY OF MILWAUKEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.

No. 55.

Argued November 10, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

When it is claimed that the obligation of a contract is impaired by a
state law, this court inclines to accept the construction placed upon
the contract by the Supreme Court of the State, if the matter is
fairly in doubt. P. 103.
A street railway franchise declared it the duty of the grantee company
"at all times to keep in good repair the roadway between the rails
and for one foot on the outside of each rail as laid, and the space between the two inside rails of its double tracks with the same material
as the city shall have last used to pave or repave these spaces and the
street previous to such repairs," unless the company and the city
agreed on some other material. In the absence of such an agreement,
held, that the company's obligation extended to the use of materials

MILWAUKEE ELEC. B1Y. CO. v. MILWAUKEE.
100.

101

Opinion of the Court.

adopted by the city in repaving the rest of the street which were not
the same as the city had last used in repaving between and near the
rails. P. 103.
Where a street railway, company by franchise contract with a city
undertakes to repave between and next its rails 'with such material
as the city used in repaving the rest of the street' and the city's regulatory power in respect of paving has not been precluded by contract, it is for the city to determine in the first instance what kind of
pavement the public necessity and convenience demand. Held, in
such a case, that the court could not say that it was inherently 'arbitrary and unreasonable to require the company to instal asphalt
on a concrete foundation which the city had adopted to replace
macadam and which was more expensive. P. 104.
A street railway company cannot escape a contractual duty to repave
between and next its tracks upon the ground that the expense will
reduce its income below six per cent., claimed to be not a reasonable
return upon property used and useful in its business. Id.
The Fourteenth Amendment in guaranteeing equal protection of the
laws does not assure uniformity of judicial decisions; and there is
clearly no ground for the contention that such protection is denied
because the state court, after a judgment complained of, rendered
another, claimed to be irreconcilable with it on a matter of law, in a
suit between strangers. P. 105. Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175,
and Muhlker v. New York & Harlem R. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544, distinguished.
166 Wisconsin, 163, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edwin S. Mack, with whom Mr. George P. Miller
and Mr. Arthur W. Fairchildwere on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Clifton Williams for defendant in error.,
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
A petition for a writ of mandamus was brought by the
City of Milwaukee in a lower court of the State df Wis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

consin to compel the Milwaukee Electric Railway and
Light Company to pave at its own expense with asphalt
upon a concrete foundation that portion of Center Street,
called the railway zone, which lies between the tracks
and for one foot outside of them. The paving had been
specifically ordered on November 8, 1915, by a city ordinance after the city had laid such a pavement on all of the
street except the railway zone. Theretofore the street had
been paved from curb to curb with macadam. The company adm.itted that the railway zone was in need of repaving at that time; but it insisted that under an ordinance of January 2, 1900, which constituted its franchise
to lay tracks on Center Street, it was entitled to repair
with macadam and could not be compelled to repave
with asphalt.
The case was heard in the trial court on a demurrer to
the amended return. The demurrer was sustained; and
the decision was affirmed by the Supreme Court (165
Wisconsin, 230). The company having failed after remittitur to file an amended return or take further action,
judgment was entered by the trial court awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus directing it to pave the railway
zone as directed in the ordinance This judgment also was
affirmed by the Supreme Court (166 Wisconsin, 163).
The case comes here on writ of error under § 237 of the
Judicial Code. The single question presented is whether
the ordinance of November 8, 1915, is void either under
§ 10 of Article I of the Federal Constitution as imnpairing
contract rights of the company or under the Fourteenth
Amendment as depriving it of property without due process of law. The ordinance of January 2, 1900, which is
the contract alleged to be impaired by the later.ordinance,
provides as follows:
"Sec. 2. .
.
It shall be the duty of said railway
company at all times to kdep in good repair the roadway
between the rails and for one foot on the outside of each rail

MILWAUKEE ELEC. RY. CO. v. MILWAUKEE.
100.

103

Opinion of the Court.

as laid, and the space between the two inside rails of its
double tracks with the same material as the city-shall.
have last used to pave or repave these spaces and the
street previous to such repairs, unless the said railway
company and the board of public works of said city shall
agree upon some other material, and said company shall
then use the material agreed upon.
"
The company contends that when this section is read
in connection with § 9, it clearly appears that the obligation to repave cannot be imposed.
First: The Supreme Court of the State held that the
language of § 2 was not distinguishable from that involved
in earlier cases in which it had held that a duty to keep
"in proper repair" without qualification was broad
enough to require repaving and repairing with the same
material with which the street was repaved. When this
court is called upon to decide whether state. legislation
impairs the obligation of a contract, it must determine
for itself whether there is a contract, and what its obligation is, as well as whether the obligation has been impaired. Detroit United Railway v. Michigan, 242 U. S.
238, 249. But, as stated in Southern Wisconsin Ry. Co.
v. Madison, 240 U. S.457, 461, "the mere fact that without the state decision we might have hesitated is: not
enough to*lead us to overrule that decision upon a fairly
doubtful point." Among the cases relied upon by the
state court is State ex rel. Milwaukee v. Milwaukee Electric
Ry. & Light Co., 151 Wisconsin, 520, which was cited by
this court in the Madison Case (p. 461) as a "persuasive
decision [s] that the obligation to keep the space 'in proper
repair' . .
extends to" repaving the railway zone with
asphalt when the rest of the street is being repaved with
that material. But the company points to the clause
in the ordinance of January 2, 1900, which provideA for
repair "with the same material as the city shall 'have
last used to pave or repave these spaces and the street,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. B.

and insists that its obligation is, in any event, limited to
repaving with such material as the city had last used
between the rails. This would put upon the city the burden of paving the whole street in case of any innovation
in paving save by agreement of the company and the city.
It is not a reasonable construction of the provision.
Second: Granted the duty to repave, and to repave
with material other than that last used in the space between the tracks, was it reasonable for the city to require
that the pavement be of asphalt upon a concrete foundation-a pavement which involved larger expense? The
city alleged in its petition that the use of macadam by
the railway was unreasonable, and that it is physically
impossible to make a water-tight bond between the waterbound macadam and the asphalt, so as to prevent water
from seeping through under the asphalt, causing it to
deteriorate in warm weather and to be lifted by freezing
in cold weather. The allegation was not expressly admitted by the return and must be deemed to have been
covered by its general denial of all allegations not expressly admitted; but neither party took steps to have
this formal issue disposed of. The case differs, therefore,
in this respect from the Madison Case, where there was
an express finding that repavement of the railway zone
with stone would have been unsuitable when the rest of
the street was of asphalt (p. 462). The difference is not
material. As the ordinance did not, as a matter of -contract, preclude regulation in respect to paving, it was
for the city to determine, in the first instance, what the
public necessity and convenience demanded. Compare
FairHaven & Westville R. R. Co. v. New Haven, 203 U. S.
379. We cannot say that its requirement that the railway zone be paved like the rest of the street with asphalt
upon a concrete foundation was inherently arbitrary or
unreasonable.
Third: The company insists that the -ordinance of

MILWAUKEE ELEC. RY. CO. v. MILWAUKEE.
100.

105

Opinion of the Court.

November 8, 1915, is unreasonable and void, also, for an
entirely different reason. It alleges in its return that
for a long time prior to that date the earnings from its
street railway system in Milwaukee were considerably
under six per cent. of the value of the property used and
useful in the business and were less than a reasonable return. It contends that this allegation was admitted by
the demurrer; and that to impose upon the company the
additional burden of paving with asphalt will reduce its
income below a reasonable return on the investment and
thus deprive it of its property in Violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court of the State
answered the contention by saying, "The company can
at any time apply to the railroad commission and have
the rate made reasonable." The financial condition of a
public service corporation is a fact properly to be considered when determining the reasonableness of an order
directing an unremunerative extension of facilities or forbidding their abandonment. Mississippi .Railroad Com-

mission v. Mobile & Ohio R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 388; New
York & Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, 245 U. S. 345, 350.
But there is no warrant in law for the contention that
merely because its business fails to earn full six per cent.
upon the value of the property used, the company can
escape either obligations voluntarily assumed or burdens
imposed in the ordinary exercise of the police power. Com-

pare Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262,
279; Chicago, Rock.Island & Pacific Ry. Co. V. Arkansas,
219 U. S. 453; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Omaha, 235
U. S. 121.
Fourth: The company also insists that the ordinance
is void because it denies equal protection of the laws. The
contention rests upon the fact that since entry of the
judgment below the Supreme Court of the State had
decided Superior v. Duluth Street Ry. Co., 166 Wisconsin,
487, which the company alleges is not reconcilable with

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Dissent.

252 U. S.

its decision in this case. The similarity of the ordinances
and conditions in the two cases does not seem to us as
clear as is asserted. But, however that may be, the Fourteenth Amendment does not in guaranteeing equal protection of the laws, assure uniformity of judicial decisions,
Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Co., 169 U. S. 557, 569,
any more than in guaranteeing due process it assures
immunity from judicial error, Central Land Co. v. Laidley,
159 U. S. 103; Tracy v. Ginzberg, 205 U, S. 170. Unlike
Gelpcke. v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175, and Mhlker v. New
York & Harlem R. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544, where protection
was afforded to rights acquired on the faith of decisions
later overruled, the company seeks here to base rights
on a later decision between strangers which, it alleges,
is irreconcilable on a matter of law with a decision theretofore rendered against it. The contention is clearly unsound.
As we conclude that there' was a contractual duty to
repave arising from the acceptance of the franchise, we
have no occasion to consider whether there was, as contended, aiso a statutory duty to do so arising under § 1862,
Wisconsin Statutes, which provides that street railways
shall "be subject to such reasonable rules and regulations

.

.

.

as the proper municipal authorities may by

ordinance, from time to time, prescribe."

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

and MR. JusTICE MCREYNOLDS

