KANSAS CITY SO. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
140.

147

Syllabus.

•Hermanos y Compaiiia, 209 U. S. 337; for Congress is
.presumed to have legislated with knowledge of such an
established usage of an executive department of the Government. United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, 256.
This case would not deserve even the limited discussion
which we thus have given it were it not for the extensive
and long continued application of the regulation of the
Department to imported and exported materials other
than such as are here involved. This specific case is
sufficiently ruled by the clear and satisfactory decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, rendered twenty-two years ago, in United States v. Dean

Linseed-Oil Co., 87 Fed. Rep. 453, in which the Court of
Claims found authority for dismissing the -plaintiff's pe-

tition. The judgment of the Court of Claims is
A ffirmed.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 154.

Submitted January 19, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

A railroad company which enters into a contract to carry the mails
"upon the conditions prescribed by law," etc., is liable to fines or
deductions from its compensation for failures to maintain its mail
train schedules (Rev. Stats., §§ 3962, 4002; At t of June 26, 1906,
c. 3546, 34 Stat. 472). P. 149.
The fact that the Post Office Department long abstained from making
such deductions under Rev. Stats., § 3962, where delays were less
than 24 hours, does not amount to construing that section as inapplicable to shorter delays. P. 150.
And in any event, the right to such a construction could not be claimed
by a company whose contract was made soon after the Postmaster
General had issued an order for deductions in future when trains
arrived fifteen or more minutes late a designated number of times

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

per quarter, and soon after the approval of the Act of June 26, 1906,
supra, directing him to impose and collect reasonable fines for failure of railroads to comply with their contracts respecting the times
of arrival and departure of trains. P. 150.
53 Ct. Clms. 630, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alex. Britton and Mr. Evans Browne for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Spellacy, Mr. Leonard
B. Zeisler and Mr. Charles H. Weston, Special Assistants
to the Attorney General, for the United States.
Mr. Benjamin Carter, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curio.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, in its petition, alleges: That in June,.
1906, it entered into contracts with the Post Office Department to transport the mails over three designated
routes "upon the conditions prescribed by law and the
regulations of the Department applicable to railroad mail
service;" that during the fiscal year 1907 (the petition
was not filed until December 19, 1912), the Department
withheld from its stipulated pay $3355.48, "as a penalty
imposed on account of late arrivals of . . . trains
and failure to perform service on the . . . mail
routes," and that such deductions were" unlawfully withheld." The prayer was for judgment for the full amount
of the deductions,-which are also designated in the record as fines or penalties. The petition was dismissed by
the Court of Claims.
The appellant acquiesced in the deductions when they
were made, accepted the reduced compensation without
protest or objection, except in one instance, when the
item complained of was adjusted to its satisfaction, and
continued to perform the contracts to the end of their

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147.

Opinion of the Court.

149

-

four-year periods without complaint as to the reasonableness of the deductions involved. And thus it comes admitting that it freely entered into the contracts, fully
performed them and accepted pay for such performance,
but asking judgment for deductions which it avers were
"unlawfully withheld" more than five years before the
petition was filed.
The contracts were of the type, familiar in many reported cases, evidenced by "distance circulars," orders
establishing the routes, specific agreements on the part of
the contractor that it would perform the service "upon
the conditions prescribed by law and the regulations of the
Department applicable to railroad mail service" and that
the "adjustment" should be "subject to future orders,
and to fines and deductions."
Among the applicable "conditions prescribed by law"
were: Rev. Stats., § 3962, that the Postmaster General
might "make deductions from the pay of contractors,
for failures to perform service according to contract, and
impose fines upon them for other delinquencies"; Rev.
Stats., § 4002, authorizing contracts for the conveyance
of the mails "with due frequency and speed"; and the
Act of June 26, 1906, c. 3546, 34 Stat. 467, 472, commanding the Postmaster General to require all railroads carrying mail to comply with the terms of their contracts "as
to time of arrival and departure of said mails" and "to
impose and collect reasonable fines for delay" when not
caused by unavoidable accidents or conditions.
It is conceded by the appellant that the Postmaster
General had authority under Rev. Stats., § 3962, to make
deductions from the pay when a "trip was not performed"
within twenty-four hours of the stipulated time for performance. But it is contended that he had no authority
to make deductions or impose fines for shorter delays,and this is the sole question upon which this appeal is
pursued into this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

It is argued for the appellant: That power to make the
disputed deductions must be found, if at all, in the provision of Rev. Stats., § 3962, that the Postmaster General
may "make deductions from the pay of contractors, for
failures to perform service according to contract, and impose fines upon them for other delinquencies"; that when
the contracts were made, long departmental construction
had limited the failure to perform service, described in
the act, to twenty-four hours of delay in the arrival of
trains; and that failure, from 1872, when the section was
enacted, to 1907, to impose fines or deductions for shorter
delays, amounted to a construction by the Department
that authority to impose fines upon contractors for delinquencies did not warrant deductions for failure to maintain train schedules when the delay was less than twentyfour hours.
We need consider only this last contention, and in reply
it is pointed out that the findings of fact show: that the
amount and rates of compensation were determined by
the Department for the various routes, between the 10th
and 26th of September, 1906, though effective as of the
first day of the preceding July; that in October, 1905, the
Postmaster General, "on account of the . . . failures
to observe the schedule on routes, or parts of routes,"
issued an order that deductions should be made, in sums
stated, after December 31, 1905, when trains arrived at
termini or junction points fifteen or more minutes late, a
designated number of times in a quarter; and that the Act
of Congress, approved June 26, 1906, referred to, declared
it to be the duty of the Postmaster General to impose and
collect reasonable fines for failure of railroads to comply
with the terms of their contracts with respect to the time
of arrival and departure of mails. This act was repealed
in the following year, but the substance of it was immediately reenacted in a more adaptable form.
Thus, the appellant had notice before it made the con-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147.

151

Opinion of the Court.

tracts under. discussion that failure to maintain train
schedules was regarded by Congress and the Department
as a violation of mail-carrying contracts, justifying the
imposition of fines or deductions, and that both believed
there was authority under the customary contracts and
the law to impose such deductions. The Act of Jiune 26,
1906, was not a grant of new power to the Postmaster
General to impose such fines or deductions, but was an
imperative direction to him to exercise the power which,
it assumes, he already had for that purpose.
This action of Congress and of the Department is sufficient answer to the claim, if it were otherwise sound, that
failure to exercise the power to impose fines for such a
cause amounted to a departmental declaration that no such
power existed.
But the contention is not sound. Failure, within moderate limits, to maintain train schedules may well hav(.
been regarded by the Postmaster General as a necessary
evil to be tolerated and not to call for the exercise of his
power to impose fines under the statute, when more flagrant neglect to maintain such schedules might very justly
require him to exercise such authority in order to prevent
intolerable public inconvenience. We cannot doubt\that
the contracts of the appellant, and the law which ws a
part of them, furnished ample authority for the action of
the Department in this case and that omission .to exercise
such power did not make against the proper use of it when,
in the judgment of the Postmaster General, adequate occasion for its use should arise.
We need not pursue the subject further. The principles
involved are adequately and admirably discussed by the
Court of Claims in its opinion, rendered in the case of
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. United States, 53 Ct.
Clms. 238, upon authority of which this case was decided.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.

