OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

innocent of intentional fault. The drawee failed to detect
the forged signature of the drawer. The forged indorsement puts him in no worse position than he would occupy
if that were genuine. He cannot be called upon to pay
again and the collecting bank has not received the proceeds
of an instrument to which another held a better title. The
equities of the drawee who has paid are not superior to
those of the innocent collecting bank who had full right to
act upon the assumption that the former knew the drawer's signature or at least took the risk of a mistake concerning it. Bank of England v. Vagliano Bros., L. R. App.
Cas. [1891] 107; Dedham Bank v. Everett Bank, 177
Massachusetts, 392, 395; Deposit Bank v. Fayette Bank, 90
Kentucky, 10; NationalPark Bank v. Ninth NationalBank,
46 N. Y. 77, 80; Howard v. Mississippi Valley Bank, 28 La.
Ann. 727; FirstNationalBank v. MarshalltownState Bank,
107 Iowa, 327; State Bank v. Cumberland Savings & Trust

Co., 168 N. Car. 606; 4 Harvard Law Review, 297, Article
by Prof. Ames. And see, Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S.

389, 396.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissents.

BOEHMER v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 191. Argued March 10, 11, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Section 4 of the Safety Appliance Act of 1893, in requiring grab irons
or handholds "in the ends and sides of each car," should be interpreted and applied in view of practical railroad operations, and does

BOEHMER v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
496.

497

Opinion of the Court.

not mean that the handholds on the sides shall be supplied at all
four comers, but is satisfied if they are placed at corners diagonally
opposite. P. 498.
Whether a railroad company was negligent in not notifying a brakeman that a car was not supplied with handholds on its sides at all
four corners, held a matter dependent on appreciation of peculiar
facts concerning which this court will accept the concurrent judgment of the two courts below without entering upon a minute analysis of evidence. Id.
252 Fed. Rep. 553, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburgand Mr. Thomas A. Sullivan
for petitioner.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John
Spalding Fkann-ry was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Relying upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
petitioner sought damages for personal injuries sustained
by him November 8, 1915, while employed by respondent
as brakesman. He claimed that the railroad was negligent
in using a freight car not equipped with handholds or grab
irons on all four outside corners; and also in failing to instruct him that he would be required to work about cars
not so equipped. The car in question had secure and
adequate handholds on the diagonally opposite corners.
Being of opinion that this equipment sufficed to meet the
commands of the statute and that, under the circumstances
disclosed, failure to instruct the petitioner concerning
possible use of such car did not constitute negligence, the
trial court directed verdict for respondent.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the consequent
judgment. 252 Fed. Rep. 553.

498

OCTOBER TIJRM, '1910.
Opinion of the Co ,rt.

252 UiS.

.Section 4 of'the Safety Appliance Act of 1893 (27 Stat.
531)', 'provides:
"That 'from ,and after the first, day of July, eighteen
huAdred and minety-five, until otherwise ordered by the
literstate Commerce Commission, it shall be unlawful for
any railroad' compdny to use any car in interstate commerce that is not provided with secure grab irons or handholds in the ends and sides of each car for greater security
to men in coupling and uncoupling cars."
Petitioner insists that the Act of 1893 was designed for
the safety of employees and specified grab irons or handholds in the end and sides of each car as one of the essential
requirements. That while it did not specifically command
that these should be placed at all four corners, this was the
obvious intent. But the courts below concurred in rejecting that construction, and we cannot say they erred in so
doing. Section 4 must be interpreted and applied in view
of practical railroad operations; and having considered
these the courts below ruled against petitioner's theory.
Likewise we accept the concurrent judgment of the
lower courts that the carrier was not negligent in failing to
give warning concerning the use of cars with handholds
only at two diagonal corners. Whether this constituted
negligence depended upon an appreciation of the peculiar
facts presented, and the rule is well settled that in such
circumstances where two courts have agreed we will not
enter upon a minute analysis of the evidence. Chicago
Junction Ry. Co. v. King, 222 U. S. 222.
The judgment is
Affrmed.

