OCTQBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

252 U. S.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF J. RAYMOND
TIFFANY, AS RECEIVER, ETC., PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS OR PROHIBITION.

No.,26, Original.

Argued January 19, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

Where the District Court, in a case depending on diverse citizenship,
having appointed a receiver to take charge of and disburse and distribute the assets of an insolvent state corporation, permitted a receiver later appointed for the same corporation by a court of the
State to intervene and, after full hearing, denied his application to
vacate the federal receivership and to have the assets turned over to
him upon the ground that the proceedings in the state court had
deprived the District Court of jurisdiction, held, that the order of
the District Court denying the application was a final decision,
within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 128, appealable to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. P. 36.
The words "final decision" in that section mean the same thing as
"final judgments and decrees," used in former acts regulating
appellate jurisdiction. Id.
When there is a right to a writ of error or appeal, resort may not be had
. to mandamus or prohibition. P. 37.
Rule discharged.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Merritt Lane, with whom Mr. Dougal Herr was on
the brief, for petitioner:
The order of the District Court was not appealable
under § 129 of the Judicial Code.
The application of the receiver in chancery was not to
dissolve the injunction but that the District Court should
instruct its receiver to turn over the assets to the phancery receiver before distribution to creditors.
And if application had been made to dissolve the injunctive order c6ntained in the order appointing the
receiver it would not have been appealable under § 129.

EX PARTE TIFFANY.
32.

Argument for Respondent.

Such is the effect of the decision in Highland Avenue
& Belt R. R. Co. v. Columbian Equipment Co., 168 U. S.
627.
An order refusing to vacate a receivership is not made
appealable under § 129.
The action of the District Court is not appealable
under § 128. That section applies only to final judgments or decrees. The opinion of the District Court in
denying petitioner's application is not appealable.
.The present application is similar to that made by the
petitioners in Re Metropolitan Railway Receivership, 208
U. S. 90, which this court determined on the merits.
If the award of the writ prayed for be a matter of discretion, we respectfully submit that the discretion should
be exercised, because the matter involves a conflict between the federal add state courts which should ultimately be settled in some form of proceeding in this
court. The applicant in fact represents the Court of
Chancery of New Jersey, which in its turn represents the
State in its sovereign capacity.
Moreover, before proceedings on appeal could be determined in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and in this
court, the assets would be distributed and the questions
involved would become merely academic.
Mr. Samuel Heyman for respondent:
The application to the District Court made by the
chancery receiver was for an order dissolving the injunction issued by it against the corporation and its officers
and for an order vacating the receivership. Such an'
order comes within § 129 of the Judicial Code.
The order was therefore appealable to the Circuit
Court of Appeals under that section.
The order was also appealable under § 128 of the
Code.
Judicial
It totally
excluded the chancery receiver from any-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

participation in the estate of the defunct corporation.
Upon a final distribution of the assets, he would be totally
ignored and distribution would be made to creditors
direct. As he claimed title to the assets under the provisions of the New Jersey Corporation Act, the order
was, as to him, a final judgment depriving him of his
property and under § 128 of the Judicial Code he had the
right to appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from this
order as a final judgment. Gumbel v. Pitkin, 113 U. S.
545; Savannah v. Jesup, 106 U. S. 563; Dexter Horton
Bank v. Hawkins, 190 Fed. Rep. 924; s. c. 194 U. S. 631.
The writ of mandamus should not be used for the
purpose of appeal and should be refused where the petitioner has other appellate relief. Ex parte Oklahoma, 220
U. S. 191;Ex parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363; In re Moore,
209 U. S. 490.
MR.JusTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application of J. Raymond Tiffany as receiver, appointed by the Court of Chancery of New Jersey, of William Necker, Inc., for a writ of mandamus, or
in the alternative a writ of prohibition, the object of
which is to require the District Judge and the District
Court of the United States for the District of New
Jersey to order the assets of the corporation, in the hands
of a federal receiver, to be turned over to applicant for
administration by him as receiver appointed by the New
Jersey Court of Chancery.
An order to show cause why the prayer of the petition
should not be granted wa- issued, a return was made by
the District Judge and the matter was argued and submitted. The pertinent facts axe: On September 30, 1916,
creditors and shareholders of William Necker, Inc., a
corporation of the State of New Jersey, filed a bill in the
United States District Court of New Jersey alleging the

EX PARTE TIFFANY.
32.

Opinion of the Court.

insolvency of the corporation, praying -for the appointment of a receiver, and a distribution of the corporate
assets among the creditors and shareholders. The bill
alleged diversity of citizenship as a ground for jurisdiction. The defendant corporation appeared and answered,
admitting the allegations of the bill, and joined in the
prayer that its assets be sold and distributed according to
law. Upon consent the District Court appointed a receiver. The estate is insolvent, and the assets in the'
hands of the federal receiver are insufficient to pay
creditors, and shareholders will receive nothing. On
March 28, 1919, two and one-half years after the appointment of the federal receiver, creditors of William
Necker, Inc., filed a bill in the Court of Chancery of New
Jersey alleging the corporation's insolvency, praying
that it be decreed to be insolvent, that an injunction
issue restraining it from exercising its franchises, and
that a receiver be appointed to dispose of the property,
and distribute it among creditors and shareholders. A
decree was entered in said cause adjudging the corporation insolvent, and appointing the petitioner, J. Raymond Tiffany, receiver. Thereupon Tiffany made application to the United States District Court asking that
its injunction enjoining the corporation and all of its
officers, and all other persons from interfering with the
possession of the federal receiver, be dissolved; that the
federal receivership be vacated, and that the federal
receiver turn over the assets of the company then in his
hands, less administration expenses, to the chancery
receiver for final distribution,-the contention being
that the appointment of the chancery receiver and the
proceedings in the state court superseded the federal proceeding, and deprived the federal court of jurisdiction.
The federal receiver haid made various reports and
conducted the business of the corporation up until the
time of the application in the Court of Chancery of New

OCTQBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court. •

252 U. S.

Jersey, in which the applicant was appointed receiver.
It appears that the applicants in the state court also filed
their verified claims with the federal receiver, and that
no creditor or shareholder made objection to the exercise
of the jurisdiction of the federal court until the application in the state court.
The Federal District Court permitted the chancery
receiver to intervene, heard the parties, and delivered an
opinion in which the matter was fully considered. As a
result of such hearing and consideration an order was
entered in which it was recited that Tiffany, the state
receiver, had made an application to the Federal District
Court for an order directing it to turn over to the chancery receiver all of the assets of the corporation in the
possession of the federal receiver, and the District Court
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said application
of J. Raymond Tiffany, receiver in chancery "be and the
same hereby is denied."
By the Judicial Code, § 128, the Circuit Court of
Appeals is given appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal
or writ of error final decisions in the District Courts, with
certain exceptions not necessary to be considered. It is
clear that the order made in the District Court refusing
to turn over the property to the chancery receiver was a
final decision within the meaning of the section of the
Judicial Code to which we have referred, and from which
the chancery receiver had the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals. By the order the right of the state
receiver to possess and administer the property of the
corporation was finally denied. The words: "final
decisions in the district courts" mean the same thing as
"final judgments and decrees" as used in former acts
regulating appellate jurisdiction. Loveland on Appellate
Jurisdiction of Federal Courts, § 39. This conclusion is
amply sustained by the decisions of this court. Savannah
v. Jesup, 106 U. S. 563; Gumbel v. Pitkin, 113 U. S. 545;

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
Syllabus.

32.

Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, 287. See also a well
considered case in the Circuit Court of Appeals, Ninth
Circuit-Dexter Horton National Bank v. Hawkins, 190
-Fed. Rep. 924.
It is well settled that where a party has the right to a
writ of error or appeal, resort may not be had to the
extraordinary writ of mandamus or prohibition. Ex parte
Harding, 219 U. S. 363; Ex parte Oklahoma, 220 U. S. 191.
As the petitioner had the right of appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals he could not resort to the writ of mandamus or prohibition. It results that an order must be
made discharging the rule.
Rule discharged.

SHAFFER v. CARTER, STATE AUDITOR, ET AL.
FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

APPEALS

Nos. 531, 580. Argued December 11, 12, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.
When, upon application for a preliminary injunction, the District
Court not only refuses the injunction but dismisses the bill, appeal

to this court should be under Jud. Code, § 238, from the final decree,
and not under § 266. P. 44.
Equity may be resorted to for relief against an unconstitutional tax lien,
clouding the title to real property, if there be no complete remedy at
law. P. 46.
Quere: Whether the Oklahoma laws afford an adequate legal remedy,
in a case where the constitutionality of the state income tax law is
in question. Id.
The Oklahoma taxing laws afford no legal remedy for removing a cloud
caused by an invalid lien for an income tax. P. 48.
Having acquired jurisdiction, equity affords complete relief. Id.
Governmental jurisdiction in matters of taxation depends upon the
power to enforce the mandate of the State by action taken within its
borders either in personam or in rein. P. 49.

