FARNCOMB v. DENVER.
1.

Counsel for Parties.

to make the overruling of it, in the absence of an opinion,
the basis of review by writ of error. It follows that the
allowance of the writ of error in the present case did not
rest upon a decision in which was drawn in question the
validity of a statute of the State or any authority exercised under it because of repugnancy to the Federal
Constitution, and the writ of error must be dismissed, and
it is so ordered.
Dismissed.

FARNCOMB ET AL. v. CITY AND COUNTY OF
DENVER ET AL.
ERROkt TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
COLORADO.
No. 110.

Argued January 14, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

As construed by the Supreme Court of Colorado, §§ 300 and 328 of
the charter of the City and County of Denver gave property owners
an opportunity to be heard before the Board of Supervisors respecting the justice and validity of local assessments for public improve-

ments proposed by the Park Commission, and empowered-the board
itself to determine such complaints before the assessments were
made. P. 9.
Parties who did not avail themselves of such opportunity can not be
heard to complain of. such assessments as unconstitutional. P. 11.
64 Colorado, 3, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the-opinion.

Mr. T. J. O'Donnell, with whom Mr. J. W. Graham was
on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James A. Marsh, with whom Mr. Norton Montgomery was on the briefs, for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY

252 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

Suit was brought in the District, Court of the City and
County of Denver by the plaintiffs in error to enjoin the
City from enforcing an assessment ordinance passed to
raise the necessary means to pay for certain park improvements and the construction of boulevards and
streets in the City of Denver.
The charter of the City of Denver was before this
court in Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 373. Sections
298 and 299 of the charter provide that the Board of
Local Improvements shall prepare a statement showing
the costs of improvements, interest, cost of collection,
etc., and apportion the same upon each lot or tract of
land to be assessed, shall cause the same to be certified by
the president, and filed in the office of the clerk. The
clerk shall then by advertisement in some newspaper of
general circulation, published in the city and county,
notify the owners of the real estate to be assessed and all
persons interested that said improvements have been or
will be completed, and shall specify the whole cost of the
improvement, and the share so apportioned to each lot, or
tract of land, or person, and any complaint or objection
that may be made in writing by such persons or owners to
the Board of Supervisors, and filed with the clerk within
sixty days from the first publication of such notice, shall
be heard and determined by the Board of Supervisors at
its first regular meeting after sixty days, and before the
passage of any ordinance assessing the cost of the impro~iements.
Section 300 provides: "At the meeting specified in
said notice, or any adjournment thereof, the board of
supervisors, sitting as a board of equalization, shall hear
and determine all such complaints and objections, and
may recommend to the board of public works any modification of their apportionments; the board of public

FARNCOMB v. DENVER.
7.

Opinion of the Court.

works may thereupon make such modifications and
changes as to them may seem equitable and just, or may
confirm the first apportionment and shall notify the
council of their final decision; and the council shall thereupon, by ordinance, assess the cost of said improvements
against all the real estate in said district and against such
persons, respectively, in the propoi-tions above mentioned."
Section 328 of the charter provides: "When the cost of
any such park site or parkway is definitely determined,
the park commission shall prepare, certify and file with
the clerk a statement showing the cost thereof as required
in Section 298 hereof; the clerk shall thereupon give the
notice required by Section 299 hereof; and thereupon the
same proceedings required in Section 300 hereof shall be
had, except that the proceedings therein provided to
be. observed by the board shall be observed by the park
commission; and the council shall thereupon by ordinance
assess the cost against the other real estate as aforesaid,
in the district, in accordance with said apportionments."
The federal question, brought before us by the writ of
error, concerns the constitutionality of § 300, above set
forth,-the contention being that it does not give interested property owners the opportunity to be heard where
the property is to be specially assessed for making improvements of the character in question, as the hearing
provided is before a board which has no power to decide
any complaint which the property owner may have or
make with respect to the validity or falseness of such
assessment, or to correct any error in such assessment, but
only has power to recommend to the power or authority,
originally making the assessment, any modifications of
portions of such assessment. That is that the Board of
Supervisors has only the power to recommend to the
Board of Park Commissioners the apportionment to be
made in the assessment. It is the contention of the
plaintiffp in error that the hearing thus afforded does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

give due process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. The Supreme
Court of Colorado, affirming the judgment of the District Court, denied this contention, and affirmed the
judgment of the District Court sustaining the validity of
the assessment. 64 Colorado, 3.
The Supreme Court of Colorado held that the question
had already been disposed of by its own previous decision,
affirmed as to the constitutional point by our decision in
Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S., supra. In Londoner v.
Denver the section, of the charter now involved was before
this court, being then § 31 of the charter. Section 300
to all intents is the same in terms as § 31, except that the
Board of Supervisors; sitting as a board of equalization,
is substituted for the City Council.
This' court when dealing with the constitutionality of
state statutes, challenged under the Fourteenth Amendment, accepts the meaning thereof as construed by the
'highest court of the State. St. Louis & Kansas City Land
Co. v. Kansas City, 241 U. S.419, 427.
In Londoner v. Denver this court accepted, as it was
bound to do, the construction of the charter made by the
state court, and upon that construction determined its
constitutional validity. The City Charter was construed
in the Supreme Court in 33 Colorado, 104. In the opinion in that case, after discussing the steps required in
making improvements of the character involved here,
the court, in dealing with § 31, said (p. 117): "Notwithstanding the apparently mandatory words employed in
Section 31, supra, we do not think that thereby the
legislative power and discretion of the city council is
taken away and vested in the board of public works, but
that the former, in the exercise of its functions, is empowered 1o pass an assessing ordinance charging property
with the cost of an improvement, which, according to its
judgment, would be just and equitable."

FARNCOMB v. DENVER.
7.

Opinion of the Court.

Adopting this construction of the section, and considering the objection urged that it would not afford due
process of law, this court, by Mr. Justice Moody, said
(p. 379): "The ninth assignment questions the constitutionality of that part of the law which authorizes the
assessment of benefits. It seems desirable, for the proper
disposition of this and the next assignment, to state the
construction which the Supreme Court gave to the charter. This may be found in the judgment under review
and two cases decided with it. Denver v. Kennedy, 33
Colorado, 80; Denver v. Dumars, 33 Colorado, 94. From
these cases it appears that the lien upon the adjpining
land arises out of the assessment; after the cost of the
work and the provisional apportionment is certified to
the city council the landowners affected are afforded an
opportunity to be heard upon the validity and amount
of the assessment by the council sitting as a board of
equalization; if any further notice than the notice to file
complaints and objections is required, the city authorities
have the implied power to give it; the hearing must be
before the assessment is made; this hearing, provided for
by § 31, is one where the board of equalization 'shall
hear the parties complaining and such testimony as they
may offer in support of their complaints and objections
a$ would be competent and relevant,' 33 Colorado, 97;
and that the full hearing before the board of equalization
excludes the courts from entertaining any ojections
which are cognizable by this board. The statute itself
therefore is clear of all constitutional faults."
Plaintiffs in error did not avail themselves of the privilege of a hearing as provided by this section, but after
the assessing ordinance had been passed began this proceeding in the District Court to test the constitutioaality
of the law. As we have said, the question as to what
should be a proper construction of the charter provision
was not for our decision; that matter was within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

252 U. S.

sole authority of the state court, and was disposed of, as
the Supreme Court of Colorado held, by the former cases
reported in 33 Colorado, and by our decision based upon
that construction in Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S., supra.

AS the plaintiffs in error had an opportunity to be heard
before the board duly constituted by §300, they cannot
be heard to complain now. It follows that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Colorado must be
Aflirmed.

GOLDSMITH ET AL. v. GEORGE G. PRENDERGAST CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
ERROR TOTHE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 127.

Argued January 13, 14, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

In apportioning the cost of a sewer, the assessing authorities excluded
therefrom a city park from part of which the drainage was naturally

.toward, and was to some extent conducted into, the sewer; but the
amount so conducted was not shown to be considerable, nor did it
appear that such drainage could not be disposed of by other means.
The state courts having sustained the exclusion as within the discretion of the assessing authorities, held, that it could not be regarded
as so arbitrary and unequal in operation and effect as to render
assessments on other property invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 17.
Refusal to transfer a cause from a division of the Supreme Court of
Missouri to the court in banc does not violate any constitutional
right. P. 18.
273 Missouri, 184, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. David Goldsmith for plaintiffs in error:
The failure 4 the m.nicipal authorities to include any
part of the Tower Grove Park property in the sewer

