OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

STRATHEARN STEAMSHIP COMPANY, LIMITED, v. DILLON..
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 373.

Argued December 9, 1919.-Decided March 29, 1920.

Section 4 of the'Seamen's Act of March 4, 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164,
amending Rev. Stats., § 4530, provides that every seaman on a
vessel of the United States shall be entitled to receive on demand
from the master one-half of the wages which he shall then have
earned, at every port where such vessel, after the voyage has been
commenced, shall load or deliver cargo before the voyage is ended;
that all stipulations in the contract to the contrary shall be void;
that such demand shall not be made before the expiration of or oftener
than 5 days; that the master's failure to comply shall release the
seaman from his contract and entitle him to full payment of wages
earned, and (by a proviso) that the section shall apply to seamen on
foreign vessels while in harbors of the United States, and that the
courts of the United States shall be open to such seamen for its enforcement.
Held: (1) The proviso makes it clear that the benefits of the section
are for foreign seamen on foreign vessels as well as American seamen
on such vessels, since, otherwise, the grant of access to federal courts
-a right already enjoyed by American seamen-would have been
superfluous. P. 353. Sandberg v. McDonald, 248 U. S. 185, distinguished.
(2) The title of the act does not justify a different construction. P. 354.
(3) The section is constitutional as applied to the case of a foreign
seaman who shipped abroad on a foreign vessel under a contract
withholding payment of wages until the end of the voyage, and
where demand was made before that time, it being within the authority of Congress thus to condition the right of foreign vessels to
enter and use the ports of the United States. P. 355. Patterson v.
Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169.
(4) The wages in respect of which demand may be made are not limited
to those earned in a port of. the United States, nor does the section
intend that demand made in such a port shall be deferred five days
from the arrival of the vessel there. P. 356.
256 Fed. Rep. 631, affirmed.

STRATHEARN S. S. CO. v. DILLON.
348.

Argument for Petitioner.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Ralph James M. Bullowa, for petitioner, submitted:
The statute was not intended to apply to a foreign
seaman entering into a valid contract in a foreign port for
service on a foreign vessel.
If the scope of the act is so broadened, it is necessary
to impute to Congress an intention to enact legislation
having force beyond the territory of the United States;
to interfere with friendly foreigners by destroying the
contracts which they have made between themselves at
home merely because their ships visit our ports; and to
interfere with and attempt to control the relations between the subjects of a foreign friendly power aboard their
own ships while they are temporarily in American waters.
The language of the proviso does not require such a construction. It may readily be so construed as to avoid
such results by excluding from its operation foreign seamen under agreements made in foreign countries, thus
making it conform to the purpose of the act as expressed
in its title.
The libellant contends that the object was to make the
seaman a "free man"-in simple words, to encourage
desertion from foreign vessels, not to promote the welfare
of American seamen. This is much too short-sighted to
be accepted as American. Under British law the breach
of a seaman's contract is desertion, and the punishment
for desertion is imprisonment. Of what avail is it for a
British seaman to desert and to ship on an American
vessel with higher wages and, when he arrives in a British
port, to be imprisoned? The argument further implies
that it was the will of Congress to impose its standards
not only on behalf of American seamen but of all seamen
American or foreign. Fundamentally and radically the
argument is at variance with the first principles of our
Republic and is an attempt to violate the sovereignty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

252 U. S.

each nation and the comity of nations. Moore, International Law Dig., vol. II, p. 335; Wildenhus's Case, 120
U. S. 1; Sandberg v. McDonald, 248 U. S. 185.

If construed as libellant contends, this statute violates
the due process of law clause of the Constitution. It
would give him wages to which he is not entitled under
his contract; these same wages it would take from the
ship; it would deprive the ship of libellant's services to
which, under their contract, it is entitled; and it would
take from the ship a right to defend an action brought by
the seaman for wages which under his contract he has not
yet earned. The argument that the effect of the statute
is "merely remedial," in opening the courts of this country
to foreign seamen, is contrary to the statements by which
it has been explained, and to the statute itself. Properly,
Congresi has refused our fora to the enforcement of
remedies which are contrary to its public policy (such as
imprisonment for desertion), and has made it illegal to
enter into a contract contrary to its law within its jurisdiction (Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169); but it

is radically different to open our fora, not for the enforcement of its law, but for the avowed purpose of interfering with and rendering void the contracts, laws and
regulations of a friendly power.
It cannot be held that the law of the place of performance is the law of the United States, for the place of performance was a British ship; and although she was not
immune from process while in the ports of the United
States, still she did not cease to be British. While amenable to the police power of the United States, and of its
several States, "her discipline and all things done on
board which affected only the vessel or those belonging
to her" must be dealt with according to British law. The
agreement to pay the seamen's wages was not to be per.formed in the United States-the wages were to be paid
only upon the return of the vessel to a port in the United

STRATHEARN S. S. CO. v. DILLON.
348.

Opinion of the Court.

Kingdom, except as the master might voluntarily make
prior payments.
The temporary stay in a port of the United States cannot be held to take away the right of the owner to the
security, which he held for the-performance of the seaman's contract.
Even if the act applies to foreign seamen upon foreign
vessels who ship at a foreign port, the libellant's demand
for half wages was premature, five days not having elapsed
from the time of the arrival of the vessel at an American
port. The Italier, 257 Fed. Rep. 712.
Mr. George Sutherland and Mr. W. J. Waguespack,
with whom Mr. Silas B. Axtell was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr.' Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. Howard Thayer
Kingsbury for the British Embassy, by special leave of
court.
The Solicitor General; with whom Mr. A. F. Myers,
was on the brief, for the United States, by special leave of
court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents questions arising under the Seamen's
Act of March 4, 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164. It appears
that Dillon, the respondent, was a British subject, and
shipped at Liverpool on the eighth of May, 1916, on a
British vessel. The shipping articles provided for a voyage of not exceeding three years, commencing at Liverpool
and ending at such port in the United Kingdom as might
be required by the master, the voyage including ports of
the United States. The wages which were fixed by the
articles were made payable at the end of the .voyage. At

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

the time of the demand for one-half wages, and at the
time of the beginning of the action, the period of the
voyage bad not been reached. The articles provided that
no cash should be advanced abroad or liberty granted
other than at the pleasure of the master. This, it is admitted, was a valid contract for the payment of wages
under "he laws of Great Britain. The ship arrived at the
Port of Pensacola, Florida, on July 31, 1916, and while
she was in that port, Dillon, still in the employ of the
ship, demanded from her master one-half part of the wages
theretofore earned, and payment was refused. Dillon
had received nothing for about two months, and after
the refusal of the master to comply with his demand for
one-half wages, he filed in the District Court of the United
States a libel against the ship, claiming $125.00, the
amount of wages earned at the time of demand and refusal.
The District Court found against Dillon upon the
ground that his demand was premature. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed this decision, and held that
Dillon was entitled to recover. 256 Fed. Rep. 631. A
writ of certiorari brings before us for review the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In Sandberg v. McDonald, 248 U. S. 185, and Neilson
v. Rhine Shipping Co., 248 U. S. 205, we had occasion to

deal with § 11 of the Seamen's Act, and held that it did
not invalidate advancement of seamen's wages in foreign
countries when legal where made. The instant case reIquires us to consider now §4 of the same act. That section
amends § 4530, Rev. Stats., and so far as pertinent provides: "Sec. 4530. Every seaman on a vessel of the

United States shall be entitled to receive on demand from
the master of the vessel to which he belongs one-half part
of the wages which he shall have then earned at every
port where such vessel, after the voyage has been commenced, shall load or deliver cargo before the.voyage is
ended and all-stipulations in the contract to the contrary

STRATHEARN S. S. CO. v. DILLON.
348.

Opinion of the Court.

shall be void: Provided, Such a demand shall not be made
before the expiration of, nor oftener than once in five
days.- Any failure on the paxt of the master to comply
with this demand shall release the seaman from his contract and he shall be entitled to full payment of wages
earned.
.
And provided further, That this section
shall apply to seamen on foreign vessels while in harbors
of the United States, and the courts of the United States
shall be open to such seamen for its enforcement."
This section has to do with the recovery of wages by
seamen, and by its terms gives to every seaman on a
vessel of the United States the right to demand one-half
the wages which he shall have then earned at every port
where such vessel, after the voyage has been commenced,
shall load or deliver cargo before the end of the voyage,
and stipulations in the contract to the contrary are declared to be void. A failure of the master to comply with
the demand releases the seaman from his contract and
entitles him to recover full payment of the wages, and the
section is made applicable to seamen on foreign vessels
while in harbors of the United States, ad the courts of
the United States are open to such seamen for enforcement of the act.
This section is an amendment of § 4530 of the Revised
Statutes. It was intended to supplant that section, as
amended by the Act of December 21, 1898, c. 28, 30 Stat.
756, which provided, "Every seaman on a vessel of the
United States shall be entitled to receive from the master
of the vessel to which he belongs one-half part of the
wages which shall be due him at every port where such
vessel, after the voyage has been commenced, shall load
or deliver cargo before the voyage is ended unless the
contraxy be expressly stipulated in the contract," etc.
The section, of which the statute now under consideration is an amendment, expressly excepted from the right to
recover one-half of the wages those cases in which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

contract otherwise provided. In the amended section all
such contract provisions are expressly rendered void, and
the right to recover is given the seamen notwithstanding
contractual obligations to the contrary. The language
applies to all seamen on vessels of the United States, and
the second proviso of the section as it now reads makes it
applicable to seamen on foreign vessels while in harbors of
the United States. The proviso does not stop there, for it
contains the express provision that the courts of the United
States shall be open to seamen on foreign vessels for its
enforcement. The latter provision is of the utmost importance in. determining the proper construction of this
section of the act. It manifests the purpose of Congress
to give the benefit of the at to seamen on foreign vessels,
and to open the doors of the federal courts to foreign seamen. No such provision was necessary as to American
seamen, for they had the right independently of 'this
statute to seek redress in the courts of the United States,
and, if it were the intention of Congress to limit the provision of the act to American seamen, this feature would
have been wholly superfluous.
It is seld that it is the purpose to limit the benefit of the
act to American seamen, notwithstanding this provision
giving access to seamen on foreign vessels to the courts of
the United States, because of the title of the act in which
its purpose is exprersed "to promote the welfare of American seamen in the merchant marine of the United States."
But the title is more than this, and not only declares the
purposes to promote the welfare of American seamen but
further to abolish arrest and imprisonment as a penalty for
desertion and to secure the abrogation of treaty provisions
in relation thereto; and to promote safety at sea. But the
title of an act cannot limit the plain meaning of its text,
although it may be looked to to aid in construction in cases
of doubt. Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418, 530, and cases
cited. Apart from the text, which we think plain, it is by

STRATHEARN S. S. CO. v. DILLON.
348.

Opinion of the Court.

no means clear that, if the act were given a construction to
limit its application to American seamen only, the purposes of Congress would be subserved, for such limited
construction would have a tendency to prevent the employment of American seamen, and to promote the engagement of those who were not entitled to sue for onehalf wages under the provisions of the law. But, taking
the provisions of the act as the same are written, we think
it plain that it manifests the purpose of Congress to place
American and foreign seamen on an equality of right in so
far as, the privileges of this section are concerned, with
equal opportunity to resort to the courts of the United
States for the enforcement of the act. Before the amendment, as we have already pointed out, the right to recover
one-half the wages could not be enforced in face of a contractual obligation to the contrary. Congress, for reasons
which it deemed sufficient, amended the act so as to permit the recovery upon the conditions named in the statute.
In the case of Sandberg v. McDonald, 248 U. S. supra, we
found no purpose manifested by Congress in § 11 to interfere with wages advanced in foreign ports under contracts legal where made. That section dealt with advancements, and contained no provision such as we find in
§ 4. Under § 4 all contracts are avoided which run counter
to the purposes of the statute. Whether consideration for
contractual rights under engagements legally made in
foreign countries would suggest a different course is not
our province to inquire. It is sufficient to say that Congress has otherwise declared by the positive terms of this
enactment, and if it had authority to do so, the law is enforcible in the courts.
We come then to consider the contention that this construction renders the statute unconstitutional as being
destructive of contract rights. But we think this contention must be decided adversely to the petitioner upon the
authority of previous cases in this court. The matter was

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

fully considered in Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169,
in which the previous decisions of this court were reviewed,
and the conclusion reached that the jurisdiction of this
Government over foreign merchant vessels in our ports
was such as to give authority to Congress to make provisions.of the character now under consideration; that it
was for this Government to determine upon what terms
and conditions vessels of other countries might be permitted to enter our harbors, and to impose conditions
upon the shipment of sailors in our own ports, and make
them applicable to foreign as well as domestic vessels.
Upon the authority of that case, and others cited in the
opinion therein, we have no doubt as to the authority of
Congress to pass a statute of this sort, applicable to foreign
'vessels in our ports and controlling the employment and
payment of seamen as a condition of the right of such
foreign vessels to enter and use the ports of the United
States.
But, it is insisted, that Dillon's action was premature as
he made a demand upon the master within less than five
days after the vessel arrived in an American port. This
contention was sustained in the District Court, but it was
ruled otherwise in the Court of Appeals. Turning to the
language of the act, it enacts in substance'that the demand shall not be made before the expiration of five days,
nor oftener than once in five days. Subject to such limitation, such demand may be made in the port where the
vessel stops to load or deliver cargo. It is true that the
act is made to apply to seamen on foreign vessels while in
United States ports, but this is far from requiring that the
wages shall be earned in such ports, or that the vessels
shall be in such ports five days before demand for one:half the wages earned is made. It is the wages of the
voyage for which provision is made, with the limitation
of the right to demand one-half of the amount earned not
oftener than once in five days. The section permits no

STRATHEARN S. S. CO. v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

348.

demand until five days after the voyage has begun, and
then provides that it may be made at every port where the
vessel stops to load or deliver cargo,.subject to the five-day
limitation. If the vessel must be five days in p!ort before
demand can be made, it would defeat the purpose of the
law as to vessels not remaining that long in port, and
would run counter to the manifest purpose of Congress to
prevent a seaman from being without means while in a
port of the United States.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth
Circuit, whose judgment we are now reviewing, that the
demand was not premature. It is true that the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held in the case of
The Italier, 257 Fed. Rep. 712, that demand, made before
the vessel had been in port for five days, was premature;
this was upon the theory that the law was ' not iaforce
until the vessel had arrived in a port of the United 'States.
But, the limitation upon demand has no reference to the
length of stay in the domestic port. The right to recover
wages is controlled by the provisions of the statute and
includes wages earned from the beginning of the voyage.
It is the right to demand and recover such wages, with the
limitation of the intervals of demand as laid down in the
statute, which is given to the seaman while the ship is ina
harbor of the United States.
We find no error in the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals and the same is
:

Affirmed.

