CANADIAN NORTHERN RY. CO. v. EGGEN.
547,

553

Syllabus.

duty of. the executors to pay before July 1, 1902, and for
compelling payment of which a statutory remedy was
given to the legatees before that date, were vested in possession and enjoyment, within the meaning of the Act' of
June 27, 1902, as it was interpreted in Ugited States v.

Fidelity Trust Co., 222 U. S. 158; McCoach v. Pratt, 236
U. S. 562, 567; and in Henry v. United States, 251 U. S. 393.
The case would be one for an. increased assessment, rather
than for a refund, if the War Revenue Act had not been

repealed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS did not participate in the
discussion or decision of this case.

CANADIAN NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
EGGEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 281.

Argued March 1, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

The iprivileges and immunities" clause of the Constitution, Art. IV,
§ 2, protects rights which are in their nature fundamental, including
the right of a citizen of one State to institute and maintain actions
in the courts of another; but in that respect the requirement is
satisfied if the non-resident be given access to the courts upon terms
that are reasonable and adequate for enforcing whatever rights he
may have, even though the terms be not the same as are accorded
to resident citizens. P. 562.
The power is in the courts, ultimately in this one, to decide whether
the terms allowed the non-resident are reasonable and adequate.

Id.
A Minnesota statute, in force since 1858, provides that when a cause
of action has arisen outside of the State and, by the laws of the place

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

.252 U. S.

where it arose, an action thereon is there barred by lapse of time,
no such action shall be maintained in the State unless the plaintiff
be a citizen thereof who has owned the cause of action ever since it
accrued. Held constitutional as applied to an action in Minnesota
by a citizen of South Dakota against a Canadian corporation for
personal injuries sustained by the plaintiff .in Canada, the Canadian
limitation in such cases being one year, whereas the time allowed in
Minnesota, apart from the above provision, is six years. P. 559.
255 Fed. Rep. 937, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William D. Mitchell, with whom Mr. Pierce Butler
was on the brief, fot petitioner:
The power to classify exists, and a difference in right
or privilege resulting from classification is not objectionable, provided the classification aas a reasonable basis,
and rests on a real distinction which bears a just relation
to the attempted classification and is not a mere arbitrary selection. Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Samings Bank,
170 U. S. 283, 294.
Granting the power of classification, we must grant
government the right to select the differences upon which
the classification shall be based, and they need not be
great or conspicuous. Citizens' Telephone Co. v. Fuller,
229 U. S. 322, 331. Such classification need not be either
logically appropriate or scientifically accurate. District
of Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138, 150. Chambers v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 142, 148, 149, must
be read in the light of these principles.
The Constitution does not prohibit a discrimination
between residents of different States as to the time within
which a suit may be commenced if it is based upon a
practical difference in the conditions which have surrounded the prosecution of the claim, resulting from a
difference in residence. Residence, as affecting the facility
for bringing suit, is an important factor in all statutes of
limitation. A difference is made in the time allowed to

CANADIAN NORTHERN RY. CO. v. EGGEN.
553.

555

Argument for Petitioner.

bring suit against resident and non-resident defendants.
Such discrimination in favor of a resident defendant is
not invalid.
In the Minnesota statute, the basis for the distinction
made by the exception is not merely the fact of residence
or citizenship in Minnesota, but the fact that the resident
plaintiff, who has owned the cause of action since it accrued, cannot be charged with the same delinquency in
prosecuting his claim against a non-resident as is chargeable to a non-resident plaintiff or is imputed to a resident
plaintiff who has purchased the claim by assignment from
a non-resident. The statute is not a clear and hostile discrimination against citizens of other States. Citizenship
is not the sole basis for the discrimination. The exception
favors only those who have owned the cause of action
since it accrued. Again, it is only where the foreign statute prescribes a shorter period of limitation than the
Minnesota statute that any difference exists between
resident and non-resident plaintiffs. It applies only'to
causes of action arising outside of the State.
It may be suggested that the test applied by the statute is not residence, but citizenship, and therefore the
justification for classification fails. But the word "citizen," as used in state statutes, is often synonymous with
the word "resident" and may be so construed. Cairnes
v. Cairnes, 29 Colorado, 260; Union Hotel Co. v. Hersee,
79 N. Y. 454; Smith v. Birmingham Water Works Co., 104
Alabama, 315; Risewick v. Davis, 19 Maryland, 82, 93;
Judd v. Lawrence, 55 Massachusetts, 531; Bacon v. Board
of State Tax Commissioners, 126 Michigan, 22; Cobbs v.
Coleman, 14 Texas, 594, 597; State v. Trustees, 11 Ohio
St. 24, 28; Baughman v. National Waterworks Co., 46
Fed. Rep. 4, 7; Harding v. Standard Oil Co., 182 Fed.
Rep. 421; Devanney v. Hanson, 60 W. Va. 3; Sedgwick v.
Sedgwick, 50 Colorado, 164; Stevens V. Larwill, 110 Mo.

App. 140.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

252 U. S.

The evident purpose of the legislature and the principles underlying this statute would justify this interpretation if necessary to sustain it. The word "citizen"
was used to make it clear that permanent residence or
domicile, and not temporary residence, is the test. But
if the word "citizen" be accepted as having a different
meaning than "resident," the result is the same. Under
the Fourteenth Amendment, to be a citizen of Minnesota
a person must be a resident of the State.
If the validity of this statute be in doubt, legislative
and judicial acquiescence in the validity of such statutes
for a long period should operate to resolve that doubt in
favor of the statute. The statutes of many other States
are substantially identical in term 3 with, or embody the
same principle as, the Minnesota statute. They use the
word "citizen," instead of "resident." They have been.
applied by the.-ourts in hundreds of cases, covering over
a period of nearly three-quarters of a century. See, for
example, Penfield v. Chesapeake &c. R'.R. Co., 134' U. S.
351.
The validity of such statutes has been questioned in
but four cases (Chemung Canal Bank v. Lowery, 93
U. S.72; Aultman & Taylor Co. v. Syme, 79 Fed. Rep.
238; Robinson v. Oceanic Steam Nay. Co., 112 N. Y. 315;
Klotz v. Angle, 220 N. Y. 347), but in each the discrimination between residents and non-residents has been sustained. If there be doubt as to the constitutionality of
the law, this long acquiescence would be persuasive, and
should be controlling. Stuart V. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299;
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.649, 691.
Although there is a difference between a statute making
a distinction between citizens and one maling a distinction between residents, only aliens could take exception
to the use of the word "citizen" instead of "resident.".
The privileges and immunities clause does not apply to
aliens, and, as to the equal protection clause, it is enough

CANADIAN NORTHERN RY. CO. v. EGGEN.
553.

557

Argument for Respondent.

to say that no alien is a party to this suit, and only those
injuriously affected can urge the invalidity of a statute.
Standard Stock Food Co. v. Wright, 225 U. S. 540.
Mr. Ernest A. Michel, with whom Mr. Tom Davis was
on the brief, for respondent:
The effect and intent of the Minnesota statute is to
give to citizens of Minnesota privileges which are denied
to non-citizelis. Fletcher v. Spaulding, 9 Minnesota, 54.
The statute permits a discrimination based solely on the
ground of citizenship.
A right of action to recover damages for an injury is
property, which the legislature has no power to destroy.
Angle v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 151 U. S. 1. The action
being properly brought, the State cannot keep and retain
this privilege for its own citizens and deny it to citizens
of other States. The word "privileges" must be confined
to those privileges which are fundamental; and includes
the right to institute and maintain actions of any kind in
the courts of the State. Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C.
371, 380. See also Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 180;
Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430; Cole v. Cunningham,
133 U. S. 107, 114; Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36,
-77. The right is not "merely procedural."
Respondent is denied the right -to seek redress in the
courts of Minnesota, because he is not a citizen of Minnesota, but is a citizen of South Dakota. Article IV, § 2, of
the Constitution, intended to confer a general citizenship upon all citizens of the United States. Cole v. Cunningham, supra; and because the discrimination in the
statute is based solely on citizenship, the statute must fall.
That the Minnesota statute is unconstitutional is conclusively settled by Chambers v. Baltimore .& Ohio R. R.
Co., 207 U. S. 142. That case leaves it undisputed that
the right to maintain actions in the courts is one of the
fundamental privileges guaranteed and rotected by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

Constitution, and that this right must be given to noncitizens the same as to citizens, no more, no less, and
without any restrictions or reservations that are not of
equal application to citizens and non-citizens. See also
Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 266; Chalker v. Birmingham & Northwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522; Maxwell v.
Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525.
The contention that to hold the statute unconstitutional
would nullify statutes in existence for many years is not
of great weight. Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co., 228
U. S. 364.
The statute also contravenes the Fourteenth Amendment.
Chemung Canal Bank V. Lowery, 93 U. S. 72, is not in
point. The question of the authority of the legislature to
pass the statute there involved is left wholly untouched.
The question here is not a question of a reason for the
statute; it is a question of power.
None of the cases cited by petitioner, holding generally
that a reasonable classification is not a violation of the
privileges and immunities clause, hold that any State
may take away any fundamental right or privilege of a
citizen of the United States solely because he does not
happen to be a citizen of that State.
MR. JUsTIcE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question presented for decision in this case
is as to the validity of § 7709 of the Statutes of Minnesota
(General Statutes of Minnesota, 1913), which reads:
"When" a cause of action has arisen outside of this
state and, by the laws of the place where it arose, an
action thereon is there- barred by lapse of time, no such
action shall be maintaind in this state unless the plaintiff be a citizen of the state who has owned the cause of
action ever since it accrued."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the District

CANADIAN NORTHERN RY. CO. v. EGGEN.
553.

559

Opinion of the Court.

Court," held this statute invalid for the reason that the
exemption in favor of citizens of Minnesota rendered it
repugnant to Article IV, § 2, of the Constitution of the
United States, which declares that "The citizens of each
State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities
of citizens in the several States."
The action was commenced in the District Court of
the United States for the District of Minnesota, Second
Division, by the respondent, a citizen of South Dakota,
against the petitioner, a corporation organized under
the laws of the Dominion of Canada, to recover damages
for personal injuries sustained by him on 'November 29,
1913, when employed by the petitioner as a switchman in
its yards at Humboldt, in the Province of Saskatchewan.
The respondent, a citizen and resident of South Dakota,
went to Canada and entered the employ of the petitioner
as a switchman a short time prior to the accident complained of. He remained in Canada for six months after
the accident and then returned to live in South Dakota.
He commenced this action on October 15, 1915, almost
two years after the date of the accident. By the laws of
Canada, where the cause of action arose, an action of this
kind must be commenced within one year from the time
injury was sustained. If the statute of Minnesota, above
quoted is valid, it is applicable to the action, which,
being barred in Canada, cannot be maintained in Minnesota by a non-resident plaintiff. If, however, the statute
is invalid, the general statute of limitations of Minnesota,
allowing a period of six years within which to commence
action, would be applicable. The record properly presents
the claim of the petitioner that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding the statute involved unconstitutional and void.
It is plain that the act assailed was not enacted for
the purpbse of creating an arbitrary or vexatious discrimination against non-residents of Minnesota.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

It has been in force ever since the State was admitted
into the Union in 1858; it is in terms precisely the same
as those of several other States, and in substance it does
not differ from those of many more. It gives a non-resident the same rights in the Minnesota courts as a resident citizen has, for a time equal to that of the statute of
limitations where his cause of action arose. If a resident
citizen acquires such a cause of action after it has accrued,
his rights are limited precisely as those of the non-resident are, by the laws of the place where it arose. 'If the
limitation of the foreign State is. equal to or longer than
'that of the Minnesota statute, the non-resident's position
is as favorable as that of the citizen.
It is only when the foreign limitation is shorter than
that. of Minnesota, and when the non-resident who owns
the cause of action from the time when it arose has slept
on his rights until it is barred in the foreign State (which
happens to be the respondent's case), that inequality
results-and for this we are asked to declare a statute
unconstitutional which has been in force for sixty years..
This coiirt has, never attempted to formulate a conprehensive list of the rights included within the "privileges
and immunities " clause of the Constitution, Art. IV,
§ 2, but it has repeatedly approved as authoritative the
statement by Mr. Justice Washington, in 1823, in Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371, 380 (the first federal
case in which this clause was considered), saying: "We
feel no hesitation in confining these expressions to those
privileges and immunities which are, in their nature,
fundamental." Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 76;
Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 248; Chambers v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 142, 155. In this Corfield
Case the court included in a partial list of such fundamental privileges, "The right of a citizen of one state,
S.to institute and maintain actions of any kind in
the courts of another."

CANADIAN NORTHERN RY. CO. v. EGGEN.
553.

561

Opinion of the Court.

The State of Mnnesota, in the statute we are considering, recognized this right of citizens of other States to
institute and maintain suits in its courts as a fundamental right, protected by the Constitution, and for one
year from the time his cause of action accrued the respondent was given all of the rights which citizens of
Minnesota had under it. The discrimination of which
he complains could arise only from his own neglect.
This is not disputed, nor can it be fairly claimed that
the limitation of one year is unduly short, having regard
to the likelihood of the dispersing of witnesses to acddents such as that in which the respondent was injured,
their exposure to injury and death, and the failure of
memory as to the minute details of conduct on which
questions of negligence so often turn.-Thus, the holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals comes to this, that
the privilege and immunity clause of the Constitution
guarantees to a non-resident precisely the same rights
in the courts of a State as resident citizens have, and
that any statute which gives him a less, even though it,
be an adequate remedy, is unconstitutional and void.
Such a literal interpretation of the clause cannot be
accepted.
From very early in our history, requirements have been
imposed upon non-residents in many, perhaps in all, of
the States as a condition of resorting to their courts,
which have not been imposed upon resident oitiz:ns.
For instance, security for costs has very generally been
required of a non-resident, but not of a resident citizen,
and a non-resident's property in many States may be
attached under conditions which would not justify the:
attaching of a resident citizen's property. This court
has said of such requirements:
"Such a regulation of the intqrnal affairs of a State
cannot reasonably be characterized as hostile to the
fundamental rights of citizens of other States. . . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

It has never been supposed that regulations of that
character materially interfered with the enjoyment by
citizens of each State of the privileges and immunities
secured by the Constitution to citizens of the several
States." Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.239, 256.
The principle on which this holding rests is that the
constitutional requirement is satisfied if the non-resident
is given access to the courts of the State upon terms
which in themselves are reasonable and adequate for the
enforcing of any rights he may have, even though they
may not be technically and precisely the same in extent
as those accorded to resident citizens. The power is in
the courts, ultimately in this court, to determine the
adequacy and reasonableness of such terms. A man cannot be said to be denied, in a constitutional or in any
rational sense, the privilege of resorting to courts to enforce his rights when he is given free access to them for
a length of time reasonably sufficient to enable an ordinarily diligent man to institute proceedings for their protection.
This is the principle on which this court has repeatedly
ruled that contracts were not impaired in a constitutional
sense by change in limitation statutes which reduced
the time for commencing actions upon them, provided
a reasonable time was given for commencing suit before
the new bar took effect. Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596;
Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S.628, 632; Tennessee v. Sneed,
96 U. S. 69, 74; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S.769, 774.
A like result to that which we are announcing was
reached with respect to similar statutes, in Chemung
Canal Bank v. Lowery, 93 U. S. 72; by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, Second Circuit, in Aultman & Taylor Co. v.
Syme, 79 Fed. Rep. 238; in Klotz v. Angle, 220 N. Y. 347,
and in Robinson v. Oceanic Steam Navigation Co., 112
N. Y. 315, 324. In this last case the Court of Appeals
of New York pertinently says:

PENNSYLVANIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553.

Syllabus.

"A construction of the constitutional limitation [the one
we are considering] which would apply it to such a case as
this would strike down a large body of laws which have
existed in all the states from the foundation of the government, making some discrimination between residents
and non-residents in legal proceedings and other matters."
The laws of Minnesota gave to the non-resident respondent free access to its courts, for the purpose of enforcing any right which he may have had, for a year,as long a time as was given him for that purpose by the
laws under which he chose to live and work-and having
neglected to avail himself of that law, he may not successfully complain because his expired right to maintain suit
elsewhere is not revived for his benefit by the laws of the
State to which he went for the sole purpose of prosecuting
his suit. The privilege extended to him for enforcing
his claim Was reasonably sufficient and adequate and the
statute is a valid law.
It results that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be reversed and that of the District Court

affirmed.
Reversed.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA v. STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
STATE OF OHIO v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.

Nos. 23 and 24, Original. Motions for appointment of special master, of
commissioner and to consolidate submitted February 2, .1920,-Order
.entered April 19, 1920.
Order Consolidating Causes for the Purpose of Taking Testimony, Desigaing Times for Taking Testimony and Appointing Commissioner.

