CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

JETT BROS. DISTILLING COMPANY v. CITY
OF CARROLLTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 108. Argued December 19, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.
An objection that a tax is void under the Fourteenth Amendment because of systematic discrimination by officials in making assessments,
but which does not draw in question before the state court the
validity of the statute or authority under which they acted, will not
support a writ of error from this court under Jud. Code, §,237, as
amended. P. 5.
A petition for rehearing, merely overruled by the state court without
opinion, is not a basis for a writ of error. P. 6.
Writ of error to review 178 Kentucky, 561, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Helm Bruce, with whom Mr. Geo. B. Winslow was
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error, argued, inter alia, that
the point that the tax was void and without authority
because assessed in violation of due process of law after

(1)

OCTOJ3ER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

252 U. S.

the whiskey had ceased to be the property of the Distilling Company, was sufficiently raised and was necessarily decided by the state court, because, while on this
point the Constitution was not invoked eo nomine in the
complaint, the facts from which the deduction of uncon'stitutionality must follow were specifically set forth and
the constitutional claim was specifically made in a petition for rehearing.
The reaso'i for holding that a federal question made for
the first time in a petition for a rehearing is not generally
sufficient, is that, as a general rule, new grounds for
decisions will not be allowed to be presented in a petition
for a rehearing; and therefore if the state court in overruling such a petition is silent on the subject of a federal question, it will not be presumed that it passed
on the federal question. Texas & PacificRy. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 137 U. S. 48, 53. In view, however,
of the practice of the Kentucky court, which allows new
grounds of decision to -be presented by petition for 'a
rehearing, the basis being in the record, Elsey v. People's
Bank of Bardwell, 168 Kentucky, 701, the denial of the
petition here necessarily imports an adverse decision of
the constitutional claim.
It has often been held that where a federal question is
distinctly made in the court of original jurisdiction, and
where the court of last resort in the State must necessarily have decided the question in order to make
the decision it did make, this is sufficient to give
this court jurisdiction, even though the state court
was silent on the subject. Steines v. Franklin County,
14 Wall. 15, 21. In like manner, where it is evident
from the record and the practice of a state court,
that a federal question made in a petition for a rehearing must have been decided in passing upon the
petition, that should be sufficient to give this court
jurisdiction.

JETT BROS. CO. v. CITY OF CARROLLTON.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. E. Stricklett, with whom Mr. J. A. Donaldson,
Mr. G. A. Donaldson and Mr. J. L. Donaldson were on
the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The City of Carrollton brought suit against Jett Bros.
Distilling Company to recover balances alleged to be due
as taxes upon distilled spirits belonging to the company
held in a bonded warehouse in that city. The t-txes sued
for were those for the years 1907 to 1916, inclusive. It
appears that during those years the City Assessor undertook to assess for taxation the distilled spirits in the
bonded warehouse and the city taxes were paid as thus
assessed. This suit was brought to recover taxes for the
above mentioned years upon the theory that during that
period the spirits should have been valued by the State
Board of ValuatiQn and Assessment as provided by the
statutes of Kentucky. (Kentucky Stats., §§ 4105, 4114.)
It was alleged that the valuation by the City Assessor
was without authority of law, by mistake and for a much
less sum than that fixed for each of said years by the
State Board. It was also alleged that the company had
notice of the valuation fixed by the State Board; that the
City Assessor was without authority to assess spirits in
bonded warehouses; that the value fixed by him was an
inconsiderable sum and much less than that fixed by the
State Board in accordance with the Kentucky statutes.
The Distilling Company took issue upon the petition.
It pleaded the original levies for the years in question and
the payment of the taxes for each and all of the said years.
It pleaded that the whiskey which it was sought to tax
under the new levy of 1915-1916 had been removed from
the bonded warehouse of the company, and was no longer
its property, and that it could no longer protect itself as
it could have done.had the tax been levied while the spirits were in its possession.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinien of the Court.

252 U. S.

In the nineteenth paragraph of the answer a defense
was set up upon a ground of federal right under the
Constitution. It was averred that during all the years
covered by. the amended petition it had been the rule,.
cuistom, habit, practice and system in the City of Carrollton to assess and cause to be assessed the real estate
therein at an average of not more than forty per cent. of
its fair cash value, and to assess and cause to be assessed
personal property in that city at an average of not more
than thirty per cent. of its fair cash value; that the
assessment made by the State Board upon which taxes
were sought to be recovered was made at 100 per cent.
of the fair cash value of the whiskey, and that the attempt of the plaintiff to collect the same was in violation
of the defendant's right under the constitution of the State
of Kentucky and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The Circuit Court gave judgment in favor of the city
for the amounts claimed under the new levy of 1916,
giving credit for the amounts paid under the original
levies for the ppceding years. The company appealed
to the Court of Ajpeals of Kentucky, where the judgment
of the Circuit Court was affirmed. 178 Kentucky, 561.
There was no other reference to the Federal Constitution than that contained in the answer, so far as we have
been able to discover, and the Court of Appeals dealt
with the federal question, deemed to be before it, as
follows (178 Kentucky, 566):
"It is further asserted that the recent cases of Greene v.
Louisville & Interurban Railroad Co. and Greene v. Louistille Railway Co., decided by the Supreme Court of the
United States and reported by 37 Supreme Court Reports, 673, uproot the contention that the act is constitutional, and hold that the State Board of Valuation, and
the city assessor and Board of Supervisors, acting independently of each other, and fixing different valuations

JETT BROS. CO. v. CITY OF' CARROLLTON.
1.

5

Opinion of the Court.

of the same property, work a discrimination, inimical both
to the federal and state constitutions. In this, however,
appellalit is in error. It must be borne in mind that
complaint is only made of the assessment. 'The warehouseman had his remedy, in case 'of an excessive or. unfair valuation, by appearing before the Board of Valua-.
tion and Assessment at the time he received notice of the
valuation fixed, and there make complaint as provided in
section 4107, Kentucky Statutes. This appellant failed
to do but acquiesced in the assessment by paying taxes
both to the county and state on the valuation fixed by the
State Board. This being true, it cannot be heard to complain now."
The case is brought here by the allowance of a writ of
error. As the judgment was rendered after the Act of
September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, Judicial Code,
§ 237, became effective, that act must determine the
right to have a review in this court.
If the case can come here by writ of error, it is because
there was drawn in question the validity of a statute, oil
authority, exercised under the State on the ground ,of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, 4'aws, or
treaties of the United States. Before the petition for
rehearing the contentions based upon constitutionalI
grounds, by the plaintiff in error, were those embraced in
the nineteenth paragraph of the answer, to which we have
referred, and such as were deemed to be before the Courtl
of Appeals of Kentucky in the portion of the opinion'
from which we have quoted. Neither the answer nor the
opinion of the Court of Appeals shows that any claim
under the Federal Constitution was made assailing the
validity of a statute of the State, or of an authority exercised under the State, on the ground of 'repugnancy to the
Federal Constitution. The answer, in the nineteenth
paragraph, set up discrimination because of different
valuations of the property of others, claimed to violate

6

OCTOBER TERM, 19i9.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States. The opinion of the
Court of Appeals likewise discussed the discriminatory
action alleged by the plaintiff in error.
Drawing in question the validity of a statute or authority as the basis of appellate review has long been a
subject of regulation in statutes of the United States, as
we had occasion to point out in Champion Lumber Co. v.
Fisher, 227 U. S. 445, 450, 451. What is meant by the
validity of a statute or authority was discussed by this
court in Baltimore & Potomac R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130
U. S. 210, in which this court, speaking by Mr. Chief Jus
tice Fuller, said: "Whenever the power to enact a statute
as it is by its terms, or is made to read by construction, is
fairly open to denial and denied, the validity of such
statute is drawn in question, but not otherwise." And
the Chief Justice added upon the authority of Millingar
v. Hartupee, 6 Wall. 258, 261, 262, that the word "authority" stands upon the same footing.
In order to give this court jurisdiction by writ of error
under amended § 237, Judicial Code, it is the validity of
the statute or authority which must be drawn in question.. The mere objection to an exercise of authority
under a statute, whose validity is not attacked, cannot
be made the basis of a writ of errorfrom this court. There
must be a substantial challenge of the validity of the
statute or authority upon a claim that it is repugnant to
the Federal Constitution, treaties, or laws so as to require the state court to decide the question of validity in
-disposing of the contention. Champion Lumber Co. v.
Fisher, supra, and cases cited.
In the present case no such claim of the invalidity of a
state statute or authority was raised in a manner requiring the court below to pass upon the question in
disposing of the rights asserted. As we have said, whatever the effect of a petition for rehearing, it came too late

FARNCOMB v. DENVER.
1.

Counsel for Parties.

to make the overruling of it, in the absence of an opinion,
the basis of review by writ of error. It follows that the
allowance of the writ of error in the present case did not
rest upon a decision in which was drawn in question the
validity of a statute of the State or any authority exercised under it because of repugnancy to the Federal
Constitution, and the writ of error must be dismissed, and
it is so ordered.
Dismissed.

FARNCOMB ET AL. v. CITY AND COUNTY OF
DENVER ET AL.
ERROkt TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
COLORADO.
No. 110.

Argued January 14, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

As construed by the Supreme Court of Colorado, §§ 300 and 328 of
the charter of the City and County of Denver gave property owners
an opportunity to be heard before the Board of Supervisors respecting the justice and validity of local assessments for public improve-

ments proposed by the Park Commission, and empowered-the board
itself to determine such complaints before the assessments were
made. P. 9.
Parties who did not avail themselves of such opportunity can not be
heard to complain of. such assessments as unconstitutional. P. 11.
64 Colorado, 3, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the-opinion.

Mr. T. J. O'Donnell, with whom Mr. J. W. Graham was
on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James A. Marsh, with whom Mr. Norton Montgomery was on the briefs, for defendants in error.

