OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

TRAVIS, AS COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK, v. YALE & TOWNE MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 548.

Argued December 15, 16, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

, haffer v. Carter, ante, 37, followed, to the effect that a State may tax
incomes of non-residents arising within her borders and that there is
no unconstitutional discrimination against non-residents in confining
the deductions allowed them for expenses, losses, etc., to such as are
connected with income so arising while allowing residents, taxed on
their income generally, to make such deductions without regard to
locality. P. 75.
Such a tax may be enforced as to non-residents working within the
State by requiring their employers to withhold and pay it from their
salaries or wages; and no unconstitutional discrimination against
such non-residents results from omitting such a requirement in the
case of residents. P. 76.
A regulation requiring that the tax be thus withheld is not unreasonable
as applied to a sister-state corporation carrying on local business
without any contract limiting the regulatory power of the taxing
State; nor is the power to impose such a regulation affected by the
fact that the corporation may find it more convenient to pay its employees and keep its accounts in the State of its origin and principal
place of business. Id.
The terms "resident" and "citizen" are not synonymous, but a general taxing scheme of a State which discriminates against all non-residents necessarily includes in the discrimination those who are citizens of other States. P. 78.
A general tax laid by a State on the incomes of residents and non-residents, which allows exemptions to the residents, with increases for
married persons and for dependents, but allows no equivalent exemptions to non-residents, operates to abridge the privileges and
immunities of citizens of other States, in violation of § 2 of Art. IV,
of the Constitution. P. 79.
Hera, that such a discrimination in the income tax law of New York is

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Argument for Appellant.

not overcome by a provision excluding from the taxable income of
non-residents annuities, interest and dividends not part of income
from a local business, or occupation, etc., subject to the tax. P. 81.
An abridgment by one State of the privileges and immunities of the
citizens of other States cannot be condoned by those States or cured
by retaliation. P. 82.
262 Fed. Rep. 576, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James S. Y. Ivin8 and Mr. Jerome L. Cheney,
with whom Mr. Charles D Newton, Attorney General
of the State of New York, and Mr. E. C. Aiken were on
the brief, for appellant:
It might be argued that an income tax is sui generisneither a tax on property, on a privilege, nor on the person-but a tax on the right to receive income (Peck &
Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165); or it might be argued that
it is a commutation tax or a composite tax. As a composite tax it might be said that in so far as it taxes the
rent from real property it is a real property tax; in so
far as it is a tax on the increased value of personalty, it
is a personal property tax; in so far as it is a tax on the
profits from the purchase and sale of property, it is an
excise on sales or on commerce; in so far as it is a tax
on income from trade, profession or labor, it is a privilege
tax; and in so far 'as it taxes residents on hicome from
sources without the territorial 'jurisdiction of the sovereign, it is a pure personal tax. The characterization
of a tax by administrative officers, by the phraseology
of the statute, or the opinion of other courts, is not controlling. This court will look only at the practical effect
of the tax as it is enforced. Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 294.
It is obvious that the tax on residents and non-residents
is the same, regardless of the different phraseology, so
far as both are taxed. In so far as the tax extends to
income of residents from sources without the State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

there is no similar tax upon non-residents, but that is
nothing for the latter to complain of. It really does not
matter whather this tax be regarded (so far as non-residents are concerned) as direct or indirect, a tax on the
person, on property, or on privilege. States can and do
levy all three kinds. The only question is whether the
State has power to enforce this tax, and its nature does
not assist in determining that question.
Whether or not sovereign power to enforce a tax exists,
depends solely on the ability of the State to collect it
without extending its jurisdiction beyond its territorial
boundaries. The sovereign can levy taxes on property
which is tangible and within its boundaries, by its physical possession of that property. It can enforce taxes on
privileges"or rights, through preventing their exercise
within its boundaries by those who do not pay. It can
extend personal taxes to those over whom it has personal
jurisdiction, compelling them to submit or move out.
This inherent power in the sovereign extends equally
to residents and to non-residents, to citizens and to aliens.
Duer v. Small, 4 Blatchf. 263. It exists in each of the
States except as restricted by the Federal Constitution.
State Tax on Foreign-HeldBonds, 15 Wall. 300, 319.
With the exception of matters prohibited by the Constitution specifically (such as exports, or interstate commerce), or impliedly (such as the activities of the national
government), there is no doubt of the right of the State
to tax anything which is within its territorial jurisdiction.
The only constitutional questions that ordinarily arise
in respect to modern taxation are (1) those of the situs
of intangibles, (2) those of the equal application of taxing
statutes under Art. IV of Constitution and the Fourteenth
Amendment, and (3) those of due process of law.
The question of the right to impose a tax on incomes
of non-residents is not a question of the nature of the
tax nor is it a question of whether income is property or

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Argument for Appellant.

the acquisition of it a right or a privilege; but it is a question of the situs of the income. The doctrine that movable property follows the person for purposes of taxation
has given way to the doctrine that where property has a
situs, there it is taxable. Bristol v. Washington County,
177 U. S. 133.
The reason for regarding the situs of intangible property
as the domicile of the person depends not on the meaning
of property, but on the meaning of situs. That property
is said to be taxable only at its situs is because where
property is taxable-that is, wherever a sovereign can
enforce a tax against it--there it has a situs. In determining whether income has a situs for purposes of taxation in a given State, we should begin, not by saying:
"Where is its situs? " that we may determine whether
it is taxable, but rather: "Can it be reached by taxation?"
to determine whether it has a situs there. If it can be
reached by taxation by a State-if the' State can enforce a tax against it by due process of law-then it
has a situs for taxation in that State. See State Tax on
Foreign-Held Bonds, supra; Fidelity & Columbia Trust
Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100
U. S. 491; Tappan v. Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall.
490; Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. New Orleans, 205
U. S. 395; Liverpool &c. Ins. Co. v. Orleans Assessors,
221 U. S. 346, 355; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189;
New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Board of Assessors
v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388; Rogers v. Hennepin
County, 240 U. S. 184, 191.
A person receives income in one of three ways: It is
(1) the product of property, or the money realized by
the sale of such product, (2) the profit gained in the
purchase and sale of property, or (3) the compensation
for personal service. In each of these cases the State
has power to enforce its taxes equally against residents
and against non-residents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

The New York law does not deny to citizens of any
State any of the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the several States. Citizens of other States, as citizens,
and only as such, are protected by Art. IV, § 2, cl. 1.
So, if there is no discrimination against them as citizens,
the provision is not violated. Distinctions are drawn
between residents and non-residents, but this is regardless of citizenship-non-resident citizens of New York
are treated like all other non-residents, and citizens of
other sovereigns who are resident in New York are treated
exactly like resident citizens. The term "reside " in
the Fourteenth Amendment probably means to "be
domiciled"; or to "maintain a voting residence." It does
not mean to "have a place of abode,"-especially if one
has several places of abode.
The terms resident and citizen are not normally
synonymous and are not rendered exclusively so by the
use in the Fourteenth Amendment of the word "resident"
in one of its many meanings. La Tourette v. McMaster,
248 U. S. 465, 470. It is settled that where residence
is a proper basis for classification, the adoption of such
basis is not violative of Art. IV, § 2, cl. 1. Travellers'
Ins. Co. v. Connecticut, 185 U. S.364; Frost v. Brisbin,
19 Wend. 11; Chemung Canal Bank v. Lowery, 93 U. S.
72, 76; Field v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 194 U. S.
618; Central Loan & Trust Co. v. Campbell Commission
Co., 173 U. S.84; Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 256,
257.
Classification in taxation is a proper exercise of legislative power. Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S.
339, 351; Barrett v. Indiana, 229 U. S.26, 29-30; Giozza
v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657, 662.
This classification may discriminate between classes
in rates of taxation, Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings
Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Michigan Central R. R. Co. v.
Powers, 201 U. S.245; or in exemptions from-taxation,

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Argument for Appellant.

Beers v. Glynn, 211 U. S. 477; B:l's Gap R. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Citizens' Telephone Co.
v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 329. A taxing statute is not
invalid because of simple inequality between classes.
International Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199,
210. It would seem that the only restriction on the power
of classification is that there must be real differences
between the situations of the different classes. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132;
138. What constitutes a real difference depends upon
the purpose and extent of the legislation and all the
circumstances of the subjects and objects thereof. Tanner
v. Little, 240 U. S. 369, 382, 383.
The classification of residents and non-residents by
the New York law is reasonable. La Tourette v. McMaster, supra; Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Wisconsin, supra. Travellers' Ins. Co. v. Connecticut,
supra, is directly in point.
If the power to levy a tax exists, the rate fixed will
not render it unconstitutional. Tanner v. Little, supra.
The power to exempt certain things to the exclusion of
others follows the same rules as the power to tax certain
things, to the exclusion of others-it is only another
way of stating the same proposition. And if the rate
is immaterial in determining constitutionality as to
taxation, so the rate of exemption is immaterial.
The different methods of collection provided by the
statute for the tax on income received by way of compensation for personal services by residents and by nonresidents, does not deprive any person of the equal protection of laws. St. John v. New York, 201 U. S. 633, 637.
There are many decided cases in which different methods
of procedure against residents and against non-residents
h/ave been upheld. Tappan v. Merchants' National Bank,
supra, 505; District of Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138;
Central Loan & Trust Co. v. Campbell Commission Co.,

OCTO3ER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

252 U. S.

supra, 84, 97, 98. Many statutes taxing corporate shares
and requiring the corporation to withhold at the source
against non-residents but not against residents have been
upheld. Travellers' Ins. Co. v. Connecticut, supra; Merchan. ' & Manufacturers' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U.
S. 461, 463.
The law does not deny due process of law; violate the
commerce clause; or impair the obligation of contracts.
Mr. Louis H. Porterand Mr. Archibald Cox for appellee:
The appellee's factory and principal place of business
is in Connecticut. It is authorized to do business in New
York and owns property there, but it is a citizen and resident of Connecticut; and the statute, of course, applies
equally to an individual in its position. It employs sun.
dry persons, including citizens and residents of Connecticut and New Jersey, to work for it, and has contracted to
pay them definite salaries for their services. These salari6s are paid in different ways, in some instances by checks
mailed from the office in Connecticut to the employees
outside the State of New York, if that is material. And
they are in accordance with contracts of employment
entered into before the enactment of the law. The statute
seeks to impose on the appellee a personal liability as the
means of compelling it to obey.
The invalidity of the provisions for withholding the tax
from the salaries seems to be directly established by New
York, Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 153
U. S. 628.
A corporation, by securing authority to transact business within a State, does not thereby bring within the
jurisdiction of that State transactions and properties
wholly outside. It is not a matter of convenient collection, but a matter of jurisdiction. Distinguishing: Hatch
v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152; Merchants' & Manufacturers'
Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461; Travellers' Ins. Co.

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MYG. CO.
60.

Argument for Appellee.

v. Connecticut, 185 U. S. 364; Brushaber v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1; Citizens National Bank v. Kentucky,
217 U. S. 443.
To determine the constitutionality of this tax, it is aocordingly necessary to ascertain, not colloquially but from
a jurisdictional standpoint, what is taxed, and whether
that is within the jurisdiction of the State of New York.
The tax is a subjective tax imposing personal liability
upon the person receiving the "net income" which merely
measures the burden imposed on the taxpayer in personam. Brady v. Andkrson, 240 Fed. Rep. 665; State ex
rel. Sallie F. Moon Co. v. Wisconsin Tax Commission, 166
Wisconsin, 287; Income Tax Cases, 148 Wisconsin, 456.
The liability is measured with reference to the net balance. And that net; from the year's experience, is used
only as a measure of the general financial condition of the
individual and his personal liability to pay from any iesources he can control.
Even the amount of the tax varies according to the
person of the recipient, and is not based upon the property or amount thereof. Thus, if the amount of income is
twenty thousand dollars, it is taxed at one rate when received by one person, at another rate when received by
two persons, and it is free from tax when received by
twenty persons. This tax is not even measured strictly
by the amount of income which a person receives. It is
measured with a view to securing equality of sacrifice
among taxpayers. Income Tax Cases, 148 Wisconsin, 456.
And that the tax is personal is confirmed by the provisions
for its collection, none of which sound in rem and all of
which impose personal liability. That a tax with respect
to "net incomes" is a personal tax, from the point of view
of jurisdiction similar to a poll tax, is well indicated in
Maguirev. Tax Commissioner, 230 Massachusetts, 503. Individual income as such, dissociated from the person of the
owner, has no existence and is a purely fanciful conception.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

252 U. S.

A statute imposing a personal tax on persons over
whom the State has no jurisdiction conflicts with the
Fourteenth Amendment and is a taking of property without due process of law. United States v. Erie Ry. Co., 106
U. S. 327; Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595; Dewey
v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193; City of New York v. McLean,
170 N. Y. 374; Barhyte v. Shepard, 35 N. Y. 237. The
text writers are unanimous in this limitation on the taxing
power of the States. Cooley, Taxation, 3d ed., p. 24;
Brown, Jurisdiction of Courts, 2d ed., pp. 549, 550. See
State v. Ross, 23 N. J. L. 517, 521. The source of the income does not in any respect change the nature and character of the tax imposed upon the recipient, and it is as
much beyond the power of the State to impose such a
personal tax upon a non-resident as it is to impose a capitation tax on him. If the State has not jurisdiction to
impose a personal liability for tax on a non-resident, it is
immaterial whether that non-resident is engaging in an occupation in the State from which he derives a large income
Tor not. So, also if the State has the jurisdiction to impose
a tax, it is immaterial whether the non-resident's occupation in the State is gainful in money or in health or in
pleasure. The State either has or has not the jurisdiction
to impose a personal liability against a non-resident for the
payment of taxes. The situation here presented in its
inevitable effect upon the integrity of the Union is of the
same character as that considered by this court in Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35. See Robbins v. Shelby County
Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489.
The argument that it is fair that a citizen of Connecticut
earning his income in New York should pay a tax to that
State for the protection afforded him therein is political
and legislative rather than judicial. If this argument can
be properly considered by the court, it must be weighed
against the mischievous effects upon the integrity of the
Union and from this standpoint the tax in question would

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Argument for Appellee.

seem inconsistent with the very spirit of the Constitution.
The provisions of the statute here cannot be sustained as
a tax on property.
A "net income" under this statute is but a measure of
the condition of the person receiving and enjoying it. A
debt of ten thousand dollars may be paid to one person or
to ten, but remains a fixed measurable amount. Ten thousand dollars paid in gross salaries means nothing as to the
net income of the recipients without consideration. of their
number and personality. Ten thousand dollars in salaries
paid to a number of recipients may after the computation
yield an aggregate of net incomes entirely different from
that which it yields if paid to one. The personal condition
of the recipient, and not the amount or character of the
payment made, constitutes and determines the fact of net
income. It seems, therefore, impossible to conceive a net
income for purposes of this taxation separate and distinct
from the person receiving it.
The laws of New York do not create, give validity to,
or affect, the income of appellee's non-resident employees.
They are employed and paid in Connecticut, whose laws
govern the contract of employment and whose courts enforce the contract. The services rendered are not income.
The services are performed in whole or in part in New York.
The net income never has any existence in New York.
The gross salary here is not owing by, or to, anyone in New
York. The fact that the appellee can legally transact
business in New YQrk obviously makes no difference in the
situs of the obligation.
Moreover, property to be taxable in a State must have
some permanency there, and not be merely temporarily
within the State. Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202
U. S. 409; Buck v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194.
In each of those cases such as Tappan v. Merchants'
National Bank, 10 Wall. 490, where a tax has been sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

252 U. S.

tained on property of a non-resident, there were present
two factors which have been universally recognized as
essential to jurisdiction-(1) some definite and specific
property in existence, (2) having in a real sonse a situs
in the -txing State. State Tax on Foreign-Held Bonds,
15 Wall. 300; Board of Assessors v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
216 U. S. 517; Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1; Fidelity &
Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S.63.
The cases in which the courts have held that choses in
action may acquire a situs different from the residence
of the owner are not in point. A chose in action has not
yet been paid. The debtor has only promised to pay it,
and its value depends on the promise of the debtor. The
actual money to pay the chose in action is in the State
where he resides. Furthermore, the income tax is not
assessed upon all money that comes to the recipient.
It is only after the net amount has been determined after
deducting from the gross receipts certain allowable
expenses by way of deductions that the taxable amount
is determined. Before that amount is determined and
before any assessment can be laid thereon, most of the
income, both gross and net, has been expended. The
theory of a property tax is that it is a lien on the property
taxed. Obviously the State cannot lawfully impose a
tax lien upon property which is not itself in existence.
The proposition is necessarily a contradiction in terms.
De Ganay v. Lederer, 250 U. S.376, distinguished.
The distinction between a- tax on the income from
property and a tax on the income from occupations and
professions was clearly pointed out in Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 158 U. S. 635, 637. The distinction
between the rights of the citizens of the several States,
which are assured by the Constitution, and those of
foreigners, who may be completely excluded from the
United States, is pointed out in United States v. Bennett,

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Argument for Appellee.

232 U. S.299, and more specifically in Railroad Co. v.
Collecwr, supra.
The provisions of the statute taxing non-residents
cannot be sustained as imposing a privilege or license
tax; nor on the theory that the State of New York has
in fact power to collect the tax. It is not going too far
to say that in every case in which this court has held
unconstitutional a state law imposing a tax on persons
or property outside its jurisdiction, the State had power
to enforce the tax, because otherwise the case would
not have been brought. Board of Assessors v. New York
Life Ins. Co., supra; New York, Lake Erie & Western
R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra; Morgan v. Parham, 16
Wall. 471; Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S.
385.
As between nations, the proposition that - power to
collect is the test of right to tax may be correct. Just
as foreigners may be completely excluded from the
United States (United States v. Bennett, supra), so anything that the United States can in fact seize it may perhaps tax. But the power of the individual States of the
Union is limited by the Federal Constitution.
The tax on non-residents cannot be sustained on any
theory that the State of New York protects their net
income.
The provisions of the statute taxing non-residents are
unconstitutional'because they discriminate against citizens and residentg of Connecticut and New Jersey. A
materially higher tax is imposed on non-residents than
upon residents.
The provisions operating to discriminate against
appellee's non-resident employees conflict with § 2 of
Art. IV of the Constitution and the privileges and
immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. A
statute which in fact operates to defeat rights secured
by the Constitution cannot be justified by invoking

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

the n.cessity of classification in taxation or by the fact
that the words of the Constitution do not appear in the
statute. Chalker V.Birmingham & Northwestern Ry. Co.,
249 U. S. 522.
There is no relevancy in cases where the State is dealing with a privilege which it may grant or withhold,
such as those relating to foreign corporations doing business in the State, or succession taxes, or the nation's
treatment of foreigners, because they do not deal with
discrimination against persons having rights secured
by the Constitution. La Tourette v. McMaster, 248 U. S.
465; People v. Wearer, 100 U. S. 539; Sprague v. Fletcher,
69 Vermont, 69.
Mr. John W. Griggs, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curice.
Mr. Laurence Arnold Tanzer, Mr. William P. Burr,
Mr. William S. Rann and Mr. William J. Wallin, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity, brought in the District Court
by appellee against appellant as Comptroller of the
State: of New York to obtain an injunction restraining
the enforcement of the Income Tax Law of that State
(c. 627, 'Laws 1919) as against complainant, upon the
ground of its repugnance to the Constitution of the
United States because violating the interstate commerce
clause, impairing the obligation of contracts, depriving
citizens of the States of Connecticut and New Jersey
employed by complainant of the privileges and immunities
enjoyed by citizens of the State of New York, depriving
complainant and its non-resident employees of their

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

property without due process of law, and denying to
such employees the equal protection of the laws. A
motion to dismiss the bill-equivalent to a demurrerwas denied upon the ground that the act violated § 2
of Art. IV of the Constitution by discriminating against
non-residents in the exemptions allowed from taxable
income; an answer was filed, raising no question of fact;
in due course there was a final decree in favor of complainant; and defendant took an appeal to this court
under § 238, Judicial Code.
The act (§ 351) imposes an annual tax upon every
resident of the State with respect to his net income as
defined in the act, at specified rates, and provides also:
"A like tax is hereby imposed and shall be levied, collected
and paid annually, at the rates specified in this section,
upon and with respect to the entire net income as herein
defined, except as hereinafter provided, from all property
owned and from every business, trade, profession or
occupation carried on in this state by natural persons
not residents of the state." Section 359 defines gross
income, and contains this paragraph: "3. In the case
of taxpayers other than residents, gross income includes
only the gross income from -sources within the state, but
shall not include annuities, interest on bank deposits,
interest on bonds, notes or other interest-bearing obligations or dividends from corporations, except to the
extent to which the same shall be a part of incbme from
any business, tradje, profession or occupation carried on
in this state subject to taxation under this article." In
§ 360 provision is made for deducting in the computation
of. net income expenses, taxes, losses, depreciation charges,
etc.; but, by paragraph 11 of the same section, "In the
case of a taxpayer other than a resident of the state the
deductions allowed in this section shall be allowed only
if, and to the extent '-hat, they are connected with income arising from sources within the state; . . ." By

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

§ 362, certain exemptions are allowed to any resident
individual taxpayer, viz., in the case of a single person
a personal exemption of $1,000, in the case of the head
of a family or a married person living with husband or
wife, $2,000; and $200 additional for each dependent
person under 18 years of age or mentally or physically
defective. The next section reads as follows: "§ 363.
Credit for taxes in case of taxpayers other than residents
of the state. Whenever a taxpayer other than a resident
of the state has become liable to income tax to the state
or country where he resides upon his net income for the
taxable year, derived from sources within this state and
subject to taxation under this article, the comptroller
shall credit the amount of income tax payable by him
under this article with such proportion of the tax so
payable by him to the state or country where he resides
as his income subject to taxation under this article bears
to his entire income upon which the tax so payable to
such other state or country was imposed; provided that
such credit shall be allowed only if the laws of said state
or country grant a substantially similar credit to residents
of this state subject to income tax under such laws." Section 366 in terms requires that every "withholding agent"
(including employers) shall deduct and withhold 2 per
centum from all salaries, wages, etc., payable to non-residents, where the amount paid to any individual equals
or exceeds $1,000 in the year, and shall pay the tax to
the Comptroller. This applies to a resident employee,
also, unless he files a certificate showing his residence address within the State.
Complainant, a Connecticut corporation doing business
in New-York and elsewhere, has employees who are residents some of Connecticut others of New Jersey but are
occupied in whole or in part in complainant's business
in New York. Many of them have annual salaries or
fixed compensation exceeding $1,000 per year, and the

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

amount required by the act to be withheld by complainant from the salaries of such non-resident employees is
in excess of $3,000 per year. Most of these persons are
engaged under term contracts calling for stipulated
wages or salaries for a specified period.
The bill sets up that defendant, as Comptroller of the
State of New York, threatens to enforce the provisions of
the statute against complainant, requires it to deduct and
withhold from the salaries and wages payable to its employees residing in Connecticut or New Jersey and citizens
of those States respectively, engaged in whole or in part
in complainant's business in the State of New York, the
taxes provided in the statute, and threatens to enforce
against complainant the penalties provided by the act if
it fails to do so; that the act is unconstitutional for the
reasons above specified; and that if complainant does withhold the taxes as required it will be subjected to many actions by its employees for reimbursement of the sums so
withheld. No question is made about complainant's
right to resort to equity for relief; hence we come at once
to the constitutional questions.
That the State of New York has jurisdiction to impose
a tax of this kind upon the incomes of non-residents arising from any business, trade, profession, or occupation
carried on within its borders, enforcing payment so far as
it can by the exercise of a just control over persons and
property within the State, as by garnishment of credits
(of which the withholding provision of the New York law
is the practical equivalent); and that such a tax, so enforced, does not violate the due process of law provision of
the Fourteenth Amendment, is settled by our decision in
,Shaffer v. Carter, this day announced, ante, 37, involving
the income tax law of the State of Oklahoma. That there
is no unconstitutional discrimination against citizens of
other States in confining the deduction of expenses, losses,
etc., in the case of non-resident taxpayers, to such as are

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. 8.

connected with income arising from sources within the
taxing State, likewise is settled by that decision.
It is not here asserted that the tax is a burden upon interstate commerce; the point having been abandoned in
this court.
The contention that an unconstitutional discrimination
against non-citizens arises out of the provision of § 366
confining the withholding at source to the income of nonresidents is unsubstantial. That provision does not in
any wise increase the burden of the tax upon non-residents,
but merely recognizes the fact that as to them the State
imposes no personal liability, and hence ,ndopts a convenient substitute for it. See Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Penn8ylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 239.
Nor has complainant on its own account any just
ground of complaint by reason of baing required to adjust
its system of accounting and paying salaries and wages to
the extent required to fulfill the duty of deducting and
withholding the tax. This cannot be deemed an unreasonable regulation of its conduct of business in New York.
New York, Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennylvania,
153 U. S. 628, cited in behalf of complainant, is not in
point. In that case the State of Pennsylvania granted to
a railroad company organized under the laws of New York
and having its principal place of business in that State
the right to construct a portion of its road through Pennsylvania, upon prescribed terms which were assented to
and complied with by the company and were deemed to
constitute a contract, not subject to impairment or modification through subsequent legislation by the State of
Pennsylvania except to the extent of establishing reasonable regulations touching the management of the business
done and the property owned by the company in that
State, not materially interfering with or obstructing the
substantial enjoyment of the rights previously granted.
Afterwards, Pennsylvania undertook by statute to re-

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

quire the company, when making payment of coupons
upon bonds previously issued by it, payable at its office
in the City of New York, to withhold taxes assessed by
the State of Pennsylvania against residents of that State
because of ownership of such bonds. The coupons were
payable to bearer, and when they were presented for payment it was practically impossible for the company to
ascertain who were the real owners, or whether they were
owned by the same parties who owned the bonds. The
statute was held to be an unreasonable regulation and
hence to amount to an impairment of the obligation of the
contract.
In the case at bar complainait,, although it is a Connecticut corporation and has its principal place of business in
that State, is exercising the privilege of carrying on business in the State of New York without any contract limiting the State's power of regulation. The taxes required
to be withheld are payable with respect to that portion
only of the salaries of its employees which is earned within
the State of New York. It might pay such salaries, or this
portion of them, at its place of business in New York; and
the fact that it may be more convenient to pay them in
Connecticut is not sufficient to deprive the State of New
York of the right to impose such a regulation.' It is true
complainant asserts that the act impairs the obligation of
contracts between it and its employees; but there is no
averment that any such contract made before the passage of the act required the wages or salaries to be paid in
the State of Connecticut, or contained other provisions
in anywise conflicting with the requirement of withholding.
The District Court, not passing upon the above questions, held that the act, in granting to residents exemptions denied to non-residents, violated the provision of .j2
of Art. IV of the Federal Constitution: "The Citizens of
each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States"; and, notwithstand-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

ing the elaborate and ingenious argument submitted by
appellant to the contrary, we are constrained to affirm the
ruling.
The purpose of the provision came under consideration
in Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 180, where the court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said: "It was undoubtedly
the object of the clause in question to place the citizens
of each State upon the same footing with citizens of other
States, so far as the adwtni ages resulting from citizenship
in those States are concerned. It relieves them from the
disabilities of alienage in other States; it inhibits discriminating legislation against them by other States; it
gives them the right of free ingress into other States, and
egress from them; it insures to them in other States the
same freedom possessed by the citizens of those States in
the acquisition and enjoyment of property and in the pursuit of happiness; and it secures to them in other States
the equal protection of their laws. It has been justly
said that no provision in the Constitution has tended so
strongly to constitute the citizens of the United States
one people as this." And in Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall.
418, holding a discriminatory state tax upon non-resident
traders to be void, the court, by Mr. Justice Clifford, said
(p. 430): "Beyond doubt those words [privileges and immunities] are words of very comprehensive meaning, but
it will be sufficient to say that the clause plainly and unmistakably secures and protects the right of a citizen of
one State to pass into any other State of the Union for the
purpose of engaging in lawful commerce, trade, or business without molestation; to acquire personal property;
to take and hold real estate; to maintain actions in the
courts of the State; and to be exempt from any higher
taxes or excises than are imposed by the State upon its
own citizens."
Of course the terms "resident" and "citizen" are not
synonymous, and in some cases the distinction is important

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.'

79

Opinion of the Court.

(La Tourette v. McMaster, 248 U. S. 465, 470); but a general taxing scheme such as the one under consideration,
if it discriminates against all non-residents, has the necessary effect of including in the discrimination those who
are citizens of other States; and, if there be no reasonable
ground for the diversity of treatment, it abridges the
privileges and immunities to which such citizens are entitled. In Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 247; 176 U. S.
59, 67, the court held that a statute of Tennessee, declaring
the terms upon which a foreign corporation might carry
on business and hold property in that State, which gave
to its creditors residing in Tennessee priority over all creditors residing elsewhere, without special reference to
whether they were citizens or not, must be regarded as contravening the "privileges and immunities" clause.
The nature and effect of the crucial discrimination
in the present case are manifest. Section 362, in the case
of -residents, exempts from taxation $1,000 of the income
of a single-aerson, $2,000 in the case of a married person,
and $200 additional for each dependent. A non-resident
taxpayer has no similar exemption; but by §363, if liable
to an income tax in his own State, including income derived from sources within New York and subject to taxation under this act, he is entitled to a credit upon the
income tax otherwise payable to the State of New York
by the same proportion of the tax payable to the State
of his residence as his income subject to taxation by the
New York Act bears to his entire income taxed in his
own State; "provided that such credit shall be allowed
only if the laws of said state .

.

.

grant a substantially

similar credit to residents of this state subject to income
tax under such laws."
lReading the statute literally, there would appear'to be an additional discrimination against non-residents in that under § 366 the
"withholding agent" (employer) is required to withhold 2 per cent.
from all salaries, wages, etc., payable to any individual non-resident

°"

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

In the concrete, the particular incidence of the discrimination is upon citizens of Connecticut and New
Jersey, neither of which States has an income tax law.
A considerable number of complainant's employees, residents and citizens of one or the other of those States,
spend their working time at its office in the city of New
York, and earn their salaries there. The case is typical;
it being a matter of common knowledge that from necessity, due to the geographical situation of that city,
in close proximity to the neighboring States, many
thousands of men and women, residents and citizens
of those States, go daily from their homes to the city and
earn their livelihood there. They pursue their several
occupations side by side with residents of the State of
New York-in effect competing with them as to wages,
salaries, and other terms of employment. Whether they
must pay a tax upon the first $1,000 or $2,000 of income,
while their associates and competitors who reside in New
York do not, makes a substantial difference. Under the
circumstances as disclosed, we are unable to find adequate ground for the discrimination, and are constrained
to hold that it is an unwarranted denial to the citizens
of Connecticut and New Jersey of the privileges and
immunities enjoyed by citizens of New York. This .is
not a case of occasional or accidental inequality due to
circumstances personal to the taxpayer (see Amoskeag
amounting to $1,000 or more in the year; whereas by § 351 the tax upon
residents (indeed, uponi non-residents likewise, so far as this section
goes), is only one per centum upon the first $10,000 of net income. It
is said, however, that the discrepancy arose through an amendment
made to § 351 while the bill was pending in the legislature, no corresponding amendment having been made in § 366. In view of this, and
taking the whole of the act together, the Attorney General has advised
the Comptroller that § 366 requires withholding of only one per centum
upon the first $10,000 of income. And the Comptroller has issued regulations to that effect. Hence we treat the discrepancy as if it did not
exist.

TRAVIS v. YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

Savings Bank v. Purdy, 231 U. S. 373, 393-394; Maxwell
v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 543); but a general rule, operating
to the disadvdintage of all non-residents including those
who are citizens of the neighboring States, and favoring
all residents including those who are citizens of the taxing State.
It cannot be deemed to be counterbalanced by the
provision of par. 3 of § 359 which excludes from the income of non-resident taxpayers "annuities, interest
on bank deposits, interest on bonds, notes or other interestbearing obligations or dividends from corporations, except to the extent to which the same shall be a part of
income from any business, trade, profession or occupation
carried on in this state subject to taxation'under this
article." This provision is not so conditioned as probably
to benefit non-residents to a degree corresponding to the
discrimination against them; it seems to have been
designed rather (as is avowed in appellant's brief) to
preserve the preeminence of New York City as a financial
center.
Nor can the discrimination be upheld, as is attempted
to be done, upon the theory that non-residents have untaxed income derived from sources in their home States
or elsewhere outside of the State of New York, corresponding to the amount upon which residents of that State
are exempt from taxation under this act. The discrimination is not conditioned upon the existence of such untaxed income; and it would be rash to assume that nonresidents taxable in New York under this law, as a class,
are receiving additional income from outside sources
equivalent to the amount of the exemptions that are
accorded to citizens of New York and denied to them.
In the brief submitted by the Attorney General of
New York in behalf of appellant, it is said that the
framers of the act, in embodying in it the provision for
unequal treatment of the residents of other States with

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

respect to the exemptions, looked forward to the speedy
adoption of an income tax by the adjoining States; in
which event, injustice to their citizens on the part of
New York could be avoided by providing similar exemptions similarly conditioned. This, however, is wholly
speculative; New York has no authority to legislate for
the adjoining States; and we must pass upon its. statute
with respect to its effect and operation in the existing
situation. But besides, in view of the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States, a discrimination by
the State of New York against the citizens of adjoining
States would not be cured were those States to establish
like discriminations against citizens of the State of New
York. A State may not barter away the right, conferred
upon its citizens by the Constitution of the United States,
to enjoy the privileges and immunities of citizens when
they go into other States. Nor can discrimination be
corrected by retaliation; to prevent this was one of the
chief ends sought to be accomplished by the adoption
of the Constitution.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOIDS concurs in the result.

