SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT, LA E COUNTY.-, 553
Statement of the Case.

SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 2 IN LAKE
COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UrITED ITATES FOR THE'
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
lo. 1104. Submitted January 10, 1890. -Decided March 3, 1890.

A tract of land in Leadville, Colorado, was deemed by the municipal authorities to be the most convenient and proper situation for the erection of'a
school-house, which had become a necessity in that part of the town. The
person in possessioti claimed under what was known as a squatter title.
Another person laid claim to it under a placer patent from the United
States. Both claims of 'title ware known to the authorities, and were
.submitted by them in good faith to counsel for advice. The counsel
advised them that the squatter title was good, and on the faith of that
advice they purchased the lot from the person in possession, and built a
school-house upon it, at a cost of $O0,000. The claimant under the placer,
title b..3ught an action of ejectment to recover possession., The munici pal authorities, being satisfied that he must prevail, filed their bill in
equity to enjoin him from proceeding to judgment in his action at law,
and commenced proceedings under a statute of the state for condemnation of the tract for public use. The plaintiff in the ejectmeut suit ap-.
peared in the condemnation proceedings, and claimed to recover from the
municipality the value of the improvements aswellAs the value of'tho land
as it was when acquired by the municipality; and, being a citizen of
Kangas,had the cauise removed, on the ground of di:verse citizenship, intom
the Circuit Court of, the United States. It was there agreed that the
value of the property, without the improvements, was $3000; and the court
instructed the jury that they should find "1that the value of said property at this date is e3000; " Held, that this instruction was correct.
No vested right is impaired by giving to an occupant of laud, claiming title
and beliei'ing himself to be the owner, the value of improvements made
by him under that belief, when ousted by the legal' owner under an adverse title.
In exercising the right of eminent domain for the acquisition of private
property for public use, the compensation to be awarded must not 'only
be just to the owner, but also just to the public which is to pay for it.

SCHOOL' DISTRICT No. 2, in the county of Lake a-d State of
Colorado, filed its petition in the county court of that counity
against R. S. Sear], stating that long prior to the first day of
July, 1881, it had been and- then was, a school district duly".

.554

OCTOBER TERM ,. 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and regularly organized; that on July 1, 1881, one Frances
M. Watson was in the actual possession and occupancy, under
a deed of conveyance to her, of certain lots in a certain block
of an addition to the city of Leadville; that on the same day
one Schlessinger was in the actual possession and occupancy
under deed of conveyance to him of certain other lots; that
said Watson and Schlessinger then were, and they and their
grantors had for a long. time prior thereto been, in the actual
possession and occupancy of said lots, claiming the ownership
thereof ; that on that day the board of directors of the school
district, having been duly authorized and directed so to do,
purchased the lots from Watson and Schlessinger and they
were conveyed to the district, the said lots being contiguous
and together constituting but one tract or lot, not exceeding
one acre; that the lots were situated within the boundaries of
the school district, and were purchased for the purpose of a
school lot upon which to locate and construct a school-house
for the benefit of the school district and the people resident
therein; that the school district entered into'possession and
occupation of the land on July 1, 1881, and proceeded to and
did. cbnstruct thereon a large, costly and valuable school-house,
and ever since that time had been and then was in the possession
and occupancy of said land, using the same for the purposes of
a school; that since the purchase and entry into possession by
the school district, the defendant, Searl, had acquired the legal
title to the lots composing the school lot, the full title to the
same having become vested in him on the second day of February, 1884; "that he is now the owner of said property, and
that the title thereto acquired by your petitioner as aforesaid
has wholly failed; that your petitioner made the purchases,
entered into the possession, and constructed the school-house
aforesaid in good faith, believing that it had good right so to
do; that said school-house is located with reference to the
wants and necessities of the people of each portion of said
district, and was at the time of said purchases and is now
necessary for the school purposes of said district, and that said
land and school lot contain no more than is necessary for the
location and construction of the school-house aforesaid and the

AEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT, LAKE COUNTY.

555

Statement of the Case.
convenient use of the school; that the compensation to be paid
for and in respect of the property aforesaid for the purposes
aforesaid cannot be agreed upon by your petitioner and the
said defendant, the parties interested; and. that th6 said
defendant is a non-resident of the State of Colorado." Petitioner then averred that the value of the property did not
exceed the sum of two thousand dollars ; and prayed that the
compensation to be paid by it to defendant for and on account
of said property be assessed in accordance with the statute.
The defendant appeared and on his application the cause
was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Colorado. Upon the trial before the, circuit
judge and a jury, it was "1agreed and admitted, among other
things, that the premises appropriated were necessary for the
petitioner and were taken for public use." And the following
stipulation in writing was offered and read in evidence:
"1For th6 purposes of the present hearing and trial only of
the above-entitled action or proceeding, either in this court,
where it is now pending, or in the Supreme Court of the
United States, where it may be taken on appeal or writ of
error, the following facts are agreed upon by and between the
respective parties hereto, to wit:
"1First. That a receiver's receipt was issued for the Sizer
placer, United States survey No. 388, on the 16th day of April,
A.D. 1881, out of the district land office. of the United States
at the city of Leadville, in the State of Colorado. to one Isaac
Cooper, claimant.
"Second. That on the 18th day of May, A.D. 1881, a
United States patent was issued to the said Isaac Cooper for
the said Sizer placer. ,
"Third. That the land sought to be condemned in the present proceeding is a part of the said Sizer placer.
"Fourth. That since the 20th day of November, A. 1882,
and before the institution of this proceeding, the said -Isaac
Cooper conveyed to the said R. S. Searl the said Sizer placer,
and the said Searl by virtue thereof is now the owner and
holder of the said patent title thereto.
"Fifth. That prior to the application for a patent to the

OCTOBER -,TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

said Sizer placer, and up to the time when the said school
board purchased the same and took possession thereof, the land
herein sought to be condemned was occupied, possessed and
improved, and the ownership thereof claimed, by persons holding.under what was called and known as a ' squatter title.'
" Sixth. That on or about the first day of July, A.D. 1881,
the said- school board purchased and took conveyances of the
land now sought to be condemned, with the buildings and improvements thereon, made and erected by the said squatter
occupants, from said occupants, and paid therefor -the sum of
thirty-five hundred ($3500) dollars.
"5Seventh. That on or before the thirtieth day of July, A.D.
1881, the 'said school. board went into actual possession of the
lots described in the petition herein, and -immediately commenced to build, and on the thirtieth day of January, A.D.
1&82, prior to the institution of these proceedings, completed
improvements, suitable and appropriate for educational purposes, at a cost to the said school district of forty thousand
($40,000) dollars; which property it has since possessed and
occupied and still occupies for school purposes.
"Eighth. That at the time of the commencement of this
action and the institutibn of these proceedings in condemnation, the land described in the -petition herein, together with
the improvements thereon so made by the school board as
aforesaid, was of the value of forty thousand ($4:0,000) dollars.
"Ninth. That at the said times of taking possession and at
the time of -the commencement of this action and the institution of these proceedings in condemnation, the land described
in the petition herein, without the improvements thereon made
by the school board, was of the value of three thousand ($3000)
dollars, and that the area of same is less than one acre.
"Tefith. That petitioner had knowledge of the issuance of
a United States patent, covering the property sought to be
condemned, prior to the purchase of the title which it subsequently purchased, and which was known as the squatter title.
"That prior to such purchase petitioner employed and paid
reputable counsel to investigate said title, that the counsel so
employed reported in favor of the validity of the so-called

SEAIrL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT, LAKE COUNTY.

557

Statement of the Case.

squatter title and against the validity of the Unitdd States
patent; that, believing said so-called squatter title io be bette
than the title conveyed by United States patent, petitioner
purchased the same; that after said purchase petitionei'subscribed to the fundg of an association organized for the purpose of endeavoring to defeat said patent title.
"Eleventh. That prior to the commencement of and during
the erection of the school building now stabding on 4he land
sought to be condemned, the board of school directors of petitioner was notified on behalf of respondent, who al that.time
owned an,equitable interest in the said property, and on bdhalf
of respondent's grantors, that Any building said school district
might.erect on said lots would be erected at the pieril of the
said school district, and would be claimed, when completed, by
said respondent and his grantor; but- the said school district,
having purchased the said- lots of the squhtters in possession
as aforesaid and believing that it had the better title thereto,
proceeded, potwithstaiiding such notice, and made and erected
said improvements as aforesaid.
"And in view of the statute, (Dawson's Colorado Code, -p.
80, sec. 253,) ahd for the purpose of. pftting as speedy an end
to contention as possible, it is further stipulated that the foregoing values may be taken as the actual values at'the time of
the trial of this suit, and that the property sought to be condemned is for public uge, and within the'reaning of the law
is necessary for the school district.
"Twelfth. That R. S. Searl isnow, and was at- the time. of
the commencement of these prbceedings,a citizen and -resident
of the State of Kansas." .
..
The bill of exceptions also stated that "the said defendant,
R. S. Seiarl, introduced further evidence tending to show that
lie became the legal owner of the premises 'on the 2d day of
February, 1884, and commenced his action .of ejectment on
the 21th of March, 1884,. which was at issue and set for trial
in this court on the 11th day of June, 1884; that petitioner
filed bill for injunction and obtained writ of injunction- te-.
straining trial of ejectment suit on the "tth of June, 1884, and
commenced these proceedings on the 9th of Tune, 1884 "'
"'

*-

OCTOBER TEIR

1889

Argument for Plaintiff in Error..

The defendant requested the court to give to the jury a
number of instructions,, which are omitted in view of the
grounds of decision here.'
The court refused these instructions and charged the jury
generally, and instructed them that the form of their verdict
should be as follows: "We, the jury, find, first, that the accurate description of the -property sought to be condemned in
this- action is lots 812, 814, 816, S18, and the north 13.6 feet,
aid the east 35 feet of lot 810, Nlotth Poplar" Street, and lots
211 and 213 East 9th Street, in.CoopIr's subdivision of the surface of the Sizer-placer, U. S. survey Ngo. 388, situate in 'the
coulty of <Lake and State of Colorado, together with the improvements thereon. Second, That the value of said property
at this date is $3000."
To the giving of this instruction, dnd' to the- refusal to give
those prayed by the defendant,, the' defendant by .his counsel
then, and ehre xcepted.- The jury ther upon returned a Verdiet in the sum of three thousand dollars,' and judgment was
rendered theregnA that the petitioner 'upon 'the payinehnt of
the amount 6f- tlhe said verdict to the said respondent or the
deposit of ihe said amount in this court within thirty days
hereafter, shall be,.and, it,hereby is, -invested with the fee in
and to said piemisism And it appearing that the said -petitioner is in possession, it is further considered by the court
-that upon the'piymeut br deposit of the said sum of money
within the time aforesaid [said .petitioner shall] retain possession of. and hold the premises aforesaid, with all the rights and"
interests thereto belonging an-appertaining:"
To review thig .judgment.a W*rit of eior was sied' out from
'this ourt .
-Mr. &mudeR-B-ose and 21. Frank 'T. Owers for plaintiff
in error.
The common law' alvays gave the buildings ere6ted by a
trespasser with full knowledge of the condition of the title to
'the land on which he built to' the legal .ovner:of that .land.
The weight of authority in condennation suits, follows the

-SEA.RL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT, 'L.A E COUNTY. 559
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

common law. United States v, Tract of LIand, 47 California,,
515; Graham v. Connersville Railroad, 36 Indiana, 463 ;,2N.
Y. & West Shore Railroad v. Gennet, 37 Hun, 317; Weriam
v. Brouin, 128 Mass. 391; Dietrich v. -Murdock, 42 Missouri,
279; Bibbs v. Chicago &c. Railroad, 39 Iowa, U4Q; Farrarv.
Stackpole, 6 Maine (6 Greenl.) 154; S. C. 19 Am. Dec. 201.
-In the case of Umited States v. Tract of Land,47 California,
515, the linited States entered upon: property claimed by one
"Jack" under an unconfirmed Mexican grant and against his
protest erected a light-house thereofi., The grant was subsequently confirmed and thereupon the United States proceeded
to condemn the property. and sought to pay only the value of
the land. The Supreme Court of California held that the
value of the buildings, being part of the realty, as well as the
value of the land, must be paid. The case at bar is infinitely
stronger than the light-house case. In. that case Jack's,,title
was unconfirmed, and the United States was, at the time of
entry, endowed with the power to condemn. In the case at
bar the title of plaintiff in error was evidenced by a patent,
regular upon its face, and defendant in error was not empowered to condemn.
The case of Graham -v. Connerville Railroad, 36 Indiana,
463, ,is precisely like the light-house case. In the last case the
railroad company, having at the time the right to condemn,
and knowing the condition of the title, entered upon Graham's
land, against his protest, and built upon it a hotel and depot.
In subsequent proceedings to condemn, the railroad- company
was compelled to pay the value of the hotel and depot. The
other cases cited are to the same effect.
The section of the constitution of Colorado relating to the
taking of private property for public use is practically word,
for word identical with the relative section in the constitution
of Missouri. Were it not so, the Federal, Constitution and that
of each of the States mentioned guarantees "that no person
shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law." It is evident .that plaintiffin. error has been
deprived of his property rights without due process of law,
and that he is still divested of those rights by defendant in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

error without even an attempt on its part to comply with the
requirements.of the statute law.
The certainty of compensation is the primary requisite to
the appropriation of lands for public use under the right of
eminent domain. Potter's Dwarris on Statutes 390; Cooley's
Const. Lim. 699.
That compensation must be not only certain but provided
for prior to or pending the proceedings, see 2 Kent Com.
339; Bloodgood v. AMohawk & Hudson Railroad, 18 Wend.
17; S. C. 31 Am. Dec. 313; Bonaparte v. Camden & Amboy
Railroad,1 Baldwin C. C. 205; Garrison v. City of N5ew York,
21 Wall. 196, 204; Potter's Dwarris Statutes 387-392.
The statutes of Colorado provide either for payment before
the taking possession, or in case of disagreement between the
owner and the condemning party, for a deposit in court
"pending the ascertainment of damages." INo payment was
made in this case, and no attempt was made to deposit in
court an amount which would indemnify plaintiff in error.
iltr. C. S. Thomas for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF TusTicE'FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Upon the conceded facts, unless the plaintiff in error was
entitled to be compensated for the school-house in question,
the instruction limiting the recovery to three thousand dollars
was correct, and the judgment must be affirmed.
The constitution of the State of Colorado provides "that no
person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property, without
due process of law;" and "that private property shall not be
takefd or damaged, for public or private use, without just compensation." Art. II.- §§ 25, 15, Gen. .Stat. Col. 1883, 34, 35;
1 Charters and Constitutions, 221, 222.
'Did thejust compensation thus secured to the owner of property taken in the exercise of the power of eminent domain, include in this instance payment to the plaintiff in error for the
improvements made by the school district in order to carry

SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRIqT, LAKE COUNTY.

561

Opinion, of the Court.

out the specific use and purpose for which the land ,was
required? Could plaintiff in error properly insist, that the
loss of the school-house was an injury whio,,he sustained by
reason of the taking?
The argument is that the moment, the school-house was
completed it belonged to the owner of -the land by operation
of law, and therefore that he was entitled to be recompensed
for it upon, condemnation. The maxim !2uicquid,plantatur
8010, 8010

cedit, is not of universal application.

Structures for

the purposes of trade or manufacture, and not intended to
become irrevocably part of the realty, are not within the rule,
'an Ne8s v. Pacdard,2 Pet. 137'; nor is it applicable where
theyare erected under agreement or by consent, the presumption not arising that the builder intended to transfer his- own
improvements to the owner. And courts of equity, in accord
with the principles of the civil, law, when their aid is sought
by the real owner, compel him to make allowance for permanent improvements made bona ftde by a party lawfully in
possession under a defective title, Story Eq. Jur. § 1237.
The civil law reconized the'principle of reimbursing to the
bona #8de possessor the expense of his improvements if he
was removed from his possession by ,the legal owner, by
allowing him the increase in the value of the land created
thereby. And the betterment laws of the several, states proceed upon that equitable view. , The righit of recovery, where
the occupant in good faith believes himself to be the owner,
is declared to stand upon a principle ofnatur4 justice and
equity, and such laws are held not to be unconstitutional as
impairing vested rights, since they adjust the equities of the
parties as nearly as possible according to natural Justice; and
in its application as a shield. of protection, the term "1vested
rights" is not used in any narrqw sense, but as implying a
vested interest of which the individual cannot be deprived
arbitrarily without injustice. The general welfare and public
policy must be regarded, and the equal and impartial protection of the interests of all. Cooley Cons. Lim. *35-6, *386.
But if the entry upon land is a naked trespass, buildings
permanently attached to the- soil become the property of the
voL. cxxxm-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

owner of the latter. The trespasser can acquire no rights by
his tortious acts.
The Circuit Court was not dealing with an action of ejectment
or trespass, but simply with a proceeding in the exercise of the
right of eminent domain. That right is the offspring of politi-.
cal necessity, and is inseparable from sovereignty unless denied
to it by its fundamental law. It cannot be exercised except
upon condition that just compensation shall be made to the
owner, and it is the duty of the State, in the conduct of the
inquest by which the compensation is ascertained, to see that
it is just, not merely to the individual whose property is
taken, but to the public which is to pay for it. Garrison v.
New York, 21 Wall. 196, 201 ; Ao~l v. United States, 91 U. S.
367, 371. The occupancy here was in no respect for a private
purpose or pecuniary gain, but strictly :nd wholly for the
public use. There could be no presumption that this public
agent intended to confer public property upon a private
individual, nor were the circumstances such as to impart the
character of wilful trespass to the entry by the district, or
impose liability to the forfeiture of improvements made in
discharge of its public duty.
It is among the agreed facts in the case that the premises
appropriated were necessary for the schools and were taken
for that public use; that though the district bad knowledge
of the issuing of a patent covering the property, yet it purchased the adverse title of the party then in possession, believing it to be better than the patent title, and upon the advice
of reputable counsel, who had, on investigation, reported
against the validity of the patent and in favor of the validity
of the title purchased, and paid thirty-five hundred dollars,
which was five hundred dollars more than the actual value,
without the building, was admitted to be when the trial took
place; and that, notwithstanding notice that it was proceeding
at its peril, it erected the building in reliance upon such belief
that it had the better title. The only legitimate inference
from these-faets is that the district acted throughout in good
faith, as the opposite of fraud and bad faith, and, although
it may have been wholly mistaken, the intention guided the

SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT, LAKE COUNTY. '568
Opinion of the ,Court.

-

entry and fixed its character, and it caniot be 'held to have
been such a trespass as to justify the claim that the school
building, erected in similar good faith, so became part and
parcel of the land as to entitle the owner to recover its value.
Plaintiff in error knew when he obtained the title that the
land was in necessary use by the 'public for a purely public
purpose, and that no intention of- parting with the structures
could be impited; and no notice of what his grantor or himself intended to insist on could destroy the good faith in fact,
*hich the conceded belief of the district imparted to its conduct.
In IFright v. -fattison, 18 How. .50,this court, in considering a statute of the State of -Illinois in protection of persons
"in .the actual possession of lands or tenements under claim
and color of title made in.good faith," reiterated the rule that
color of title is matter of law, but good faith in the party
claiming under such color is purely a question of fact; and
held that, while defects in the title might not be urged against
it as destroying color, they might have an important and legitimate influence in showing a want of confidence and good faith
in the mind of the vendee, if they were known to him, and he
therefore believed the title to be fraudulent and void. The
court approved of the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois
in Woodward v. Blanohard,16 Illinois, 424, in which it was said
by Scates, C. J., that "the state of mind of the party in relation to such title was an existing truth which must be ascertained and found as i fact in the cause. Many independent
facts and surrounding circumstances may be admissible in evi'
dence, and legitimately considered as establishing or impeaching the state of mind in its good faith, honest belief or trust
in, or dependence upon such title." And this language was
quoted by the court from that opinion: "Good faith is doubtless used here in its popular sense, as the actual, existing state
of the mind; whether so from ignorance, scepticism, sophist.ry,
delusion, fanaticism, or imbecility, and without regard to what
it should be from given legal standards of law or reason."
-Ewingv. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41; Pillow v. Roberts, 13 How. 472.
As remarked by Beckwith, J., in .fc Caggv. Heacock, 34 Illinois,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

476, 479: "The good faith required by the statute, in the creation or acquisition of color of title, is a freedom from a design
to defraud the person having the better title;" and "the
knowledge of an adverse claim to, or lien upon property, does
not, of itself, indicate bad faith in a purchaser, and is not even
evidence of it, unless accompanied by some improper means to
defeat such claim or lien."
We are of opinion that plaintiff in error could not successfully contend that the school district should be treated as a
naked trespasser. And_ as the actual- value of the land at the
time of the trial must have included whatever increase may
have enured by reason of its adaptability to school purposes
and every other element entering into its cash- or market value,
as tested by its capacity for any and all uses, it follows that
the true criterion of recovery was adopted.
-Itis not denied that the school district, when it filed its
petition, was entitled to acquire the property in the exercise
of the power of eminent domain, but it is said that it could
.not do so prior to February 13, 1883, the date of the passage
of an act rendering such action on its part lawful. Sess.
Laws, Colorado, 1883, 263; Gen. St. § 3044, 893. But we
cannot perceive that this affects the precise question before us.
Inability to condemn indicates that possession was not taken
with the view of proceedings to that end, but that is conceded
on the other ground, that the school district believed that it
had the better 'title and erected its building accordingly.
When it came to possess and exercise the power, the inquiry
was limited to such compensation as was just and did not embrace remote or speculative damages, or payment for injuries
not properly susceptible of being claimed to have been
sustained.
It was ruled in Secombe v. Railroad Company, 23 Wall. 108,
118, in relation to the taking of private property by a railroad
company under the power of eminent domain, that "prior
occupation .without authority of law would not preclude the
company from taking subsequent measures authorized by law
to condemn the land for thbir use.. If the company occupied
the land before condemnation without the consent of the

SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT, LAKE COUNITY.

565

Opinion of -the Court.

owners, and without any law authorizing it, they are liable in
trespass to the persons who owned the land at the time, but
not to the present plaintiff."
Plaintiff in error obtained the legal title February 2, 1884,
and this petition was filed the second day of June of that
year. If he suffered injury by being kept out of possession,
for which he could recover damages,-'they could not be assessed in this action, and there is nothing in the record to
show that any claim to that effect was made.
Chapter XXXI of the General Laws of Colorado treats of
eminent domain, and -constitutes Chapter XXI of Dawson's
Code of Civil Procedure, referred to in the record. S*ction
253 provides that " in estimating the value of all property
actually taken, the true and actual value thereof at the time
of the appraisement shall be allowed and awarded," and that
"in all cases the owner or owners shall receive the full and
actual value of all property actually taken." Dawson's Code,
1884, 80. This means, of course, the value of the owner's
real interest. It was agreed that at the time of the trial the
actual value of the land, "without the improvements thereon
made by the school board," was three thousand dollars, so
that, as, before stated, the sole questio.n is whether the :Circuit
Court erred in holding that the defendant could not be allowed
for the improvements. We think tlaat in this there was no
error. In our judgment, thee technical r41e of law invoked to
sustain the defendant's contention that he owned the schoolhouse, was inapplicable, and the value of the improvements
could not justly be included in the compensation. N umerous
well-considered decisions of the state courts announce the
same restlts. Justice v. ffecquekoney Falley Raitroad, 87
Penh. St. '28, 32; Jones v. New Orleans & Selvma Railpoad,
70 Alabama, 22t; Ly6n -. Greem Bay & _Ainnesota Railroad,
42 Wisconsin, 538; -hicago & Alton Bailroad Co. v. Goodwin, 111 Illinois, 273; "Oregon Railway & NMavigation' Co. v.
.M6sier, 14 Oregon, 519; -organs Appeal, 39'IMichigan, 675.
Aifred.
The'jidgment is

