GAGE v. RAUFMiAT.
Opinion of the Court.

GAGE v. KAUFMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

-

No. 189.

Submitted January 27, 1890.-Decided March 3, 1890.

In a bill in equity to quiet title, an allegation that the plaintiff is seized In,"

fee simple is a sufficient allegation that he has the possession as wqll as
the title.
In a bill in equity, an allegation that the plaintiff has no adequate remedy lit
law is dispensed with by Rule 21.in Equity.
A bill in equity to remove a cloud upon title, created by a tax deed, which
alleges that no taxes were due upon which the land could be sold, need
not offer to pay any taxes as a condition of relief.
By the law of Illinois, a tax deed is no more than prima fade evidence in
favor of the purchaser, and may be shown to bd invalid by proof that
there was no advertisement of sale, or no judgment or precept, or no
taxes unpaid, or no notice to redeem given or recorded; and a bill to
remove a cloud upon title, alleging that the defendant claims under a tax
deed valid on its face, but invalid on the grounds aforesaid, is good on.
demurrer.
IN EQUITY. The defendant demurred to the bill. The'demurrer being overruled he elected to stand on the demurrer,
and a, decree was entered for the complainant, -from which'the
defendant appealed. The case is stated.in th~e opinion.

MTh. Augustus IV. Gage for appellant.
Mr. Edward Roby for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity by a citizen of Illinois against a citizen of New Jersey to remove a cloud upon the title of lands
in Chicago of the value of $10,000.
The bill alleged that the plaintiff was seized in fee simple of
the lands; that the defendant claimed title to them under twopretended tax deeds to him from the county clerk, recorded in
the office of the county recorder, (copies of the records of which
were set forth in the bill, showing deeds in the form prescribed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinibn of the Court.

by § 221 of c. 120 of the Revised Statutes of Illinois of 1874);
and further alleged that there was no advertisement of any
public sale for non-payment of taxes on the day mentioned in
either deed; that there was no judgment or precept on which
the lands could have been sold; that there were no taxes unpaid
on which the sale could have been made; that no notice to redeem the lands from such pretended sale was given by the
holder of any certificate of such sale, as required by the con.
stitution and statutes of Illinois; and that no such notice or
evidence thereof was filed or recorded by the county clerk.
The defendant demurred to the bill, because it did not show
who was in possession of the lands, or that the defendant was
not in possession, or that the plaintiff had not an adequate
remedy at law;- because the plaintiff did not offer to do equity
and to repay the taxes paid by the defendant; because the
grounds alleged in the bill for setting aside the defendant's
title were insufficient to overcome theprimfacieevidence of
the tax deeds set forth in the bill; and for want of equity.
The court overruled the demurrer, and, the defendant electing to stand by it, entered a decree for the plaintiff. The defendant appealed to this court.
The grounds of demurrer are untenable. The allegation that
the4 plaintiff is seized in fee simple is a sufficient allegation that
he has the possession, as well as the title. 1 Dan. Ch. Pract.
c. 6, § 5. The allegation that he has no adequate remedy at law
is dispensed with by Equity Rule 21. If, as the bill alleges, no
taxes were due upon which the lands could be sold, be was not
bound to pay any taxes as a condition of relief. By the law of
Illinois, the deed is no more thanprimfacieevidence in favor
of the purchaser, and may be shown to be invalid by proof of
either of the facts alleged in the bill and admitted by the demurrer, namely, that there was no advertisement of sale, no
judgment or precept, no taxes unpaid, or no notice to redeem
given or recorded. Illinois Rev. Stat. of 1874, c. 120, §§ 177,
182, 191, 194, 216, 217, 224; Senickka v. Lowe, 74 Illinois, 274;
Bell v. Johnson, ill Illinois, 374; Gage v. Rohrbach, 56 Illinois, 262; Williams v. Underhill, 58 Illinois, 137; Dalton v.
'Lucas, 63 Ilinois, 337.

