OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

and they are not considered as made until they have been
approved, as provided by statute, by the Secretary of the
Interior.
It follows from these views that the indemnity lands described
in the complaint were not subject to taxation as the property
of the railroad company in 1883. The judgment of the Su,preme Court of Wisconsin must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a

decree perpetually enjoining the collection'of the tres
levied in the year 1883 upon. the indemnity lands, and dismissing the complaint as to the eleven parees offorty aores
eachr; and it is so ordered.

BURTHE v. DENIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 1381. Submitted January 13, 1890.-Decided March 3, 1890.

The property of a subject of the Emperor of the French in Louisiana was
occupied by the army of the United States during the war of the rebellioll.
A claim for the injury caused thereby was adjusted by the commanding
general, but payment was refused in consequence of the passage of the
act of February 21, 1867, 14 Stat. 397, c. 57. After the organization of
the commission under the Claims Convention of 1880 with France, 21
Stat. 673, his executor (he having meantime died in Paris leaving a will
distributing his estate) presented this claim against the United States to
the commissioners, and an allowance was made which was paid to the
executor. In settling the executor's accounts in the courts of Louisiana
two of the legatees, who were citizens of France, laid'clalm to the whole
of the award. The other legatees, who were citizens of the United States,
claimed the right to participate in the division of this sum. The award
of the commission being silent on the subject, the briefs of counsel on
2 oth sides before the commission together with letters from the claimants' counsel, and a letter from one of the commissioners, were offered
to show that only the claims on the part of the French legatees were
considered by the commission, and the evidence was admitted. The Supreme court of Louisiana ordered the award to be distributed among all
the legatees, French and American; Held,

BURTHE v. DENIS.
Statement of the Case.
(1) That this court had jurisdiction to review the judgment of the. statq
court;
(2) That the French legatees only were entitled to be represented befoie
the commission, and they obly were entitled to participate in the
distribution;
(3) That the briefs of counsel were properly admitted in evidence
(4) That the letters of counsel and of the commissioner should have
been rejected; but,
(5) That it was immaterial whether the evidence was or was not received,
as the decision of the question depended upon considerations.
which such evidence could -inno way affect.
Extrinsic evidence to aid in the interpretation of the judgment of a court
or commission is inadmissible unless, after reference to the pleadings
and proceedings, there remains some ambiguity or uncertainty in it.

AT the commencement of the late civil war L. F. Fouch~r,
a citizen of France and a resident of the city of Paris, and
bearing the title of Marquis de Circ6, was the owner :of a
plantation situated on the east bank of the Mississippi River,
a few miles above the centre of the city of New Orleans,
though within its corporate limits. A portion of ib wa
known as Exposition Park or Audubon Park. When the ,oity
was occupied by the Federal troops in 1862 they took possession of the plantation. Some of its fields were used -forpasture; some were converted into camping ground; and upon
part a hospital for the soldiers was built. The whole "was-:in
the military occupation and control of the United States;.to
,the entire exclusion of the owner. In. 1865 a claim, for reimbursement of the damages sustained was presented on behalf
of the owner to the Military Claims Commission sitting. at
New Orleans. General Canby, as commanding general of thb
district embracing that city, and the head of the comnmission,
made a repor. upon the claim, recommending, upon the advice
of his chief quartermaster, its settlement by the payment-of
$36,433.33. This report was addressed to the Adjutant Gene-.
ral's Department, and forwarded to Washington in June, 186.6.
No part of this claim, was, however,, paid, for the' reason!:as
stated by counsel, that before action was had upon- it the..aoit
of Congress of February 21, 1867, was passed, forbidding. ,the
settlement of any claim for the occupation of or injury, to real
estate by the military authorities or troops of the ..United

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

States where such claim originated during the war.. 14 Stat.
391, c. 57.
In 1869 Foucher died, leaving a will, in which he made his
widow, also a citizen of France, his universal legatee, and she
was put in possession of his estate. In 1877 she died, leaving
a will by which she devised her entire estate to her nephews
and nieces, who were appointed her universal legatees, jointly.
After some litigation to determine the true construction of
this will, the legatees went into possession of her, estate. 31
La. Ann. 568. The estates both of Foucher and of his widow
were settled and the property distributed amonj the legatees
of the latter or their heirs. The executors were discharged
and the successions considered as finally closed. Neither the
estate of Foucher nor of his widow had received any moneys
upon the claim which had been presented on behalf of Foucher
in 1865, for the damage sustained by the occupation and use
of his plantation by the Federal troops, the payment of which
had been recommended by General Canby; nor was any mention made of the claim in the distribution of the* estate of
either.
In January, 1880, a convention was concluded between tme
United States .and France, 21 Stat. 673, by which it was agreed
that "aU1 claims on the part of corporations, companies, or private individuals, citizens of the United States, upon the government of France, arising out of acts committed against the
persons or property of citizens of the United States not in the
service of the enemies of France, or voluntarily giving aid and
comfort to the same, by the French civil or military authorities, upon the high seas or within the territory of France, its
colonies and dependencies, during the late war between France
and Mexico, or during the war of 1870-'71, between France
and Gerpnany, and the -subsequent civil disturbances known as
the I Insurrection of the Commune;' and on the other hand,
all claims on the part of corporations, companies or private
individuals, citizens of France, upon the governiient of the
United States, arising out of acts committed 'against the persons or property of citizens of France not in the service of the
enemies of the United States, or voluntarily giving aid and

BURTHE v. DENIS.
Statement of the Case.

comfort to the same, by the civil or military authorities of
the government of the United States, upon the high seas or
within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States, during
the period comprised between the thirteenth day of April,
eighteen hundred and sixty-one, and the twentieth day of
August, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, shall be referred to
three commissioners, one .of whom shall be named by the
President of the United States, and one by the French government, and the third by His IMajesty the Emperor of
Brazil." The convention also provided that- the commission
thus constituted should be competent and obliged t6 examine
and decide upon all claims of the above character presented to
them by the citizens of either country, except such as had
been already diplomatically, judicially or otherwise 'by competent authorities previously disposed of by either government;
but that no claim or item of damage or injury based upon the
emancipation or loss of slaves should be entertained. The
convention also provided that the commission should, without
delay, after its organization, proceed to examine and determine
the claims specified, and that the concurring decisions of the
commissioners or of any two, of them should be conclusive and
final; and the contracting parties especially engaged so to
consider them, and to give full effect to such decisions, without any objections, evasions, or delay .',hatever.
The- commission thus provided for was organized and proceeded to the hearing of claims at the city of Washington.
The claim of Foucher was for acts committed against his property within the period prescribed, anid the parties interested in
that claim were desirous of presenting it to the commission for
consideration. That commission, as it was authorized to do
under the act of June 16, 1880, providing for carrying the
treaty into effect, had adopted rules for the conduct of its
business, among which was one that, if the claimant were
dead, his executor or administrator, or legal representatives,
must appear for him, and that each claimant should file in the
office of the commission a statement of his claim, in the form
of a memorial addressed to the commission. 21 Stat. 296, c.
253, §. 4. The successions of Mr. and Mrs. Foucher were

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

accordingly reopened, and Arthur Denis was appointed dative
testanqentary executor in both, that is, an executor to t~ke the
place of the one named in the wills of the deceased.
Soon afterwards M r. Denis filed in the office of the commission a memorial entitled "Arthur Denis, dative testamentary
executor of Foucher vs. The United States." In this memorial he presented the claim in the right of Foucher, deceased,
and joined tvith him as claimants all parties interested in the
successions of Mr. and Mrs. Foucher, all of whom were citizens
of the United.States, except Paul Louis Burthe and Dominique
Frangois Burthe, who were citizens of France; and he filed
a power of attorney showing that he appeared as their agent.
Subsequently these latter parties filed a separate petition or
memorial, in which they appeared in person. They are heirs
each of one-eighth of the estate of Ms. Foucher.
In June, 1883, the commission rendered its award as follows:
."Arthur Denis

vs.

No. 603.

The United States.
"We allow this claim at the sum of nine thousand and two
hundred'dollars, with interest at five per cent from April 1st,
18652'
Of this award Mr. Denis collected $8229.18, from which he
reserved $114.98 for future costs, and deducted $2834.20 for
charges and expenses, which. are conceded to have been cor,rect, leaving a balance of $5280. This sum as dative executor
he proposed to distribute among all the heirs and legatees of
M
M s.. Foucher precisely as he would have done had this amount
been -moneys possessed by her as part of her estate at the
time of her death. All the parties, except the plaintiffs in
error, are citizens of the United States, and 'were such citizens
at the time of the award. The plaintiffs in error being the
only heirs who were at the time citizens of France, insisted
that they were entitled to the whole award. Mr. Denis presented the matter to the Civil District Court for the Parish of
Orleans for determination, showing the respective proportions
the heirs And legatees would be entitled to receive if the sum

BURTHE v: DENIS.
Statement ,of the Case.
mentioned was to be distributed among them in the same pro-

portion as the original estates.

Accompanying this show-

ing-tableau of 'distribution as it is termed-he made the
following statement:
"The undersigned, testamentary executor, understands that
the French and American Claims Commission established the
uniform jurisprudence for its decisions that itcould not hear
and determine any claims against the United States .except
those of claimants and beneficiaries who were French citizens,
and that .the said commission rejected all claims of persons
not French citizens, even when they represented the claim of
a deceased French person.
"In claim No. 603, of the succession of L. F. Foucher de'
*Circ6, the actual claimants are all American citizens except
Paul Louis Burthe and Dominique Frangois Burthe, who are
French citizens. Under the said jurisprudence of the commission, and considering the status of the-American claimants, the
executor felt great doubt and hesitation as to the distributida.
to be made under this tableau. On the one hand it seemed -as
if the. commission, under its rulings, could not have made aiiy
award in favor of the American claimants, and that the award
as allowed must have been intended for the French claimants
only; but, on the other side, .the commission not having in
express terms excluded the American claimants, the executor
concluded, in making the tableau, to allow to the several legatees their recognized proportions of interest .in the estates,
leaving the French heirs to come by oppositions and assert
their rights, if any they have, to the entire award."
To this representation, or tableau of distribution,- the plaintiffs in error made opposition, alleging that they were entitled
to the whole award, being the only heirs and legatees who
were French citizens at the time the claim was presented and
when the award was rendered 1 and that no award under the
treaty could have been made in favor of the other heirs and
legatees, they being citizens of the United States at that time,
and that no executor, administrator or person representing the
succession of a person who was not a French citizen at the,
time the damage was suffered and award rendered could have
-

OCTOBER, TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

any standing before the commission. The District Court of
the parish, the court of original jurisdiction, maintained the
position of the plaintiffs in error, and decreed that the entire
fund, $5280, should go to them, one-half to each. From this
judgment the executor appealed to the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, which tribunal reversed the decree below, giving
judgment in favor of the executor, to the effect that the entire
fund in his possession from the award, less the charges and
expenses incurred and the amount retained for~future costs,
should be distributed proportionally among the legatees and
heirs of Mrs. Foucher, according to the tableau of distribution
presented by him. From this latter judgment the case was
brought to this *courton Writ of error.
Mir. Alexander Porter -Morse, (with whom was .Mr'. Charles
Carrollon the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
A r. Henry Caiapella.fordefendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE FiELa, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As the contention of the plaintiffs in error that they are
entitled to the entire award rendered by the French and
American Claims Commission, after deducting from it the
conceded charges and expenses, is founded upon the stipulations of the treaty of 1880, the refusal of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana to recognize the right thus asserted by them
presents a question for the jurisdiction of this court, within
the express terms of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of
1789, which is reproduced, somewhat enlarged in its provisions,
in the Revised Statutes, § 709. The decision was against the
right specially claimed under the treaty in question.
The position of the plaintiffs in error was, in our judgment,
well taken, 'and should have been sustained. Independently
of the express provisions of the treaty it could not reasonably
be urged that the award should inure to the benefit of citizens
of the United States. It would be a -remarkable thing, and
we think without precedent in the history of diplomacy, for

BIURTHE v. -DENIS
Opinion: bf the Cburt.

the government of the United States to inak&a treaty with
another country to indemnify its own'citizens for injuries
received from its own officers. To any suggestion of t~hat
kind from a foreign country the government of the'United
States would probably answer that it was, entirely competent
to deal with its own citizens and to do justice to them without
the interposition of any other country.
But the express language of the treaty here limits the juirisdiction of the commission to claims :by citizens of one country
against the government of the other. It matters not by
whom the claim may have been presented to the commission.
That body posses~ed no authority tb consider any claims
against the government of either the United States or of
France, except as held, both at the time of their jresentation
and of judgment thereon, by citizens of the other country.
There is no ambiguity in the language of the treaty on 'this
subject;, it is'ntirely free from doubt. It is true Arthur
Denis presented the claim as dative testamentary executor of
Mr. Foucher's succession, and he joind, in his mem6rial to
the commissioii, all the legatees andheirs u'nder tbe will of
Madame Foucler, to whom the estate of her husband had
been left, appearing also for the-plaintiffs in error"under a
power of attorney from them they subsequently appearing in
person. This mem6rial only gave the commission full knowledge of the origin and condition of the claim. It could hot
enlarge its power or bring within its jurisdiction any claim
against the United States -of other parties than citizens, of
France. When the award was made it could lawfully be
intended for no' other than such citizens. The right of the
plaintiffs in error to the award arises from the treaty, to .which
any rule§ f6r the' distribution of 'estate§ uidek the- lair' o
Louisiana must give way, the treaty being of superior author,
ity in the case. They were entitled, each to -one-eighth of any.
property coming to them as legateds-of Mrs..'Foucher,'aiid that,
proportion of the whole claim shown to exist against the
United States for damages to the property of her husband and
for its use'was all that the commission could alloW, as it
could not consider the interests of their co-legatees or .o-heirs,

'OCTOBER

TERM, 1889.

Opinion of the Court.

they not being citizens of France. The amount of the whole
claim as set forth in the memorial presented by Denis exceeded
$100,000. The amount which General Canby, in 1865, recommended to be paid, as already stated, exceeded $36,000. Whatever the damages sustained by Foucher as estimated by the
commission, that body could allow only one-fourth thereof,
the proportion due to the plaintiffs in e-ror. Any award to
their co-legatees would have been invalid and void. They
may be entitled to an equal share in the whole claim against
the government of the United States; but if so they must
resort to remedies provided by the laws of the United States
for the progecution of claims against them, or, if those remedies
are inadequate to give this relief, they must apply to Congress.
Relief by the commission under the treaty could be given only
to those legatees who were at the time citizens of France.
On the hearing before the District Court, the brief of counsel for the French government, and of private counsel filed
with the commission for the claimants, and letters of the latter
counsel, were produced to show that no claim was pressed by
them except on behalf of the plaintiffs in error; and also a
letter of one of the 6ommissioners, to show that no other claim
was considered by the commission. Objection was taken to
this evidence on the ground that the decision of the commission could not be interpreted by subsequent testimony, or by
the arguments of counsel before it, or the opinions of attorneys
employed in the case. As we understand the objection, it
went to the competency of the testimony, rather than to its
sufficiency. As a general rule, the judgment of a court or
commission is to be interpreted by its own language and the
pleadings or proceedings upon which it isfounded. Extrinsic
evidence to aid in its interpretation is inadmissible unless after
reference to the pleadings -andproceedings there remains some
ambiguity or uncertainty in it. In such cases resort may be
had to other evidence, as where, from the generality of the
language in the ple5dings, or proceedings as well as in the
decision, it becomes n~cessary to ascertain and limit the extent
of the judgment intended. Thus where -a former judgment is
pleaded in bar of a second action upon the same demand, it is

