iIILLS v. DOW.
Syllabus.

v. pratt, 2 Duvall, 4, does, not apply to the present case.
That was a suit brought by a consignee of goods against a
carrier, where the carrier was entitled, under a bill of lading
given by it to the consignee, to insurance obtained by the consignee; and it was held that the consignee could not be compelled to proceed upon the policy of insurance before enforcing his claim against the carrier, even where it appeared that
the insurer had agreed to -pay its loss under the policy, and
although it was alleged that the suit vas prosecuted for the
benefit of the insurer. But here the plaintiff is the assured.
The insurance included the protection of the railroad companies. The premium was paid. The insured property was
destroyed by fire. The condition of the liability of the insurer
was complete, and its liability had fully accrued. The only
question for litigation was whether the railroad companies
were protected by the insurance. The defendant is called
upon to perform only its agreement to pay the insurance
money in case of the destruction of the cotton by fire. Its
liability is not dependent upon the question whether the liability of the railroad companies has been discharged; nor is
the plaintiff's right of action coutingent upon the payment by
the railroad companies of the value of the cotton burned, but
it is contingent only upon the destruction of the cotton by fire
under circumstances which impose a liability upon the railroad
companies.
We see'no error in the record; and the judgment is

MILLS v. DOW'S ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUrr COURT OF. TM UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
X o. 151.

Submitted December 9, 1889.- Decided March 3, 1890.

Where the subject matter of a contract relates to the construction of a rail-'
road in Massachusetts, and the defendant resides there, and the contract
was made there, and a suit 6n the contract is brought there, the law of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
Massachusetts Is to govern in expounding and enforcing the contract,
and in determining the rule of damages for a breach of it.
Where a contract states that the purchasing price of its subject matter is
$15,000, and that that sum has been "this day advanced and paid"
therefor, it is competent for the vendor, in a suit by him on the contract, to show that only $10,000 was paid, with a view to recover the
remaining $5000.
The language of thie contract is ambiguous and &oes not show actual prior
or simultaneous payment.
Evidence of a promise by the defendant, as a part of the, consideration of
the contract, to pay certain debts mentioned in it which the plaintiff
owed is admissible; and the refusal of the defendant to pay those debts
on demand was a breach of the contract.
An agreement to "assume" a prior contract, and to save the plaintiff harmless from "all liability" by reason of certain other contracts, is broken
by a failure to pay the parties to whom the plaintiff was liable, and it is
not necessary to a breach that the plaintiff should show that he had first
paid those parties.
The agreement is not merely one to indemnify the plaintiff from damage
arising out of his liability, but is an agreement to assume his contracts
and to discharge him from his liability.
Such agreement was a personal one on the part of the defendant.
ON the 23d of October, 1878, the following instrument in
writing was executed by Stephen C. Mills on the-one part,
and Stephen Dow and Nathan P. Pratt on the other:

"Whereas Stephen C.Mills of Stark, in the State of Maine,
is the contractor for the building of the Boston and Mystic
Valley Railroad Company's railroad bed, bridges, etc., etc.;
and whereas the said railroad company has agreed to purchase
and cause to be cancelled the said contract, but said company
has found it inconvenient or impossible to pay me the agreed
price for such purchase; and whereas Stephen Dow of Woburn and Nathan P. Pratt of Reading have agreed to purchase of me the said contract in the interest of said railroad
company and for the said company's benefit and profit, and
to receive of me an assignment of said contract in trust for
said company- that is to say, as collateral security for payment to them by said company of the sum of fifteen thousand
dollars, the purchasing price, and interest thereon at the rate
of six per centum per annum, for such time as the same shall
remain unpaid, which said sum of fifteen thousand dollars the

MILLS v. DOW.
Statement df the Case.

said Dow and Pratt have this day advanced and paid to said
Mills for said contract and all sums that may hereafter become
due thereunder; and whereas the said Mills has sublet some
of the work, as per contracts marked 'B,' 'C,' 1D,' 'E' and
hereto annexed, with Hall and Burgess, J. Mf. Ellis and Savage and McCabe; and whereas the said Dow and Pratt assume
said contract in their capacities aforesaid; and whereas by
the terms of said contract 'A' ten per cent of the monthly
estimate is retained in the hands of the company; the said
Dow and Pratt as aforesaid accept the assignment of said contract, with the understanding and agreement that they will
and shall well and truly save harmless the said Mills from any
and all liability by reason of said contracts, the ten per cent
reserved, and any claim by reason of said Ellis, :all and Burgess and Savage and McCabe agreements before mentioned:
Now, know all men that I, Stephen 0. Mills of Stark, in the
State of Maine, the person named in the contract hereto annexed, marked 'A,' in consideration of fifteen thousand dollars to me paid by Stephen Dow, of Woburn, in the county
of Middlesex and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and Nathan P. Pratt of Reading, in siid county of Middlesex, in
their capacity aforesaid, have assigned and do hereby assign,
sell, convey and set over to the said Dow and Pratt as aforesaid, and their assigns, all my interest inthe within and beforementioned contract marked 'A,' and every clause, article, or
thing therein contained, and I do herefy constitute and appoint them, the said Dow and Pratt, trustees as aforesaid, my
attorney or attorneys, in my name, but to their own use as
aforesaid, to take all legal means which may [be] proper for
the complete recovery and enjoyment of the assigned premises, with power of substitution. In witness whereof I have
hereunto set my hand and seal this twefity-third (23) day of
October, .D_ 1878.
"SC.
M xs-& Co.
[L- s.]
"STEPHN
M ls.
"Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of "HENRY B. INorrAGE.

"P. W krm
sT LodE.

•426-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

"We the said Stephen Dow and Nathan P. Pratt, hereby
accept the above assignment and the conditions preceding the
same for the purposes aforesaid.
"Witness:
"STEPHEN Dow.
"P.

WEBSTER LOoHE.

"NATHAN P. PRATT."

The contract of Mills with the Boston and Mystic Vallev
Railroad Company, to build and equip the road of that company from Somerville to Wilmington, was made on the 4th

of May, 1878.

On the 6th of May, 1878, the plaintiff, under

the name of S. C. Mills & Co., made a sub-contract with H.

0. Hall and J. H. Burgess, being the Hall and Burgess named
in the instrument of October 23, 1878, to grade the road-bed
of the railroad from Wilmington to Somerville. The road
had not been completed on the 23d of October, 1878. Dow
and ,Pratt were stockholders and directors in the comjiany.
Of the $15,000 mentioned in the instrument of October 23,
1878, they paid to Mills only $10,000. They did not pay any
part of $11,048.08, which was due to Hall and Burgess for
work done under their dontract, partly before and partly after
the. instrument of October 23, 1878; was executed. Mills
brought this suit against Dow and Pratt, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, to recover those sums. Issue was joined by Dow. Pratt did not
appear'and was defaulted. At the trial before a jury the court
directed a verdict for the defendant Dow, and a judgment
accordingly was entered, to review which the plaintiff brought
this'writ of error. Since the writ was brought, Dow.y has died,
and his administrator has been substituted as defendant in
error in his stead.
Dow was president -of the railroad company, and as such
executed the contract between the company and Mills for the
construction and equipmentof the road. The sub-con tractors
named in the instrument of October 23, 1878, continued work
og the road under their contracts up to the middle of December, 1878, and furnished the labor and materials set forth in
the declaration and in the .accounts" annexed thereto, so that
there was a balance exceeding. $6000 due from Mills to Hall

ILLS' v. DOW.
Statement of the Case.

and Burgess, partly for work done prior to October 23, 1878,
and partly for work done subsequently to that date. Dow was
informed of the amount so due to the sub-contractors, and
that the same had never been paid.
The bill of exceptions, after stating the foregoing facts, set
forth that the plaintiff offered to show by Hall, for the purpose of proving an independent oral contract based on an
alleged liability of Dow as stockholder, that Dowr repeatedly
promised Hall, in 1879 and subsequently, that he would pay
the amount claimed to be due to Hall and Burgess, but the
court refused to admit the evidence at that stage of the case,
on the ground that there was no-evidence of a consideration
for the promise, and that the liability, and the fact that Dow
was a stockholder, must first be shown; that the plaintiff
offered to show, by his own evidence, that the consideration
of the instrument- of October 23, 1878, was the payment of
$15,000; that the defendants promised to pay him that sum as
such consideration and had paid only $10,000 of it, the plaintiff claiming that, by the terms of the instrument, the defendants were bound to pay the whole of such consideration, and
that, on proof that the consideration was $15,000, and was
partially unpaid, he would be entitled to recovei; that the
court ruled that the inquiry was irrelevant, on the pleadings
and proofs as they then stood; that the plaintiff offered
'further to show that, as a part of the consideration of the
instrument, the defendants promised to pay the debts the
plaintiff owed to Hall and others named in the instrument;
and that the court refused to admit the evidence.
The bill of exceptions stated, also, that there was evidence
tending to show that the defendants were stockholders and
directors of the company, and Dow was its president,. from
May 1, 1878, to June 1, 1879; that Hall had authority from
the plaintiff to collect from the defendants the amounts due
to the sub-contractors; that Dow, at the request of the plaintiff, paid to one or more of the sub-contractors, subsequently to
October 23, 1878, the amount due them for work done on the
road and had also paid to the plaintiff the amount of a judgment recovered against the latter by Savage and McCabe, in

'OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

a suit brought by them subsequently to October 23, 1878, for
work done by them under their sub-contract, which amount
the plaintiff never paid to Savage and McCabe, and no claim
was made for it in this suit; that, before this suit was brought,
the sub-contractors demanded their pay from the plaintiff,
showing him a statement of their account, and also made a
demand on the defendants, and the plaintiff made a like demand on them; that as between the plaintiff and the sub-contractors, there was no dispute as to the amount due; that the
company voted to stop the work of construction on the road
about the middle of December, 1878, and never resumed the
work of construction after that date; that Hall and Burgess
did not complete their contract wft~hin the time stipulated in
it, for the reason, among others, that the company did not
*meetits-payments and never secured the right of way for the
portion not constructed by it; and that no evidence was introduced by the plaintiff that he had paid any portion of the
sums due the sub-contractors named in the instrument of October 23, 1878. The- plaintiff having closed his case, the
defendant Dow contended that the plaintiff could not recover
witlout first showing some actual payment or -anjury other
than his liability to Hall and Burgess, so due and made known
to the defendants; and that the same had not been paid. The
court ruled that there was no competent evidence to sustain the
plaintiff's case, and directed a verdict for the defendant Dow.
The bill of exceptions further stated that the plaintiff duly
excepted at the trial to such, rulings, refusals to rule, and
direction of the court.
Xr. George S. Hale and Mr. A. G. Stancfteld, for plaintiff
in error, cited: MJiddlesex Co. v. Osgood, 4 Gray, 447; Young v.
Raincock, 7 C. B. 309; Cox v. UnitedStates, 6 Pet. 172; Consequa
v. Willing's -Heirs,Pet. C. C. 225; Galvin v. Tliompson, 13
Maine, 367; Paige v. Serman, 6 Gray, 511; Wilkinson v.
-Scott, 17 Mass. 249; Carr v. Dooley, 119 Mass. 294; Schillinger v. McCann, 6 Greenl. 364; Beach v. Packard,10 Vermont, 96; S. C. 33 Am. Dec. 185;. Shepard v. Little, 14 Johns.
210; M' Crea v. Purmort,16 Wend. 460; ,S. C. 30 Am. Dec. 103;

MILLS v. DOW.
Arg-ment for Defendant in Elrror.

Pritchardv. Brown, 4 -N. H. 397; S. C. 17 Am. Dec. 431;
Belden v. Seymour, 8 Connecticut, 304:; S. C. 21 Am. Dec. 661;
Watson v. Blaine, 12 S. & R. 131; S. '. 14: Am. Dec. 669;
Gully v. Grubbs, 1 J. J. Marsh. 387; Goldshede v. Swan, 1
Exch. 154:; Hubon v. Park,116 Mass. 541; Aldrich v. Ames,
9 Gray, 76; Clark v. Deshon, 12 Cush. 589; Braman v. Dowse,
12 Gush. 227; Carr v. Roberts, 5 B. & Ad. 78; Stout v. Folger,
34 Iowa, 71; Lathrop v. Atwood, 21 Connecticut, 117; Locke v.
-Homer,131 Mass. 93; Stewart v. 'Clark,11 Met. 384; Preblev.
Baldwin, 6 Gush. 54:9; Smith v. Pond,11 Gray, 234; PaperStek
Disinfecting Co. v. Boston Disinfecting Co., 147 Mass. 318; Gilbert v. Wiman, 1 Comstock (1 N. Y.) 550; S. C.49 Am. Dec. 359;
Calvo v. Davies,-8 Hun, 222; Warwick v. iichai'dson;10 M. &
W. 284; Ilodgson v. Wood, 2 Hurl. & Colt. 649 ; Portv. Jackson,
17 Johns. 239, cited in Wicker v. Hloppock, 6 Wall. 94; Wood
v. Wade, 2 Starkie, 167; Greenleaf v. Birth,' 9 Pet. 292 ;.Schuchardt v. Allens, 1 Wall. 359; Hickman v. Jones, 9 Wall. 197;
Farnum v. Davidson, 3 Gush. 232; 1nited States v. Tillotson,
12 Wheat. 180;' Gibbons v. Farwell,63 Michigan, 344; Doane v.
Lockwood, 115 Illinois, 490; 7ones v. Vanzandt, 2 Mclean,
596; Battis v. fcCord, 70 Iowa,'46.
-Mr. Stillman B. Allen and .r.
defendant in error.

.Montressor T. Alten for

I. Under a general denial in the answer the plaintiff must
prove each material allegation in the declaration. Rodman v.
Gui/ford, 112,]Mass. 405. There is nothing admitted by the
answer except the making of said agreement. The questions
concerning the admissibility of evidence arise solely upon the
allegations contained in the plaintiff's declaration. What the
plaintiff is estopped from proving, the defendant need not
plead specially.
II. By the evidence offered the plaintiff enfdeavored to extend and enlarge the provisions of a written contract under
the guise of proving by parol its consideration. It is perfectly
well settled that a grantor is not absolutely bound by the consideration or the acknowledgment of its payment expressed
in his deed, because the consideration is known to be arbirary,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and a receipt is always open to explanation; and this acknowledgment, although under seal, is nothing more than a receipt,
for the seal gives it no additional solemnity. Wilkinson v.
Scott, 17 Mass. 249; Howe v. Walker, 4 Gray, 318.
In Flynn v. Bourneuf; 143 Mass. 277, Holmes, J., asserts
that the authority of Bowe v. Walker, ubi supra,is unshaken,
and distinguishes it from Carrv. Dooley, 119 Mass. 294, Preble
v. Baldwin, 6 Gush. 549, and similar cases.
III. The recital that the $15,000 has been paid is an estoppel
upon the plaintiff to deny that fact on the faith of which the
assignment was accepted, and so far as concerns the plaintiff
this estoppel is in an instrument under his seal. Leddy v.
Barney, 139 Mass. 394; Southeastern Railway Co. v. 'Wharton,
6 H. & N. 520; Horton v. Westminster Improvement Con'rs,
7 Exch. 780; -Lucy v. Gray, 61 N. H. 151; iann v. Williams,
143 Mass. 394; tudson v. Greenwele Seminary, 113 Illinois,
618; Lainson v. Tremere, 1 Ad. & El. 792; Baker v. _ATachtrieb,
19 Hlow. 126; Shoe & Leather Bank v. Dix, 123 Mass. 148.
So far as the defendants are bound by implication arising
from the acceptance of a deed poll, (if the writing be so construed,) it is only binding upon them as trustees and not in
their individual capacity. And so far as they are bound by
their written acceptance, the form of the same limits their
.liability to their capacity as trustees, notwithstanding their
naked signatures. The following cases are cited to the points
that the writing is the only evidence of the intent of the
parties, and that on the whole writing there is no personal
liability. Goodenouqh v. Thayer, 132 Mass. 152 Tucker Mfg.
Co. v. -Fairbanks,98 Mass. 101; Carpenterv. Farnsuiorth,106
Mass. 561; Terry v. Brightman, 132 Mass. 318; Ellis v.
Pulsifer, 4 Allen, 165; Cutler v. Ashland, 121 Mass. 588;
Cook v. Gray, 133 Mass. 106; Blanchard v. Blackstone, 102
Mass. 343; 'hitford v. Laidler, 94 N. Y. 145.
Mn. JUsTIcE BLATOHFORD, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff alleges as error (1).the refusal of the dourt to
admit the evidence offered as to the consideration of $15,000,

MLMLS v. DOW.
Opinion. of the Court.

as to the promise to pay the balance of 'it, and as to the promise to pay the debts due to Hall and Burgess; (2). the ruling
that the plaintiffT could not recover without showing some
actual payment or injury, other than his' liability-'to Hall
and Burgess so due and made known to the defendants; (3)
the ruling that there was no competent evidence to sustain
the plaintiff's case; and (4) the withdrawal of the case from
the jury and the direction of a verdict for the defendant Dow.
As the subject matter of the instrument of October 23,1878, was in Massachusetts, and thie defendant Dow was a
resident there, and the'contract was made there, and the suit
was brought~there, the law of that State is to govern in expounding and enforcing the contract and in determining the
rule of damages for a breach of it.
It is contended by the defendant that the instrument'contains an admission of the receipt of the. entire $15,000; and
the question on this branch of the case is whether the plaintiff
is precluded froni showing the true state of facts. It is well
settled in M fassachusetts, that a recital in a deed, acknowledging payment of the consideration stated, is only prima facie.
proof, and is subject to be controlled or rebutted by other
evidence. Paige v. Sherman, 6 Gray, 511, 513; Vilkinson v.
Scott, 17 Mass. 249;''Carrv. Dooley, 119 Mass. 994; 296.
Independently of this, the expression in the instrument
which is claimbd to be an acknowledginent of the receipt of
the $15,000, namely, "which said sum of -fifteen thousand dollars the said Dow and Pratt have this day advanced and paid
to said Mills,'" is ambiguous, and does not show actual prior or
simultaneous payment. Goldshede v. Swan, 1 Exch. 154.
So, too, th6 evidence of a promise' by the'defendants, as a
part of the consideration of the instrument, to pay the debts
which thb plaintiff owed to iHall and-others named in it, was
admissible; and the refusal of the defendants to pay those debts
on demand was a breach of their
aiiact. CZark v. Deshon,
12 Cush. 589, 591.
The issue being whether the consideration had been paid
and whether the obligation of the defendants was broken, it
was competent for the plaintiff to show by parol that, after

OCTOBER TERMe, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Hall and Burgess had finished their work under their subcontract, they staied their account to the plaintiff and
demanded payment from him; that he notified the defendants
and made demand on them; and that they neglected to pay.
Such demand, and a neglect on their part to pay, tended to
support the case of the plaintiff.
The balance due by the plaintiff to Hall and Burgess was
$11,048.06, with interest from January 1, 1879; and that was
the amount of the liability of the plaintiff to them under his
contract with them. The agreement of the defendants, in the
instrument of October 23, 1878, is that they assume the
contr -t between the plaintiff and the company, and that
they ..ill well and truly save the plaintiff harmless from any
and all liability by reason of his contracts with Hall and Burgess, Ellis and Savage and MvcCabe, "the ten per cent re
served," and any claim by reason of such contracts.
The agreement to assume the contract, in connection with
the further agreement to save the plaintiff - harmless from
liability, was broken by a failure to pay the parties to whom
the plaintiff was liable, and it was not necessary to a breach
that the plaintiff should show that he had first paid those
parties. Braman v. -Dowse, 12 Gush. 227; Locke v. -Fomer,
131 Mass. 93; -Druryv. Tremont Improvement Co., 13 Allen,
168, 171; Stewart v. Clark, 11 Met. 384; Prele v. Baldwin,
6 Cush. 549; Smith v. Pond, 11 Gray, 234; Paper Stock Co.
v. Boston Di6infecting Co., 147 .Mass. 318.
By the instrument in question, the defendants took the
place of the plaintiff, and became, after the instrument was
executed, principals in the work of constructing the railroad;
and their acceptance of the assignment and the conditions
preceding it included the sub-contracts and what was due and
to become due upon them. The contract is not merely one to
indemnify the plaintiff from damage arising out of his liability,
but is an agreement to assume-his contracts and to discharge
him from his liability. Gilbert v. Wiman, 1 Comstock, 550;
I-obl. v. Arnold, 23 Ohio St. 264, 271; Ca9 v. Roberts, 5
B. &" Ad. 78; .2asq v. -Hinman, 8 Wend. 452; Bockfeller v. Donnelly, 8 Cowen, 623; Randall v. Rope&, 27 Law
-

