DtLAWARE COUITY" v. DIEBOLD SAFE GO.

473

Syllabus.

Upon general principles, and by the Illinois decisions, as the
tax deeds appear upon their face to be clouds upon the plaintiff's title, a .bill in equity "isthe proper form of obtaining relief
upon the various grounds alleged.
Decre a~flrmed.

DELAWARE COUNTY CO:-MSSIOI\ERS v. DIEBOLD

SAFE AND LOOK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE cIRcuIr COURT OF TE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF INDIAINA.
No. 39.

Submitted April 26, 189. -Decided

Marcb 3, 1890.

Under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137; the restriction of the original 'jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States in suits by an assignee
whose assignor could not have sued in. that court does not apply to a
suit removed from a state court.
It is no objection to the exercise of jurisdiction by a Circuit Court of the
United States over a suit brought by an assignee of a contract, that the
assignor is a citizen of the same State as the defendant, if the assignor
w~s not a party to the suit at the time of its removal from the state
court, and, being since made a party, disclaims all interest in the suit,
and no further proceedings are had against him, and the complaint alleges that the defendant consented to the assignment.
A claim against a county, heard before the county commissioners, and on
appeal from their decision by the'circuit court of the county, under the
statutes of Indiana, may be removed, at any time before trial- in that
court, into the Circuit Court of the United States, under Rev. Stat. § 639;
cl. 3.
In an action brought against one party to a contract by.an assignee, seeking
to charge him by virtue of a contract of assignment from the other
-party and other facts, a complaint stating the same facts, not under oath,
and signed by attorney only, in an action by the assignee against his assignor, is incompetent evidence of an admission by the plaintiff that hie
had no cause of action against this defendant.
In a State whose law allows an assignee of an entire contract, not negotiable at common law, to sue thereon in his own name, and an assignee of
part of such a contract to sue thereon jointly with his assignor, or to sue
alone if no objection is taken by demurrer or answer, to the nou-joinder
of the assignor, an assignee has the like right to maintain such an action
at law in the Circuit Court of the United States.
By a contract for the construction of 'a jail, under the statutes of Indialia,
(which require all such contracts to be let to the lowest responsible

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
bidder, taking a bond from him for the faithful performance of the
work,) the contractors agreed to construct the jail and to provide all
the materials therefor within a certain time for the sum of $20,000,
which the county comms iouers agreed to pay, partly in monthly payments on their architect's certificate, and the rest on the completion and
acceptance of the building; and it was agreed that the county should
not in any manner be answerable or accountable for any material used
in the work; and that, if the contractors should fail to finish the work
by the time agreed, they should pay 925 as liquidated damages for every
day it should remain unfinished. The contractors assigned to a third
person the obligation to do the iron work upon the jail, as if it had been
awarded diectly to him, and the right to recover therefor from the
commissioners $7700 at the times mentioned in the original contract.
The assignee did the work to the satisfaction of the commissioners, and
to the value of $7700, but not within the time stipulated in the original
contract. Held, that the assignment, though notified to the commissioners, if not assented to by them, did not render them liable to the assignee; or prevent them from making a settlement in good faith with
the original contractors.

THE original suit was commenced March 4, 1885, by the
Diebold Safe and Lock Company, a corporation of the State
of Ohio, against the board of commissioners of Delaware
County in the State of Indiana, by a claim in the form of a
complaint, filed with the county auditor and by him presented
to the board of county commissioners, in accordance with the
provisions of the Revised Statutes of Indiana of 1881, (which
are copied in the margin,') and containing the following
allegations:
1 SEC.5740. The auditor of the county shall attend the meetings of such
commissioners, and keep a record of their proceedings; and the sheriff of
the county shall also, by himself or deputy, attend and execute their orders.
SEc. 5742. Such commissioners shall adopt regulations for the transaction of business; and in the trial of causes they shall comply, so far as
practicable, with the rules for conducting business in the circuit court.
SEc. 5758. Whenever any person or corporation shall have any legal
claim against any county, he shall file it.with the county auditor, to be by
him presented to the board of county commissioners.
SEC. 5759. The county commissioners shall examine into the merits of
all claims so presented, and may, in their discretion, allow any claim in
whole or in part, as they may find it to be just and owing.
SEC. 5760. No court shall have original jurisdiction of any claim against
any county in this state, in any manner except as provided for in this act.
SEC. 5761. No allowance shall be made by such conmissioners, unless

DELAWARE COUNTY v. DIEBOLD SAFE CO.

475

Statement of the Case.

That. on January 20, 1882, the board of commissioners
entered into a written contract with William H. Tvfever- and
Edward F. Meyers, partners as W. H.
eyers & Son, la
copy of which was annexed, showing that Meyers & Son
agreed to construct a jail for the county on or before Sep:
tember 4, 1882, agreeably to the plans and specifications of a
certain architect, and to provide all the materials therefor, for
the sum of $20,000, which the board of commissioners agreed
to pay, in monthly payments, on the architect's- certificate,
reserving on each payment twenty per cent, to be paid on the
completion and acceptance of the building; -Meyers & Son
agreed to give bond to secure the performance of the agreement; and it was agreed that 'I the county will not in any
manner be answerable to or accountable for any loss or damages that may happen in or to said works, or any part or parts
thereof, respectively, or for any of the materials or other things
used and employed in finishing and completing the said works ;"
and that, "should the contractors fail to finish the work on or
before the time agreed upon, they shall pay to the party of
the claimant shall file with such commissioners a detailed statement of the
items and dates of charge, nor until such competent proof thereof is adduced in favor of such claim as is required in other courts; but ff the truth
of such charge be known to such commissioners, it may be allowed without other proof, upon that fact being entered of record in the proceedings
about the claim.
SEC. 5769. Any person or corporation, feeling aggrieved by any decision
of the board of county commissioners, made as hereinbefore provided, may
appeal to the circuit court of such county, as now provided by law.
' SEC. 5774. The auditor shall make out a complete transcript of the proceedings of said board relating to the proceeding appealed from, and shall
deliver the same, and all the papers and documents flied in such proceeding, and the appeal bond, to the clerk of the court to which the appeal is taken.
SEc. 5777. Every appeal thus taken to the circuit court shall be docketed
among the other causes pending therein, and the same shall be heard, tried
and determined as an original cause.
SEc. 5778. Such court may make a final determination of the proceeding
thus appealed, and cause the same to be executed, or may send the same
down to such board, with an order how to proceed, and may require such
board to comply with the final determination made by such court in the
premises.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the first part the sum of twenty-five dollars per diem for each
and every day thereafter the said works shall remain unfinished, as and for liquidated damages."
That a part of the work to be done and materials furnished
under the contract consisted of iron work; and that on March
6, 1882, Meyers & Son assigned to the plaintiff so much of
that contract as related to this work, by an agreement in
writing as follows:
"Fort Wayne, Ind., March 6th, 1882. We, the Diebold
,Safe and Lock Company, at Canton, 0., hereby agree to construct and place in position in the new jail to be erected in
the city of Muncie, Delaware Co., Ind., all of that portion of
the work for same (locks included) and described under the
head of iron and. chrome-steel work in specifications and
according to plans delineating them, as already adopted by
the board of county commissioners of said county, the same
as though the contract for such work had been awarded us
direct; the contract price for said work to be seventy-seven
hundred dollars (87700) for above work, completed and accepted
by the superintendent of the building and the county commissioners, to be paid by the said county commissioners in monthly
estimates, less amount retained according to law and contract
between the county commissioners and Wm.H. Meyers & Son,
on completion of said work in full, as per amount named in
this contract and charged by them against W. H. Meyers &
Son, and in full settlement with them for such iron and chromesteel work under their contract with the county commissioners;
and any questions that may arise on the construction of the
work or deviations from -the plans and specifications, that
may arise or be deemed advisable, to be arranged and settled
wholly between ourselves and the county commissioners and
the superintendent of the building. And we, the Diebold Safe
and Lock Company, in consideration of the acceptance of theforegoing proposition by the said W. H. Mevers & Soh, agree
to do said work, and insure the same in perfect working order,
according to the terms proposed, and to the acceptance of the
said architect and county commissioners, and in such quantities
and time as shall not materially interfere with the completion

DELAWARE COUNTY v.' DIEBOLD S'AFE CO.

ITT

Statement of the Case.

of said building, and to complete the whole work on or before
August 1st, 1882.
"DIEBoLD SAFE AND Loc

0Co.

"We, the said W. Hi. Meyers & Son, named in the foregoing
proposition, do hereby accept, the same, and agree that th6
said Diebold Safe & Lock Company shall do and perform the
work and labor and furnish the iron and chrome-steel worc
for said jail, in manner -and,form as proposed and agreed by
them'in the foregoing proposition- and agreement, and that
they shall receive payment therefor as proposed. Dated Fort
Wayne, Ind., March 6th, 1882.
,W. H. MEYES & SON."
That the board of commissioners and the county had notice
-of and consented to this agreement and assignment when it
was made, and before the jail was erected, and before any
payments were made to Meyers & Son on account thereof;
that the plaintiff, with the knowledge and consent of the
board did the iron work and furnished the materials therefor,
in accoraance with the original contract of. the board with
Mk'eyers & Son, and to the acceptance of the architect; that such
work and materials were of the value of $77OO,- and Meyers &
Son did the rest of the work upon the building; and that the
board had not paid 'anything -on account of the .iron work,
although the plaintiff had duly demanded payment therefor;
and the plaintiff claimed payment of the sum of $7700.
The complaint contained a second paragraph, alleging 'the
contract between the board of commissioners, and Meyers &
Son, its performance by Meyers & Son and its non-performance
'by the board, an assignment dated :November 25, 1884, from
Meyers & Son to the plaintiff of all their clairds and demand
against the board on account of building the jail, and that thq
sum of $10,000 was due on account thereof from the board to
the plaintiff.
The board of commissioners disallowed the claim. Td
plaintiff appealed to the dircuit court of the county; and immediately after the entry of the appeal in that -court, and-'
before further proceedings there, filed a petition' and bond for
the removal of the case into the Ci cuit Court of the United.
States, on the grounds that the plaintiff was a citizen of' Ohio,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and the defendant a citizen of Indiana, and that by reason of
prejudice and local influence the plaintiff could not have a fair
trial in the state court.
The case having been entered on the equity docket of the
Circuit Court of the United States, a motion was made by the
defendant to re'nand the case to the state court, upon the
ground that Edward F. Meyers, one of the plaintiff's assignors,
was and always had been (as was admitted) a citizen of Indiana, (it being also admitted that William H. M eyers was and
always had been a citizen of Michigan,) and that the petition
for removal was filed too late, after the case had been tried
and decided by the board of county commissioners, and been
appealed to the circuit court of the county. The motion was
denied.
The plaintiff then, by leave of the court made William H.
Meyers and Edward F. Meyers parties defendant; and they
appeared and answered, admitting the allegations of the complaint, and disclaiming all interest in the suit; and the record
showed no further proceedings in regard to them.
A demurrer filed by the board of commissioners, upon the
ground that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, was overruled; the motion to remand
the case to the state court was renewed, and again denied;
and the defendant excepted to the overruling of its demurrer
and to the denial of its motion to remand.
The board of commissioners then filed an answer, setting up
the following defences:
1st. A denial of all the allegations of the complaint.
2d. Payment.
3d. Payment to Meyers & Son without notice of the pretended assignment of the contract to the plaintiff.
4th. Payment, before the assignment mentioned in the second paragraph of the complaint, to Meyers & Son, upon a settlement of accounts, and deducting damages for delay in the
work.
5th. That, by the laws of Indiana, no contract for the building of a jail shall be let without giving notice by publication
for at least six weeks in some newspaper of general circulation

DELAWARE COUNTY v. DIEBOLD SAFE CO.

479

Statement of the Case.

inthe county; the board of county commissioners is prohibited
from entering into any contract for such building" until the
contractors have filed a bond with surety for the faithful performance of the work; and all laborers or material-men may
have an action on the bond for work done or materials furnished; that the board took such a bond from Meyers & Son,
which remained on file in the auditor's office, subject at all
times to be sued upon by the plaintiff or any other laborer or
'material-man engaged in the construction of the jail; that
before the commencement of the suit, and long before the
board hail any notice of the assignment set out in the second
paragraph of the complaint, the board fully settled its account
with Meyers & Son, including the value of the work claimed
to have been performed by the plaintiff, and paid the amount
found to be due to Meyers & Son, after deducting damages
for delay in completing the building; 'that the board could
not by law enter into the contract which it was alleged in the
first paragraph of the complaint to have entered into, or lawfully consent or agree to treat the plaintiff's agreement with
Meyers & Son as an assignment of so much of their contract
with the county, and never did in fact recognize or assent to
it, or promise to pay the plaintiff, but always treated Meyers
& Son as the only contractors with whom it had anything 'to
do; and that the plaintiff, having full knowledge of all the
facts aforesaid, elected to rely wholly upon the responsibility
of Meyers & Son for their pay in doing the work mentioned
in the complaint, and on June 30, 1884, brought an action of
assumpsit against Meyers & Son on the same cause of action,
which was still pending.
6th. That the Circuit Court of the United States had no
jurisdiction, because the plaintiff was a citizen of Ohio, the
board of commissioners and Edward F. Meyers citizens of
Tndiana, and William H. Meyers a citizen of Michigan.
By agreement of the parties, and order of the court, the
case was transferred to the law docket. A demurrer to
the last three paragraphs of the answer was sustained, and
the defendant excepted to the ruling. The plaintiff filed
a replication, denying the allegations in the second and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

third paragraphs of the answer. Thp second paragraph of
the complaint was dismissed br the court upon the plaintiff's
motion; and a trial by jury was had upon the issues of fact
open upon the pleadings.
At the trial the plaintiff introduced in evidence the original
contract of January 20, 1882, the bond given and taken therewith, and the agreement of March 6, 1882.
The plaintiff also introduced evidence tending to show that
shortly after the execution of its agreement with Meyers &
Son, and before any work had been done or money paid out
on account of the construction of the jail, and while the board
was in lawful session, engaged in transacting county business,
oral notice was given to it by the plaintiff of the execution
and provisions of this agreement, and the board made no
objection to the agreement or assignment; that on December
6, 1882, the plaintiff's agent filed in the office of the auditor
of the county a written copy of this agreement, together with
a written notice Eo the board that the plaintiff expected to do
the iron work, and to receive pay therefor directly trom the
board, in the same manner as Meyers & Son would have been
entitled to do under their contract with the board, and that it
would demanxd payment from the board of the sum of $7too
out of, the contract price to be paid by the board for the construction of the jail; and that in April or May, 1883, before
the plaintiff did the iron work and furnished the materials,
the board, while in session, was notified orally by the plaintiff's
agent and others of the execution and provisions of the agreement between Meyers & Son 4nd the plaintiff.
On the other hand, the commissioners severally testified that
they bad no notice or knowledge of that agreement, or of the
plaintiff's claim, until December-6, 1883. The auditor testified
that there was no such notice in his office, and he had no recollection of any such notice having been filed there or brought
to his knowledge. But the deputy auditor testified that a
written claim, for $7700, presented by the plaintiff on account
of said work and contract, was in the office before that date,
and had been returned by him to the plaintiff by order of a
member of the board.

DELAWARE COUNTY v. DIEBOLD SAFE, CO.

481

Statement of the Case.

It was proved, and not denied, that at all times prior to
April and MWay, 1883, the board of commissioners had in the
county treasury, of the fund provided for the erection of the
jail and the payment of the contract price therefor, after deducting all payments made on account thereof, about $12,000,
not taking into consideration any damages accruing to the
county by reason of delay in completing the jail; that the
value of the work then done did not exceed $7000 or. 88000;
that the plaintiff did all the. iron work and furnished all the
materials therefor according to the original contract and to
the acceptance of the board of commissioners, and to the value
of more than $7700, but not within the time stipulated in that
contract; and that neither the plaintiff nor any person on
his behalf had ever received anything in payment therefor,
either from the board of. commissioners or from Meyers &
Son.

The plaintiff introduced evidence tending to show that the
board, of commissioners never paid to Mfeyers & Son or to their
order, or to any one for their benefit, more than the sum of
$13,060, on account of the construction of the jail.
The defendant introduced evidence tending to ishow that, it
had so paid out more than $18,000; that in the spring of 1883,
after the work on the jail had progressed for some time, and
about $8300 had been paid by the defendant to Meyers & Son,
but before any of the iron work had been done, the defendant
refused to pay any more money to Meyers & Son, and put one
Parry in charge of the work; and that on September 5, 1883,
the jail being then. in a forward state of completion, a settlement was had between the board of commissioners and
Meyers & Son, as a part of which it was agreed that the sum
of $4500 should be considered as the damages sustained by
the county for~ delay in completing the jail, and be deducted
from the contract price, and the amount necessary to complete'
the jail was estimated, and the balance found to be due
Meyers & Son was paid- to them ,by the county, and the jail
was taken off their hands by the board of commissioners; that
at the time of that settlement the amount actually necessary
to complete the jail, together with the aforesaid sum of.$4:500,
voL. cxxxm-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

exceeded by more than $2000 the contract price of 'the jail;
and that the plaintiff had then been engaged upon the iron
work for a week, and completed that work on September 24,
1883.
The plaintiff introduced evidence tending to show that at
the time of that settlement the defendant agreed in writing
with Meyers & Son to pay them the sum of $2000, part of the
aforesaid sum of $4500, in case one Secrist, who was then
prosecuting a claim against the county for stone -furnished to
Meyers & Son for the jail, should not finally recover the same
against the county, and that Secrist's suit was finally determined against him and in favor of the county by the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Indiana, reported in 100 Indiana, 59,
yet no part of the said sum of $2000 had ever been paid to
Secrist or to any one else; that the actual damages sustained
by the county on account of the delay in completing the jail
did not exceed the sum of $25; and that the $4500 deducted
from the contract price on account of such delay was not
intended to be enforced against Meyers & Son.
The defendant offered evidence tending to show "that the
settlement was made in good faith, and .that the two thousand dollars which the defendant promised to pay Meyers &
Son, in case the Secrist claim was defeated was not intended
as a sham."
The complaint, signed by the plaintiff's attorneys, in an
action brought June 30, 1884, by the plaintiff against Meyers
& Son, setting forth the same facts Ihs the complaint in the
present case, and seeking to recover against Meyers & Son
the sum of $7700 for *ork done upon the jail, was offered in
evidence by the defendant, as tending to show that at that
time the plaintiff did not claim to have any such demand as
it now asserted against the present defendant. This evidence
was objected to by the plaintiff, and excluded by the court;
and to the ruling excluding it the defendant excepted.
The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury that,
by the statutes of Indiana, contracts for the construction of
county jails and other public buildings must be advertised and
let by the board of county commissioners as an entirety, and

DELAWARE COUNTY v. 1DIEBOILD SAFE CO.

483

Statement of the Case.

not in parts; and that the contract between the board of
commissioners and Meyers & Son was not s; divisible, and
assignable by the latter, that an assignment of a part thereof
by them and mere notice given by the assignee to the board
of commissioners of the assignment, obliged the board to
recognize the assignment and to account and settle with and
pay the assignee for work done and materials furnished by
the assignee.
The court refused to give. the instructions requested ; and
instructed the jury that the effect of the agreement between
Meyers & Son and the plaintiff was to put the plaintiff into
a position of being entitled.to do the iron work and to get
the pay therefor from the county; that Meyers & Son made
no agreement to pay the plaintiff, and the plaintiff by doing
that work acquired no right of action against Meyers & Son,
but was entitled simply to look to the county; and that if the
board of commissioners had notice of the agreement betwoei
Meyers & Son and the plaintiff before the settlement with
Meyers & Son, the defendant was bound by that agreement,
and obliged to withhold from Meyers & Son money enough to
pay the plaintiff, and the plaintiff might maintain this action:
and that if a copy of the contract was presented by the plaintiff and received by the auditor at his office, that was legal
notice to the board of commissioners.
To this instruction, as well as to the refusal to give the
instructions requested, the defendant duly excepted.
The court further instructed the jury that .if the defendant,
before and at the time of the settlement with Meyers & Son,
bad no notice of the plaintiff's claim, the plaintiff could not
recover if ihe settlement was made in good faith; but that
if the settlement was a sham, not intended.as between- the
parties to be a settlement, the plaintiff might recover in this
suit the sum in the defendant's hands owing to Meyers & Son
under the original contract. No exception was taken to this
instruction at the trial.
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$8739. 50, upon which judgment was rendered; a.nd the defendant sued out this writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendants In Errot

_MP. Addison C. -Harrisand Mr. WTillian Nf. Oalki'n for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Levi Ritter, r.. E. -F Ritter and Mr. B. TV. J, itter,
for defendants in error, argued upon the merits of the case as
follows:
It is urged that a part only of the contract could not be assigned without the consent of the county and that it is not
liable to the plaintiff unless it assented to the assignment;
that mere notice is not sufficient.
In Indiana it has been held in a number of cases that part
of a contract may be assigned without the assent of a debtor
-McFaddenv. Wilson, 96 Indiana, 253.
In Hzarrison,Reesiver, V. Wright, 100 Indiana, 515, on pages
530, 531, it is said: "The rule that a chose in action, or a
part of a chose in action, cannot be assigned, is the rule of
law, but it is not the rule in equity, and still less is it the rule
under modern statutes, which, as in this State, expressly authorize the assignments of choses in action, and direct that all
actions shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in
interest. Under these statutes, no good reason is apparent
why the assignee may not maintain an action at law."
"If, by the assignment, the assignee acquires a legal right,
it is by force of the statute, 'without regard to the assent ot
the'debtor or holder of the fund. If he acquires an -equitable
assignment or right simply under the rules in equity, this right
is independent of any assent by-the debtor or holder of the
fund." See, also, Indiana Manufacturing Co. v. Porter,75
Indiana, 428; Bartholomew County v. Jameson, 86 Indiana,
154, 165;'Louisville & St. Louis Railroad v. Caldwell, 98
'Indiana, 245; Wood v. Wallace, 24: Indiana, 226; lapping v.
.Duf'y, 47 Indiana, 51; Groves v. Ruby, 24 Indiana, 418;
Hays v. Branham, 36 Indiana, 219.
From these cases it will be seen that in Indiana at least an
assignment of a part of a fund may be made without -the assentof the debtor. And this is- the rule elsewhere as well.
See Laughlin v. Fairbanks,8 Missouri, 367, 371; Anderson
v. Van Alen, 12 Johns. 343; Russell v. Fillmore,15 Vermont,

DELAWAR E COUNTY v. DIEBOLD SAFE CO.

485

Opinion of the Court.

130; Field v. Fyew -York, 6 N. Y. 179; S. C. 57 Am. Dec.
435; .Moody v. Kyle, 34 :Mississippi, 506; Corser v. Craig, 1
Wash. 0. 0. 424; Patten v. WiZson, 34 Penn. St. 299; Lyo;i
v. Summers, 7 Connecticut, 399.
The rule that a partial assignment could not be made without the consent of the debtor never amounted to more than
that without such consent the assignee could not maintain an
action in his own name.
It was ivithin the power of Meyers & Son to assign an interest in the contract with the county, together with a portion of the money due therefor. The fact that they were
required to give bond for the performance, of the work does
not affect this right. Their bond remained in force as well
after the assignment as before. They were still liable- to the
county upon their contract- and bond, and the county was not
injured by the assignment. We cite the court to the following
cases, some of which have been cited in support of other positions herein: Field v. New Yor, 6 N. Y. 179; s.
. 57
Am. Dec. 435; Devlin v. -Yew York, 63 N. Y. 8; Dannantv.
Comptroller, 77 N. Y. 45.
These are all -cases of partial assignments arid cover this
case. See, also, as in point: Parker v. City of Syracuse, 31,
iN. Y. 376, 379; Horner v. Wood, 23 N. Y. 350; Taylor v.
Palmer, 31 California, 241 ; Oochra v. Collinjs, 29 California,
129, 131 ; Morse V. Gilman, 18 Wisconsin, 373 ; Gee v. Swain,
12 Wisconsin, 450 Ernst v. Eunkle, 5 Ohio St. 520 ; Ba&ey
v. Boot, 5 Paige, 632; 'Pendletonv. Perkins,49 Missouri,' 65;
Brackett v. Blake, 7 Met. 335 ; . C. 41 Am. Dec. 442.
The right to assign contracts with, or claims, against, 'municipal corporations is recognized in Indiana. Board v. Jameon,
86 Indiana, 154; Smith v. Flack,.95 Indiana, 11n6; Coquillard.
v. French, 19 Indiana, 274.

-

'-

MR.JuST E GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Before proceeding to consider the merits of this case, it is
necessary to dispose, of the objections taken to the jurisdictio.
assumed by the Circuit Court-of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

1. It was contended that that court had not cognizance of
the suit, because the plaintiff's assignors could not have proseated it, inasmuch as one of them was a citizen of the same
State as the defendant. But that restriction was applicable
only to suits commenced in the federal court, and did not extend to suits removed into it from a state court. Act of March
3, 1875, c. 137, -§§ 1, 2, 18 Stat. 470; Clalin v. Commonwealth
fns.. Co., 110 U. S. 81.
2. It was further objected that the assignors were necessary
parties to the suit, because they had assigned to the plaintiff
part only of their original contract with the defendant; and
because the statutes of Indiana, while they require every action arising out of contract to be prosecuted by the real party
in interest, provide that "when any action is brought by the
assignee of a claim arising out of a contract, and not assigned
by endorsement in writing, the assignor shall be made a defendant, to answer as to the assignment or his interest in the
subject of the action." Indiana Rev. Stat. of 1881, §§ 251, 976.
But this objection was rather to the nonjoinder of defendants
than to the jurisdiction of the court, and presented no valid
reason why the court should not proceed. The assignors were
not parties to the suit at the time of the removal into the Circuit Court; and as soon as they were 'made parties in that
court, they disclaimed all interest in the suit; and as no further proceedings were had, or relief sought or granted, against
them, their presence was unnecessary. Walden v. Skinner, 101
U. S. 577; XAom-ison v. Ross, 113 Indiana, 186. Besides, the
fipt paragraph or count of the complaint (upon which alone
the Vial proceeded) alleged that the defendant not only had
notice of the assignment to the plaintiff, but consented to that
assignment. If that were so, there would be a new and direct
promise from the defendant to the plaintiff, and the assignors
would be in'no sense parties to the cause of action.
3. It was also objected that the petition for removal was
filed too late, bfterthe case had been tried and determined by
the board of county commissioners. But under the statutes of
Indiana then in force, althbugh the proceedings of county commissionerg, in passing upon claims against a county, are in

DELAWARE COUNTY v. DIEBOLD. SAFE C0.

487

Opinion of the ,Court.

some respects assimilated to proceedings before a court, and
their decision, if not appealed from, cannot be collaterally
drawn in question, yet those proceedings are in the nature, not
of a trial
erjartes,but of an allowance or disallowance, by
officers representing the county, of a claim against it. At the
hearing before the commissioners, there is no representative of
the county, except the commissioners themselves; they may
allow the claim, either upon evidence introduced by the plaintiff, or without other proof than their own knowledge of the
truth of the.claim; and an appeal from their decision is tried
and determined by the circuit court of the county as an original cause, and upon the complaint filed before the commissioners. Indiana Rev. Stat. §§ 5758-5761, 5777; State v.
Wasington Commissioners,101 Indiana, 69; Orange Commissioners v. Ritter, 90 Indiana, 362, 368. It follows, according,
to the decisions of this court in analogous cases, that the trial
in the Circuit Court of the county was "the trial" of the case,
at any time before which it might be removed -intothe Circuit.
Pourt of the United States, under. clause 3 of section 639.of
the Revised Statutes. Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U: S.403;
Hess v. 4?eynolds, 113 U. S. 73; Union Paqi.§v Railway v.
.Yansas City, 115 U. S. 1, 18; Seanl v. School District, 194
U.,S.197, 199.
The only ruling upon evidence, which is excepted to, is to
the exclusion of the complaint in an actipn brought by the
present plaintiff against its assignors. But there is no material difference between the facts stated in that complaint
and those stated in the complaint in the present suit; and the
former complaint, not under oath, nor signed by the plaintiff,
but only by its attorneys, was clearly incompetent to prove an
admission by the plaintiff that upon those facts it bad not a
cause of action against this defendanit: Combs v. Hodge, 21
How. 397; Pope v. Allis, 115,1. S.363;, Dennie v. Williams,
135 Mass. 28.
We are then brought to the main question of the liability
of the defendant to the plaintiff, 'depending upon the validity
and effect of the partial assignment to the plaintiff from the
original contractors of the.r contract with the defendant.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.,
Opinion of the Court.

By the law of Indiana, the assignee by a valid assignment
of an entire contract, not negotiable at common law, may
maintain an action thereon in his own name against the
original debtor; and the assignee by valid assignment of part
of a contract may sue thereon jointly with his assignor, or
may maintain an action alone if no objection is taken by
demurrer or answer to the nonjoinder of the assignor. Indiana Rev. Stat. § 251; Groves v. Ruby, 24 Indiana, 418.
These rules govern the practice and pleadings in actions at
law in the federal courts held'within the State. Rev. Stat. §
914; Thompson v. Railroad Companies, 6 Wall. 134; Albany
& Rensselaer Co. v. Lundberg, 121 U. S. 451; Arkansas Co.
v. Belden Co., 127 U. S. 379, 387. The case at bar was therefore rightly treated by the court belov as an action at law;
and the real question in controversy is not one of the form of
pleading, but whether the plaintiff has any beneficial interest
as against the defendant in the contract sued on.
A contract to pay money may doubtless be assigned by the
person to whom the money is payable, if there is nothing in
the terms of the contract which manifests the intention of the
parties to it that it shall not be assignable. But when rights
arising out of contract are coupled with obligations to be
performed by the contractor, and involve such a relation of
,personal confidence that it must have been intended that the
rights should be exercised and the obligations performed by
him alone, the contract, including both his rights and his
obligations, cannot be assigned without the consent of the
other party to the original contract. Arkansas Co. v. Belden
Co., 127 U. S. 379, 387, 388.

And the fact that that party is

or represents -a municipal corporation may have a bearing
upon the question whether the contract is assignable, in whole
or in part, without its assent
By the Revised Statutes of Indiana, it is the dnty of the
county commissioners to cause jails and other county buildings to be built and furnished, and to keep them in repair.
Indiana Rev. Stat § 5748, But they are forbidden to contract for the construction of any building, the cost of which
exceeds $500, except upon) public advertisement for bids and

DELAWARE COUNTY v. DIEBOLD SAFE CO.

4S9

Opinion of the Court.

to the lowest responsible bidder, and taking from him a bond
with sureties to faithfully perform the work according to the
contract, and to promptly pay all debts incurred by him in
the prosecution of the work, including labor and materials
furnished; and any laborer or material-man having a claim
against the contractor may sue upon that bond. Indiana Rev.
Stat. §§ 4244, 4247.
It has been held by the Supreme Court of Indiana that the
only remedy of laborers and material-men is against the contractor, or upon his bond, and that they haver no lien upon the
building, or right of action against the county; as well as that
a-county cannot be charged by process in the nature of garnishment or foreign attachment for the debts of its creditors
to third persons; and the reason assigned in each class of cases
is, that it would be contrary to public policy that a county
should be involved in controversies and-litigations between
its contractors and their creditors. Parke Commissioners v.
0' Conner, 86 Indiana, 531; Serist v. Delaware Commissioners,
100 Indiana, 59; Wallace v. Lawyer, 54 Indiana, 501.
In Bass F-oundry v. Parke Commissioners, 115 Indiana, 234,
where a contractor, to :?hom the county commissioners had
let a contract for the -construction of a court-house. and jail,
sublet the iron work to the plaintiff, and, after partially completing the buildings,* abandoned the, work- and declared his
inability to resume it; and it was alleged in the complaint, and
admitted by demurrer, that the commissioners agreed with the
plaintiff to pay it for such work; it *as held. that it was
within the incidental pokier of the commissioners, without leiting a new contract, to take charge of the work and complete
the building, and to bind the county to pay the plaintiff the
actual and reasonable value of iron work done by him at their
request; but that they had no power -to assume, on behalf of
the county, debts due from the contractor to the plaintiff; and
the court, after referring to the statutes above cited, said:
"Ihi the event.that a contractor should abandon his contract
when the work was at such an incipient stage as that to com'plete it would amount practically to. the construction of a courthouse by county commissioners, without regard to the contract

490

,

'OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

previously let, it might be a qudstion whether the. contracts
made by them for labor and materials would be binding as such
upon the county." 115 Indiana, 243.
In Bartholomew Commissioners v. Jameson, 86 Indiana, 154,

cited for the plaintiff, the assignment was of an entire sum due
to the assignor for personal services. In Smith v. Flack, 95
Indiana, 116, likewise cited for -the plaintiff, the municipality
was not a party to the suit, nor were its rights or liabilities
brought in question; but the controversy was upon the effect
of an assignment as .between the parties to it and persons
claiming under them.
In the dase at bar, by the original contrac.t between Meyers
& Son and the county commissioners, the contractors agreed
to construct a jail for the county, and to provide all the materials therefor, for a gross sum of $20,000, which the commissioners agreed to pay, partly in monthly payments on their
architect's certificate, and the rest upon the completion and
acceptance of the building; and it was expressly agreed that
the 6ounty should not-in any manner-be answerable or accountable for any materials used in the work; *and also that, if the
contractors should fail to finish the work by the time agreed
on, they should pay to the commissioners, as and for liquidated
damages, the sum of twenty-five dollars for every day the
work should remain unfinished. Meyers & Son executed a
bond for their faithful performance of the contract, as required
by the statute.
By the subsequent assignment, to which neither the county*
nor the board of commissioners was a party, Meyers & Son
undertook to assign to the plaintiff the obligation to construct
and put in place in the jail all the iron work required by the
original contract, as if the contract for such work had been
awarded directly by the commissipners to the plaintiff; and
undertook to fix the contract price for such work at $7700,
to be paid by the commissioners at the times mentioned in the
original contract.
The plaintiff in fact did the iron work according to the
original contract and to the acceptance of the commissioners,
and to the value of more than $7700, but not within the time

DELAWARE COUNTY v. DIEBOLD SAFE CO.

491

Opinion of the Court;

stipulated in that contract. Soon after ,the plaintift began to
do that work, the commissioners made a settlement with the
original contractors, which, if valid, left in their hands much
less than that sum.
The court declined to instruct the jury, as requested by the
defendant, that the statutes of Indiana required contracts for
the construction of jails and other county buildings to be advertised and let by the board of commissioners as an entirety,
and not in parts; and that the contract between Meyers &
Son and the board of commissioners was not divisible and assignable by the contractors, and their assignment of part of
the contract to .the plaintiff and mere notice thereof - to the
board did not impose any obligation upon the board to recognize the assignment, and to account and settle with and pay
the plaintiff for work done and mrterials furnished by the
latter.
There was conflicting evidence upon two points: 1st.
Whether the commissioners before the settlement had notice
of the assignment to the plaintiff; 2d. Whether the settle.ment was made in good faith. The judge instructed the jury
that the plaintiff was entitled to recover, either if the defendant had such notice, or if the settlement was in bad faith.
Exceptions were taken to the refusal to give the instruction
requested, and to the instruction given 'upon the first alternative only. But it cannot be known on which alternative the
jury proceeded in coming to their verdict. Upon the evidence
before them and the' instructions given, they may have concluded that the settlement between the defendant and the
original contractors was in perfect good faith,.and left in
the defendant's hands much less than the sum claimed by the
plaintiff, and that the defendant never assented to any assignment or division of the contract, and may have found for the
plaintiff upon the single ground that they were satisfied that
the defendant had notice of the assignment. The decision of
the case therefore turns on the correctness of the instructions
refused and given upon the effect of the assignment and
notice.
This case does not require us to consider whether an assign-

OCTOBER 'PERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the entire contract for the construction of the jail
would have been consistent with the intention of the parties as
apparent upon the face of the contract, or with the intention
of the legislature as manifested by the statutes under which
the contract was made. The plaintiff claims under no such
assignment.
Those statutes and the judicial exposition of them by the
Supreme Court of the State, as well as the terms of the contract itself, are quite inconsistent with the theory that the
.original contractors can, at their pleasure, and without the
assent of the county commissioners, split up the contract and
assign it in parts, so as to transfer to different persons or corporations the duty of furnishing different kinds of material
and labor, and the right of recovering compensation for such
material and labor from the county commissioners.
Both the statutes and the contract contemplate that the
county commissioners shall be liable only to the contractors
for the whole work, and not to any persons doing work or
supplying materials under a subcontract with them.
The original contract of the county commissioners was for
the construction by Meyers & Son of the building as a whole by
a certain -date; for the payment to them by the commissioners
of a gross sum of $20,000 for such construction, upon an accounting with them from time to time; and for the payment
by the contractors of twenty-five dollars, as liquidated damages, for every day that the building should remain unfinished
beyond that date.
The assignment was not in the nature of a mere order for
the payment of a sum of money; but it was of that part of
the contract which related to the -iron work, and required the
assignee to perform this part of the work, and assumed to fix
at the sum of $7700 the compensation for this part, which the
assignee should receive from the commissioners.
There is
nothing, either in the original contract, or in the evidence
introduced at the trial, to show what proportion the iron work
bore to the rest of the work requisite foi the construction and
completion of the jail, or that any separate estimate of the
cost or value of the iron work was contemplated by the

DELAWARE: .OUNTY v.. DIEBOLD SAFE CO.

493

Opinion -of the Court.

original contract, or ever made by the defendant, or by any
officer or agent of the county.
In short, the oly agreement which the county commissioners were proved to have made was with Meyers & Son, to pay
them a gross sum of $20,000 for the whole work upon an
accounting with them, and Meyers- & Son paying damages
as agreed for any delay in its completion. . The agreement of
Mleyers & Son with the plaintiff assumed to compel the commissioners to pay the plaintiff, for its performance of part of
the work, a definite sum of $1100, and made no provision for
damages for delay, and thus-t undertook to fix a different
measure of compensation from the original contract,
The facts that the iron work was done by-the plaintiff to the
acceptance of the commissioners, though after the time stipulated in, the original contract, and was of the value of- morethan $7700, did not conclusively prove, as matter of law, that
the commissioners, on behalf of the county, made or recognized
auy contract with or liability to the plaintiff, in the place and
stead of its assignors and employers; or preclude the commissioners from: insisting on the right to pay no more than.
the amount due, according to the original contract, for the
whole of this and other work necessary to complete the building, and to ascertain the amount s6-due by an accounting, and
settlement with Meyers & Son, in which the sum due 'for all
kinds of work, as well as the stipulated 'damages for any delay
in completing the building, could be taken into consideration.
The county commissioners could ,not, without their consent,
and at the mere election of the original contractors and their
subcontractors and assignees, be compelled to account with
the latter separately, or be charged with a separate obligation
to pay eittjer of them a part of the entire, price, instead, of
accounting for and settling the whole matter with the original
contractors.
It might be within the authority of the commissioners; uponbecomino satisfied that Meyers & Son, after having performed
a substantial part of their original contract, were unable to
complete it, to give their consent to such an agreement with
the plaintiff as was described in the assign4ment; and it is

OCTOBER TERiM, 1889.
,Opinion of the Court.

possible that the jury would have been authorized- upon the
evidence to find such a consent.
But the difficulty with the instructions given to the jury
is, that no. question of such consent was submitted to or
determined by them; and that they were in effect instructed,
in direct opposition to the request of the defendant, that mere
notice to the defendant of the assignment to the plaintiff
would prevent the defendant from afterwards making a settlement with the original contractors in good faith and according
to the sums justly due by the terms of the contract from either
party to th? bther, without retaining in its bands enough to
pay the plaintiff's claim. This instruction held the defendant
bound by a contract t6 which it was not proved to have ever
assented, and requires a new trial to be grdnted.
The cases in other States, cited for the plaintiff, in which
municipal corporations have been held liable to an assignee of
a contract, upon notice of the assignment, without proof of
their consent, expressed or implied, are distinguishable from
the case before us, and quite bonsistent with our conclusion.
In some of them, the assignments were of the whole or part
of money already due, or to become due, to the contractor,'in
other words, assignments of a fund, and not of any obligation
to perform work. Brackett v. Blake, 7 M et. 335; Field v.
,-Yew York, 6 N. Y. 179; Hall v. Buffalo, I Keyes, 193;
Parker v. Syracuse, 31 N. Y. -376; People v. Comptroller, 77
W. Y. 45. In others, the assignments were of entire contracts
for the labor of convicts, or for work upon streets, which were
held, from the nature of the subject, to imply no personal confidence in the contractor. Hforner v. Wood, 23 N. Y. 350 ;
]Jevlin v..-New York, 63 N. Y. 8; Ernst v. _Kunkle, 5 Ohio
St. 520; St. Louis v. Clements, 42 Missouri, 69; Taylor v.
Palmer, 31 California, 241.
The plaintiff much relied on a decision of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, in a case in which a contractor to build a
school-house for a city assigned his right to all moneys due or
to become due under it; the city, with notice of the assignment, and after the school-house had been built by the
assignees and accepted and occupied by the city, paid the last

DELAWARE COUNTY v. DIEBOLD SAFE CO.

495

Opinion, of the Court.

instalment of the price to the original contractor; there was
no controversy as to the performance of the work, or as to
the amount to be paid, but only .as to the person entitled to
receive payment; and the court, treating the assignment as
one of money only, held the assignee entitled to recover
against the city. Philadelphia v. Lochardt, '73 Penn. St.
211, 216.
On the other hand, that court, speaking by the same judge,
in a case decided within five years a.fterwards, and more nearly
resembling the one now before us, where a contractor for
building a bridge assigned all his interest in the contract,
"except the item of superstructure," to one who had expended
money upon the bridge, held that such a partial assignment of
the contract, though notified to the City, did not make it liable
to the assignee, because "the policy of the law is against permitting individuals, by their private contracts, to embarrass
the financial affairs of a municipality." Philadephica's A peal,
86 Penn. St. 179, 182. See also Geise's 4ppval, 104 Penn. St.
351, 354.
It thus appears that the Supreme C6urt of Pennsylvania has
taken the same view as the Supreme Court of Indiana as
already shown, holding it to be against public policy to permit
municipal corporations, in the administration of their affairs
relating to the construction of public works, to be embarrassed
*by sub-contracts between their contractors and third persons,
to which they have never assented.
,Judgment reversed, and case remandedwith direcons to set
aside the verdict and order a new trial, and to take &,uch
furtherproceedingsas may be consistent with this opinion.

