OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

COMANCHE COUNTY v. LEWIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 1022. Submitted January 7, 1890.-Decided January 27, 1890.

Full control over the matter of the organization of new counties in the State
of Kansas is;by its constitution, article 9, ยง -1,
given to the legislature of
the State, which has power, not only to organize a county in any manner
it sees fit, but also to validate by recognition any organization already
existing, no matter how fraudulent the proceedings therefor were.
When a legislature has full power to create corporations, its adt recognizing as valid a defacto corporation, whether private or municipal, operates to cure all defects in steps leading up to an organization, and makes
a de jure out of what was before only a de facto corporation.
When both the executive and legislative departments of the State have
given notice to the world that a county within the territorial limits of
the State of Kansas has been duly organized, and exists, with full power
of contracting, it is not open to the county to dispute those facts in an
action brought against it by a holder of its bonds, who bought them in
good faith in open market.
The debts of a county contracted during a valid organization, remain the
obligations of the county atthough, for a time, the organization be
abandoned, and there are no officers, to be reached by the process of the
court.
A recital in the bond of a municipal corporation in Kansas that it was
issued in accordance with authority conferred by the act of March 2,
1872, Kansas Laws of 1872, 110, c. 68, and in accordance with a vote of a
majority of the qualified voters, is sufficient to validate the bonds in the
hands of a bona fide holder; and the certificate of the auditor of the
State thereon that the bond was regularly issued, that the signatures
were genuine, and that the bond had been duly registered, is conclusive
upon the municipality.
A recital in a bond issued by a county in Kansas for the purpose of building a bridge, need not necessarily refer to the particular bridge for the
construction of which it was issued.
In Kansas a county has power to borrow money for the erection of county
buildings, and to issue its bonds therefor.

AT LAw,. to recover on coupons of bonds issued by a municipal corporation in Kansas. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant
sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion.

COMA.NCHE COUNTY v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr G C. Clemens and .Mr A. 1. Smith for plaintiff m
error.
2f' W ff. -ossuzgton for defendant in error.

:MR.

JUST

E

BiRFWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action on coupons. There were three classes of
bonds, namely, court-house, bridge and current expense bonds.
The Circuit Court held the latter void,'the others valid, and
Lewws v Comanche
judgment was rendered accordingly
County, 35 Fed. Rep. 343. The county alleges error. Our
inquiry, therefore, is limited to the bridge and court-house
bonds.
The first and principal contention of the plaintift in error is
that at the time of the issue of ihese.bonds there was no'valid
county organization, no corporate entity capable of contracting, that the pretended organization in 1873 was fraudulent
and void, and shortly thereafter abandoned, the county reinaming unorganized until 1885, when, upon -memorial-presented -and census taken, it was organized anew as in the case
of an unorganized county
In order to fully understand the question here presented, a
brief retrospect of. the condition, the legislation and judicial
decisions of the State is necessary
At the time of its admission into the Union, in 1861, the
settlements were confined to the eastern portion of the State,
the west being wholly unoccupied. The territory of the State
was divided into counties, those in the eastern portion being
organized, and those in the western unorganized, the legislation as to the latter being limited to the matter of names and
boundaries. Of course there were no courts in'these unorganized counties, for Lht machinery was wanting, there were no
county buildings, county officers or jurors. So they were by
statute attached to the organized counties for judicial purposes.
It was foreseen that they would, in course of time, become
occupied, and that provision must be made for their organization as political subdivisions of the State. So, by the constitk

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, in section 1 of article 9, power was given to the legislature
in these words "The legislature shall provide for organizing
new counties, locating county-seats, and-changing county lines."
The first legislature, on the fourth day of June, 1861, passed
an act entitled, "An act relating to the organization of new
counties." This was amended in 1872, and under the act as
so amended the county of Comanche was organized. Section
I of this chapter prescribes the proceedings, and is as follows.
" SEoTioN 1. Section 1 of an act relating to the 6rganization
of new counties is hereby amended so as to read, Section 1.
When there shall be presented to the governor a memorial,
signed by forty householders who are legal electors of the
State, of any unorganized county, showing that there are six
hundred inhabitants in such county, and praying that such
county may be organized, accompanied by an affidavit attached
to such memorial, of at least three householders of such county,
showing that the signatures to such memorial are the genuine
signatures of nouseholders of such unorganized county, and that
the affiants have reason to and do believe that there are six
hundred inhabitants in such county as stated in the memorial,
it shall be the duty of the governor to appoint some competent
person, who is a bonaXfde resident of the county, to take the
census and ascertain the number of hona fide inhabitants of
such unorganized county, who shall, after being duly sworn to
faithfully discharge the duties of his office, proceed to take the
census of such county, by ascertaining the name and age of
each of the boncaflde inhabitants of such unorganized county,
who shall receive for services rendered under this section pay
at the rate of three dollars per day, from the state treasurer,
upon an itemized account, verified by affidavit. The person
who shall take the census as required, shall return to the governor, upon appropriate schedules, the census authorized to be
taken herein, certified to be correct and true, and if it appear
by such return that thereare in such unorganized county at
least six hundred bona.fde inhabitants, he shall appoint three
persons, who shall be recommended in the memorial hereinbefore provided for, to act as county commissioners, and a
proper person, to act as county clerk, to be recommended m

COMAN CHE COUNTY v. LEWIS.
Opinion, of the Court.

like manner as the comnissioners, and shall designate such
place as he may select, centrally located, as a temporary countyseat for such county, and shall commission such persons as
such officers, and declare such place the temporary countyseat of such county, and from and after qualification of the
officers appointed under this section, the said county seat shall
be deemed duly organized." Laws of Kansas of 1872, p. 243.
Obviously, full control over the matter of organrzation of
new counties was, by the constitutional provision quoted,
given to the legislature, as was held by the Supreme Court
of the State m the case of the State ex rel. Attorney General
v Commssoners -. f Pawnee County, 12 Kansas, 426, 438, m'
which case the court says:
"The whole power of organizing new counties belongs in
this State to the legislature. It may provide for their orgam-zation by general laws and through the intervention of the
governor, or of any other officer, agent, commissioner or person it may choose, or it may directly organize a new county
itself by specia act. The provision of article 12 of the constitution has no application to counties as counties. Beach
v Leahy, 11 Kansas, 23. It may organize a county with six
hundred inhabitants, or with any number more or less than
six hundred. It may organize a county whenever there shall
be a sufficient number of persons to hold the county offices,
and the legislature may provide for a less number of county
officers than the usual number. Borton v Buck, 8 Kansas,
308, -Leavenworthv. State, 5 Kansas, 688."
In the fall of 1873 proceedings looking to the organization
of Comanche County were had, which were in form in full
compliance with the requirements of section 1, above quoted.
These proceedings closed, as required, with the proclamation
of the governor, and upon the face of the papers was presented a clear case of a regular and valid organization. But
while these proceedings were regular on their face, the agreed
statement of facts shows that "said organization was effected
solely for purposes of plunder by a set of men intending to
secure a de facto organization and issue the bonds of said
county, register and sell them to distant purchasers ignorant

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of the facts, and enrich the schemers, while plundering the
future inhabitants and taxpayers of the county., and upon
the consummation of said scheme, in the spring or early summer of 1874, all of said schemers, together with those who
were the said de facto officers of the said county, left said
.county and never returned, and said county remained with
said organization totally abandoned until, in February, 1885,
when said county was, upon memorial presented and census
taken, organized as in cases of unorganized counties."
If these were all the facts, a very interesting inquiry would
arise as to how far an organization fraudulent in fact but
regular in form, and duly approved by the executive, could
bind the county by an issue of bonds pr?.a facze valid, and
passing into the hands of a bonafde holder. But that inquiry
is not before us. The ample power delegated by the constitution to the legislature enabled it not only to organize a
county in any manner it saw fit, but also to validate by recognition any organization already existing, no matter how
fraudulent the proceedings therefor had been.
This proposition has been distinctly ruled by the Supreme
Court of the State. See the case in 12 Kansas, supr a, see
also -State ex Tel. -Atty. Gen. v Stevens (Harper County), 21
Kansas, 210., and State ex Tel. Atty. Gen. v Yamilton, Same
v Toxall (Wallace County), 40 Kansas, 323.
Nor is this ruling peculiar to the jurisdiction of Kansas. It
is universally affirmed that when a legislature has full power
to create corporations, its act recognizing as valid a de facto
corporation whether private or municipal, operates to cure all
defects in steps leading up to the organization and makes a
de lure out oi what before was only a de facto corporation.
It is true that there must be a defacto organization upon which
this recognition may act, as was held in State ex rel. Atty. Gen.
v Ford County, 12 Kansas, 441, 446, and in this case it appears
from the findings, as well as from the testimony, that there
was such de facto organization. There being this de facto
organization, there was ample recognition by the legislature.
The very matter appears which, in the Harper County case,
was, by the Supreme Court of Kansas, declared a legislative

COMANCHE COUNTY v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

recognition sufficient to cure all defects, namely, an act detaching the county from an organized county to which, for judicial
purposes, it had theretofore been attached, and establishing
courts therein. This act was approved MA[arch 9, 1874, the day
before these bonds were signed. But this, which; by the
Supreme Court of Kansas, was adjudged alone sufficient, is
not all. Chapter 24 of the General Statutes of 1868, creating
some new counties, divided the State into seventy-nine counties, numbered, named and described, among which was the
unorganized county of Comanche, and provided that no
county should be entitled to representation in the legislature
until it should have been organized. During the session of
1874, the session immediately succeeding this attempted or,ganization, and before the issue of these bonds, A. J. Mowry
,represented Comanche County in the legislature, taking active part in its proceedings, voting for senator, introducing
bills and othervise. His right to a seat was challenged,
examined by the committee on elections, and, after report
therefrom, he was admitted and acted as a member during the
entire session. Further than that, this organization having
become a matter of discussion and challenge, the legislature
passed a joint resolution, which recited that it appears from
the report of the secretary of State that there were but 634
inhabitants in the county of Comanche, and from the report
of the auditor of the State that the bonded indebtedness of
the county was $72,000, that the interests of the people and
the honor of the State required an investigation, and directed
that a committee of two should be appointed, one from each
house, who, together with the attorney general, shoiljd make
an investigation and report to the succeeding legislature. By
that report, in January, 1-875, the character of the organization
was disclosed, and from that tune on the county was, as stated,
treated as an unorganized county until 1885. It also- appears
that in December, 1873, not only was a member of the legislature electedi -but, in addition, a new commissioner and a new
county clerk, in the places of those temporarily appointed by
the governor. There thus appears'ample recognition, on the
part of thelegislatnre, of the validity of the organization, and;

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

under repeated adjudications, its validity cannot now in this
collateral way be challenged. And this is no mere technical
ruling. It rests on foundations of substantial justice. It is
true that the present inhabitants have been wronged by the
fraudulent acts of these conspirators in 1873-74, and it is a
hardship for them to be bound for debts they did not contract
and from which they received no benefit, but, on the other
hand, it would be an equal hardship to the plaintiff to lose the
money he has invested in .securities placed on the market,
whose validity was attested to the fullest extent by both the
executive and legislative departments of the State. When
both of those departments give notice to the world that a
county within the territorial limits of the State has been duly
organized and exists with full power of contracting, can it- be
that a purchaser cannot in open market safely purchase the
securities, of that county? Does the duty rest on him to
traverse the limits of tLhe county and make personal inspection
of the number of the inhabitants? If any wrong has been
done to the county through the want of attention on the part
of the state authorities; equity would suggest that the State
should bear the burden, and not cast it upon an innocent party
residing far from the State and acting in reliance upon what
it has done.
But it is urged that whatever may be said as to the organization in 1873-74, and its temporary validity, that organization
was in 1874 abandoned, the county deserted, and a new organization made in 1885, and, it being a new organization there is
no responsibility on its-part for debts fraudulently contracted
more than a decade before, by a confessedly fraudulent organization. Why-should honest and industrious citizens, who have
recently moved into hitherto unoccupied territory, be held
responsible for debts fraudulently contracted yeam before by
a set of rascals who stopped but for a day,. and then decamped
with the proceeds of their rascality? But it must be borne
in mind that, the county, as a territorial subdivision of the
State, has been in existence and unchallenged for more than
a score of years. It matters not how many political organizations there may have been, or what changes in the form ot

COM"ACHE COUNTY v. LEWIS.
Opinion, of the Court.

organizatidn, the uounty has been ever the same, and, although
the name of the political community given by the statutes is
the "board of county commissioners" of the county, it is,
after all,.the county, with its property-and population, which
is the debtor. No one would for a moment suppose that when
a county has contracted a valid obligation, the fact, if it could
be made to appear, that all its inhabitants had removed and
their places been supplied by others, would affect that obligation. There has been no subdivision of the original territory,
no addition to or subtraction from it. The only change has
been in the continuity of political organization, and that,
neither-by municipal law nor the law of nations, destroys the
territorial responsibility for legal obligations. Even a change
in form does not destroy responsibility
The republic of
France recognizes as valid the debts of the empire. A town
whose growth enables it to cast off its village organization
and assume the habiliments of a city continues liable for all
debts theretofore contracted. And so the debts of a county,.
contracted during a valid organization, remain the obligations
of the county, although for:a time the orgamization be abandoned and there be no officers to be reached by the process of
the courts. State ex rel. v Yoxall, 40 Kansas, 323, The Sap
p7ire, 11 Wall. 161, Broughton v. Pensacola, 93 U. S. 266,
.Afount Pleasant v Bec wwtt, 100, U.. S. 514.
Passing to the. question of the bonds themselves, the first to
be considered are the bridge bonds. The recital is in these
words
"This bond is executed and issued m pursuance of and in
accordance with an act of the legislature of the 8tate of
Kansas, entitled ' An act to authorize counties, incorporated
cities, and municipal townships to issue bonds for the purpose
of building bridges, aiding in the construction of -railroads,
water-power or other works of internal improvement, and
providing for-the regfstration of such bonds, the registration
of other bonds, and the repealing of all laws in conflict there,
with,' approved Maroi 2, 1872, and also in accordance ,with
the vote of a majority of the qualified electors of said county
of. Comanche, at a special election duly and regularly held
therefor on the 31st day of January, 1884 [1874]."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The act referred to therein gave to counties full power to
issue bonds for the building of bridges and prescribed the proceedings, including therein a vote of the people, essential to
the vesting of authority in the county commissioners. The
recital that the bond was executed and issued in pursuance of
and in accordance with that act, and also in accordance with
the vote of the majority of the qualified electors, is, within
repeated rulings of this court,. sufficient to validate the bonds
in the hands of a bonafide holder. It shows, in the language
of School Dmstrzct v. Stone, 106 U. S. 183, "a compliance in
all substantial respects with ,the statute giving authority to
issue the bonds," and does not come within the limitations
noticed in that case. Further than that, the bonds are endorsed with the official certificate of the auditor of the State
that the bonds had been regularly and legally issued, that the
signatures were genuine, and that the bonds had been duly
registered in his office in accordance with the act of the legislature of March 2, 1872. Inasmuch as these bonds were issued
after the act of 1872 -went into effect, they fall within the
decision in the case of Lewqs v Commtssw9wrs, 105 U. S. 739,
rather than within that in the case of B.ssell v. i8prng Valley
Townshzy, 110 U. S. 162. as to the conclusiveness of the certificate of the auditor.
The suggestion that the recitals are not sufficient because
the particular bridge, for the building of which the bonds were
to be issued, is not specified, carries no weight. Power is
given by the first section of the act of 1872 to issue bonds
for building bridges, and while the subsequent sections providing for a vote and other preliminaries seem to contemplate,
that a particular bridge should be the subject of consideration,
yet it has never been held by this court, and ought not to be,
that a full and minute detail of all the proceedings is essential
to the validity of a recital. The main thing is that the county
'has promised to pay, and that the people by their vote have
authorized such a promise for one of the purposes for which,
under the statute, they may bind themselves.
The other series of bonds is what is known as "court-house
bonds," so named on the face of the bonds themn$lves. The

COMANCHE COUNTY v. LEWIS.
Opimon of the Court.

recital in this bond is as follows: "This bond is executed and
issued for the purpose of erecting county buildings in pursuance of and in accordance with an act of the legislature of the
State of Kansas, entitled, ' An act relating to counties and
county officers,' approved February 29, 1868, and ' An act to
authorize counties," etc., reciting the title of the act referred
to in the bridge bonds, as well as a vote similar thereto. On
the back of each bond appears the auditor's certificate as in
the bridge bonds.
But it is insisted that county buildings are not works of
internal improvement within the meaning of the act last
referred to. Be that as it may-and it is unnecessary to
decide this question. although in considering it reference may
well be had to the opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas in
the case of Leavenwo th County v -Miller,7 Kansas, 479 the act -first referred 6o, the act of February 29, 1868, gave
ample authority That act, section 16, provides "The board
of county commissioners of each county shall have power, at
any meeting-Fourth,
to borrow, upon the
credit of the county, a sum sufficient for the erection of county
buildings, or to meet tne current expenses of the county in
case of a deficit in the county revenue."
Prior to the issue of these bonds the Supreme Court of the
State had held, in the iase of .Doty v.Ellsbree, 11 Kansas, 209,
that the power to borrow money carries with it the power to
issue the ordinary evidences and security of a loan, and, among
them, county bonds. So that, by that act, the county had
power to borrow money for the erection of county buildings
and issue bonds therefor. There is no force in the suggestionthat the purpose expressed in the recital is that of erecting
county buildings, instead of borrowing money for the erection
of county buildings. A general statement of the purpose, with
direct reference to the act granting authority, and a recital
that the bond is issued in pursuance of and in accordance with
the act, is sufficient. The case of Sqpw v. WVrght, 101 U. S.
665, rested entirely on the fact of the uniform and continuous
ruling on the part of the highest court in the State of New
York in which the bonds were issued, and was a case aris-

