CASE v. KEILLY.
Statement of the Case.

CASE v. KELLY
APPEATL FROM THE 'CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN'.
No. 2. Argucd January 26, 1888.-Decided January 6, 1890.

In the absence of an enabling statute, either general or special, a railroad
or other corporation cannot purchase and hold real .estate indefinitely,
without regard to the uses to be made of it,
A provision ,i an act of a state legislature that the courts of the State.
shall be bound to take-iudicial notice of it after its passage and publication Is binding upon the courts of the State, and also- mnproceedings
in the federal courts in the same State.
The rule that the limitation of. the power of a corporation in a State to
receive and hold real estate concerns the State alone does not a4pplv
when the corporation, as plaintiff, seeks to acquire real estate which it
is not authorized by law to acquire.
Under the circumstances of this case the tiustee is -entitled to receive the
value of the- improvements made by hiiii in good faith upoq the real
estate in controversy, before being required o convey- it.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows
The Green Bay and Minnesota Railroad Company being in
the bands of a receiver, namely, Timothy Case, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Wiscousin, in a -suit by the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
to foreclose a mcrtgage on said railroad, said receiver was
directed by the court to take, possession of all -the property,
real and personal, of said company, namely, its road-bed,
lands, right of way and all its other property and rights whlatsoever, with authority to bring suits-in the name of the railroad company as he should be advised by counsel to be
necessary Under this order Mr. Case,. as receiver., brought
the present suit, stating that he sues ia behalf of -said railroad
company, and as receiver, the defendants David M. Kelly,
Henry Ketchum and George Hiles and- the Arcadi*, M]ineral
Spring Company, a corporation created- by the laws of the
State of Wisconsin.
The allegations of the bill are, that the defendants- Kelly,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Ketchum and Hiles, who were officers of the railroad company during its period of construction, had procured numerous donations of land from citizens who were interested in the
construction of the road, along its line, intended to be for
the use and benefit of the railroad company, and to assist
it in such construction. The fundamental allegation of the
bill is, that these defendants, representing to the persons who
made the donations that they were officers of the road, and
soliciting these grants for the benefit of the road, took the
conveyances to themselves individually, that they did this
in a fraudulent manner, by making the grantors in the conveyances believe that they, as the officers of the company,
could receive the conveyances for the benefit of the road, ana
that either the grantors did not really know to whom the
conveyances were made, or were induced to believe that when
made the grantees held the lands as a trust for the benefit
of the road. These defendants not recognizing this trust,
and the conveyances on their faces being merely conveyances
to the individuals, either separately or collectively, to wit to
Ketchum, Kelly and Hiles, who now refuse to convey to the
company or to admit its right to the lands, this suit is brought
to have a declaration of the trust made by the court and a
decree ordering conveyances by the defendants of the land to
the'corporation.
It is further alleged that the mortgage in process of foreclosure in the court under which Case is acting as receiver
covered all the lands of the corporation, and would cover
these lands if the title of the corporation in them was established.
The defendants Kelly, Ketchum and Hiles filed answers, in
which they denied all fraud or deception, denied that they
held the lands in trust for the railroad company, and denied
the right of plaintiff to any relief. A decree for want of an
answer was taken pro oonfesso against the Arcadia Mineral
Spring Company, replications were filed to the -answers, the
case was put at issue as regards the three principal defendants, and an immense mass of testimony, documentary and
otherwise, was taken.

CASE v. KELLY.
Statement of the Case.

The Circuit Court on the hearing was of opimon that the
conveyances made by various persons to Kelly and Ketchum
and Hiles of the lands described in the bill were made by the
grantors and received by the defendants as contributions to the
railroad company to aid in the construction of its road, and
that if the railroad company had authority by law to receive
such grants and to hold such real estate, it would be entitled
to the relief sought in the bill in this case. But being also of
opinion that, by the laws of Wisconsin, and under its charter,
it could only'receive and hold lands for the defined purposes
of the road, it held that only such lands as were necessary and
proper for the immediate use of the road could be recovered
in this suit. Case v Kelly, 13 Am. and Eng. Railroad Cas.,
70. It therefore entered the following interlocutory decree
"4This day came the parties, by their counsel, and, on consideration of the pleadings and proofs in this cause and the
arguments of counsel thereon, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court that the complainant is entitled to recover
from the defendants the title and possession of all such lands
mentioned in the bill of complaint as are required by the
railroad company for right of way, depot buildings and other
necessary railroad purposes, as described and limited in the
charter of the company, and that the bill of complaint as to
all other portions of the lands described therein be dismissed.
"For the purpose of ascertaining what lands are required
for right of way, depot grounds and other railroad purposes,
as above stated, and also the extent and value Af any improvements made by defendants, this cause is referred to lion.
James H. Howe, as special master of this court, who will take
such additional proof as either party may offer upon reasonable notice, the evidence to. close by the first day of October
next, and the report of the master to be filed herein- by the
20th day of October next. The master will accompany his
report with such reasons as he may deem proper in support of
the conclusions reached by him. For that purpose he may
visit the premises and report the result of his personal examination."
The master made his report, accompanied by the testimony,

OCTOBER TERAM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

to which exceptions were taken both by Case, the receiver,
and by the defendants Hiles and Kelly which exceptions were
overruled by the court, and a final decree entered. From this
the present appeal is taken.
That decree, after specifying certain pieces of land which
the court considered as necessary and proper to the road for
its use in the way of track, right of way, depots and other
similar, proper and necessary uses, ordered the conveyance
of these pieces of land -by Kelly. and by Ketchum and by
Riles and by the Arcadia Mineral Spring Company to the
railroad company It also directed a master to ascertain and
•eport the value of certain improvements made by Hiles upon
a portion of this property, and report the same to the court,
for which Riles was to be paid in case complainant should
elect to take such improvements.
.Mr Walter C. Larned (with whom was .MPl
Turner on the brief) for appellant.

Herbert .X'.

I. The act of incorporation of the Green Bay and Minnesota Railroad Company being a private act, the court cannot
take judicial notice of it. Atokzson & Topeka Railroad v
Blackshre, 10,Kansas, 477, Boi , v C1hcago &c. Railroad,
38 Wisconsin, 463, Perry v 117ew Orleans &c. Railroad,
55 Alabama, 413, 21andre v Bonszgnore, 28 La. Ann. 415,
Broad Street -Hotel Co. v. W1reaver, 57 Alabama, 26, C6!pma
v- Coleby, 47 Michigan, 46, Workingmen's Bank v Converse, 33 La. Ann. 963, Hiailes v State, 9 Texas App. 170;
Leland v. lVilknson, 6 Pet. 317.
II. The State alone, by a proceeding quo warranto, has the
right to inquire whether the corporation was exceeding its
powers-in the acquisition of real estate. -National Bank v
]atthews, 98 U S. 621, Leazure v Eillegas, 7 S. & R. 313,
Cowell v Spri.ngs Co., 100 U. S. 55, Goundie v .ANorthamp ton1. Water Co., 7 Penn. St. 233, .Runyan v Coster, 14 Pet.
122, The Banks v Pottaux,3 Randolph, 136, . C. 15 Am.
Dec. 706, Afclndoe v- St. Louis, 10 Missouri, 575, Gold..Minmy Co. v. iYdtwnal Bank, 96 U. S. 640.,

CASE -v. KELLY.
Citations for Appellee.

IH. The trustee was not entitled to improvements.
son.v Thompson, 16 Wisconsin, 91,
Wisconsin, 265.

orp.-

Waterman v. Dutton, 6

.1fr George .71. Noyes, for Hiles, appellee, cited People v
Ottawa H[ydrazilio Co., 115 Illinois, 281, Cowngton Draw
Bredge -Co. v Shepherd; 20 How 227, 232-; JunctionRailroad
Co. v Bank of Ashland, 12 Wall. 226, People v RHver Rawson
&a. Railroad Co., 12 Michigan, 389, S C. 86 An. Dec. 64,
State v Lean, 9 Wisconsin, 279, Clark v Janesville, 10.Wisconsin, 136, Rochester v Alfred Bank, 13 Wisconsin, 432,
S. C. 80 Am. Dec. 746, Castello v Landwehr, 28 Wisconsin,
522, Rensselaer & Saratoga Railroad v Dams, 43 N. Y
137, Cook v Berlin -Woolen -Jills Co., 56 Wisconsin, 643,
S. C. 43 Wisconsin, 433, Benson v Cutler, 53 Wisconsin,
107, Hadley v Stewart, 65 Wisconsin, 481, Blodgett v _iitt.
29 Wisconsin, 169, Green v Dweon, 9 Wisconsin, 532, Pratt
v Thornton, 28 Miame, 355,
. C. 48 Am. Dec. 492, 8pndler
v Atkinson, 3 Maryland, 409, 5. C. 56 Am. Dec. 755.
On January 26, 1888, the day on which the cause'was argued,
the death of Henry Ketchum, one of the appellees, was suggested, and on July 19,, 1888, the appearance of his heirs and
legal representatives was filed in the cause. On October 9,
1888, a motion was submitted asking for an order making the
heirs and legal representatives of said Ketchum parties to the
cause. On October 15th an order was made requiring the
filing of affidavits to the effect that the persons named in the
papers were the sole heirs and leg l representatives of said
Ketchum, and providing that in default thereof publicatidn
be made pursuant to the first section of rule 15. No ailldavits having been filed pursuant to that order, on December,
19, 1888, an order of publication -was issued, and on July. 6th,
1889, the order was duly published, and proof of publication
thereof was filed in the clerk's office of this court September 12,
1889. The parties having failed to come in within the first ten
days of this term, pursuant to the requirement of said rule, the
appellant, on the 28th October, 1889, moved that such order
or direction might be passed by the court as to it should seem

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

proper, or the exigency of the case might require. On the
4th of November, 1889, the court ordered that unless application should be made on behalf of the parties or either of
them on or before the third Monday of that month to submit
further argument in the case, it would be taken and considered upon the arguments then -filed. No such application
was made.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER,

after irtatnig the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The principal question suggested by this appeal is, whether
the complainant, as representing the railroad company, can
maintain a suit for these lands, that is to say, whether the
company was endowed by the legislature of Wisconsin with a
capacity to receive an indefinite quantity of lands, with no
limitation upon their use, or upon their sale, or whether they
were limited to the lands necessary to such uses as were appropriate to the operations of a railroad.
It is not pretended that there is any general statute of the
State of Wisconsin which authorizes either this company or
any other corporation to purchase and hold lands indefinitely,
as an individual could do, without regard to the uses to be
made of such real estate. The charter of the company, approved April 12, 1866, Private Laws Wis. 1866, c. 540, p. 1331,
authorizes it to acquire real estate, namely, the fee simple in
lands, tenements and easements, for their legitimate use for
railroad purposes. It is thus authorized to take lands 100 feet
in width for right of way, and also such as is needed for depot
buildings, stopping-stages, station-houses, freight-houses, warehouses, engine-houses, machine-shops, factories, and for purposes connected with the use and management of the railroad.
This enumeration of the purposes for which the corporation
could acquire title to real estate must necessarily be held exclusive of all other purposes, and, as the court said at the time of
making its interlocutory decree, "it was not authorized by its
charter to take lands for speculative or farming purposes."
It must be held, therefore, that there was no authority
.under the laws of Wisconsin for this corporation to receive an

CASE v. KELLY.
Opinion of the Court.

indefinite quantity of lands, whether by purchase or gift, to
be converted into money or held for any other purposes than
those mentioned in its act of incorporation.
To this view of the subject, counsel urges several objections.
The first of these which we will notice is that the charter of
the corporation is a private act of which the court cannot
take judicial notice, and that as it was not pleaded nor offered
in evidence, nor otherwise brought to the attention of the
court, it could not be the foundation of its judgment. To this
there are two sufficient answers. The first of which is, that
if the statute creating this corporation gave it no power to
receive and hold lands in the manner we have mentioned,
then it had-no such power by virtue of any law of the State
of Wisconsin, for a corporation, in order to be entitled to buy
and sell, to receive and hold, the title to real estate, must have
some statutory authority of the State in which such lands lie,
to enable it to do so, anti the absence of such provision in the
law of its incorporation does not create any general statute
which authorizes any such right.
Another answer is, that in the charter of the railroad company itself, Laws of Wisconsin of 1866, chapter 540, section
14, it is expressly enacted that "this act is hereby declared to
be a public act, and shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage and publication." To this it is replied by
counsel for appellant that the statute of Wisconsin cannot
make that a public law which in its essential nature is a
private law However this may be, we do not doubt the
authority of the legislature of a State to enact that after the
passage and publication of one of its statutes the courts (f
the State shall be bound to take judicial notice of .it without
its. being pleaded or proven before them. This rule, thus pre,
scribed for the government of the courts of the States, mustbe binding in proceedings in federal courts in the same State.
Indeed, the distinction between public and private acts has
become very artificial and shadowy since legislative bodies
have adopted the principle of publishing in printed form all
statutes which they pass. Some of the States keep up the
distinction by making a difference in the manner in which

OCTOBER TERVE, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

public and -private acts shall be published, and in such cases
this difference is to be observeci and may become of some consequence, but the power of the legislature to declare in any
case that after the passage and publication of any of its laws
they shall be judicially noticed as public acts cannot, we think,
be doubted.
It is next objected to the principle adopted by the court
that the limitation unon the power of the corporation to receive land is one which concerns the State alone, and the title
to such lands in a corporation can only be defeated by a proceeding in the nature of' a quo warrantoon behalf of the State.
The case of .NattonalBank v Matthews, 98 U S. 621, is
strenuously relied on to support this view We need not stop
here to inquire whether this company can hold title to lands,
which it is impliedly forbidden to do by its -charter, because
the case before us is not one in which the title to the lands in
question has ever been vested in the railroad company, or
attempted to be so vested. The railroad company is plaintiff
in this action, and is seeking to obtain the title to such lands.
It has no authority by the statute to receive such title and to
own such lands, and the question here is, not whether the courts
would deprive it of such lands if they had been conveyed to
it, but whether they will aid it to violate the law and obtain
a title which it has no power to hold. We think the questions
are very different ones, and that while a court might hesitate
to declare the title Zo lands received already, and in the possession and ownership of the company, void on the principle
that they had no authority to take such lands, it is very clear
that it will not make itself the. active agent in behalf of the
company in violating the law and enabling the company to
do that which the law forbids.
Another alleged error in the decree of the court relates to
that part of it which authorizes Hiles to recover the value of
his improvements if the corporation chooses to take the improvements.
We do not think this objection sufficient to
reverse the decree. In the first place, the right of the plaintiff to have this land is not based so much upon the ground of
the defendants having purchased it for the benefit of the road

CASE v.'KELLY.
Opimon. of the Court.

-as upon the offer of counsel of Riles to convey it in case he
were paid for the improvements. But if we suppose that
Hiles held this land in trust for the benefit of the plaintiffs,
and is willing to acknowledge that trust, there is no reason
why, in a court of equity, when the complainant asserts his
right to the land and claims to recover both the title and possession from his trustee, he should not pay the value of the
improvements which that trustee has placed upon it. It is
further to be observed that the option is given to complainant
to take these improvements with the land or to reject the
improvements and take the land without them, in which latter
case he is merely required to give the owners of the improvements access to the. land for the purpose of removing them.
If he desires the improvements he can keep them by paying
for them. Hiles paid for the land when he got the title, and
we see nothing unjust or inequitable in his receiving compensation for improvements made in good faith upon the land
which he is now willing to convey to the company,, if -the
company chooses to take them at their appraised value.
We are urged to consider that if this decree is affirmed dismissing the bill of the railroad company, the defendants will
be left in the po*session of property fraudulently acquired, of
considerable value, for which they gave no consideration. The
answer to this is, that such question cannot be raised by the
plaintiff in this case, because, having no right to take the
property, it is not injured by a decree of the court which fails
to grant such right, The other questions must be between
the defendants in this case and those from whom they took
deeds of conveyance, or such other parties, public or privte,
as may show that they have an interest in the controversy
The decree of the Circuit Court is

Aflrmid,
Mn.CHEF JusTICE FULLER did not hear this

no part inits decision.

case and took

