OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

GEOFROY v. RIGGS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICr OF COLvMtBIA.
1'o. 1431.

Submitted December 23, 1889.-Decided February 3,1890.

A citizen of France can take land in the District of Columbia by descent
from a citizen" of the United States.
The treaty power of the United States extends to the protection tn be
afforded to citizens of a foreign country owmng property in this
country and to the manner in which. that property may be transferred,
devised or inherited.
The District of Columbia, as a political community is one of "the States
of the Union," within the meaning of that term as used in article 7 of
the Consular Convention of February 23, 1853, with France:
Article 7 of the Convention with France of September 30, 1800, construed.
Article 7 of the Consular Convention with France of February 23, 1853.
construed.

The bill alleged that the-suit was " a purely
IN- EQUITY.
friendly suit." The defendants demurred to the bill, and
The court
it was dismissed. The complainants appealed.
stated the case as follows:
On the 19th day of January, 1888, T. Lawrason Riggs, a
citizen of the United Stater, and a resident of the District of
Columbia, died at Washington, intestate, seized in fee of real
estate of- great value in the District. The complainants are
citizens and residents of France and nephews of the deceased.
On the 12th of March, 1872, the sister of the deceased, then
named Kate S. Riggs, intermarried with Louis de Geofroy, of
France. She was at the time a resident of the District of
Columbia and a citizen of the United States. He was then
and always has been a citizen of France. The complainants
are the children of this marriage, and are infants now residing
with their father in France. One of them was born July 14,
1873, at Pekin, in China, whilst his father was the French
minister plenipotentiary to that country, and was there only
as such minister. The other was barn October 18, 1875, at
Cannes, in France. Their mother, who was a sister of all the defendants except Medora, wife of the defendant E. Francis
Riggs, died February 7, 1881. The deceased, T. Lawrason

-GEOFROY v. RIGGS.
Argument for Appellees.

Riggs, left one brother, E. Francis Riggs, and three sisters,
Alice L. Riggs, Jane A. Riggs and Cecilia Howard, surviving
him, but no descendints of any deceased brother or deceased
sister, except the complainants.
The defendants, with the exception of Cecilia Howard, are,
and always have been, citizens of the Uiited States and residents of the District of Columbia. Cecilia Howard, in 1867,
intermarried with Henry Howard, a British subject, and since
that time has resided with him in England.
The real property described in the bill of complaint cannbt
be divided without actual .loss and injury, and the interest of
the complainants, if they have any, as well as of th1e defendants, in the property, would be promoted by its sale and a
division of the proceeds.
To the bill of complaint setting up these facts and praying
a sale of the prermses described and a division of the proceeds
among the parties to the suit according to their respective
rights and interests, the defendants demuried, on the ground
that the complainants were incapable of inheriting from their
uncle any interest in the real estate. The Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia sustained the demurrer and dismissed
the bill. From the decree the case is brought to this court on
appeal.
.Mr J; Hubley Ashton for appellants.
.f!r John,Selden for appellees.
As the Treaty of Amity and Commerce concluded between
the Thirteen United States of North America and France, on
February 6, 1778, was annulled by act of Congress, July 1,
1798, 1 Stat. 578, c. 67, and as the Convention of Peace,
Commerce and Navigation concluded between the United
States and France, on September 30, 1800, expired by its
own limitation, eight years afterwards, in pursuance of an
additional article, (Pub. Treaties, ed. 1875, p. 232,) inserted by
the Senate, on February 4, 1801 (V-irac v.. Jhrac, 2 Wheat.
259, 272, 277, Carnealv. Banks, 10 Wheat. 181,189, BRlanan
v. Deshon, I Har. & G. 280, the single treaty sti ation

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1889.
Argument for Appellees.

which can be supposed to operate upon the capacity of French
citizens to inherit lands in the United States, must be found in
article 7 of the Consular Convention concluded between this
country and France, on the 23d day of February, 1853.1
But the operation prescribed for this article, (so far as the
same becomes material in the present controversy,) is limited,
by the terms of the article, to 1"th e States of the Union." By
this language, the members of the Union become distinguished,
at once, from the republic they compose. And' that neither
the District of Columbia, nor a Territory of the United States,
falls within the definition of a State, as that term is employed
in the Constitution, or in the Acts of Congress, has long been
familiar to all. Hepburn v. Ellzey, 2 Cranch, 445, Hew Orleans v Winter, 1 Wheat. 94, Barney v Baltimore, 6 Wall.
287, Jest v Jest, 1 Mackey, 487.
Between the United States, as an integral government,
country, or nation, and the several States constituting our
Union, a distinction is admitted and maintained throughout
our convention with France. If the parties to the convention
have actually limited the operation of this article to the States
of the Union, it cannot be necessary to investigate their reasons for establishing that restriction.
The concessions, on the part of the United States, expressed
in this article of the convention are (1) The adoptton,-as part
of the supreme law of the land, of certain existing state laws,
so long as they may remain in operation, and (2) the engagement of the President, to recommend to those States, by whose
laws aliens are not permitted to hold real estate, the passage
of enabling enactments.
They are not the obligations that would be assumed by the
United States, when entering into treaty engagements affecting either the Territo'tes,respecting which Congress may make
all needful rules and regulations, or the D2)strzct of Columba,
over which Congress may, in all cases whatsoever, exercise
exclusive legislation.
They are the stipulations of the United States in relation to
subjects over which the laws of the several States are recogI This article will be found in the opinion of the court, post, 268.

:GEOFROY v. RIGGS.
Argument for Appellees.

razed as supreme. And these stipulations cease to be applicable
or operative, where the legislative power of the Union becomes,
under the Constitution, paramount.and peculiar.
That such was the cop temporaneous construction placed by
the United States upon this article of the treaty, is shown
from the Circular Letter addressed by Secretary MVfarcy,'
October 19, 1853, to the governors of the several, States, and
the omission of the President to recommend to Congress any
legislation on. the subject. The laws of the several States,
as those laws existed at the date of the convention, may be
supposed to have been susceptible, in general, of easy ascertainment and comparison.
Before proceeding, in the next branch of the argument, o
pxamine the local law on the subject, certain positions taken by
the appellants may be noticedhere.
An ingenious interpretation is sought to be given to thetreaty, by'so transposing its terms, as to require the word "it,"
where first occurring in the 1st clause of the 7th article, to
refer and apply to the whole. of the next following, clause in
the same article.
But as the language of the article remains free from ambiguity, when reaa in the order in wich the two clauses are
actually found to occur, they cannot be dislocated or inverted
for the purpose of creating a meaning for that language. Doe
v £'ons?,die,: 6 Wall. 458.
1DEPARTMENT OF ST,&TE.

WASHINGTON. October 19, 1853.
To hzs E=ellency the Governor ofSir:, I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency a copy of the Consular Convention of the 23rd February last between the United States and
France, and to invite your Excellency's attention to the second paragraph
of the seventh article. Pursuant to'the stipulation therein contained, the
President engages to recommend to those States of the Union, by whose
laws aliens are not ,permitted to hold real estate, 9ie passage 6f such laws
as may be necessary for the purpose of confirnng that right. In accordance
with the stipulation adverted to, the President directs 3he to communicate
to your Excellency his recommendation that if, pursuant to existing laws,
French subjects shall not be allowed to hold real estate in
that right may by law be conferred upon them.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
W.L.-MARcy.

OCTOBER TERA,

1889.

Argument for Appellees.

It is insisted that upon the construction placed by the appellees upon this article of the treaty, the citizens of France
were left without benefit from the compact. But if France
received no advantage from the article, she at least yielded
nothing by adopting it.
Under the provisions of the Code Napoleon, the citizen of
another country had been exempted from the droit d'aubatne,
in France, only when by treaty between the two nations, the
French citizen had been thus relieved in the foreign country
By the law of July 14, 1819, however, these provisions were
abolished, and the capacity of aliens to acquire, hold and
transmit real and personal estate was rendered -as
it still
remains -that of French citizens.
The privileges conferred by the 7th article of the treaty
upon citizens of the United States were, therefore, no greater
than those which were conceded under the general law of
France, at the date of the treaty
"The ulterior right of establishing reciprocity," reserved in
the third clause of the article, enabled the government of France
to impose, at its discretion, upon citizens of the United States,
such mcapacities as might be laid, in our own country, upon
citizens of France, under the laws of the States, Territories or
District of Columbia.
Hence, if, by reason of those laws, the citizens of France
derived no advantage from the article, none could continue to
accrue - except by the sufferance of that country - to citizens
of the United States.
Were it conceded that the words, "States of the Union,"
as employed in article 7 of the convention, properly embrace the District of Columbia, it would still be essential for
the appellants, in order to entitle them to the protection of the
article, to establish the existence within the district, both at
the date of the convention and at the time of the death of their
ancestor, of some law whereby French citizens or subjects,
residing in France, had been rendered competent to take lands,
by descent, from a citizen of the United States.
By the common law, as the same was transplanted into
Maryland, the alien was excluded from the acquisition of land

GEOFROY v. RIGGS.
Argument for Appellees.

by descent. Buchanan v. Deskon, 1 Har. & G. 280, 289,
Guyer's Lessee v Smith, 22 - faryland, 239, S. C. 85 Am.
Dec. 650.
The act of Maryland of December 19,.1791, ratifying her
cession to the United States, provides, in effect, in its 6th section, that "any foreigner" may, by deed or will, take and hold
lands within the ceded territory, and such land may be conveyed by him, and be transmitted to and inherited by his heirs
and relations, as if he and they were citizens of Maryland. It
has long been settled, however, that these, provisions do not
remove the disability, arising from common law principles, of
an alien to inherit lands lying in this Districtfrom a citizen
thereof. Spratt v Spratt, 1 Pet. 343, Spratt v A!pratt, 4 Pet.
393; Jost v Jst, 1 Mackey, 4:93.
4 Nor are the restrictions and disabilities removed bl- the act
of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 476, c. 340.
A later statute which does not expressly repeal, in whole gr
in part, any previous legislation upon the subject to which it
relates, cannot be viewed as wholly superseding such legislation by substitution, revision or otherwise, unless the new
statute either embraces, in itself, the entire field covered by
former enactments, or manifests a plain intention to furnish,
,er se, a new and exclusive system upon the subject to which
they refer. United States v Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, 92, Henderson.'s Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652, .Murdock v. .emphm,
20 Wall. 590, 617, .King v. Cornell, 106 U. S. 395, Red
Rock -v.Henry; 106 U. S. 596, Cook County NVat. Bank
v. United States, 107 U. 8. 445, Pana v. Bowler, 107 U. S.
529.
The basis, it is evident, of this proposition, is that repeals by
implication are not to be favored, that they are founded upon
the repugnance which arises between the new law and the old,
and that the extent of such repugnance is the measure of such
repeals. Arthur v. Homer, 96 U. S. 137, Exjarte Crow Dog,
109 U. S. 556, Chew Heong v Unted States, 112 U. S. 536,
United States v. Langston, 118 U. S. 389, Ckwago Railway
Co. v United States, 127 U. S.406.
The act, in its title, is "An Act to restnt the ownership of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

real estate in the Territories to American citizens, and so
forth." It contains no repealing clause.
The language of the first three sections is the language of
prokii ion. It is to the "violation of the provisions " in those
sections that the penal clauses of the fourth section apply
And as titles by snkerdtance are excepted from its prohibitions, the act, as to such titles, is neither penal nor inhibitory
Titles by inheritance being thus exempted from the prohibitions of the section, to such titles the act is withoutapplication,
and they are to be regulated by the laws in force at the time
of the passage of the act.
Mr. JusTicE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The complainants are both citizens of France. The fact
that one of them was born in Pekin, China, does not change
his citizenship. His father was a Frenchman, and by the law
of France a child of a Frenchman, though born in a foreign
country, retains the citizenship of his father. In this case, also,
his father was engaged, at the time of the son's birth, in the
diplomatic service of France, being its minister plenipotentiary
to China, and by public law the children of ambassadors and
ministers accredited to another country retain the citizenship
of their father.
The question presented for solution, therefore, is whether
the complainants, being citizens and residents of France, inheritr an interest in the real estate in the District of Columbia
of which their uncle, a'citizen of the United States and a resident of the District died seized. In more general terms the
question is. can citizens of France take land in the District of
Columbia by descent from citizens of the United States 2
The complainants contend that they inherit an estate in the
property described, by force of the stipulation of article 7
of the convention between the United States and Franc.e, concluded February 23, 1853, and the provisions of the act of
Congress of March 3, 1887, to restrict the ownership of real
estate in the Territories to American citizens. Before consid-

GEOFROY v. RIGGS.
Opinion of the Court.

ering the effect of this article and of the act of 1887, a brief
reference will be had to the laws of iMaryland in force on the
27th of February, 1801, which were on that day declared by
act of Congress to be in force in the District of Columbia.
The language of the act is "that the laws of the State of
Maryland as they now extst shall be and continue in force in
that part of the said District which was ceded by that State
to the United States, and by them accepted." 2 Stat. 103,
c. 15, § 1.
A part of these laws was the common law, and two acts of
Maryland, one passed in March, 1780, "to declare and ascertain the privileges of the subjects of France" within that
State, the other, passed December 19, 1791, to ratify her cession to the United States, entitled "An Act concerning the
Territory of Columbia and the City of Washington." The
common law, unmodified by statute or treaty, would have excluded aliens from inheriting lands in the United States from
a citizen thereof. Its doctrine is that aliens have no inheritable blood through which a title can be transferred by opeiation of law The act of Maryland of 1780 modified that law
so far as to allow a subject of France who had settled in that
State, and given assurances ol allegiance and attachment, to it
as required of citizens, to devise to French subjects, who for
that purpose were to be deemed citizens of the State. Act
of March, 1780, c. 8, § 5, 1 Dorsey's Laws of Maryland, 158.
It also provided that if the decedent died intestate his natural kindred, whether residing in France or elsewhere, 'should
inherit his real estate in like, manner as if such decedent anc.
his kindred were citizens of the United States. It had 'Tfc
bearing, however, upon the inheritance of a subject of France,
except from a Frenchman domiciled in the State. The act of
Maryland of December 19, 1791, which provided in its sixth
section that any foreigner might, by deed or will thereafter.
made, take and hold lands within the State .in the same manner as if he were a citizen thereof, and that the lands niight be"
conveyed by him, and transmitted to and inherited by lis
heirs and relations as if he and they were citizens-Qf the State;
did not do away with the disability of foreigners to take real

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

property within that State by inheritance from a citizen of the
United States. It was so held in effect in Sypratt v. Spratt, 1
Pet. 343, S. C. 4 Pet. 393.
On the 30th of September, 1800, a convention of peace, commerce and navigation was concluded between France and the
United States, the 7th article of which provided that "the
citizens and inhabitants of the United States shall be at liberty to dispose by testament, donation or otherwase, of their
goods, movable and immovable, holden in the territory of the
French Republic in Europe, and the citizens of the French
Republic shall have the same liberty with regard to goods
movable and immovable, holden in the territory of the United
States, in favor of such persons as they shall think proper.
The citizens and inhabitants of either of the two countries,
who shall be heirs of goods, movable or immovable, in the
other, shall be able to succeed ab intestato, without being
obliged to obtain letters of naturalization, and without having
the effect of this provision contested or impeded under any
pretext whatever." 8 Stat. 182.
This article, by its terms, suspended, during the existence of
the treaty, the provisions of the common law of Maryland
and of the statutes of that State of 1780 and of 1791, so far as
they prevented citizens of France from taking by inheritance
from citizens of the United States, property, real or personal,
situated therein.
That the treaty power of the United States extends to all
proper subjects of negotiation between our government and
the governmenits of other nations, is clear. It is also clear
that the protection which should be afforded to the citizens of
one country owning property in another, and the manner in
which that property may be transferred, devised or inherited,
are fitting subjects for such negotiation and of regulation by
mutual stipulations between the two countries. As commercial intercourse increases between different countries the residence of citizens of one country within the territory of the
other naturally follows, and the removal of their disability
from alienage to hold, transfer and inherit property in such
cases tends to promote amicable relations. Such removal has

OGEOFROY -v. '-:R-IG
Opinion- of-tbe C6urt.

been within the present century the frequent subject of treaty
arrangement. The treaty power, as expressed in the Constitution, is in terms unlimited except, by those restraints which
are found in that instrument against the action of the government or of its departments, and those arising from the nature
of the government itself and of that-of the States. It would
not -be contended that it extends so far-as to authorize what
the Constitution forbids, or a change in the character of the
government or in that of one of the States, or a cession of any
portion of the territory of the latter,. without its consent.
-FortLeavenworth -Railroad(Oo. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525, 541.
But with these exceptions, it is not perceived that there is any
limit to the questions which can be adjusted touching any
matter which is properly the subject of negotiation w.ith
a fo ign country Ware v. Itylton, 3 Dall. 199, Chirac v.
Chzrae, 2 Wheat. 259,_ ffcuenstezn v Lynham, 100 U S. 483,.
8Opinins Attys. Gen 147- Thi'e People v Gerke, 5 California,
381.
Article 7 of the convention of 1800 was in force when
the act of Congress adopting the laws of Maryland, February
27, 1801, was passed.1-That law adopted and continued in
force the law of Maryland as it then existed. It did not
adopt the law of Maryland as it existed previous Po the treaty,
for that would have been in effect to repeal the treaty so far
as the District of Columbia was affected. In adopting it as it,
then ensted, it adopted the law with its provisions suspended
during the continuance of the treaty so far as they- conflicted
with it -in other words, the:treaty, being part of the.supreme
law of the land, controlled the statute and common lawv of
Maryland whenever it differed from them. The treaty expired
by its own limitation in eight years, pursuant.to an, article inserted by the Seiate. 8 Stat. 192. During its continuancecitizens of France could take property in the District of Columbia by inheritance from citizens of the United, States. But
after its expiration that right was limited as provided by the
statute and common law of Maryland, as adopted by Congress
on the 27th of February, 1801, until the convention between
the United States and France was concluded, February 23,
1853. The.7th article'of that convention is as follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

"In all the States of the Union, whose existing laws permit it, so long and to the same extent as the said laws shall
remain in force, Frenchmen shall enjoy the right of possessing personal and real property by the same title and in the
same manner as the citizens of the United Stptes. They shall
be free to dispose of it as they may please, either gratuitously
or for value received, by donation, testament, or otherwise,
just as those citizens themselves, and in no case shall they be
subjected to taxes on transfer, inheritance, or any others different -from those paid by the latter, or to taxes which shall
not be equally imposed.
"As to the States of. the Union, by whose existing laws
aliens are not permitted to hold real estate, the President engages to recommend to them the passage of such laws as may
be necessary for the purpose of conferring this right.
"In like manner, but with the reservation of the ulterior
right of establishing reciprocity in regard to possession and
inheritance, the government of .France accords to the citizens
of the United States the same rights within its territory in
respect to real and personal property, and to inheritance, as
are enjoyed there by its own citizens." 10 Stat. 996.
This article is not happily drawn. It leaves in doubt what
is meant by " States of the Union." Ordinarily these terms
would be held to apply to those political communities exercismg various attributes of sovereignty which compose the
United States, as distinguished from the organized municipalities known as Territories and the District of Columbia. And
yet separate comtnunities, with an independent local government, are often described as states, though the extent of their
political sovereignty be limited by relations to a more general
government or to other countries. Halleck on Int. Law, c. 3,
§§ 5, 6, 7. The term is used in general jurisprudence and by
writers on public law as denoting organized political societies
with an established government. Within this definition the
District of Columbia, under the government of the United
States, is as much a State as any of those political communities which compose the United States. Were there no other
territory under the government of the United States, it would

GEQFROY v. RIGGS.
Opmion of the Court.

not be questioned that the District of Columbia would be a
State within the meaning of international law, and it is not
perceived that it is any less a. State within that meaning because other States and other territory are also under the same
government. In Hevburn v Llzey, 2 Cranch, 445, 452, the
question arose whether a resident and a citizen of the District
of Columbia could sue a citizen of Virginia in the Circuit
Court of the United States. The court, by Chief Justice Marshall, in deciding the question, conceded that the District of
Columbia was a distinct, political society, and therefore a State
according to the definition of writers on general law; but
held that the act of Congress in providing for controversies
between citizens of different States in the Circuit Courts, referred to that term as used in the Constitution, and therefore
to one of the States composing the United States. A similar
concession, that the District of Columbia, being a separate
political community, is, in a certain sense, a State, is made by
this court in the recent case of -Metropolitan Railroad Co. v
.Dwtmot of Columbia, 1t32 U S. 1, 9, decided at the present
term.
Aside from the question in which of these significations
the terms are used in the convention of 1853, we think the
construction of article 7 is free from difficulty In some
States aliens were permitted to hold.real estate, but not to
take by inheritance. kTo this right to hold real estate in some
States reference is had by thp words "permit it" in the first
clause, and it is alluded to in the second clause as, not permitted
in others. This will be manifest if we read the second clause
before the first. This construction, as well observed by counsel, gives consistency and harmony to all 'the provisions of
the article, and comports with its -character as an agreement
intended to confer reciprocal rightq on the citizens of each
country with respect to property held by them within the territory of the other. To construe the first clause as providing
that Frenchmen shall enjoy the right of possessing personal
and real property by the same title and in the same manner
as citizens of the United States, in States, so long as their laws
permit such enjoyment, is to give a meaning to the article by

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

which nothing is conferred not already possessed, and leaves
no adequate reason for the concession by France of rights to
citizens of the United States, made in the third clause. We
do not think this construction admissible. It is a rule, in
'construing treaties as well as laws, to give a sensible meaning
tc; all their provisions if that be practicable. "The interpretation, therefore," says Yattel, "which would render a treaty
-null and inefficient cannot be admitted;" and again, "it
ought to be interpreted in such a manner as that it may
have its effect, and not prove vain and nugatory " 1 Vattel,
Book II, q. 17. As we read the article it declares that in all
the Statel of the Union: by whose laws aliens are permitted to
hold real estate, so long as such laws remain- in force, Frenchmen shall enjoy the right of possessing personal and real property by the same title and in the .same manner as citizens of
the United States. They shall be free to dispose of it as they
may please - by donation, testament, or otherwise - just as
those citizens themselves. But as to'the States by whose existing laws aliens are- not permitted to hold real estate, the
treaty engages that the President- shall recommend to them
the passage .of such laws as may be necessary for the purpose
.of conferring that right.
In determining the question in what sense the terms "States
of.the Union" are used, it isto be borne in -ind that the laws
of the District and of some of the Territories, existing at the
time the convention was concluded in 1853, allowed aliens to
hold real estate. If, therefore, these terms are held to exclude
those political communities, our government is placed in a
very mconsistent position - stipulating that citizens of France
shall enjoy the right of holding, disposing of, and inheriting,
in like manner as citizens of the United States, property' real
and personal, in those St:ts whose laws permit aliens to hold
real estate, that is, that in those States citizens of France, in
holding, disposing of, and inheriting property, shall be free
I "L'ifiterpr6tation qul rendrait un acte nul et sans effet, ne pent donc 6tre
n faut l'interprater.de mani~re qu'il puisse avoir son effet,
qu'il ne se trouve pas vain et illusoird." 2 Droit des Gens, 265, 6dition
Paris, 1863, par Pradier-Fod6r.

Sadm]se.

GEOFROY v. RIGGS.
Opinion of the Court.

from the disability of alienage, and, in order that they may
in like manner be free from such disability m those States
whose existing laws do not permit aliens to hold real estate,
engaging that the President shall recommend the passage of
laws conferring that right, while, at the same tmen, refusing
to citizens of France holding property m the District and in
some of the Territories, where the power of the United States
is in that respect unlimited, a like release from the disability of
alienage, thus discriminating against them in favor of citizens
of France holding property in States having similar legislation.
No plausible motive can be assigned for such discrimination.
A right which the government of the United States apparently desires that citizens of France should enjoy in all the
States, it would hardly refuse to them in the District embracing its capital, or in any of its own territorial dependencies.
By the last clause of the article the government of France
accords to the citizens of the United States the same rights
within its territory .m respect to real and personal property
and to inheritance as are enjoyed there by its own citizens.
There is no limitation as to the territory of France in which
the right of inheritance is conceded. And it declares that this
right is given in like manner as the right is given by the government of the United States to citizens of France. To ensure
reciprocity in the terms of the treaty, it would be necessary to
hold that by 11States of the Union" is meant all the political
communities exercising legislative powers in the country, embracing not only those political communities which constitute
the United States, but also those communities which constitute
the political bodies known as Territories and the District of
Columbia. It is a general principle of construction with respect to treaties that they shall be liberally construed, so as to
carry out the apparent intention of the parties to secure
equality and reciprocity between them. As they are contracts
between independent nations, in their construction words are
to be taken in their ordinary meaning, as, understood in the
public law of nations, and not in any artificial or special sense
impressed upon them by local law, unless such restricted sense
is clearly intended. And it has been held by this court that

O0TOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

where a treaty admits of two constructions, one restrictive of
rights that may be claimed under it and the other favorable
to them. the latter is to be preferred. Hauwnstezn v Lynham,
100 U. S. 483, 487. The stipulation that the government of
France in like manner accords to the citizens of the United
States the same rights within its territory in respect to real
and personal property and inheritance as are enjoyed there by
its own citizens, indicates that- that government considered
that similar rights were extended to its citizens within the territory of the United States, whatever the designation given to
their different political communities.
We are, fherefore, of opinion thas this is the meaning of the
article in question-that there shall be reciprocity in respect
to the acquisition and inheritance of property in one country
by the citizens of the other, that is, in all political communities
in the United States where legislation permits aliens to hold
real estate, the disability of Frenchmen from alienage in
disposing and inheriting property, real and personal, is removed, and the same right, of disposition and inheritance of
property, in France, is accorded to citizens of the United
States, as are there enjoyed by its own citizens. This construction. finds support in the first section of the act of March
3d, 1887. 24: Stat. 476, c. 8940. That section declares that it
shall be unlawful for any person or persons not citizens of the
United States, or who have not declared their intention to
become citizens, to thereafter acquire, hold or own real estate,
or any interest therein, in any of the Territories of the United
States or in the District of Qolumbia,, except such as may be
acquired by inheritance or in good faith in the ordinary course
,of justice m the collection of debts previously created. There
is here a plain implication that property in the District of
Columbia and in the Territories may be acquired by aliens
by inheritance under existing laws, and no property could be
acquired by them in the District by inheritance except by
virtue of the law of Maryland as it. existed when adopted
by the United States during the existence of the convention of
18.00 or under the 7th article of, the convention of 1853. Our
conclusion is, that, the complainants are entitled to take by

