OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

in the hands of the State itself, or of its immediate officers and
agents. But if the facts in that case were as he supposed them
to be, the facts in the present case are certainly different from
that. No stockholder of any company ever had more perfect
possession and ownership of his stock than the State of'orth
Carolina has of the stock in question. There may be contract
claims against it, but they are claims against the State, because based solely on the contract of the State, and not on
possession.
We think that the State is an indispensable party to any
proceeding in equity in which its property is sought to be
taken and subjected to the payment of its obligations, and
that the present suit is of that character, and cannot be sustained.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afl2nied.

GEILINGER v. PHILIPPI.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 367. Submitted January 8, 1890.-Decided February 3,1890.
An insolvent debtor of Louisiana, under the insolvent laws of that State,
surrendered his property for the benefit of his creditors, the surrender
was duly accepted, and the creditors elected a syndic who qualified and
was commissioned as such. On his schedules the debtor returned the
house in which he resided and the furniture therein as the property of
his wife to which he had no claim. The syndic did not take possession
of it and laid no claim to it until a foreign creditor, who was not a party
to the proceedings in insolvency and who had obtained a judgment
against the debtor in the Circuit Court of the United States after the
insolvency, levied upon the house as the property of the debtor. The
syndic then filed in the creditor's suit a third opposition, setting up claim
to the property, and praying that the seizure under the execution be set
aside, and that the marshal be enjoined from levying upon it. A decree
in accordance with the prayer was entered, conditioned upon the syndic's
paying cost of seizure and filing in the Circuit Court an order from the
state court to the syndic to take possession of the property and to administer it as part of the Insolvent's estate; HeZrZ, that there was no
error in this.decree, but that it was eminently judicious and proper.

GEILINGER v. PEHILIPPL
Statement of the Case.

Tis was a suit by way of third opposition, brought in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, by Casar Philippi, syndic of the. creditors
of Gilbert IT. Green individually, and as a member of the late
commercial firm and partnership of Gilbert I. Green & Co., of
New Orleans, and also of Green, Stewart & Co., of Liverpool,
England, in the suits of Bank -in Winterthur v Gilbert H
Green, and Geilinger & Blum v Gilbert IT Green, on the
docket of said Circuit Court- After the answers were filed, the
two causes were consolidated and tried by the courtas one case.
The submission, findings of fact and judgment were as
follows
"This cause came on this day for trial, and the parties having filed a stipulation in writing wafving the intervention of a
jury and submitting the cause to the court on the issues of law
and of fact, with the request that the court do make. a special
finding of the facts "Whereupon the court makes the following finding of fact
"Geilinger & Blum, a commercial firm, domiciled and doing
business at Winterthur, in Switzerland, filed their action against
the defendant, Gilbert H. Green, on November 25th, 1886, and
on the 31st day of January, 1887, recovered a verdict and judgment in this court against Gilbert i. Green for the sum of
ten thousand five hundred and nine
dollars, with interest.
The Bank in Winterthur, a corporation organized under the laws
of the Canton of Zurich, in the Swiss Republic, filed its action
against Gilbert H. Green on the 25th day of November, 1886,
and on the 31st day of January, 1887, recovered a verdict and
judgment in this court against Gilbert L Green for the sum
of forty thousand three hundred and six T
dollars, with interest. On December 26th. 1886, Gilbert I. Green made a
surrender under the insolvent law ot the State of Louisiana,
individually and as a member of the commercial copartnership of Gilbert H. Green .& Company, of New Orleans, Green,
Stewart & Co., of Liverpool, England, in the form and manner
set forth in the certified copy of the record of said insolvent
proceedings, No. 19,731 of the docket of the Civil District
Court., parish of Orleans, which said record is made part of the
.A

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

finding ot facts in this cause to show the character and contents of the proceedings had in said cause, that on or about
the 20th of M ay, 1887, under writs of aliasf.fa. issued in the
case of Geilinger & Blum v. Gilbert .. Green and in the case
of the Bank tm Tinlertihurv Gilbert H. Green, the marshal of
this court levied upon certain real estate described in the petition of Coesar Philippi, syndic. This property was acquired
by act before Theodore Guyol, notary public, of date Mfav
19th, 1882, and said deed is hereto annexed and made part of
this statement of facts to show the form, purport and contents
thereof.
"1Atthe time that this levy was made the said property was
in possession of Gilbert I. Green and his wife and was their
matrimonial domicile, and the said property had been continuously in possession of the said Green and wife from the date of
the purchase thereof down to the date of the seizure thereof
under writs of f.fa. in these causes. Up to the time that this
seizure was made no demand had been made upon Green and
wife by Casar Philippi, syndic, for the said property, and no
claim of title or possession had been set up by the said Philippi.
syndic, for the said property
"And thereupon the court, upon these facts, finds the issues
of law in favor of the said Coesar Philippi, syndic, and it is
thereupon ordered, adjudged and decreed that the seizure of
the said property above described under the alias writ of f.fa.
issued in these causes, dated May 20th, 1887, be set aside and
the property released by the marshal, and that R. B. Pleasants.
United States marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
be restrained and enjoined from proceeding to advertise and
sell the property herein claimed, upon this condition, however.
that said Philippi shall pay all the costs which have been incurred in the making of said seizure, and shall also present
and file in this cause an order from the Civil District Court for
thle parish of Orleans, division E, authorizing and directing him
to take possession of said property from the said Green and
wife, and to administer the same as part of the insolvent estate of the said Gilbert H. Green committed to the charge of
the said court and the said syndic.

GEILINGER v. PHILIPPI.

,249

Statement of the Case.

"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that Geilinger
& Blum and the bank in Winterthur be condemned jomtly to
pay the costs of this suit.
"Judgment rendered June 13, 1887. Judgment signed June
17, 1887."
Annexed to the findings was a certified copy of the insolvency proceedings and of the deed to Mrs. Green.
The schedule of his assets showed this entry therein by
Green
"The house in which I reside on St. Charles Street, and the
furniture therein, is the individual property of my wife, and
I have no claim thereto."
From the proces-verba2 of the meeting of the creditors, it
appeared that Philippi was unanimously elected syndic, and
letters issued to hin accordingly; that nineteen out of twentyseven'local creditors of Green & Co. appeared and took part
in the proceedings, accepted the surrender of property made by
the insolvent, and voted to grant him a full discharge, and
that the court appointed an attorney to represent the absent
creditors, who declared that-be had taken full cognizance of
the meeting.
The deed was dated May 19, 1882, and purported to grant,
bargain, sell, assign, convey, transfer and deliver with full
warranty to Mrs. Green, wife of Gilbert H. Green, "by whom
she is herein assisted and authorized," the property therein
described. The notes for the deferred payments were signed
by her, but it did not appear in -the deed that the purchase
price was paid for with the .paraphernal or separate estate of
Mrs. Green.
Upon the trial a bill of exceptions was taken, which stated
that Geilinger & Blum and the bank in Winterthur "placed
Gilbert H. Green upon the witness stand and offered to prove
by the said Gilbert H. Green that in making the surrender of
his property, as set forth in the record No. 19,734, division E,
Civil District Court, referred to in the statement of facts in
this cause, he did not intend to include in that surrender the
property seized in this cause, for the reason that he was informed and advised by his counsel that the said property was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiffs m Error.

the property of his wife and was not liable for his debts or
covered by the said surrender; to the introduction of which
testimony the said Caesar Philippi, syndic, then and there objected, on the ground that the said testimony was irrelevant
and that Green's intention in making his surrender would not
affect the issue in this cause, which objections the court sustained, and refused to allow said testimony to be adduced.
To which ruling Geilinger & Blum and the bank in Winterthur then and there excepted." To the judgment rendered as
above, the pending writ of error was sued out from this court.
The errors assigned were
1. That the court erred in refusing plaintiffs in error the
right to prove the facts set forth in the bill of exceptions
herein filed.
2. That the court erred in con6luding as a matter of law that
Gilbert H. Green had surrendered the property seized in this
cause under and by virtue of the insolvent proceedings No.
19,734, of the Civil District 'Court.
3. That the court erred in ordering the release of the property herein sued for.
H.r Edgar II. Farrar,_Mr B. F Jonas, and Mr Ernest B.

Ifruttsohnlitt for plaintiffs in error.
The point in this case. is a very narrow one. Was the
seized St. Charles Street property either actively or constructively m gremqo leg?.s, so as to exclude the Circuit Court of the
United States from levying on it 2
We concede that Green ought to have-'surrendered the St.
Charles Street property; because, under the law of Louisiana,
it was community property and liable for his debts. The purchase of the property in the name of the wife did not make it
her property
We concede further that if he had casually omitted it from
his schedules it would have passed under the control of the
syndic of the creditors, and under the doctrine of Bank of
Tennessee v Born, 17 How 517, would not have been liable
to seizure.

GEJLIGER v. PRILIPPI.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

We concede further that if he had fraudulently omitted this
property from his schedule, and put the title in the name of
his wife before his cession, an action would lie by his syndic
to recover it.
But we contend that, as Green expressly declared, under
oath, in his schedule that the property was not his, but his
wife's, and as he not only did not actually surrender it, but
did not intend that his insolvent proceedings should have
such an effect, and, as his surrender, -bn theform and manner
as made, was accepted by the court and by the controlling
majority of his local creditors, and as the syndic made no pretence of claim of title or possession until after the seizure by
the marshal, the property remaining thus in Green's actual
possession was not bn gremzo legzs so as to exclude his foreign
creditors, who were in no manner bound by his insolvent proceedings, from levying their writs upon it.
1. Under the cesaw bonorur of the civil law, whether voluntary or forced, the legal title to the property ceded by the
insolvent remains in him, and does not pass to the creditors or
to the syndic. Rivas v. Hunstock, 2 Rob. La. 187, Smalley v
-HisCreditors, 3 La. Ann. 386, Walling v 3iore~feld, 33 La.
Ann. 1174, 1177, Jaguet v. His Creditors, 38 La. Ann. 863.
2. The law of L[ouisiana requires the application of an insolvent to make surrender of his property to be laid before
the court to which the application is made, and the acceptance
of the surrender, in the form and manner as made, is submitted
to the judicial discretion of the judge. State ex rel. Boyd v
Gken, 34 Ia. Ann. 1020.
3. The ,ngolvent proceedings in the state court, and the ins6lvent laws of Louisiana have no extra-territorial effect, and do
not affect or control non-resident creditors, unless they volun,
tarily make themselves parties to the proceedings. Ogden v
Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, Baldwzn v. Hale, 1 Wall. 223,
Gilman v Lockwood, 4 Wall. -411, Towne v Smith, 1 Woodb.
& Min. 115, 136, Poe v. Duck, 5 Maryland, 1. We respectfully submit that, under the circumstances which are found
as facts in this case, the courts of the United States will not
surrender their jurisdiction of the property, aWnd allow it to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

distributed among local creditors, to the exclusion of 41 foreign creditors who are unwilling to submit themselves to the
state insolveiit law
The case thus presents nothing but a question of a conflict
of jurisdiction between two tribunals of concurrent jurisdiction,
each having power to bind the goods of the defendant by its
process. The rule in such cases is that where the parties are
not the same, nor the cause of acton the same sn both courts,
that court holds the property which first obtained physreal
custody of it. In other words, in such cases there is no such
thing as constructive possession of property which is capable
of actual possession - of physical prehension. Payne v
Drewe, 4 East, 523, Taylor v Carryl, 20 How 583, 594,
Freeman v Mawe, 24 How 450, Wilmer v Atlantic &c. Asr
Lzne Railroad,2 Woods, 409.
4. All of Green's local creditors who appeared at the creditors' meeting, who voted to accept his surrender and to grant
him a discharge, are estopped from saying that the St. Charles
Street property is part of Green's estate.
The local creditors who did not so appear might, by proper
.proceeding, have compelled the syndio to institute an action
to recover this property, and this is the reason why the judge
imposed upon the syndic, as a condition of' the release of the
'seizure made by the marshal, that he should pay all the costs
which have been incurred in the making of the seizure, and
that he should also present and file in this cause an order from
the Civil District Court, authorizing and directing him to take
possession of said property from Green and wife, and to administer the same as part of the insolvent estate of Green
committed to the charge of the court and the syndic.
The necessity the judge foutnd himself under of putting this
proviso in the judgment, ought to have furnished him a conclusive reason for rejecting the syndic's claim.
Xr Thomas J Semmes and Jfr A4fred Goldthwaite for defendant in error.
M
M. CHIEF JUsTivE FULLER, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

GEIINGEi v. PHILIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

It is conceded by counsel for the plaintiffs in error that the
St. Chailes Street property was, under the law of Louisiana,.
community property, and liable for Green's debts, and should
have been surrendered to the syndic, that if Green had casually
omitted it from his schedules it would have passed under the
control of the syndic, and that if he had fraudulently omitted
the property from his schedules and put the title in the name
of his wife before the insolvency proceedings, an action would
lie by the syndic to recover it. But it is contended that as
Green declared the property to be his wife's, and did not
intend it to go under his insolvent proceedings, and as his
surrender in the form and manner as made was accepted, and
the syndic set up no claim of title or possession until after
the seizure by the marshal,, "the property remaining thus
in Green's actual possession was not. sn gremw legis so as to
exclude his foreign creditors, who were in no manner, bound,,
by his-insolvent proceedings, from levying their writs upon it."
The Louisiana Code contains these articles (-Rev Civil Code
La. 187.5 473):
"Ar. 2175 [2171]. The surrender dQes not give the property
to the creditors, it only gives them the right of selling it for
their 'benefit and receiving the incqme of it, till sold.
"Art. 2178 [2174]. As the debtor preserves his ownership
of the property.surrendered, he may divest the creditors, of
their possession of the same, at any time before they have sold
it, by paying the amount of his debts, with the expenses
attending the cession."
Sections 1781 to 1822, inclusive,, of the Revised Statutes of
Loiisiafia constitute a system of insolvent laws. Rev. Stqt.
La. 1870, 353 et seq.
Section 1791 reads "From and after- such cession and
acceptance, all the property of the insolvent debtbr mentionedc
in the schedule, shall be fully vestel in. his creditors; and the
syndic shall take possession of, and be entitled to claim and
recover, all the property, and to administer and sell the same
according to law"
These provisions have formed part of the laws of Louisiana
for many years, and the Supreme Court of that State has

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

repeatedly held in respect to them, that when a cessw bonorum
has been accepted by the court and the creditors, and a syndic
has been appointed and qualified, all the property and rights
of property of the insolvent are vested in his creditors, represented by the syndic as their trustee, and pass to the creditors by the cession, whether included in his schedule or not.
D wght v Simon, 4 La. Ann. 490, Miuse v Yarborough,. 11
La. 521,

West v His Creditors, 8 Rob. La. 123, .Dwzght v

Smith, 9 Rob. La. 32. These cases sustain and are therefore
cited to the proposition by Chief Justice Taney, delivering the
opinion of this court in Bank of Tennessee v. Horn, 17 How
157, 160. The rule relates to possession and disposition, and
it has been frequently decided that the surrender of the insolvent does not divest him of the title to the property surrenderqd, though it strips him of the power to control, alienate
or dispose of the same during the administration of his estate,
and so vests it in the creditors or in the syndic for them, that
it is no longer liable to seizure, attachment or execution, but
is held to be administered and disposed of according to law
for the benefit of the creditors. ]Rvas v Hlunstook, 2 Rob.
La. 187, Jaquet v His Creditors,38 La. Ann. 863, Walling's
Hezrs v Mloreeld, 33 La. Ann. 1174, 1177, Nimwk v -Ingram,

17 La. Ann. 85.
It is therefore immaterial that title may not vest absolutely
in the syndic or creditors. It is enough that the surrender
operates as a transfer for the specific purpose of the disposal
of the property and the distribution of the proceeds in concurso
among the creditors, and is protected accordingly Laforest v
His Creditors,18 La. Ann. 292, IWest v His Creditors,ubt supra.

In Nimwlk v Ingram, 17 La. Ann. 85, Nimick & Co., judgment creditors of Ingram, issued execution against him from
the Fourth District Court of New Orleans, where they had
recovered their judgment, and caused property to be seized
thereunder after Ingram had gone into insolvency and made a
surrender in the Fifth District Court. The proceedings in
Nimick & Co.'s suit were transferred to the Fifth District
Court and cumulated with the insolvent proceedings. Thereupon, Ingram took out of the latter court a rule on Nimick &

GEILINGER v. PHILIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

Co.. to show cause why all further action under the writ, of
f.fa. should not be stayed and set aside, which rule was made
absolute, and from that order an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of Louisiana. There Nimick & Co. urged that
by their diligence they had discovered the property seiied by
them, and that Ingram having fraudulently attempted to
screen the property, it was legally incompetent for him to
take any steps in relation to it to affect their rights, but the
Supreme Court said
"What these rights are it is not necessary for us to decide,
being satisfied, as we are, that they can only be determined contradictorily with the mass of the insolvent's creditors, before the court seized of the concurso, as the whole
proceedings in the suit pending originally in the Fourth Dis-:
triot Court were
properly ordered to be cumulated with
the insolvent proceedings in the Fifth District Court.
"Any informality in the proceedings, when questioned,
must be by direct action. No creditor will be permitted to
disregard and treat as an absolute nullity a judgment accepting
a surrender made by his debtor, and granting a stay of proceedings.
"The acceptance for the creditors by the court of the ceded
estate, vests in them all the rights and property of the insolvent, whether placed on the schedule or not, and the syndic
may sue to recover them.
"But any creditor may show, provided it be contradictorily
with the mass of the creditors, or their legal representative,
that any particular object or fund is not embraced in the surrendered estate, but is subject exclusively to his individual claun.
And this is the remedy of the plaintiffs, if any they have."
1Vinne v Ingram is quoted from and approved in Tu v
Carriere,117 U. S. 201, 201.
In. the case in hand, the order of the court in insolvency
stayed all judicial proceedings against the insolvent and his
property, and, by the acceptance of the cession, passed all the
insolvent's assets to the syndic for the benefit of creditors,
but its operation was not confined to the property specifically
named, nor did the acceptance bv the creditors have that effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

If property be omitted by mistake or with fraudulent intention, it is the duty of the syndic to have the schedule amended
so as to include it, and to take possession and administer upon
it, Chaffe v Scheen, 34 La. Ann. 686, and it is the duty of the

creditors to bring it to his attention, that he may do so. The
evidence offered by appellants that Green did not intend to
include this property because advised by counsel that it was
not liable for his debts was properly excluded, as his intention
could not control the operation of the law, or defeat the right,
of his creditors.
The property was named in the schedule as belonging to the
wife individually and therefore not claimed by the debtor;
but any creditor, by inquiry, could have ascertained the circumstances and been informed of its liability under the law
There is nothing to impugn the good faith of the syndic, and
if there were, he could have been compelled to act and was
liable to removal. Rev Stats. La. ยง 1814. Nor was there
any element of estoppel involved in the action of the creditors
who signed the consents to Green's discharge. The surrender
which they accepted covered all the insolvent's assets, and
even if they were laboring under the erroneous belief that this
particular property was not subject to their claims, they would
be entitled, so far as appears from this record, to share in its
proceeds when the mistake was discovered. No other creditor
was misled to his injury by their action, and no adjudication
foreclosed their rights.
And in addition to this, as Geilinger & Blum and the bank
in Winterthur recovered their judgments after the insolvency
proceedings were commenced and the surrender made by
Green, if they wished to attack those proceedings they should
have done so, as we have seen, "contradictorily with the mass
of the insolvent's creditors, before the court seized of the
concurso."

It is said, however, that insolvency proceedings and laws
can have no extra-territorial effect, and do not affect or control
non-resident creditors, unless they voluntarily make themselves
parties to the proceedings.
And it is argued that as these were foreign creditors, who

GEILINGER v. PHILIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

had not made themselves such parties, and had sought relief
through the United States Circuit Court, that placed them on
different ground as to the property of. an insolvent from that
occupied by the creditors of his domicil. But so far as the
property of an insolvent is concerned in the jurisdiction within
which proceedings against him are taken, its destination ig
fixed (existing priorities being of course respected) by the laws
of that jurisdiction. The insolvency decree is in the nature
of an execution, and though it cannot by its own force attach
assets in another State, it takes the assets within its own.
And, while non-residgnt creditors are entitled to come in parz
passic with domestic, if they.do not do so they cannot participate in the distribution.
By the insolvency proceedings Green's assets were placed ?n
gremio legms, and could not be seized by process from another
court. Peale v Phipps, 1: How 368, 375, Tua v Carere,
117 U. S. 201, 208. What the rights of the appellants might
be if they declined to prove their claims or intervene in the
state court, upon the termination of the administration there,
it is not necessary to consider.
Williams v Benedot, 8 How
107, 112, ?7son Bank v Jolly's Admmsstrators, 18 How
503, Green's Admzsnt ratric v. Crezghton, 23 How 90, 107.
The conclusion that under the particular circumstances disclosed, this property formed part of the assets belonging to an
administration pending when the writs of j. .a. were issued,
determines the invalidity of the seizure undei, them. Rio
Grande Railroad Oomipany v. Gomila, 132 U. S. 478.
The judgment of the Circuit Court released the property
upon condition that the costs in the making of the seizure be
paid by the syndic, and that he present and file an order from
the State District Court authorizing and directing him to take
possession of the property 'and administer the same as part of
the insolvent estate of Green. This was an eminently judicious
and proper order apparently effectual to secure the appropriation of the property to the claims to which it was subject,
while these judgment creditors were absolved from the expense
incurred in emphasizing the fact of its liability
We see no'error in the record and the judgment is therefore
VOL. Cxxx u-17
Affirmed.

