SCHRADER v. MANUFACTURERS'

BANK.

Syllabus.
fact and judgment shows that it was unnecessary for that

court to decide, and its opinion filed in the case and copied
in the record shows that it did not decide, any question against
the plaintiff in error, except the issue whether the former judgment rendered against it and in favor of the grantor of the
defendants in error was a bar to this action. That was a question of general law only, in nowise depending upon the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States. Gouteau
v. Gibson, Ill U. S. 200.
Wrt of error dinssedfor want ofjurtsdition.

SORADER v. MAIUFACTURERS'
BANK OF CHICAGO.
APPEAL FROM

THE CICUIT COURT

OF

NATIONAL

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1370.

Submitted January9,1890.-Decided January 20, 1890.

A national bank went into voluntary liquidation in September, 1873. Before
that it had become liable to a state bank, as guarantor on sundry notes,
made by a third person, and which were discounted for it by the state
bank. In August, 1874, transactions took place between the maker of
the notes and the state bank, and the person who acted as the president
of the national bank, whereby the maker was released from further liability on the notes, but such acting president attempted to continue; by
agreement, the liability of the national bank as guarantor. In a suit begun in October, 1876, a judgment on the guaranty was obtained in May,
1880, by the state bank against the national bank. In a suit brought by
a creditor against the national bank and its stockholders to enforce their
statutory liability for its debts, the court on an application made in June,
1887, enquired into the liability of the stockholders to have the claim of
the state bank enforced as against them, in view of the transactions of
August, 1874, and disallowed that claim; Held,
(1) 'It was proper to refxamine the claim,
(2) The judgment against the bank was not binding on the stockholders,
m the sense that it could not be reexamined;
(3) The guaranty of the bank was released as to the stockholders by
the release of the maker of the notes;
(4) The rights of the stockholders could not be affected by the acts of
the president done after the bank had gone intb liquidation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Iw

EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr -FranklinA. .Mc0onaughyfor appellant.
.Mr Hlenry G Miller for appellee.
MR. JUSTIoE

BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a case growing out of that of Riwh'nond v. b'ons,
121 U S. 27, and involves a claim against the assets of the
Manufactarers' National Bank of Chicago. In the suit of
Irons against that bank, by an order of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, one
Harvey was appointed receiver of the bang. That court, on
July 23, 1883, referred it to a master, to report the amount of
the debts of the bank, the value of its assets, and the amount
of assessment necessary to be made on each share of its
capital stock in order to pay its debts. Among the claims presented before the master was that of the assignee of the People's Bank of Belleville, Illinois, who claimed to be a creditor
in the sum of $84,103.48, and the master reported in favor of
the claim. It was based on a judgment for $67,277 obtained
in the same Circuit Court, May 31, 1880, by the People's
Bank against the Manufacturers' Bank. The judgment was
founded on eight promissory notes for $5000 each. dated
August 5, 1873, made by Henry E. Picket, payable one year
after date, to the order of Picket, at the Manufacturers'
Bank, with interest at ten per cent per annum, payable semiannually, and with ten -per cent per annum, interest after maturity, endorsed by Picket, the payment of each note, principal and interest at maturity being guaranteed by the Manufacturers' Bank. The notes were secured by a trust deed on
real estate, made by Picket to one Joseph A. Holmes.
On the 1st of June, 1886, the Circuit Court made a decree
directing various shareholders to pay to the receiver, for the
benefit of the creditors of the bank, certain sums of money
An appeal was taken to this court by several of the stockholders and was heard, and is the case reported as ]?ichmond v
romn, 121 U S. 27. The decision was announced March 28,

SUHRADER v. MAINUFACTURERS'

BANK.

Opinion of the Court.

1887, the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed, and the
cause was remanded with directions to proceed in conformity
with the opinion of this court. After that decision, and before the mandate was presented to the Circuit Court, and on
the 20th of June, 1887, on the application of several of tha
stockholders, the case was referred back to the master, to
report again upon the amount of the debts due by the bank,
and upon the amount of the assessment necessary to be made
on each share of its capital stock, to pay its debts, and upon
the amount payable by each shareholder on such assessment,
and also to take further proofs in regard to the validity of the
claim of the People's Bank, as against the stockholders of the
Manufacturers' Bank, and as to whether that claim had been
in whole or in part released, discharged, or defeated, by reason
of any new matters stated in such application.
On the 16th of June, 1888, the mwter reported that the
claim of the People's Bank ough4t to be disallowed upon the
new proofs taken. Those proofs accompanied his report. The
assignee of the People's Bank excepted to the report, and thd
matter was heard before Judge Blodgett. His opinion is
reported in 36 Fed. Rep. 843. He confirmed the report and
overruled the exceptions, and, on the 27th of March, 1889, A
decree was entered upon the mandate of this court, vacating
the decree of June 1, 1886, giving a list of the valid, outstandiug claims against the bank, (which did not include the claim
of the assignee of-the People's Bank,) adjudging what sums
were to be paid by-the various stockholders, and taxing costs
to the amount of $158.60 against the People's Bank and it
assignee. The assignee appealed to this court from the decree;
because it disallowed his claim, and because of the award of
costs against the People's Bank and its assignee.
The Manufacturers' Bank beeame insolvent and suspended
payment on September 23, 1873, and, in pursuance of the
national banking act, went into voluntary liquidation on September 26, 1873.
In regard to the claim of the assignee of the People's Bank
the master reported as follows " I. find and report that the
claim of the assignee of the People's Bank of Belleville is

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

based upon the guaranty of the Manufacturers' National Bank
of promissory notes made by Henry E. Picket, and secured
by real estate, amounting in the outset to $50,000, that this
guaranty was made by Ira Holmes, who was an officer of said'
Manufacturers' National Bank, and before the failure of the
bank; that these notes were secured by a trust deed to Joseph
A. Holines upon the undivided half of the northwest quarter of
section ten, township thirty-seven north, range fourteen east,
being (80) eighty acres, one undivided half of which eighty
acres was owned by said Picket (and a five-acre tract and
twenty-six lots) and the other undivided half of said eighty
acres by said Ira Holmes individually; that after the maturity of
these notes and in the month of August, A.D. 1874, Ira Holmes
made a written contract with the People's Bank, by which he
was to give and did give the bank his promissory notes aggregating the sum of $87,465, to secure the Picket notes, (and
other indebtedness for which the bank was not liable,) payable
in one, two, three and four years, securing the payment thereof
by a trust deed upon said property and the southwest quarter
of said northwest quarter, containing forty acres additional,
and that subsequently foreclosure proceedings were had upon
the trust deed made by Picket, resulting in the placing of the
title to the entire tract in the name of said Ira Holmes, and
the amount for which the property was sold, to wit, the sum
of ten thousand dollars, was credited upon the notes of said
Picket, leaving due at that time upon the Picket notes the
sum of forty thousand dollars, for the payment of which, and
the notes of said Ira Holmes, the entire tract remained charged,
said Picket having, for the purpose of enabling the parties to
carry out the arrangement referred to, executed a quit-claim
deed of his interest in said property to said Ira Holmes. I
find, as a matter of fact, that the consideration for the conveyance of said Picket was his release from the payment of his
notes, which were thereafter held under the terms of the contract between Ira Holmes and the People's Bank, for the
purpose of preserving the guaranty of the bank, that said
arrangement changed the original contract of guaranty made
by the Manufacturers' National Bank, by the taking of the

SCHRADER v. MANU-FACTURERS'

BANL

Opimon of thp Court.

new security and the extension of time resulting therefrom
upon the original indebtedness. I find further, that the deed
executed by said Picket, as the result of the agreement referred
to, was made under an arrangement between said Holmes and
Picket, and assented to by said People's Bank of Belleville;
that said Picket was to be released and discharged from any
further liability or payment upon the original indebtedness.
By reason of -which I find that the Manufacturers! National
Bank, the original guarantor, became discharged from all
further liability on account of such undertaking of guaranty,
and recommend that the claim against it be disallowed."
Judge Blodgett, in his opinion in 36 Fed. Rep. 843, -said.
"This claim of the People's Bank of Belleville is based upon a
guaranty of payment made by the Manufacturers' Natibnal
Bank of eight notes of $5000 each, given by Henry E. Picket,
dated August 5, 1873, and due in one .,ear from date, which
were discounted for the Manufacturers' National Bank, soon
after their date, by the People's Bank of Belleville. .These notes
were secured by a trust deed upon land' in the vicinity of the
city of Chicago. The Manufacturers' National Bank suspended
payment and went into voluntary liquidation on or about the
23d of September, 1873, and, when these notes matured, about
a year afterwards, dealings were had between the People's
Bank of Belleville and Ira Holmes, then acting as president of
the Manufacturers' National Bank, m liquidation, and assuming to act also for his bank, by which the title to the real
estate held as-.security for the payment of these notes-was
transferred to Holmes, and.Holmes thereupon- gave his notes
for the amount due on the Picket nofes, and also for a large
amount of othet indebtedness held by the People's Bank, on
which the Manufacturers' National Bank or Holmes or. both
were liable, and, as is found by the master, Picket, in consid-.
eration of a quit-claim deed from himself and wife to Holmes,
of the land covered by the trust deed securing his notes, was
released from further liability on these n6tes. The master
found that this release of Picket from the notes which the
Manufacturers' National Bank had guaranteed operated torelease the guarantor, and hence the master rejected the claim.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

I do not intend to go into an analysis or statement of the proof
upon which the master made his finding, as it will be sufficient to say that I have examined these proofs, and am of
opinion that they fully sustain the master's conclusions. It is
urged, however, that, as the proof shows that the People's
Bank of Belleville brought suit on this guaranty now in ques'tion and obtained judgment thereon, such judgment is conclusive against the defendants in this case, who are stockholders
in the Manufacturers' National Bank, against whom an assessment is asked. Aside from the authorities cited, which satisfy
me that the stockholders of the Manufacturerg' National Bank
are not concluded by this judgment, which was rendered after
the bank went into liquidation, I think the fact shown in this
record, that the dealings between the People's Bank of Belleville and Holmes and Picket, by which Picket was released,
were unknown to the defendant stockholders at the time this
judgment was rendered, should allow these stockholders to
go behind the record of that judgment, and raise the question
before -the court, in this suit, whether the guaranty was released by the release of Picket, the principal debtor, whose
notes were guaranteed. The exceptions to the master's report
are therefore overruled and the report confirmed."
The contention of the appellant is that, by the transaction
in question, Picket was not released. Reliance for this view
is had upon an instrument in writing, made on the 27th of
August, 1874, between Ira Holmes, as one party, and the
People's Bank of Belleville as the other. By that paper
Holmes agreed with the bank that he would, on the 1st of
September, 1874, execute to it his eighteen promissory notes,
of that date, each bearing interest at the rate of 10 per cent
per annum from its date, payable semi-annually, the total
amount of the eighteen notes to be $87,465.10, and Holmes
simultaneously to execute to one Thomas, as trustee, eighteen
deeds of trust to secure the eighteen notes, each deed to
secure one note, the bank agreeing to foreclose at once the
Picket deed of trust, -and to procure the trustee therein to sell
the laud covered thereby, under its provisions, at the expense
of Ira Holmes, and to cause said land to be bought in at such

SCHRADER v. MA.NUFACTURERS' BANK.
0puoii of the Court.

sale and-conveyed to Ira Holmes. The instrument contained
a provision "that the notes mentioned in the encumbrances
now existing upon said land shall stand as additional security
for said People's Bank, as far as they go, for the indebtedness
to be created by the said Holmes as hereinbefore mentioned."
Under this agreement, the proceedings took place which are
set forth in the report of the master.
On the 2d of September, 1874, a paper was executed by the
Manufacturers' National Bank, by Ira Holmes as its president,
and accepted in writing by the People's Bank of Belleville, by
C. W Thomas as its attorney, which recited the fact of the
making of the ten promissory notes by Picket on the 5th of
August, 1873, and the securing of the same by a trust deed,
and then proceeded as follows "And whereas the said Manufacturers' National Bank afterwards, and before said notes
matured, delivered them to the People's Bank of Belleville,
and, for a valuable consideration, guaranteed the prompt payment of said notes and interest to said People's Bank, and
whereas the said Picket, before said -otes fell due, became
insolvent, and the land mentioned in said trust deed was subject to heavy prior encumbrances, which said People's Bank
has removed, it is agreed between the said People's Bank of
Belleville and. the said Manufacturers' National Bank that
the guaranty of the said Manufacturers' National Bank upon
eight of said notes shall be and remain binding upon said
National Bank, and that any agreement which has been or
may be made between the People's Bank and said Picket, in
regard to said'Picket's liability as- maker or endorser of said
notes, shall never be construed to reJease or in anywise afect
said guaranty upon eight of said notel."
On the same 2d of September, 1874, the Manufacturers'
National Bank, by Ira Holmes as its president, executed an
linstrument whereby it agreed that n6 release of the Picket
deed of trust "shall operate to release said bank from its
guarantyl of eight of the notes in said deed* named, to be
selected aad retained by the.,People's Bank-of Belleville, the
present legal holder of all of said notes in said deed named,
and the said Manufacturers' National Bank further agrees

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

that no release of the maker or endorser of said notes shall
operate to relieve said National Bank of its liability upon said
guaranty of eight of the same, the said Manufacturers' National Bank hereby continuing its guaranty of eight of said
notes, notwithstanding any agreement which may be or may
have been made between the holder of the same and the
maker or endorser thereof, and notwithstanding any sale
which may be made under said deed of trust."
In its opinion in the case of Rwhmond v Irons, at page 59,
this court considered that part of the decree appealed from
which directed payment of the claims reported by the master
under the denomination of Class D, amounting in the aggregate to $185,119.34, and which were designated by the master
as claims "arising before the failure of the bank, upon which
worthless collaterals were subsequently received." These were
claims which, after the bank went into liquidation, were
settled between the parties by the acceptance out of the assets
of the bank, by the creditors, .of bills receivable, in payment
of their claims, and which bills receivable contained guaranties
of payment then made in the name of the bank. Upon that
point this court said. "It is averred by the appellees that they
are claims arising for the most part, if not in all instances,
upon endorsements and guaranties made in the name of the
bank by Holmes, its president, after the suspension of the
bank, and while it was in liquidation. It appears clearly from
the evidence that, in many cases, parties having claims against
the bank accepted from Holmes commercial paper held by the
bank, which it had received in the course of its business,, and
which constituted a part of its assets, running some of it several
months and'some of it several years, bearing interest, some at
the rate of eight and some at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, endorsed and guaranteed in the name of the bank
by Holmes as president. The books of the bank show that in
these cases the paper so received was charged against the
account of the party receiving it, thus closing the account
as settled. In these cases, it is testified by Holmes that the
creditors gave their checks to the bank for the amount standing to their credit. In some cases, the creditors or their agents

SCHRADER v. MANUFACTURERS' BANK.
Opmion of the Court.

testifying to the transactions, without contradicting Holmes
in respect to what was in fact done, nevertheless state that the
paper accepted by them was received, not in payment, but as
security
It is obvious, however, that in most, if not all
instances, the witnesses are referring to the security which
they supposed they had received and were entitled to rely
upon, by means of the endorsement and guaranty of the paper
thus received, made by Holmes as president in the name of
the bank. They certainly acted upon this belief, for in many
instances they proceeded to obtain judgments against the bank,
after the maturity and dishonor of the paper so received upon
these endorsements and guaranties, and in this. proceeding
proved their claims in that form by transcripts of such judgments. It is true that, in the final decrees, the master was
directed to correct his computation of interest so as to equalize
the claims of the creditors- by allowing interest at a uniform
rate from the time of the suspension upon the amounts as they
appeared to be due from the -books of the bank, but all the
claims in Class D, notwithstanding the settlements made, were
included in the amounts found due and ordered to be paid.
In this respect we are of the opinion that the decree is erroneous. Those creditors who made settlements after the bank
was put into liquidation and received from the president in
that settlement paper of the bank, or, as in some cases, the
individual notes of Holmes himself, endorsed or guaranteed
in the name of the bank, are not to be considered as creditors
of the bank entitled to subject the stockholders to individual
liability
The individual. liability of the stockholders. as
imposed by and expressed in the statute, is indeed for all the
contracts, debts and engagements of sumh association, but that
must be-restricted in its meaning to such contracts, debts and
engagements. as have been duly contracted in tke ordinary
course of its business. That business- ceased when the bank
went into liquidation, after-that there was no authoritvwor
the part of the officers of the bank to transact any business it
the name of the bank so as to bind its shareholders, excepi
that which is implied in the duty of liquidation, unless suc
authority had been expressly conferred by the shareholders

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

No such express authority appears in this case, and the power
of the president or other officer of the bank to bind it by
transactions after it was put into liquidation is that which
results by implication from the duty to wind up and close its
affairs. That duty consists m the collection and reduction to
money of the assets of the bank, and the payment of creditors
equally and ratably so far as the assets-prove sufficient. Payments, of course, may be made in the bills receivable and other
assets of the bank -in specm, and the title to such paper may
be transferred by the president or cashier by an endorsement
suitable to the purpose in the name of the bank, but such
endorsement and use of the name of the bank is in liquidation
and merely for the purpose of transferring title; It can have
n.c other effect as against the shareholders by creating a new
obligation. It does not constitute a liability, contract, or
engagement of the bank for which they can be held to be
individually responsible. Every creditor of the bank, receiving
its assets under such circumstances, knows the fact of liquidation, and is chargeable, with knowledge of its consequences,
he takes the assets received at his own peril, he is dealing
with officers of the bank only for the purpose of winding up
its affairs. If -he accepts something in lieu of an existing
obligation looking to future payment it must be from other
parties. It is not within thepower of the officers of the bank,
without express authority, by such means to prolong indefinitely an obligation on the part of the shareholders, which is
imposed by the statute only as a means of securing the payment of debts by an insolvent bank when it is no longer .able
to continue business, and for the purpose of effectually winding up its affairs. This is the very meaning of the word
'liquidation.' "
It was proper for the Circuit Court, after the decision of this
court, to permit the claim of the People's Bank to be reexamined, to ascertain whether it was a valid claim against
the stockholders of the Manufacturers' Bank. It is true that
on the 31st of May, 1880, the People's Bank recovered in the
Circuit Court.a judgment against the Manufacturers' Bank for
$67,277, in an aetion brought against the latter as guarantor

BC/If4jADER v. MANUFACTURERS'

BANK.

Oppion of the Court.

of e eight notes, but, as the suit in which that judgment was
recove'ed was not commenced lmlil the 20th of October, 1876,
more than three years after the Manufacturers' Bank went into
liquidation, the judgment against the corporation was not
binding on the stockholders in the sense that it could not be
reexamnined, and the transactions-of August and September,
1874, also took place about a year after the bank went into
voluntary liquidation. -Mossv M Ccullough, 5 Hill, 131,
illzer
v. White, 50 N. Y 137, .2lcliahon v .acy, 51 N./Y 155,
TrtWe v Huncheon, 82 Indiana, 307.
When this judgment was rendered, on the 31st of May, 1880,
the transactions of August, and September, 1874, between the
People's Bank and Holmes and Picket, were not known to the
stockholders of the Manufacturers' Bank, and it is quite clear
that they are entitled to go behind the record of that judgment
and raise the question whether the guaranty of the Manufacturers' Bank was released, as to them, by the release of Picket,
the principal debtor, whose notes were guaranteed by that
bank.
We are satisfied, on the evidence, that the consideration for
the deed from Picket to Ira Holmes was, that Picket should
be released as maker of the notes held by the People's Bank,
which the Manufacturers' iNational Bank had guaranteed. As
to what is contained in the two papers dated September 2,
1874, the meamng of them is that the liability of the Manufacturers' National Bank, as guarantor upon the eight notes of
Picket, should continue notwithstanding the release of the land
from the Picket deed of trust by a sale under the power contained in that deed, in pursuance of the agreement made with
Ira Holmes, and notwithstanding the release of Picket, as
maker of the notes, from further liability upon them. The
sale under the Picket trust deed was made simply to release
the security, by placing the title in Holmes, and was not made
for the purpose of paying the notes,. and the agreement of
Holmes, made after the bsnak went into liquidation, to continue its guaranty upon the notes, . liability under which the
People's Bank is now attempting to enforce against the stockiholders, is not binding upon them, in view of what was said

