OCTOBER -TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

BEALS v. ILLINOIS, MISSOURI AND TEXAS RAIL

ROAD COMPANIY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THEt UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF

WISSOURI.

No. 111.Argued January 16, 17, I890.-Decided February 3,1890.

A decree in equity, cancelling bonds of one railroad corporation and a mortgage by a second railroad corporation of its property to secure their payment, upon a bill filed by the latter against the former and the trustee
under the mortgage, binds all the bondholders, unless obtained by fraud.
And a bill afterwards filed by bondholders not personally made parties
to that suit against those two corporations and a third railroad corporation alleged to clain a.right in the property, by purchase or otherwise,
prior to the lien of the bondholders, charging fraud and collusion in obtaining that decree, cannot be maintained without proof of the charges, If the
,second and third corporations, by pleas and answers under oath, fully
and explicitly deny them, and aver that the third corporation had since
purchased the property in good faith and without knowledge or notice
of any fraud or irregularity In obtaining the decree.

THIS was a suit il equity by Beals, a citizen of New York,
against the Illinois, Missouri and Texas Railway Company, the

Cape Girardeau and State Line Railroad, and the Cape Girardeau Southwestern Railway Company, all three corporations
of Missouri, and Thilenius and Blow, trustees of the Cape
Girardeau and State Line Railroad, and Fletcher, all three cftizens of Missouri.
The amended bill (which was the only one copied in the
transcript of the record) alleged that in April, 1871, the Cape
Girardeau and State Line -Railroad, pursuant to a contract
with Fletcher, executed a deed conveying all its property and
franchises in its road, as then existing or afterwards to be
constructed, from the shore of the Mississippi River in the
city of Cape Girardeau in the State of Missouri to the bound-ary line between the States of Missouri and Arkansas, to
Thilenius and Blow in trust, and directing them as trustees
and Thilemus, the president of that company, to join with the
Illinois, Missouri and Texas Railway Company (which had

BEALS v. ILLINOIS. &c. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

been .organized under the general- laws of Missouri for the
purpose of completmi
the road) in the execution of a mortgage. of all the said property and franchises to secure the payment of bonds issued by the last named company, that in
May, 1871, such a mortgage, afterwards duly recorded, wasexecuted by those two companies and by Thilemus and Blow,
trustees as aforesaid, to Winston and Hoadley in trust.to secure the payment of 1500 bonds of $1000 each of the company
last named, which were afterwards issued, that -the plaintiff
was the bona fido owner and holder for value of sixty-eight
of those bonds, that by default in payment of interest on
these bonds there had been a breach of condition of the mortgage, that most or all of the rest of such bonds had -come
into the possession of the defendants, or of one or more of
them, and thereby the defendants had controlled the -action
of Winston, the surviving trustee named in the mortgageto
the prejudice of the plaintiff, that Winston.was now dead and
no other trustee'had been appointed, that the Cape Girardeau
Southwestern :Railway Company for several years had had
the sole use and 'possession. of the property and franchises, and
claimed a right therein, by purchase or otherwise, prior to the
plaintiff's lien, that a systematic, fraudulent and continuous
effort had been made by the defendants, or some pf them, to
prevent the collection of interest or principal on the plaintiff's
bonds, that the judgment set up in .bar in the defendant's
plea to the bill of complaint in this suit, and alleged to have
been obtained on or about March 30, 1876, in the 'Oir~uit
Court of Cape Girardeau .County, Missouri, by the Cape'Girardeau and State Line Railroad, one of the defendants in'this
cause, was 6btained by the said defendants in fraud -against
th6 bondholders, in that Winston' wa5 served and$ appeared
in person only and not as trustee, and-allowed the judgment
to be entered by default, vithout notice to the bondholders,
and by collusion with Houck, then attorney for the petitioners and now president of the Cape Girardeau Southwestern
Railway Company, both Winston and' Houck knowing .that
the allegations of the petition were false and fictitious, and
intending to defraud the bondholders, and- that the plaintiff

OQTOBER TERM, 188".
Statement of the Case.

was not a party to the action and had no knowledge of it
until his counsel examined the record on August-22, 1884.
The bill prayed for answers under oath, an injunction and a
.decree declaring the mortgage and the plaintiff's bonds to be
valid, and applying the mortgaged property to the payment
of the bonds, and for further relief.
To the amended bill the three defendant corporations severally ified pleas, and two of them filed answers under oath in
support of their pleas.
The plea of the Cape Girardeau and State Line :Railroad
specifically denied all the allegations of the bill as to fraud and
collusion, and alleged that on arch 30, 1876, it brought -an
action in the Circuit Court of Cape Girardeau County, being a
court of general jurisdiction and possessed of full chancery
powers, (the principal office and place of business of that corporation, as well as the largest part of the -real estate to be
affected by that action, -being in that county,) alleging that
the conveyance and the mortgage made in its name were without authority and in fraud of its stockholders, that the property conveyed to Thilenius and Blow was reconveyed by
them to the plaintiff in December, 1871, and before the mortgage was recorded, and that the bonds of the fllinois,. Missouri
and Texas Railway Company, pretended to be secured by the
mortgage, were issued after that time, and were held by the
defendants, but not as purchasers for value, and praying that
the conveyance and mortgage, as well as the bonds, might be
cancelled and declared void, that in that action said railway
company, Winston, as sole surviving trustee under the mortgage, and a large number of corporations and individuals
claiming to be holders of bonds secured by the mortgage, as
well as all other persons whose names were unknown, but who
might claim to be holders of such bonds, were made defendants, that said railway company, Winston, as surviving
trustee, and varmous other defendants claiming to be holders of
bonds, were actually served with process, and all nonresident
bondholders who could be named, together with all unknown
bondholders, were duly served by publication, that said railway company and Winston, as surviving trustee, as well as

BEALS v. ILLINOIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

many bondholders, appeared and pleaded, putting m issue the
allegations of the petition, .that on January 25, 1878, the
court entered a decree (a certified copy of which was set forth
m the plea) establishing the allegations and granting the prayer
of the petition, which was the same decree described in the
amended bill as a judgment entered March 30, 1876, and that
that decree was obtained on due and legal service of process,
and after appearance of the defendants and hearing of proofs,
and without any fraud, covrm or concealment of any kind, or
any collusion, agreement or understanding between Winston
and the plaintiff's attorney, and bad never been apnealed from,
but remained in full force. Wherefore the Cape Girardeau
and State Line Railroad pleaded that decree in bar. The plea
was supported by an answer under oath, denying generally
and specifically all fraud charged in the amended bill.
The Cape Girardeau Southwestern Railway Company, by
plea, and answer under oath in support thereof, set up the
same defence, and also, by permission of the court, the further
defence that in August, 1880, the Cape Girardeau- and State
Line Railroad, claiming to be the owner and being in full possession of the property, conveyed it for valuable consideration
tQ Houck by deed duly recorded, that Houck took the deed
m good faith and without any knowledge or notice of any
right of the plaintiff or any other bondholder, or of any incumbrance on the property, or defect in the decree, that
afterwards the Cape Girardeau .Southwestern Rai,way Company was incorporated and orgamzed under the General Statutes of Missouri on August 10, 1880, and'took:from Houck-a
conveyance of the property for valuable consideraton, in good
faith, and without any knowledge or notice of any fraud or
irregularityn obtaining.the decree, and afterwards proceeded
to construct the railroad.
The plea of the Illinois, Missouri and Texas Railway Company set up the decree of January 25, 1818, by which it was
enjoined from making any claim to the property, and alleged
that it had not since claimed any right in or exercised any control over the property, or received any income therefrom.
The plaintiff filed a general replication to "the answers" of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of th

Court.

the three corporations. The Cape Girardeau and State Line
Railroad and the Cape Girardeau Southwestern IRailway Company moved the court for "judgment on the pleas and replicaton in this cause, for the reason that the plaintiff has not
taken issue on the said pleas, nor is the alleged replication
thereto any reply in law"
No .separate ruling or order was made upon this motion.
Nor were any proofs taken in the case. But the case was
afterwards submitted and argued "upon the bill, pleas, answers and replication," and thereupon the court, being of
.opinon that the equities were with the defendants, dismissed
the bill. 27 Fed. Rep. 721. The plaintiff appealed-to this court.
Hr A. G VFanderyoel (with whom was .Mfr Henry if Dennison on the brief) for appellant.
Mr George A7?Reynolds for appeilees.
"Min. JUT~sCE GRY, after stating the case as aboye, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The irregular form in which the plaintiff's case is presented
need not be dwelt upon, because, in any possible aspect of the
controversy
the parties, the result is not
The formerbetween
judgment, upon which the plaintiffdoubtful.
anticipated
that the defendants .would rely, is not described in the amended
bill otherwise than by reierence to a plea to the.original bill,
neither of which 'is made part of the record transmitted to
this court. But the pleas to the amended bill clearly identify
the judgment drawn in issue.
The plaintiff's replication is, in terms, only to "the answers"
of the three defendant corporations, and not to their pleas,
although each of them had filed a plea, and the only answers
in the cause were those filed by two of them in support of
'their pleas. But it is immaterial to consider whether the effect
of the submission of the case to the court "upon thebill, pleas,
answers and replication," after the defendants had moved for
judgment for insufficiency of the replication, was, so far as the

BEALS v. ILLINOIS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Opinon of the Court.

pleas were concerned, to set down the case for hearing upon
the bill and pleas, -or to treat the replication as taking issue on
the pleas as well as on the answers. In the one view, 'the facts
relied on by the defendants were conclusively admitted to be
true, in the other view, so far as they.were responsive to the
allegations of the bill, they were conclusively proved by the
answers under oath, which the plaintiff introduced no evidence
to control. Mfitford P1. (4th ed.) 301, 302, Rules 33 and 38 in
Equity; arley v. Eittson, 120 1U. S. 303, 315, Vigel v Hopp,
104 U. S. 441.
Upon the facts thus established, no ground is showfi for
maintaining the bill. The former judgment was rendered by
a court of competent jurisdiction, to which not only the railroad company that issued the bonds, but the surviving trustee
under the mortgage made in the name of another company to
secure the payment of those bonds, were made parties. The
bondholders were thus fully represented in that suit, and bound
by the decree cancelling and annulling the bonds and mortgage, unless the decree was fraudulently -obtained. -errmson v Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, Shaw v Railroad' Co., 100
U. S. 605 1Bwiter v Jerome, 123 U. S. 233, .fnox County v
Harshman,ante, 152. The bill alleges that that decree was
obtained by fraud, and by collusion between the trustee and
second company and Houck its attorney, and that the third
company claimed a right in the property, by purchase or
otherwise, prior to the plaintiff's supposed lien. The pleas and
answers under oath of both these companies fully and explicitly deny the fraud and collusion charged, and those of the
third company further aver that after the decrme the property
was conveyed by the second company to Houck and by him
to the third company, and that both Houck and the third
company purchased the property in good faith, for valuable
consideration, and without knowledge or notice of any fraud
or irregularity in obtaining the decree.
These averments being directly responsive to the allegations
of the bill, and therefore conclusive in favor of the defendants'
title to the property and against the plaintiff's claim, it is unnecessary to consider other grounds taken in argument.
Decree afflrmed.

