OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
This motion is based upon the following -grounds
(1) That the p~titioner was not one of the principal litigants in
the appeals, but was simply an intervening judgment creditor, having no interest in the matter of the controversy between the bondholders and the trustees,
(2) That his demand is quite small when compared with the
amount involved in the controversy between the principal litigants, and
(3) That he was not a necessary party to the determination of
the questions involved m the controversy between the main parties to the litigation, but simply intervened as the only manner in
which he could protect his rights under his judgment against the
company for work and labor performed for it in the construction of
the road.
The motion is granted to the extent of $200.

MASON

v. PEWABIC MINING COMPANY

PEWABIC MINING COMPANY v. MASON.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Nos. 168, 240.

Argued December 17, 18,1889. -Decided

January 13, 1890.

On the dissolution of a corporation at the expiration of the term of Its
corporate. existence, each stockholder has the right, as a general rule,
and in the absence of a special agreement to the contrary, to have the
partnership property converted into money, whether such a sale be necessary for the payment of debts, or not.
Directors of-a corporation, conducting its business a~ud receiving moneys
belonging to it after the expiration of the term for which it was incorporated, will be held to an account on the dissolution and the final liquidation of the affairs of the corporation In a court of equity.
Iw EQUITY.
follows

The court, in its opinion, stated the case as

These are an appeal and a cross-appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of

MASON v. 1-EWABIC MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

Michigan. On March 31st, 1884, there was filed in the Circuit
Court for that district the bill of complaint of Thomas G.
Mason, William Hart Smith and Sullivan Ballou, who describe
themselves as citizens of the State of New York, against The
Pewabic Mining Company, a corporation existing under the
laws of the State of Michigan, Johnson Vivian, a citizen of
the State of Michigan, and Henry Billings, Thomas H. Perkins, Alden. B. Buttrick and Daniel L. Demmon, citizens
of the State of Massachusetts, and The Pewabic Copper Company, a corporation created under the laws of the State of
Michigan. The bill professes to be filed on behalf of the
complainants above named, and of all the stockholders in the
Pewabic Mining Company who may desire to join herein
and take the benefit of the proceedings of the court. The bill
is too long to copy in full in this opinion. The substance of
it is, that the complainants were members of the Pewabie
Mining Company, a corporation organized under the laws of
Michigan on the 4th day of April, 1853, with a capital stock
of twenty thousand shares of $25 each, afterwards increased
to forty thousand, which was invested in a copper mine near
Houghton, Michigan. The complainants allege themselves
to be, at the time of the filing of the bill, the owners of 2650
shares of the stock of the company They allege that the
charter of the company expired on April 4th, 1883, but that
nevertheless the directors who were elected in March of that
year, disregarding this fact, continued the ordinary business
of the corporation, and among other things made an assessment of $88,000 on the capital stock, which was paid. They
further allege that at the annual meeting of the stockholders
on the 26th of March, 1884, for the election of directors and
for other purposes, the following resolutions were adopted,
against the vote and the protests of the complainants
"Resolved, That the board of directors.be authorized to sell
and dispose of the property of the company for a sum not less
than $50.000", that the president and secretary be authorized
to execute all conveyances necessary to carry out the contract for the sale of the property of this company made by
the board of directors, and that the board of directors be,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and hereby are, authorized to close up the business of the
company
"Resolved, That it is the sense of this meeting of stockholders that the property shall be sold to a new corporation,
organized under the laws of Michigan, on the basis of forty
thousand shares, and that the stock of such new corporation
shall be issued to and received by the stockholders of this company in payment for the same, stockholders to have the right
to receive [an] equal number of shares in [the] new company,
if they so elect, on surrendering certificates of this company,
within thirty days after April 12, 1884, and in case a stockholder does not take stock of the new corporation he is to
receive his pro rata share in money"
The vote in favor of the adoption of these resolutions was
27,919 shares against 6751 shares in the negative. On the
same day a certificate of incorporation under the laws of
Michigan was executed, forming the Pewabic Copper Company, and filed two days afterwards. Its capital stock was
also forty thousand shares at $25 each, which was taken
up by the defendant corporators, who, with two others, were
named as the first directors, being the same persons who
controllid the old company The third article of this association declared that no cash is actually paid on the capital
stock. The cash value of real and personal property conveyed
to the company contemporaneously with its organization is
the sum of $50,000.
The constitution of the State of Michigan declares, Article
XV, section 10, that no corporation, except for municipal purposes or for the construction of railroads, plank-roads and
canals, shall be created for a longer tihe than thirty years.
A statute of Michigan (1 Howell's Statutes, ยง 4867) enacts
that all corporations whose charters shall expire by their limitation, o" shall be annulled by forfeiture or otherwise, snall
nevertheless continue to be bodies corporate for the term of
three years after the time they would have been so dissolved,
for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits by or
against, them, and of enabling them gradually to settle and
,lose their concerns, dispose of and convey their property, and

MASON v. PEWABIC MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

divide their capital stock, but not for the purpose of continuing
the business for which such corporations have been or may be
established.
The bill prayed for an injunction and restraining ordcr
forbidding the defendants from carrying out the purpose of
transferring the property of the Pewabic Mining Company to
the new corporation. It also prayed for the appointment of
a receiver to take charge of the effects of th Pewabic Mining
Company, that they might be sold, the debts of the company
paid, and the remainder of the proceeds distributed among the
stockholders.
The defendants answered the bill, admitting substantially
its principal alligations, stating as an excuse for continuing
the operations of the company beyond the period of its thirty
years' existence that they were not aware of the tiine when
that thirty years expired. They assert that, in all they had
done since, they had acted honestly and fairly, and had the
assent of the majority of the stockholders, that the arrangement under which they proposed to transfer the property of
the Pewabic Mining Company to the new- corporation was
one which met with the approval of the majority of the
stockholders, and a still greater preponderance of the stock in
the corporation. They allege that they off~red to pay the
dissenting stockholders for their stock at the rate of $50,000
for the value of the whole stock, which was the sum at which
it was to be sold to the new company, or to permit them "to
exchange it for stock in the new company, share for share,
and they insist that this was just and fair, and what they had
a right to do, and that they should still be permitted to carry
out this plan. They say that the complainants, in refusing to
accede to the new. arrangement, are acting in the interest of
rival copper mining - companies, whose mines adjoin that of
the Pewabic Company, and that their object is to force a sale
at public auction, when those companies, whose shareholders
are wealthy, will have an unfair advantage in purchasing the
property below its real value. They repeat their offer to pay
the defendants for thepro r'ata value of their, stock, estimatmg
the whole at $50,000, or to exchange it for stock in the new
company IReplication was filed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The court refused the appointment of a receiver, but did
issue a restraining order against the defendants to prevent the
consummation of the sale to the Pewabic Copper Company A
special master was appointed, with all the powers usually possessed by a master in chancery, to whom the case was referred,
with directions to ascertain what assets and property, real
and personal, were owned by the defendant, the Pewabic Mining Company, on the 26th day of March, A.D.'1884, and also
what assets and property, real and personal, said company
owned at the time of filing the bill of complaint in this case,
on the 31st day of March, 1884, and also to ascertain the fair
cash value of such assets and property at the several dates
aforesaid, distinguishing the value of the several parcels and
kinds of said property, and for that purpose to take testimony
and make report thereon.
The report of the master shows the value of the property
belonging to the Pewabic Mining Company to be much greater
than $50,000, and the defendants concede it to be worth
$75,000, which they profess a willingness to pay The master
took many depositions as to the value of this property on the
part of plaintiffs and defendants, and he says: "Between the
extremes of the testimony I find it very difficult to say what
these several parcels of property are worth, but for the purposes of this reference I find the value of the several classes as
follows
"Stamp mill plant, including pumps and buildings
Mining equipment, not including dwellings
89 dwellings
Wood and timber
Mining supplies
..
Cash on hand
Copper on hand
Water front, stamp mill site
Real estate and mining rights
Mine buildings and shops
Bills receivable
"Total

$40,000
35,000
30,000
27,398

00
00
00
59

30,000 00
9,197
43,757
2,000
250,000
30,000
1,058

32
66
00
00
00
67

$498,412 24"

MASON

v. PEWABIC MIING -CO.
Statement of the Case.

Upon final hearing, the Circuit Court decreed that the equity
of the case is With the complainants, and "that the affairs
of the Pewabic Mining Company be and are hereby decreed
to be wound up." It then directs that "all the assets and
property of the Pewabic Mining Company be sold at. public
vendue for cash to the highest bidder: Promded; That if at
such sale the bid for the aggregate of the property and assets
should not be in excess of $50,000 above the amount of the
debts of the company existing at the time of the sale, then the
arrangement for the sale of such property, made at the stockholders' meeting in Boston on the 26th day of March, 1884, as
set up in defendants' answer, shall be carried out under the
direction of the special master, hereinafter designated, and as
provided by the resolution adopted by the stockholders at said
It was further ordered that "the cause be
meeting."
referred to Peter White, as special master, for the following
purposes, and with the following powers, to wit That said
master proceed to ascertain the assets and property and the
amount of debts of said Pewabic Mining Company, and to this
end he may consider the evidence already taken in the cause,
and may further, upon notice to the solicitors of the different
parties, set days for hearing evidence, and either party may
produce witnesses as in the ordinary course of a master's proceedings, and that he report to this court the proceedings and
findings thereon, and that after ascertaining the assets and
debts of said company, and making report 'thereof to this
court, said master shall proceed to the sale of said property at
public vendue to the highest bidder in one body, after giving
the notice required by law, and that he make report thereof.
And it is further decreed that if the highest bid for such property at such sale shall amount to more than $50,000 over and
above the indebtedness of said Pewabic Mining Company, then
that the arrangement for the sale of said property, made at
said meeting of the stockholders at Boston, must be set aside
and held to be null and void, and the Pewabic Mining Company be enjoined perpetually from selling to the Pewablc
Copper Company, and that company is enjoined from receiving its transfer of the property" It is then decreed "that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

defendants Vivian, Billings, Perkins, Buttrick and Demmon,
directors of said. Pewabic Company, are not liable to pay to
complainants and other stockholders any money received by
them since the expiration of the charter of said Pewabic Mining Company, April 4, 1883, and that ail accounting by said
defendant directors is hereby denied as to such expenditure
made by them after the expiration of the charter."
The complainants in the bill prayed an appeal from that
part of the decree which refused the prayer for an accounting
on the part of the directors of the Pewabic Company of their
transactions since the date of the expiration of the charter.
This appeal is numbered on our docket 168. The defendants
all appeal from the principal decree, which directs a sale of
the property and the distribution of its proceeds among the
stockholders of the Pewabic Mining Compiny in the event
that a sum is bid for all of said property in a lump which
exceeds the amount of the indebtedness of the Pewabic Mining Company and the sum of $50,000, which appeal is numbered 240.
Mr _DonX. Dzekinson (with whom was Mr Alfred Russell on the brmef) for Mason and others.
41 r Thomas I. Talbot for Pewabic Mining Company and
others.
The complainants have no absolute right to a compulsory
sale. An order of sale in such a case as this is, like an injunction, "not of right but of grace." Spaltawk v Union J'assenger Railway Co., 54 Penn. St. 401, 454. A court of equity
is not bound to decree a dissolution, even when a majority of
directors and stockholders request it to be done. In 'e iViagaraIns. Co., 1 Paige, 258. The necessity for it must be clearly
shown. In the present case it is entirely unnecessary Fifteensixteenths of the stockholders resist the application for it.
"The particular interest of the few must give way to the general interest of the many" In re Yi.agara Ins. Co., ub? supra.
The evidence shows that it is for the interest of the stockholders that the business should be continued. The interest

MASON v. PEWABIC MINING CO.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

of the complainants in a compulsory sale is adverse to that of
a great majority of the stockholders. Under such circumstances the interest of a "corporator" is not to be considered,
lpvrn v Susquekanna &c. Twrnpike Co., 2 Penn. 466, 471, but
the interest of the "company"
Filder v London, Brsghton.
c. Railway Co., 1 Hiem. & Mil. 489; Waterbury v .Merchante'
Unzon, Express Co., 50 Barb. 157, 168, Belmont v. Erme Railway Co., 52 Barb. 637, 662. The court will always inquire
whether the bill is really a stockholders' bill, or whether it is
brought to serve other purposes of the complainant. Forrest
v .fanc&ester Sheffleld & .Railway Co., 4 De C. F & J. 126,
130, Spariawk v Unson Pasenger Railway Co., 54 Penn.
St. 401, 454, Efooks v Southwestern Railway Co., 1 Sm.
& Gif. 142, 167, Robson.v. Dodds, L. R. 8 Eq. 301.
It is within the power of a court of equity to permit the
majority to go on with the work, imposing such terms in favor
of the minority as it shall deem just. Lanman v Lebanon,
Valley Railroad,30 Penn. St. 42, State v Bailey, 16 Indiana,
46, 51, S. C 79 Am. Dec. 405.
The case nearest parallel to the present is to be found in
England. A quarry company being in process of liquidation,
with a view to winding up, the holders of a majority of the
paid-up shares conceived the purpose of continuing the company, and accordingly, by a representative, prayed that "all
further proceedings in relation to the winding up of the company nght be stayed." One holder of a hundred and -fifty
shares, considering the experiments intende( by the majority,
and for which he would have to contribute, "would be fruitless," appeared in opposition to the above prayer, being "desirous that the liquidation should proceed, and the slate quarry
sold in the usual way" lHe was not allowed to stand in tbb
way of the wishes of his fellow-shareholders. He was merel,
allowed fourteen days "within which to elect whether he will
remain a member of the company, or will retire and give up
his shares," on his election to retire, the value of his interest
to be referred for ascertainment, and thereafter to be paid -by
the petitioner. I re South Barrule Slate Quarry Co., L. I.
8 Eq. 688.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.
MR. jusTIc, MLLEi after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

With regard to the main question, the power of the directors
and of the majority of the corporation to sell all of the assets
and property of the Pewabic Mining Company to the new
corporation under the existing circumstances of this case,.we
concur with the Circuit Court. It is earnestly argued that
the majority of the stockholders -such a relatively large
majority in interest -have a right to control in this matter,
especially as the corporation exists for no other purpose but
that of winding up its affairs, and that, therefore, the majority
should control in determining what is for the interest of the
whole, and as to the best manner of effecting this object: It
is further said that in the present case the dissenting stockholders are not compelled to enter into a new corporation with
a new set of corporators, but have their option, if they do
not choose to do this, to receive the value of their stock in
money
It seems to us that there are two insurmountable objections
to this view of the subject. The first of these is that the
estimate of the value of the property which is to be transferred
to the new corporation and the new set of stockholders is an
arbitrary estimate made by this majority, and without any
power on the part of the dissenting stockholders to take part,
or to exercise any influence, in making this estimate. They
are therefore reduced to the proposition that they must go
into this new company, however much they may be convinced
that it is not likely to be successful, or whatever other objections tiey nay have to becoming members of that corporation,
or they must receive for the property which they have in the
old company a sum which is fixed by those who are buying
them out. The injustice of this needs no comment. If this
be established as a principle to govern the winding up of dissolving corporations, it places any unhappy minority, as regards
the interest which they have in such corporation, under the
absolute control of a majority, who may themselves, as m
this case, constitute the new company, and become the pur-

MASON v. PEWA1BIC MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

chasers ,of all the assets of the old company at their own
valuation.
The other objection is that tnere is no superior right in two
or three men in the old company, who may hold a preponderance of the stock, to acquire an absolute control of the whole
of it, in the way which may be to their interest, or which they
may think to be for the interest of the whole. So far as any
legal right is concerned, the minority of the stockholders has
as much authority to say to the majority as the majority has
to say to them, "We have formed a new company to conduct
the business of this old corporation, and we have fixed the
value of the shares of the old corporation. We propose to
take the whole of it and pay you for your shares at that valuation, unless you come into the new corporation, taking shares
in it m payment of your shares in the old one." When the
proposition is thus presented, in the light of an offer made by
a very small minority to a very large majority who object to
it, the injustice of the proposition is readily seen, yet we
know of no reason or authority why those holding a majority
of the stock can place a value upon it at which a dissenting
minority must sell or do something else which they think is
against their interest, more than a minority can do.
We do not see that the rights of the parties in regard to the
assets of this corporation differ from those of a partnership on
its dissolution, and on that subject Lindley on Partnership
says, Book 3, c. 10, ยง 6, sub-div 4, page 555, original edition
"In the absence of a special agreement to the contrary, the
right of each partner on a dissolution is to have the partnership property converted into money by a sale, even though a
sale may not be necessary to the payment of debts. This
mode of ascertaining the value of the partnership effects is
adopted by courts of equity, unless some other course can be
followed consistently with the agreement between thepartners,
and even where-the partners have provided that their shares
shall be ascertained in some other way, still, if owing to any
circumstance their agreement in this respect cannot be carried
out, or if their agreement does not extend to the event which
has in fact arisen, realization of the property by a sale is the
only alternative which a court of equity can adont."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The authorities cited by Lindley for this proposition amply
support it.
In the case of Crawshay v. CoZlns, 15 Yes. 218, a commission of bankruptcy had been issued against Noble, one of
the members of a partnership engaged in the business of
manufacturing pumps and engines. The assignee of Noble
filed a bill, asking for a division of the assets, which consisted
largely of patents, and upon a very full argument upon the
subject, Lord Eldon says "Another mode of determination
of a. partnership is not by effluxion of time, but by the death
of one partner." The question then is, he says, "whether the
surviving partners, instead of settling the aqcount and agreeing with the executor as to the terms upon which his beneficial interest in the stock is still to be continued, subject still
to the possible loss, can take the whole property, do what
they please, and compel the executor to take the calculated
value. That cannot be without contract for it with the
testator. The executor has a right to have the value ascertained in the way in which it can be best ascertained, by sale."
In 17 Yes. 298, a case more analogous to the present one
came before the court. In that case (Featherstonhaughv
.Fenwwek) the parties were engaged as partners in the business
of manufacturing glass, and after deciding one of the questions
in the case, to wit, that the partnership was dissolved or should
be dissolved by decree of the court, the master of the rolls,
Sir William Grant, proceeded to say "The next consideration
is whether the terms upon which defendants proposed to adjust the partnership concern were those to which the plaintiff
was bound to accede. The proposition was that a value should
be set upon the partnership stock, and that they should take
his proportion of -it at that valuation, or that he should take
away his share of the property from the premises. My opinion is clearly that these are not terms to which he is bound to
accede. They had no more right to turn him out than he had
to turn them out, upon those terms. Their rights were precisely equal to have the whole concern wound up by a sale,
and a division of the produce. As therefore they never proposed to him any terms which he was bound to accept, the

MASON v. PEWABIC MiINIG CO.
Opinion of the Court.

consequence is that, continuing to trade with his stock, and at
his risk, they come under a liability for whatever profits might
be produced by that stock." He then refers to the case of
Crawshay v Collins, just cited, with approval.
In the case of Bale v Hale, 4 Beavan, 369, Joseph Hale,
who carried on the -trade of a brewer in partnership with
George Hale and two other persons, died leaving a will. The
master of the rolls, in discussing the relative rights of the surviving partners and the executor of the deceased, says in
regard to the executor He. "is not obliged to submit to the
statement of the account which is made by the continuing
partners, clearly not, in the absence of all contract to that
effect, which is admitted to be the case here. He has a right
to say, ' I must have the actual value of my partnership assets
determined, and though it may be very inconvenient for you to
ascertain the value -in the mode prescribed by the law, yet if
we cannot otherwise agree, I must have it ascertained by the
only mode by which it can be ascertained accurately, namely,
by a sale for what it will fetch in the market."'
The next case, Wilde v Milne, 26 B3eavan, 504, was a case
bearing a closer analogy to this, because the parties were engaged in the mining -business, to wit, working a. coll.iery In
consequence of some disagreements, the plaintiff gave notice to
dissolve, and instituted this suit to have the partnership wound
up. He did not allege that there were, any debtg; but prayed
that the partnership property might be sold and applied to the
payment of the debts, and that the surplus might be divided.
This was resisted by defendant Milne alone. On the hearing,
the master of the rolls, Sir John Romilly, said "I am cleaOly
of opinion that this is an ordinary case of partnership, aid
when it is dissolved or terminated, any one o- the partners is
entitled to have the -whole assets disposed of. In this case it
is admitted that any one can put an end to the, partnership.
The result is, that that which forms the partnership assets
must be disposed of for the purpose of settling the account between the partners. I consider this established by "Crawshay
v. Maule, 1 Swanston, 518, 526." And after pointing out the
difficulty m the mode of dividing the property, which consisted

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

partly of real estate, of the use of the shaft, of the machinery
and engines, etc., he said "The court is compelled by the
exigency and circumstances of these cases to direct a sale."
The case of Riowlands v Evans and Williams v Rowlands,
30 Beavan, 302, arose out of another partnership in mining
business very much like the case before us. Some of the
partners interested desired that the mining business might be
carried on by a miner and receiver, but the plaintiff objected
to this. One of the partners had become a lunatic, and his
business was in the hands of a committee, and the question
was whether the partnership be dissolved and the property
sold, or a receiver appointed to conduct the operations of the
concern. The master of the rolls said "I do not think the
point istouched by the decisions. The difficulty isthis the
-court cannot compel persons to be in this situation,-either
to carry on business with the -committee of a lunatic. subject
to all the inconveniences of having a manager appointed by
the court,
and subject to appeal to the House of
Lords.
No one would bid for a share in a mine to be
carried on with the committee of a lunanc, nor could the value
of the share of the lunatic be properly ascertained under such
circumstances. I think that the value of the whole must be
ascertained by a sale by auction, and that some indifferent person well acquainted with these matters should be directed to sell
the property, and that all parties should have liberty to bid."
In the case of Burdon v Barkus. 4 De G., F & J., 42,
which came before the Lords Justices of Appeal from the
Vice Chancellor's Court, Lord Justice Turner, delivering the
opimon said "The next inquiry to be considered is the inquiry
as to the valuation of the stock and plant, which is objected
to on both sides, by the defendant, as importing that the
stock is. to be valued, by the plaintiff, as importing that it
might be valued as the stock of a going concern. I think that
both of these objections are well grounded. There was no
agreement between these parties for the stock and plant being
taken by either party at a valuation on the termination of the
partnership, and in the absence of such an agTeement a partner
cannot, as I conceive, be compelled to take, nor can he com-

MASON

,

PEWABIC MINING CO.

Opinion of the Court.

t el his copartner to take, the stock at a valuation. Each is entitled to have it ascertained by sale, and as to the defendant's
claim to have the stock dealt with as the stock of a going
concern, I do not see how it can be maintained, for the plaintiff is certainly not bound to continue the concern."
These English authorities would seem to be conclusive of the
right of the plaintiffs in the present case to have a sale of the
property The same doctrine is very decisivelv announced in the
case of Dwkson v Dicekznson, 29 Connecticut, 600. This was
a bill in regard to a partnership, the main object of which was
to procure the division of certain property which the plaintiffs
claimed to belong to the partnership. The court said "The
plaintiff has no equitable claim to a decree in his favor. So
far as the bill asks for the -division of the property we had
supposed this object could only be effected by a sale of the
property and a conversion of it into cash; and then dividing
the cash, because as between partners there is no other mode,
where they do not-agree, of ascertaining the value of partnership property or of disposing of it."
'The court then refers to the case of Sigourney v..bMtnn, 7
Connecticut, 11, and cites the language of Judge Hosmer in that
case, as follows "In every case in which a court of. equity
interferes to wind up the concerns of a partnership, it directs
the value of the stock to be ascertained m the way in which it
can best be done, that is, by the conversion of it into money
Every party may insist that the joint stock. shall be sold."
In the Supreme Court of Michigan, in Godfrey v ffhite, 43
Michigan, 171, which is mainly important as showing the concurrence of thehighest court of the State under whoe laws Oe
Pewabic Mining Company was organized, that court. decidd
that certain lands which constituted a part of the partnership
property should not be partitioned between the partners, but
should be sold and the proceeds divided. See also Brzges.v
&%oerry,
95 U. S. 401.
We do not say, that there may not be circumstances presented to a court of chancery, which is winding up a dissolved,
corporation and distributing its assets, that will justify a decree
ascertaimng their value, or the value of certain parts of them,

OCTOBER TERAT, 1889.
Opiion of the Court.

and making a distribution to partners or- shareholders on that
basis, but this is not the general rule by which the property
in such cases is disposed of in the absence of an agreement.
We are of ovznzo that on the appeal of the defendantsfrom
ths part of the decree, it must be affirmed.
However honest the directors may be who conducted the
business of this corporation for nearly a year after its dissolution without any attempt to wind it up, but who, on the contrary, assessed $SS,000 on the shares of the stock and collected
it, and did much other of the ordinary business of mining
operations, it seems to us eminently proper that in this proceeding, by which the court undertook to wind up the affairs
of the corporation, to pay its debts, and to realize its assets and
distribute them among the shareholders, these directors should
account for what they did in that time. We do not decide,
nor do we think it was necessary for the court below to have
decided, whether those directors had anything in their hands
which should be accounted for in the final liquidation of the
partnership affairs, or whether they had not. It is the object
of such an inquiry as that sought by complainants in their bill
to ascertain this fact. It was not a part of the matter referred
to the commissioner in the former reference. We think it is a
proper subject of investigation to be made by a master to whom
the matter shall be referred, with express directions to ascertain and report upjoa that subject. See authorities already cited.
That part of the decree, therefore, of the court denying thms
relief zs reversed, and the case remanded to the court below
wtth direczons to appomnt a master, and to direct such, an
-inguiryand report.
BRADLEY, J
I think the opinion-of the court asserts too
strongly the right of the minority stockholders to insist upon a
sale. In many cases in this country a valuation of the interest of
a minority, under the direction of the court, has been deemed
a proper method of ascertaining their share in the assets, where
a sale would be prejudical to the interests of the whole.

M . JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of this case.

