CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO.

8S

Statement bf the Case.

OHIO CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. CENTRAL
TRUST COMPANY OF .NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

STATES FOR

N~o.1288. Submitted December 23, 1889.-Decided January 20, 1890.

A bill in equity for the foreclosure of a mortgage of a railroad for nonpayment of overdue interest, the principal being payable at a future
day, was taken pro confesso, the company appearing but not answering.
A sale was made, under the decree of the court, and, it appearing that
there was a surplus over and above what was necessary to pay the overdue interest, costs and expenses, the court ordered It to be applied to
the reduction of the principal sum due upon the bonds, and entered a
decree that the balance of such principal sum, remaining after such application, was due and payable from the company to the holders of the
bonds, and that the trustee recover it for them, with interest until paid;
Held.
(1) That the application of the surplus was properly made;
(2) That the decree, declaring the remainder of the principal sum due
and immediately payable, was irreular and was not warranted by
the pleadings.

The defendant, m a bill in equity, taken pro confesso, is not precluded from
contesting the sufficiency of the bill or from insisting that the averments
contained in it do not justify the decree.
A decree on a bill taken pro confesso maybe attacked on appeal, if not confined to the matter of the bilL
The 92d rule in equity does not authorize a decree to be entered in a suit in
equity for the foreclosure of a mortgage for a balance due to the complainant over and above the proceeds of the sale, if, as a matter of fact,
such balance has not become payable.
A railroad compiany, whose road, property and franchises have been sold
under a decree for the foreclosure of a mortgage entered on a bill taken
pro confesso, may prosecute an appeal from the fnal decree distributing
the proceeds of the sale and adjudging a balance still due the mortgage
creditors..

THE case, as stated by the court, was as -follows:
1'

The Central Trust Company of New York filed its bill on
the 7th day of January, .D. 1884, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio against The

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Ohio Central Railroad Company, alleging the creation prior
to January 1, 1880, of a corporation by that name, and its
execution on January 1, 1880, of three thousand bonds for
one thousand dollars each, bearing that date and payable to
bearer on January 1, 1920, at six per cent interest, payable
semi-annually on the first days of January and July, to secure
which it executed and delivered to the Central Trust Company
a deed of trust and mortgage covering the main line of said
Ohio Central Railroad, which mortgage was duly recorded.
The bill also alleged that the original Ohio Central Railroad
Company, subsequently to the first day of January, 1880, and
to the execution and delivery of the bonds and mortgage
therembefore described, made and enterd into an agreement
of consolidation with a corporation known as the Atlantic and
Northwestern Railroad Company, under the name of The
Ohio Central Railroad Company It further alleged default
in the payment of interest on the said bonds, January 1, 1884,
that the coupons were duly presented and payment was demanded, but refused, and that aboit the first of January,
1880, the defendant executed and delivered a second mortgage
on the same property, to the same trustee, to secure three
thousand income bonds for one thousand dollars each, payable to bearer, which was duly recorded, that the holders of
these income bonds were very numerous and unknown to complainant, and that their interest and lien and that of complainant as their trustee accrued subsequently to and subject
to the lien of the first mortgage. The bill set forth the insufficiency of the mortgaged property to pay the mortgage debts,
that there was a large floating indebtedness, that creditors
had commenced legal or equitable proceedings for the enforcement of their claims, that complainant had commenced a suit
for the foreclosure of a certain other mortgage upon a portion
of the property not embraced or covered by the two mort-ages first mentioned, in which a receiver had been appointed,
and that a multiplicity of suits, judgments and liens would
obstruct the operation of the road anct cause great loss to the
holders of the bonds and sacrifice of property, etc.
The'bill prayed for an answer; that an account be had-of

CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 85
Statement of the Case.

the bonds secured by said several mortgages, "and of the,
amount due on said first mortgage bonds for principal and interest or either ," that the names of the holders of said bonds
might be ascertained and an account taken of all the liens
and incumbrances according to their priorities, that said first
mortgage be decreed to be a first lien upon all the property
described therein, that the property be sold free from the
claims of all parties or all who were in. any manner represented, that the defendant and others claiming:under it -be
barred and foreclosed, "that the said judgment or decree
may contain such provisions for the ascertainment of the
priorities of the said incumbrances and of the due application
of the proceeds of such sale according to the rights of the
parties as may be.just and equitable," that a receiver might
be appointed, and an injunction issue pendente lite, and a
prayer for general relief. A copy of the first mortgage, including bond and coupon, was attached to the bill.
The defendant, The Ohio Central Railroad Company, having
entered its appearance, and having failed to plead, answer, or
demur, the bill was taken as confessed, and, on the 10th day of
December, 1884, a decree for sale was duly entered in the cause.
The decree accorded with the averments of the bill, and
adjudged that the default continued after the commencement
of the suit, and that two instalments of interest on the first
mortgage bonds were due and unpaid, 15y reason of the default
as to the first of which the mortgage or deed of trust had
become absolute, and the complainant entitled to a decree for
the sale of all the mortgaged property "to satisfy the principal and interest of said bonds secured by saild main-line first
mortgage." The-decree directed payment within thirty days
of the ampunt of the two instalments of interest due, with
interest and costs, and in default of such payment ordered the
sale of the mortgaged property and the, application of the
proceeds to costs of suit, expenses of sale, trustees' compensation
and expenses, claims having priority over the main-line'first
mortgage ,-coupons due,-and to become due before distribution,
upon said first mortgage bonds, the- -principal of the first
mortgage bonds, and the.surplus, if any, to be -paid into'.court

OCTOBER 'TERMiI, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

subject to its further order. The sale took place on April 15,
1885, and the mortgaged property was sold to Canda,. Opdyke
and Burt, as purchasing trustees, for one million dollars, which
sale was confirmed June 25, 1885, and the mortgaged property
was conveyed to the said purchasers. Prior to the confirmation of sale, but after the sale had been reported, a reference
was had to ascertain the distributive share of the proceeds of
sale due on the principal of each bond seQured by the first
mortgage, and what sum the purchasers should bring into court
to pay the distributive share of whatever bonds might be
found outstanding. A report was made that after the payinent of interest there would be $197.311 to apply on the principal of each first mortgage bond, and in the order confirming
the sale the report of the special master was confirmed, payinent. of compensation and expenses directed, and the balance
ordered to be applied on the principal of said main-line first
mortgage bonds. The last clause of this order of June 25,
1885, was as follows
"And all further questions in respect to the accounts of said
receiver and to judgment for any deficiency herein and all
other questions arising m this cause arc reserved until the
coming in of the report of said special master commissioner of
his.acts and doings under this order and the filing of said receiver's account."
On the 22d of June, 1887, the following decree and judgment was entered by the court
"This day this cause came on for further hearing, and it
appearing to the court that from the proceeds of the sale of
tue property of said defendant company in this cause heretofore made there had been paid upon each of the three thousand
bonds secured by the first main-line mortgage, in the bill of
complaint set forth, the interest coupons thereon up to and
including June 30th, 1885, and the sum of one hundred and
ninety-seven and thirty-one and two-thirds one-hundredths
dollars ($197.311) to be applied upon the payment of the
principal of each of said bonds, s;Tid payment to bear date of
June 30th, 1885, and that no other payments of either principal
or interest have been made upon any of said bonds than as

CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 87
Argument for Appellee.

aforesaid, the court therefore finds that there is due from said
defendant, The Ohio Central Railroad Company, to the complainant, as trustee for the holders of said bonds secured by
said first main-line mortgage, upon each of said bonds, the
sum of eight hundred and two and sixty-eight and one-third
one-hundredths dollars ($802.68*), which sum should bear interest at the rate of six per cent per annum until paid.
"And the court further finds that no fund has come under
the control of this court from which any payment can be made
upon the three thousand main-line income bonds in the bill of
complaint set forth, and that no payments of any kind have
been made upon any of said income bonds. Wherefore the
court finds that there is due from the defendant, The Ohio Central Railroad Company, to the complainant, as trustee of the
holders of said income bonds, upon each of said bonds, the
sum of one thousand ($1000) dollars.
"Wherefore it is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the complainant, The Central Trust Company of New York, as trustee
for the holders of said three thousand bonds secured by said
first main-line mortgage, have and recover from the defendant,
The Ohio Central Railroad Company, the sum of eight hundred and two and sixty-eight and one-third one-hundredths
dollars ($802.68J) on each of said bonds, to wit, the sum of
$2,408,050, with six per cent interest per annum from July 1st,
1885, and that the said complainant, as trustee for the holders
of said three thousand main-line income bonds, have and recover from said defendant, The Ohio Central Railroad Company, the sum of one thousand dollars ($1000) on each of said
bonds, to wit, the sum of three million dollars, and that execution issue therefor."
From this ddcree the pending appeal was prosecuted.
Mr -Ashaiel Green, -Mr H. I. Terrell, and -Hr Thomas
Thacher for appellant.
Mr Stevenson Burke for appellee.
1. The record shows that the railroad property, together with
the francnisses of the company, were sold under the decree of

OCTOBER TERl

1889.

Argument for Appellee.

the Circuit Court, and that the sale so made was confirmed.
The company is-therefore in liquidation or insolvent, unable
to meet its liabilities, its franchises mortgaged and sold. Under
these circumstances there is no corporate power left in the
railroad company to prosecute this or any other action.
The point is made, however, that the bonds were not due
at the time execution was issued, and that, notwithstanding
the fact that the railroad company is in liquidation, and notwithstanding the fact that it has been sold out and a par.
tial payment madp upon its bonds to fall due in the future,
neither the trustee nor the holders of the bonds can proceed to
execution against the railroad company in liquidation until
the indebtedness evidenced by the bonds shall fall due by the
terms of the bonds.
It is manifest that the only purpose of the final order was
to establish a basis upon which to file a creditor's bill against
the railway company and its stockholders. Confessedly the
Circuit Court had full jurisdiction to ascertain and determine
the amount of indebtedness remaining due and unpaid upon
the bonds in question, and whether the order for execution
under the circumstances is erroneous, is really the only question
for consideration here. It is manifest that, so far as the final
orcler or decree of the court determines and settles the balance
due and unpaid upon the bonds, there is no error in the order,
and the only error, if any, is in the ordering of execution.
2. Whether there is any error in the ordering of execution
must depend upon the practice of equity courts in such cases,
and upon the rules of practice established by this court. The
case comes within the 92d rule, which provides, "in suits in
equity for the foreclosure of mortgages in the Circuit Courts
of the United States
a decree may be rendered for
any balance tnat may be found due to the complainant over
and above the proceeds of the sale or sales, and execution may
issue for the collection of the same."
We understand this rule to provide "that a decree.may be
rendered for any balance that may be found due to the
complainant."
By "due" we understand any existing indebtedness con-

CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 89
Opinion of the Court.

iiected with the subject of the action, whether such indebted-

ness is presently payable or not.
Indeed, when a corporation becomes insoivent, and its property and franehises are sold and disposed of, and there is a
balance remaining unpaid to its creditors, the case is one for
a court of equity to deal with, and clearly a court of equity
in such a case has jurisdiction to ascertain and determine the
amount remaining unpaid upon the indebtedness, and the
corporation being in liquidation, being insolvent, we think the
court would have the power to issue execution, collect in its
assets and make the proper distribution of the same among its
creditors. The decree ordering execution should'be affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUsTiCE FU.LFL,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
These first mortgage bonds matured January 1, 1920, and
there was no provision in them nor in the mortgage that they
should become due or could be declared due before that date,
nor were there any allegations in the bill upon which to predicate a finding or decree to that effect.
The mortgage provided that in case of entry by the trustee
for nonpayment of interest, or of principal at maturity, the
income and revenue should .be applied to the payment of such
interest and the residue to the payment of the principal, and
that, if the property went to sale, the net proceeds should be
applied "to the ratable payment of principal and the then
accrued interest of all the said bonds, whether -the principal be
then due or not," but if, in case of entry or of proceedings to
sell for default in payment of interest before the bona9 should
become due, and before the sale should be made, the interest
in arrears should be paid and satisfied, together with all costs.
expenses, etc., that then the proceedings should be discontinued and possession of the mortgaged premises restored as if
default or entry had not occurred. While, thereforethe intention is clear that the bonds were not to become due before the
specified date of maturity, the 'proceeds of sale, after the satisfaction of the accrued amount, were properly applied upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

outstanding liability

Oh-ago & Vincennes Railroadl Co. v.

Fosdick, 106 U. S. 47, 68.
Nefther in the pleadings nor in the reports of the special
master, nor in any part of the record, can we discover the
basis for the statement "The court theiefore finds that there
isdue from said defendant, The Ohio Central Railroad Company, to the complainant as trustee for the holders of said
bonds secured by said first main line mortgage, upon each of
said bonds, the sum of eight hundred and two and sixty-eight
and one-third one-hundredths dollars ($802.68J)." Certainly,
as $197.31% had been realized on each bond, $802.68* remained
to be paid, but only according to the tenor of the bond.
There are no allegations in the bill as to when the income
bonds matured, nor is a copy of the second mortgage given.
The deficiency decree says that "the court further finds
that no fund has come under the control of this court from
which any payment can be made upon the three thousand
main line income bonds in the bill of complaint set forth, and
that no payments of any kind have been made upon any of
said income bonds. Wherefore the court finds that there is
due from the defendant, The Ohio Central Railroad Company,
to the complainant, as trustees of the holders of said income
bonds, upon each of said bonds, the sum of one thousand
($1000) dollars."
But the conclusion does not follow that because no payment
had been made on the income bonds, therefore they had
matured, and unless they had matured by lapse of time, or
otherwise as provided, the amount could not be decreed to
be due.
The bill was taken as confessed, but that fact did not in
itself justify giving complainant more than it claimed. In
Thomson v Wooster, 114 U S. 104, the general nature and
effect of an order taken on a bill pro confesso, and of a decree
.proconfesso regularly made thereon, and of our rules of prac,
tice on the subject, are discussed in the opinion of the court
by Mr. Justice Bradley, and it isthere held that under the
rules and practice of this court in equity "a decree pro confesso is not a decree as of course according to the prayer of

CENTRAL RAILROAD CO; -v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 91
Opinion of the Court.

the bill, nor merely such as the complainant chooses to take it,
but that it is made (or should be made) by the court, according to what is proper to be decreed upon the statements of
the bill, assumed to be true." If the allegations are distinct
and positive, they may be taken as true without proof, but
if they are indefinite, or the demand of the complainant is m
its nature uncertain, the reqisite certainty must be afforded
by proof. But in either event, although the defendant may
not be allowed, on appeal, to question the want of testimony
or the insufficiency or amount of the evidence, he is not precluded from contesting the sufficiency of the bill, or from insisting that the averments contained in it do not justify the decree.
Under the 18th rule in equity, where the bill is taken pro
confesso, the cause is proceeded in ex .pcrte, "and the matter
of the bill may be decreed by ,the 'ourt," and hence if a
decree be passed not confined to the matter of the bill, it may
be attacked on appeal for that reason.
By the 92d rule it is provided that in suits in equity for the
foreclosure of mortgages, "a decree may be rendered for any
balance that may be found due to the complainant over and
Assuming that a
above the proceeds of the sale- or sales."
deficiency decree might be rendered in the absence:of a specific
prayer for that relief, nevertheless the case made by the bill
nTdst show that the aufount is dfie, for otherwise it cannot
properly be found so. This rule does not authorize the Circuit
Courts to find a balance due because partial extinguishment
his -been effected by a sale, if, as matter of fact, the indebted:
ness is not then payable.
The bill here did not seek relief as to the second mortgage,
which is only referred to as a subordinate lien, nor did it claim
that anything except interest was due upon the first mortgage.
It sought the establishment and enforcement of the first
mortgage lien and the foreclosure of the equity of redemption.
The amount realized paid the outstanding interest and a
part of the principal. Under such circumstances, and upon
these pleadings, this deficiency decree, which is a judgment
for the recovery of so much money, with execution, was improvidently entered.

