STREET v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

mg as without jurisdiction. Winckester v Hezi kell, 119 U. S.
450.
We see no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court and its
judgment is

STREET v. UNITED STATES.
APPRA
lNo. 1123.

FROM THE COURT OF

LA

S.

Submitted January 10, 1890..-Decided February 3, 1890.

It was the purpose of Congress by the 12th and 13th sections of the army
appropriation act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 318, 319, to reduce the number
of officers in the army and to that end § 11 authorized the President to
eliminate from it officers who were unfit for the discharge of their
duties by reason of a cause which had no meritorious. claim upon the
consideration of, the government, while § 12 made a general grant of
power to the President to make the reduction by selecting the best, and
mustering out the residue; and the President, being empowered to proceed under either grant, could commence proceedings under § 11, and
abandon them, and then proceed under § 12.
The 12th section of the army appropriation act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat.
318, authorized the President to fi vacancies in the army then existing,
or which might occur prior to the 1st day of January then next. The 1st
day of January, 1871, fell on Sunday; Held, that, in the exercise of thp
power thus conferred, an order made on the 2d day *ofJanuary, 1871,
was valid.
The executive action, under the army appropriation act of July 15, 1870,.
reducing the army, was recognized by Congress in 18 Stat. 497, c. 159,
§ 2; 20 Stat. 35, c. 50; 20 Stat. 321, c. 100; 20' Stat. 354, c. 175; 21 Stat.
510, c. 151, and was thereby validated, even if otherwise invalid.

Tm court stated the case, m its opmon, as follows
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims.
24 C. C1. 230. Appellant brought his action in that court to
recover, not for services actlually rendered, but for sixteen
years' salary as first lieutenant, claiming that this was due by
reason of an alleged illegality in the order of January 2, 1871,
discharging him from the service. That order is, therefore,
the matter of inquiry..

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

In 1869 and 1870 acts of Congress were passed looking to a
reduction in the army, and the order in question was made in
pursuance of the last of these acts. The intent of Congress is
obvious, and all proceedings had to carry such intent into
effect should'be liberally construed, and not subjected to any
such technical limitations as will thwart such obvious purpose.
The act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 92, has no bearing on the
case at bar, for, as held by this court in Blake v Unted States,
103 U. S. 227, it simply placed a limitation on the personal
power of the President, as commander-m-chief in time of
peace, to dismiss from the service. It was not intended to
have - as It could not have - any effect on the power of a
subsequent Congress to reduce the army by appropriate legislation in respect to either its officers or enlisted men.
The act of March 3, 1869, 15 Stat. 315, c. 124, §§ 2--7 inclusive, is significant only as indicating the intent of Congress
that the army should be reduced, for the method of reduction
there provided is simply the cessation of enlistments and appointments. Evidently the reduction by this method was not
as rapid as was desired, for on July 15, 1870, an act was passed
making provision for a direct reduction. 16 Stat. 315, c. 294.
Section 2 authorizes and directs the President to reduce on or
before the first day of July, 1871, the number of enlisted men
to thirty thousand. With respect to the officers there were
several sections aimed at reduction, some abolishing certain
offices, others providing that no appointments to particular
offices should be made until the number of incumbents was
reduced below a prescribed limit. In addition, there were
fbur provisions having general application. Section 3 authorized the President to grant an honorable discbarge to all officers applying on or before the first of January, 1871, and
giving the officers so discharged an additional year's pay and
allowances. Sections 4 and 5 increased the retired list to 300,
and authorized the President to place on such list, on their
own application, officers with thirty years' servic.
The other
provisions are found in sections 11 and 12, which, as being the
sections specially bearing on the questions m this case, are
quoted as follows:

STREET v. UlITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"Si. 11. And be itfurtherenacted,That the-general of the
army and commanding officers of the several military departments of the army shall, as soon as practicable after the passage of this act, forward to the Secretary of War a list of officers serving in their respective commands deemed by them
unfit for the proper discharge of their duties from any cause
except injuries incurred or disease contracted m the line of
their duty, setting forth specifically in each case the cause of
such unfitness. The Secretary of War is hereby authorized
and directed to constitute a board to consist of one major
general, one brigadier general and three colonels, three of the
said officers to be selected from among those appointed to the
regular army. on account of distinguished services in the volunteer force during the late war, and on recommendation of such
board, the President shall muster out of the service any of the
said- officers so reported, with one year's pay, but such musterout shall not be ordered without allowing such officer a hearing before such board to show cause against it.
"SEc. 12. And be it further enacted, That the President is
hereby authorized to transfer officers from the regiments of
cavalry, artillery and infantry to the list of supernumeraries,
and all vacancies now existing, or which may occur prior to
the first day of January next, in the cavalry, artillery, or infantry, by reason of transfer, or 'from other causes, shall be
filled in due proportion by the supernumerary officers, having
reference to rank, seniority and fitness, as provided in existing law regulating promotions in the army And if any
supernumerary officers shall remain after the first day of
January next they shall be honorably mustered out of the
service with one year's pay and allowances Provided, That
vacancies now existing in the grade of second lieutenants, or
which may occur prior to said date, may be filled by the assignment of supernumerary first lieutenants, or officers of higher
grades, who, when so assigned*shall rank as second lfeuteiiants,
prowzding [provided] such officer shall prefer to be assigned,
instead of being mustered out under the provisions of this
section, and officers so assigned shall take rank from the date
of their original entry into the service Andprovidedfuther,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
-Statement of the Case.

That no chaplain be appointed to posts or regiments until
those on waiting orders are assigned."
It appears from tBe findings that on October 27, 1870, the
claimant, who was on active duty at Fort Bidwell. California,
was reported by the Department Commander, Lieutenant
Colonel George Ciaok, as unfit for the proper discharge of his
duties from other causes than injuries incurred or disease contracted in the line of his duties. His name was submitted to the
board organized in pursuance of the 11th section quoted supra.
On the 17th of November the board requested that he, with
others named, be given a hearing, as required by that section.
On Noyember 19tn tne Adjutant General informed the board
that the stations of these officers were so remote that it was
impossible for it to consider their cases, and that the Secretary
of War had directed that they be not ordered to appear. In
compliance with this order, on November 22, the papers in
these cases were returned to the Secretary of War. In other
words, the proceedings initiated in section 11 were abandoned.
No inquiry was ever made. as to the alleged unfitness for the
proper discharge of his duties fron causes other than injuries
incurred or disease contracted in the line of duty It. appears
further, that on January 2, 1811, January 1st being Sunday,
an order was issued by the Secretary of War, which, so far as
it affects this claimant, reads as follows(General Orders, No. 1.)
WAR DnPAmTYi

r, ADJUTANT GEii'ui.S OvxoiE.
WASHiNGTON, January.2,1871.
Br direction of the President, the following officers of the
army are transferred. assigned, or mustered out-of the service,
to take effect from the 1st instant
L - Transfers to the List of Supernumerarzes, under Section
12 of the Act Aproved July 15, 1870.
First Lieutenant Harlow L. Street, First Cavalry.

STREET v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

IL - Transfers and Asstgnments to Fill Vacancm to the
PresentDat.
First Lieutenant Max Wessendorff, unassigned, to the First
Cavalry, 'vies Street, transferred to the list of supernumeraries.
*

]I.-

*-

-*

*X

-

Unass gned Officers whose Jommsstons have e.gnred
under Section 12 of the Act of Qongress approved July 15,
1870, and who are Honorabk Mutered out of the Sevwe.

First Lieutenant Harlow L. Street.
"*

*

-*

*X"

By order of the Secretary of War"
E. D. Tow xsE_,m,
Adyutant General.
Subsequently, on September 18, 1871, he received the year's
pay provided for in section 12, and still later, on the 18th of
February, 1881, he was paid the sum of' $117,95 upon treasury
settlement, on account of some errors in the previous payment.
.Mr J. M. Vale for appellant.
I. Being reported as unfit for the. proper discharge of his
duty for cause other than injuries incurred or disease contracted in the line of his duty, by the commanding officer of
a military department and by the general of the army, on the
10th of 1ovember, 1870, under the provisions of section 11 of
the act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 315, appellant, then an officer in the military service of the United States, could not be
legally mustered out of the service under the said act of July
15, 1870, without being allowed a hearing before the board
provided for in that section, to show cause against such muster
out. 13 Opinions Attys. Gen. 353, 13 Opinions Attys. Gen.
412, United States v Freeman, 3 How 556, 565.
IH. Section 12 of that act authorized the President to transfer officers from active duty to the list of supernumeraries, and,
prior to January 1, 1871. to fill vacancies on-the active list by

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

supernumerary officers. This authority expired January 1, 1871,
and after that time no disposition could legally be made of
a supernumerary officer, except to honorably muster him out
of the service, and pay him in accordance with the provisions
of the act. The list ceased on that date, except as a designation for honorable muster out, and no transfers could legally
be made to it on the 2d day of January, 1871. Brown v
Barry, 3 Dall. 365, Minor v .Aeohanscs' Bank, I Pet. 46,
Thornley v. United States, 113 U. S.310.
HI. The acceptance or non-acceptance by appellant of the
discharge and year's pay, provided for officers discharged under
the act of IJuly 15, 1870, with or without protest, did not alter
his legal status, if notified of his discharge as a supernumerary
officer underthe erroneous construction of the law Brant v
lirgmtn Coal c I1ron Co., 93 U. S. 326, -Yetchrum v -Duncan,
96 iU.S. 659, -Morganv Railroad Co., 96 U S. 716, United
States v. Redgrave, 116 U. S.47I.
IV The nomination of Wamwright by the President mce
Wessendorff promoted, and his confirmation by the Senate, did
-not operate_ to supersede appellant,, who was a stranger to the
record of nomination and confirmation, and was not a nomination by the.President of Wainwright and his confirmation
by the $enate, to the office held by appellant, Harlow L.
Street. Official Army Register 1871, Blake v. United States,
103 U. S. 227, Army Regulations 1863, paragraph 20, Layeyre v. Unted States, 17 Wall. 191, -Runkle v United States,
122 U. . 543.
'
.MXr Assmstant Attorney General Cotton and .A1' F
Dewees for appellees.

P

IN_. JusTicE Bnnwrn, -after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal contention of the appellant is that, proceedings having been commenced under section 11, they should
have been carried to a close, and that he could be mustered
out of the service only upon an adjudication by that board of

STREET v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

unfitness. But this view cannot be- sustained. It arises from
a misconception of the scope of the two sections. The-first
aims to eliminate from the army those officers who are unfit
for the discharge of their duties, and whose unfitness springs
from no cause of meritorious claim upon the consideration of
the government, while the other is a grant of general 'power
to the President to~reduce th'e number of officers by selecting
the best and mustering out the residue. It is comprehensive
in -its scope, and not at all dependent upon the failure to
accomplish the requisite reduction through proceedings under
section 11. It is in no manner subordinated to or dependent
upon that section,. and grants a power which can be exercised
irrespective ofall other proceedings.
The appellant had no vested right to an adjudication upon
the matter reported against him. In the absence of express
lunitation, the government 'may always withdraw charges
which it has made. There is nothing in the words of either
section, nothing in the scope and purpose of their provisions, or
in any general rule of law, which prevented the government
from abandoning the proceedings initiated under sedtion 11,
and proceeding to muster out the appellant under section 12.
The other proposition of the appellant is that the authority
given by section 12 was not strictly -pursued. While it is conceded that the President night add to or.take from, the list of
supernumerary officers, it is urged that he could muster out
only those who were supernumerary officers at the close of the
first day of January, 1879, the language being k "And if any
supernumerary officers shall remain after the first day of January next they.shall be honorably mustered out," etc., whereas,
by the order actually made,he was transferred to the supernumerary list only on the second day of January Concede
,the irregularity, and it is not such as vitiates the order. The
purpose of the act is obvious. The direction of Congress was
clear and distinct, and -it would be strange if any executive
officer could, by irregularity in executing.the mandate of Congress, thwart this purpose. The matter of time was not vital.
The purpose was reduction, and a reduction to be accomplished
by selecting the best and mustering out the poorer element
voL. CxxxI-

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon o! the Court.

and while Congress prescribed the time within which this mandate was to be executed, there is neither in terms nor by implication any subordination of the power to the matter of time.
Again, it must be noticed that the first day of January was
Sunday, that is, a dies non, and a power that may be exercised
up to and including a given day of the month may generally,
when that day happens to be Sunday, be exercised on the
succeeding day So that it is a matter worthy at least of
consideration whether the power was not exercised within
the very limits of time liescribed by -theact.
It is well in this respect to compare this section with section
3. By that the President was- authorized to honorably discharge, with pay and allowances, officers who should apply on
or before January 1, 1871. By that section a reduction through
the voluntary act of army officers was contemplated, and such
voluntary action was authorized and invited to be had on the
first day of January While section 12 was not dependent upon
section 3, yet it is obvious that action so voluntarily taken by
any army officer would limit the amount of enforced reduction,
and to that extent relieve the President from embarrassment in
the selection authorized by section 12, and there was a propriety, if rothm'g, else, in waiting until the close of the first
-day of January before exercising the power of selection and
mustering dht.
It will also be noticed that section 12 places no limitation
on the time within which the President is authorized to transfer officers to the list- of supernumeraries. If voluntary resignation by the close of the first diy of January made sufficient
reduction, there would be no -iecessity of transferring any to
the list of supernumerarieg, and it was ouly the supernumerary officers remaining after the 1st of January -that is, the
officers then found not to lie -needed for the serice --who
were to be mustered out under that aection.
There was,
therefore, no requirement' that th-e President should transfer
to the supernumerary list before the close of the first of January, the zudiber Which it was necessary to transfer -ouid not
be abs6lutely determined until the-close of that day, and it
was 6nly those wh 'at the close of that day, were not needed

STREET v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

in the service, that the President could muster out. All these
matters justified the action of the President taken on the 2d
of January, and if they do not establish that it was in full
and literal compliance with the exact provisions of section 12,
they certainly leave so slight a departure as scarcely to be
worthy of mention. It is certainly no such deviation from
the prescribed course as to vitiate the order and thus nullify
the express direction of Congress.
But we are not limited to this. Full power of legislation in
the matter of increase and reduction of the army is with Congress, It prescribed in this act the proceedings by which that
reduction was to be accomplished. In pursuance of that act
certain proceedings were had. The power which can direct
what proceedings shall be had can approve and make valid
any proceedings which are actually taken. The power which
-cangive authority to act can ratify any act that is taken, and
generally legislative recognition of an act or a corporation
validates the act or the corporation, although neither one nor
the other may have had full prior legal authority 'Comanche
County v. Lewzs, ante, 198.
There was but one order issued under section 12 for the
mustering out of supernumerary officers. In that order were
many, names besides that of the appellant, and the act of
March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 497, c. 159, § 2, refers to "any person
who was mustered out as a supernumerary officer of the army
with one year's pay and allowances," under the act of 1870,
that we have been considering. Further, on April 8, 1878,
20 Stat. 35, c. 50, 25th of February, 1879, 20 Stat. 321, c.
100, March 3, 1879, 20 Stat. 354, c. 175, and- March 3, 1881,
21 Stat. 510, c. 151, acts were severally passed authorizing
the restoration to the armi~y of John A. Darling, Michael
O'Brien, Philip W Stanhope and Redmond Tully, who had
been mustered out by this order of January 2, 1871, and those
acts all assume the validity of that order. There has been thus.
full legislative recognition of its validity It is too late, therefore, now to enquire as to -whether it was in technical compliance with the procedure prescribed by the act of 1870.
We see no. errors in the ruling of-the Court of Claims, and
Affirmed.
its judgment is

