GREGORY v. STETSON.

579.,

Statement of the Case.

GREGORY v. STETSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF 'MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 1514. Submitted January 6,1890. -Decided

March 3,1890.

A Circuit Court can make no decree in a suit in the absence of a party
whose rights must necessarily be affected thereby.
Two attorneys representing two separate parties, delivered a promissory'
note to &third person as bailee, and took his receipt therefor, in which
he stated that he held it subject to their joint order, and to be dealt with
as they might jointly direct. One of the separate parties filed a bill inequity against the bailee to compel him to deliver up the pioceeds of the
note (which had been paid) with6ut niaking parties to the bill the two
attorneys and the other party; claiming that he was entitled to do so by
reason of an award in an arbitration that had ,taken place'by which it.
'had been decided that he should become the owner of the note on the
peiformance of certain conditions whicb,h had performed; Held, that
'they were necessary parties to the bill ahd that no dec'ree could be made
by the court in their absence.

Tis was a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Cqurt of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts by CLarles A.'
Gregory, a citizen of Illinois, against -William C. N. Swift and
John G.. Stetson, citizens of Massachusetts, for the alleged
violation by Stetson of the following contract of bailment as
respects the $15,000 note therein mentiQued:
"BosToN, Dec. B4, 1886.
"Received of Thomas H. Talbot,-Esq., as attorney for Mary
H. Pike, executrix of Frederic A. Pike, and of Franois, A.
Brooks, Esq., as attorney of Charles A. Gregory, two notes
of hand made or signed by W. C. N. Swift, of New Bedfoxd,
dated April 20, 1883, one for $15,000, on two years' time, and
one for $20,334.60, three years' time, payable to Charles F.
Jones. Said notes are to be held by me, subject to the joint order
and direction of the said Talbot and Brooks, and dealt with as
they may jqintly, direct.

"JOHN G. STETSON."

'The amended bill filed on the 30th of January, 1889, ; leged
that on the 10th of January, -1887, complainant filed a bill in

OCTOBER TERAM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

that court against the defendants Swift and Stetson, and one
Thomas B. Talbot, and referred'to that bill as in part incorporated therein. The material allegations of that bill, so far as
concerns this case, were as follows: That on or about the 16th
of December, 1884, complainant filed a bill in one of the state
courts of Massachusetts against the defendant Swift and one
Frederic A. Pike, of Calais, in the State of Maine, to obtain
possession of the two notes heretofore mentioned, then in the
possession of Pike, which suit was afterwards removed into the
court below where it was then pending and undetermined;
th't the defendants to that suit filed their' respective answers
to ,the bill, issues were joined, proofs taken and the case
assigned for final hearing, but was not heard, for the reason
tha t it was then agreed in writing between Pike and complainant to refer their controversy to the Hon.'E. IR. Hoar to determine the true ownership and rights of possession of the notes
referred to, and in case of the death of either or both of them
their respective legal repr~sentatives should be bound by the
award to be made; that soon after the. submission to the
referee, Pike died testate, having appointed his wife, Mary A.
Pike, executrix of his will, and residuary legatee of his estate,
who proceeded in relation to the matter before the referee in
the same manner as if the submission had been entered into
by her personally; and that the referee after hearing the
parties interested made and published the following award,
and delivered a copy of the same to complainant:
"The undersigned, referee in the natter submitted to him
by Charles A. Gregory and Frederic A. Pike, under the subimission, a copy of which is hereto annexed, having duly heard
the parties, awards and determines thereon, and this is my
final award in the premises as follows, to wit: That the said
Pike is not entitled to detain or withhold from said Gregory
the two Swift notes mentioned or described in the submission
except for the purpose of securing the payment of another
certain note, signed by G. W. Butterfield and CJarles F. Jones,
for the sum of $2437.50, dated July 26, 1883, and payable to
0. H. Eaton of Calais, Me., or order, a copy of which is hereto

GRIEGOR1Y .v. -STETSOIN.

"581

Statement of' the Case.

0xnexed; that upon or after the said Eaton note, or whatever
sum is. now due thereon with interest, as. stipulated in said note,
shall have been paid by the said Gregory, the said. Gregoy
will be entitled to the possession of the two Swift notes, one
-of $15,000, and one of $20,334.60. He also finds and determines that upon the. payment of. said Eaton note by- said
Gregory, he will be entitled to a transfer. or delivery to himself of said Eaton note, and to the benefit of any sums which
may be recovered of the said Butterfield and, Jones on said
note. Dated at Boston, the thirtieth day of N'ovember; iii
the year one thousand eight 'hundred and eighty six.
":E. R. HoAm..

"On or before January: 1; 1884, we 'promise to pay 0. H.
Eaton, or order, two thousand four hundred and: thirty-seven
dollars and fift-ycents, with'interest at the rate of one per
bent per month from date. Value received.
C"G. W.

BU TERFIRLb.

'OCirua CEs

F.

JoNEs."

It,
was then alleged that afterwards Mrs. Pike, having-examined.the awardwhich had been temporarily-returned to.the
referee for that, purpose, undertook to revoke the power. under
which the referee had acted, and to vacate and annul the
award made .by him, whereupon the referee, upon being
waited upon by complainant through F. A. Brooks, his attrney, accompanied by Thomas H. Talbot, the attorneyfor Mrs.
Pike, returned'the award to complainant and gave the said
notes to said attorneys, who thereupon took them to defeidlant Stetson, receiving from him the receipt, heretofore set out
in full; that complainant on the 4th of January, 1887,, -in
order to entitle himself to the.sole and exclusive possession 6f
the notes heretofore mentioned, paid the note of. $2437.50 ifi
favor of C. H. Eaton, mentioned in the. award, whereby'he
became entitled to receive frpm',the defendant Stetson the two
notes referred to, the rights ,of Mrs. Pike and her attorney,
Talbot, in and to the same thus having ceased and become of
no effect; and that by an instrument in writing.dated Deceniber 5, 1884, Charles F.. Jones, the payee of the, two notes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

transferred and assigned them to complainant, and authorized
him to sue for and collect them, using the payee's name for
that purpose, and to deal with them generally as his own
property.
The bill in this case then alleged that the defendants Swift
and Stetson each answered that bill, and that issue was duly
j6ined upon those answers; that on the 13th of June, 1887,
while the defendant Stetson was in possession of the $15,000
note by virtue of the contract heretofore set out in full, the
defendant Swift filed his petition in the old equity cause of
Gregory v. Pike and Swift to enjoin the suing out or levying
of an execution upon any judgment that might be rendered
upon the law side of the court upon that note, which had
matured and had been sued upon in the name of the payee
Jones, until the final determinatiod of the rights of the parties
to that equity-cause; that on the 9th of July it was ordered
by the court below in the old equity cause that the defendant
Stetson file the $15,000 note in the action at law of Jones v.
Swift, and that upon the entry of judgment in that action the
defendant Swift be directed to pay into the registry of the
court the amount of that judgment, the same to be held subject to the rights of the parties claiming the note, and to abide
the decision of the court in that cause; and that in obedience
to those orders of court, and by the voluntary procurement of
the defendant Swift, judgment was entered in the action at
law against Swift on the $15,000 note, the note was delivered
up by the defendant Stetson and filed with the papers in. that
action, and the amount of the judgment was paid by'Swift to
the clerk of the court below, who then claimed to hold the
same "subject to the rights of the parties claiming said note
and to abide the decision of the court" in the old equity cause
of 0.egory v. Pike el al.
The bill then alleged that all the orders and proceedings
heretofore mentioned as pertaining to that old cause in .equity
were irreular, improper and contrary to law; that at and
before the time of the passage of said orders the cause in
which thpy were made had been abated by the death of Pike,
one of the defendants thereto, which fact was suggested to the

GREGORY v. STETSON.

583'

Argument for Appellant.

court by c6mplainant on the 6th of January, 1887; that complainant is entitled to the benefits of the action at law heretofore mentioned and to the proceeds of the judgment, obtained
therein, be having by leave of the court intervened- in that
action, as a claimant of the note in suit, before the entry of
judgment upon it; that the amount of the judgment having
been paid over to the defendant Stetson, as clerk of the
court, the same was entered satisfied by him, and the money
so received was deposited in b.ank, where it has since remained,
the $15,000 note being filed in said old equity cause; and that
the defendant Stetson claims to have been duly authorized by
the aforesaid orders of court to deal with the note as above
set forth, and to be exempted by those orders from all liability
to complainant under the before mentioned receipt of December 21:, 1886.
The bill prayed that the money paid by the defendant Swift
to the defendant Stetson, as clerk of the court, in satisfaction
of the judgment rendered on the $15,000 note, be remanded
to Stetson, in his individual capacity, as if no orders, as above
recited, had been assed, and that he be ordered to pay over
the proceeds of that note to complainant, and for other and
further relief.
Later amendments to the prayer of the bill were, that complainant be decreed to have become the sole owner of the
$15,000 note prior to July 9, 1887, and that the defendant
Stetson's possession of the same thereafter was that of a trustee holding for complainant's sole use and benefit; and a further prayer that if the relief sought against Stetson could not
be granted,. the defendant Swift be ordered and decreed, to
pay to complainant the amount of said $15,000 note.
The defendants filed separate demurrers to the bill, which
were sustained by the court, and the bill was dismissed.
Gregory v. ,Swift, 39 Fed. IRep. 708. The complainant thereupon prosecuted his appeal to this court.
Mr. -F. A. Brook. for appellant.
The old equity suit against Pike had been got ready for
hearing at much expense when Pike, who was not a resident

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

of Massachusetts, became dangerously ill. -In the event of his
death before rendition of judgment it was understood that the
suit would be abated, and all benefit thereof lost.
Under these circumstances the cause was taken out of court,
and submitted to Jjidge Hoar, as arbitrator, upon the evidence
already taken and printed for the use of the court. It was
expressly provided in the submission that it should not be
affected by the decease of either party. thereto, and Judge
Hoar was not only made arbitrator to decide the cause, but
was placed in possession of the notes themselves as a stakeholder, and he was to pass over these notes to whichever of
the claimants he as arbitrator should find to be entitled thereto.
After he had decided that the plaintiff, Gregory, would be
entitled to said notes upon payment by him of the Eaton note,
and that the testator Pike was not entitled to them, his executrix, Mrs. Pike, undertook to repudiate the award in violation
of the express provisions of the submission, that the parties
thereto and their assigns and legal representatives would
"observe, keep and perform" the said award, when made.
The letter of Mrs. Pike's counsel, conveying notice to the
arbitrator of her intended revocation of the submission, contained no statement of any reason for such revocation; but
we are led to suppose that she acted in this respect under the
impression that the decease of either party to a submission,
before any. award made, operates of itself as a revocation.
This effect was, however, prevented in the case, as we suppose,
by the provision introduced into the submission for that purpose. Blundell v. Brettargh, 17 Ves. 232; Cooper v. Johnson,
2 B. & Aid. 394; Priorv. flembrow, 8 M. & W. 873; ]foDougal v. 1obertson, 4 Bing. 435.
If it should be held that Pike's death would operate to revoke
the submission, notwithstanding the clause therein intended to
prevent this result, we then submit 'that Mrs. Pike, as executrix of her husband's will, had power to submit claims against
the estate to arbitration, and that her appearance before the
arbitrator in pursuance of the submission, and prosecuting the
same until the publication of the award, was the adoption by
her of the old submission, and was equivalent in law to the

GREGORY v. STETSON.
Opinion of the Qourt.

execution by her- of, a new submission. Bean v. -Fa;-am, 6
Pick. 269.
The notice given to the arbitrator by Mrs. Pike, through
her attorney Harvey, December 24, 1886, for the purpose of
revoking the submission, of itself imports or implies the previous existence of a submission intended to be revoked by her.
We submit, therefore, in view of all the facts and circumstances of thie case, it was not the intention of the receipt given
by Stetson as stakeholder that neither p.rty should be able to
get possession of the notes, though successful before the arbitrator, unless he could procure the order or direction of the
other, authorizing Stetson to give them up..
* If this were so, then stakeholders could never be required to
perform their duiy or trust to the party entitled, without the
concurrence or consent of both parties; or, in other words, the
losing party could always prevent any delivery of the stakes
except at the end of a law-suit.
Of coursewe do not claim that the stakeholder should not
be free to decline to deliver over the stakes, so long as he has
any reasonable doubt as to who is entitled to them. He is
always at liberty, in the case of conflicting claims, to bring a
bill of interpleader, and in that way get a decision of the court
which shall bind all parties.
.M. John G. Stetson, in per.son, submitted on the opinion of
the court below.
Mi . JusTiC E LA&mAi, after stating the case as al6ove, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The bill having been dismissed by agreement, as respects the
defendaiit Swift, the only questions in the case for our consideration are those relating to the demurrer of the defendant
Stetson. That demurrer rests on ten grounds, but the court
below considered only one of them,.viz., the ninth one, which
is as follows: "1This bill is defective for want of proper partie$, in that it does not make'Mary H. Pike, executrix of Fred-.
eric A. Pike, Thomas H. Talbot and Francis A. Brooks,, or
either of them, parties thereto."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the decree.of the court below must
stand. The rule as to who shall be made parties to a suit in
equity is thus stated in Story's Eq. P1. ยง 72: "It is a general rule in equity (subject to certain exceptions, which will
hereafter be noticed) that all persons materially interested,
either legally or beneficially, in the subject matter of a suit
are to be made parties to it, either as'plaintiffs or as defendants,
however numerous they may be, so that there may be a complete :decree, which shall bind them all. By this means, the
court is enabled to make a complete decree between the parties, to prevent future litigation by taking away the necessity
of a multilicity of suits, and to make it perfectly certain that
no injustice is done, either to the parties before it, or to others,
wh6 are interested in the subject matter, by a decree, which
might otherwise be grounded upon a partial view only of the
real merits. When all the parties are before the court, the
whole case may be seen; but it may not, where all the conflicting interests are not brought out upon the pleadings by
the original parties thereto." See also 1 Daniell's Chan. Pl.
and Prac. 216 et seq.
In the case before us we are unable to see how any final
decree could be rendered affecting the parties to the contract
sued on without making them all parties to the suit. It is an
elementary principle that a court cannot adjudicate directly
upon a person's right without having him either actually or
constructively before it. This principle is fundamental. The
allegations of tle bill show that the contract sued on was
made and entered into subsequently to thetermination of the
proceedings before the referee. By the terms of that contract
the note in dispute between Mrs. Pike and the complainant
was to be held by the bailee, Stetson, " subject to the, joint
order and direction" of -their respective attorneys. It seems
.too plain to require argument that complainant Gregory, Mrs.
Pike, Talbot, Brooks and Stetson, all had an interest in the
subject matter of the contrct- such an interest, too, as
brings the case within the rule just announced.
The point was made in the court below, and it is also pressed
here, that Mrs. 4ke being a non-resident and beyond the juris-

