NELSON v. GREEN.
Opmion of the Court.

moneys advanced by him to obtain the return of the bonds to
the company"
We fully agree with what is said by the master, and do not
deem it essential to add anything further on that point.
As regards the decree of October 8, 1883, we think it sufficient to say that the corrections made by-it, as regards the calculations of interest on the bonds, in the original decree were
correct and proper, and were warranted by the law. The
original decree had allowed interest on some of the bonds
owned and held as collateral security from the date of their
issue. The amendatory decree simply allowed such interest to
be calculated from the date when the bonds were actually
delivered to the owners and holders of their. Such correction
was eminently legal and just.
The decree of the court below es aji7med.

NELSON et at. v. GREEN. NELSON v. GREEN. Appeals from the
Circuit Cburt of the United States for the Western District of
Michigam Nos. 947 and 1027 of October term, 1888.
These cases were heard with _ichardsonv. Green on the motions
to dismiss at the last term of court, and are reported with it in 180
U. S. 104. After the announcement of the judgment on the motions
on the 13th of Maarch, 1889, fr William A. McKenney, on behalf of
Nelson, on the 22d of April, 1889, moved to have four hundred and
fifty dollars refunded, which Nelson had been obliged to deposit
with the clerk After announcing the foregoing 9pinon and judginent,
MR. JUSTICE LAmrAn delivered the opinion of the court on this

motion.
In connection with this case a motion has been made by Thomas
M. Nelson; one of the intervening petitioners in the suit, whose
appeals were dismissed at the last term of the, court, to- have
refunded to him the sum of $450 deposited with the clerk under
the order of this court of January 14, 1889, requiring such deppsit
to be made in order that his counsel might have 'two printedcopies of the record.
VOL. CXXXI--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
This motion is based upon the following -grounds
(1) That the p~titioner was not one of the principal litigants in
the appeals, but was simply an intervening judgment creditor, having no interest in the matter of the controversy between the bondholders and the trustees,
(2) That his demand is quite small when compared with the
amount involved in the controversy between the principal litigants, and
(3) That he was not a necessary party to the determination of
the questions involved m the controversy between the main parties to the litigation, but simply intervened as the only manner in
which he could protect his rights under his judgment against the
company for work and labor performed for it in the construction of
the road.
The motion is granted to the extent of $200.

MASON

v. PEWABIC MINING COMPANY

PEWABIC MINING COMPANY v. MASON.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Nos. 168, 240.

Argued December 17, 18,1889. -Decided

January 13, 1890.

On the dissolution of a corporation at the expiration of the term of Its
corporate. existence, each stockholder has the right, as a general rule,
and in the absence of a special agreement to the contrary, to have the
partnership property converted into money, whether such a sale be necessary for the payment of debts, or not.
Directors of-a corporation, conducting its business a~ud receiving moneys
belonging to it after the expiration of the term for which it was incorporated, will be held to an account on the dissolution and the final liquidation of the affairs of the corporation In a court of equity.
Iw EQUITY.
follows

The court, in its opinion, stated the case as

These are an appeal and a cross-appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of

