QUEBEC STEAMSHIP CO. v. MERCHANT.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

QUEBEC STEAMSEIP CO.

. MERCHANT.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORE.
No. 30. Argued January 24,1890.-Decilded March 3, A890.
The stewardess pf a steam-vessel belonging to a corporation sued it to
recover damages for personal injuries sustained by her. She cameout
of the cabin, which was on deck, to throw the contents of a pail over the
side of the vessel, at a gangway facing the door of the cabin, and leaned
over a railing at the gangway, composed of four horizontal rods, which
gave way, because not properly secured, and she fell into the water,
probably striking, the side of a boat. The rods were movable, to make
a gangway, and had been recently opened to take off some baggage of
passengers, and not properly replaced. The porter and thg carpenter
had attempted to replace them, but left .the work, knowing that it was
unfinished. The persons composing the ship's company Were divided
into three classes.of servants, called three departments-the deck department, containing the first and second officers, the purser, the carpenter and the sailors; the engineer's department, containing the engineers, the firemen and the coal-passers; and'the steward's depaement,
containing the steward, the waiters, the cooks, the .porter and the steWardess. Every one on board, including the plaintiff, had signed the
shipping articles, and she had participated in salvage given to the. vessel.
The master was in command of the whole vessel; Held, that the porter
and the carpenter were fellow-servants with the plaintiff, and that the
corporation was not liable to her for any damages.
The Circuit Court left it to the jury to determine, if they found there was
.negligence, whether the injury was occasioned by the careless act of a
servant not employed in the same department with the plaintiff; Held,
error, and that the court ought to have directed the jury, as requestcd,
to find for the defendant, on the ground that the negligence Was that of
a fellow-servant, either the porter or the carpenter.
The verdict was for $5000, and the judgment was for that amount, and $306
interest for the time between verdict and judgment, and for $60.25
costs; Held, that the matter in. dispute exceeded the sum or value of
$5000, exclusive of costs, within the act of February 16, 1875, c. 77,
ยง 3, 18 Stat.'316, even though, without the interest included in the judgment, the amount, exclusive of costs, would not be over $5000.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Xt. William Allan Butler (with whom was Mr. Wilelmu&
.Mynderse on the brief) for the plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr.A. J. Ditenhoefer for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE. BLATOHFoRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action to recover damages for personal injuries,
brought by Bai ara Merchant against the Quebec Steamship
Company, a Canadian corporation, in the Superior Court of
the city of New York, and removed by the plaintiff into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York. The case was tried by a jury, which found a
verdict for the plaintiff for $5000, on which a judgment was
entered in her favor for that amount, with $306 interest from
the time of rendering the verdict to the time of entering judgment, and $60.25 costs, in all $5366.25.
The plaintiff was the stewardess of the steamship Bermuda,
a vessel, belonging to the defendant, and one of a line of vessels plying between the city of New York and the West Indies.
She had been employed on the vessel for about eighteen
months. It was her duty as stewardess to attend to the
ladies' rooms in the cabin, and, in the course of thal duty, to
empty slops, as to which her orders were to throw them over
the side of the vessel. The cabin was on deck. A railing extended around the vessel, and consisted of four horizontal iron
rods, which were supported, at intervals of about 4- feet, by
stanchions. In this railing there were openings or gangways,
for receiving and discharging freight and passengers. Three
of the gangways were for passengers. One of them faced
one of the doors of the cabin which open on the deck. In
order to use these openings or gangways, the four iron rods
which formed the railing of the gangway, instead of being
fixed immovably to the stanchions, were each of therhL fastened at one end to a stanchion by a ring or eyelet in which
the rod could swing, the other end of each rod being formed
into a hobk which went into an eye fastened on another stanchion to receive it. This was a proper construction of the
railing at the gangway.
On the 28th of December, 1883, the vessel was at anchor
from a mile-and-a-half to two miles off the shore of the Island

QUEBEC STEAMSHIP CO.- v. MERCHANT.
Opinion of the Court.

df Trinidad, one of the islands at which she stopped in her
trips. Some passengers from New York were to land at
Trinidad, and their baggage was put off through the gangway
on the starboard side aft into a boat from the shore. To do
this, the four rods composing the railing in the gangway were
raised, and the gangway was opened. After the baggage had
been discharged, the carpenter and the porter of the vessel
undertook, according to the testimony of a witness for the
plaintiff, to replace the rods in their proper position. He says
that the porter, one West, "was at one stanchion, pushing
forward, while the carpenter stood at the other, where the
hook fitted into the eye, trying to force it into the eye. It
began raining, and the carpenter and West were beginning to
get wet." Thereupon the carpenter left the gangway and
the p6rter left it soon afterwards. The rods weie not placed
in their proper positions, but remained so far unfastened that
the hooks were not secured in the eyes. The porter testified,
as a witness for the defendant, that he told the carpenter to
put the rods in, and that he replied, "Wait antil the rain'goes
over." While the rods were thus unfastened, the plaintiff
came out of the cabin door with a pail of slops, to throw its
contents over the side of the vessel. She leaned over the railing at the gangway, the rods gave way, and she fell Dverboard through the opening and was seriously injurel. She
probably struck the edge of a small boat which was lying
there, and thence fell into the water. She had been in the
habit of emptying sldps at this gangway, but had never
noticed the hooks.
The ship's company consisted .of thirty-two or thirty-three
persons, divided into. three classes of' servants, called three
departments, the deck department, the engineer's department,
and the steward's department. The captaifi, the first and second officers, the purser, the carpenter and the sailors were in
the deck department. The engineers, the firemen, and the
coal-passers were in the engineer's department. The steward,
the waiters, the cooks, the porter, and the stewardess were in
the steward's department. Every one on board, including the
plaintiff, had signed the shipping articles, and she had partici-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

pated in salvage given to the vessel. The master or. captain
was in command of the whole vessel.
At the close of the evidence, th4 counsel for the defendant
requested the court to direct the jury to find a verdict for the
defendant, on the grounds (1) that the injury sustained by the
plaintiff was one occasioned, if there was any negligence, by
the negligence of a fellow-servant; and (2) that, on the uncontradicted testimony, the plaintiff herself was guilty of contributory negligence, and could not recover. The court refused
so to direct the jury, to which refusal the defendant excepted.
We think the court ought to have directed the jury to find
a verdict for the defendant, on the ground that the negligence
iWas that of a fellow-servant, either the porter or the carpenter. As the porter was confessedly in the same department
with the stewardess, his negligence was that of a fellow-servant. The contention of the plaintiff is-that, as the carpenter
was in the deck department and the stewardess in. the steward's department, those were different departments in such
a sense that the carpenter was not a fellow-servant with the
stewardess. But we think that, on the evidence, both the porter and the carpenter were fellow-servants with the plaintiff.
The carpenter had no authority over the plaintiff, nor had the
porter. They and the plaintiff had all signed the shipping
articles; and the division into departments was one evidently
for the convenience of administration on the vessel, and did
not have the effect of causing the porter and the carpenter
not to be fellow-servants with the stewardess.
The injuries to the plaintiff were caused solely by the negligence of one or the other of two fellow-servants, who were in
a common employment with her; and there was no violation
or omission of duty on the part of the employer contributing
to such ihjuries. Neither of her fellow-servants stood in such
relation to her or to the work done -by her, and in the course
of which her injuries were sustained, as to make his negligence
the negligence of the employer. The 'case, therefore, falls
within the well-settled rule, as to which it is unnecessary to
cite cases, which exempts an employer from liability for injuries
to a servant caused by another servant, and does not fall

QUEBEC STEAMSHIP CO. v. MERCHANT.
Opinion of the Court.

within any exception to that rule which destroys the exemr
tion of the employer when his own negligence contributes to
the injury, or when the other servant occupies such a relation
to the injured party, or to his employment, in the coui.a of
which his injury was received, as to make the negligrence of
such servant the negligence of the employer.
The plaintiff took upon herself the natural and ordinary
risks incident to the performance of her duty, and among such
risks was the negligence of the porter and the carpenter, or of
either of them, in the course of the common employment of
the three. There was nothing in, the employment or service
of the carpenter or the porter which made either of them any
more the representative of the defendant than the employment
and service of the stewardess made her such representative.
The court left it as a question for the jury to determine, if they
found that negligence existed, whether the injury was occasioned by the careless act of a servant not employed in the
same department with the plaintiff. This ruling was excepted
to by the defendant, and we think it was erroneous.
The plaintiff takes the point that, as the verdict did not
exceed $5000 this court has no jurisdiction, although the
judgment was for the amount of the verdict, with interest and
costs. The statute in regard to the jurisdiction of this court
provides that the matter in dispute must exceed the sum or
value of five thousand dollars, exclusive of costs. Act of
February 16, 1875, c. 77, ยง 3, 18 Stat. 316. It is well settled
that the test as to the jurisdiction of this court, in a case like
the present, is the amount of the judgment below, even though
without the interest included in, it, the amount, exclusive -of
costs, would not be over $5000. N . Elevated Railroad v.
F'ifth Nat. Bank, 118 U. S. 608.
The judgment of the 0ircuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court with a diredionz to award a new
trial.

