OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

PH(ENIX CASTER COMPANY V. SPIEGEL.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

STATES

FOR

No. 150. Argued December 10, 1889.-Decided March 3, 1890.

The claim of letters patent No. 190,152, granted May 1, 1877, to Alexander
C. Martin, for an "improvement in furniture casters,' namely, "The
floor-wheels BE, the anti-friction pivot wheel F, the housing B, the
elliptical housing opening, or its mechanical equivalent, and the rockerformed collar bearing, or its mechanical equivalent, all combined so as
to allow the floor-wheel axis to oscillate horizontally, substantially as
and for the purpose specified," being a claim selected by the patentee in
obedience to the requirements of the Patent Office, after an extended
construction of it had been rejected, and being a combination of specified elements, must be limited to a combination of all such elements.
In view of the state of the art, the words in the claim, the rocker-formed
collar bearing, or its mechanical equivalent," must be restricted to suc'l
a bearing resting on a collar beneath the floor-wheel housing, as is
shown in the Martin patent; and the claim does not cover -a caster
which does not have the collar of that patent, or Its rocker-formed collar bearing or an equivalent therefor.

IN

EQUITY

to restrain infringements of letters patent.

The case is stated in the opinion.
.M. Charles P. Jacob for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Indiana, by the Phcenix
Caster Company, an Indiana corporation, against Augustus
Spiegel, Henry Frank and Frederick Thorns, to recover for
the alleged infringement of letters patent No. 190,152, granted
May 1, 1877, on an application filed September 16, 1876, to
Alexander C. Martin, for an "improvement in furniture
casters."

PII(ENIX CASTER CO. v. SPIEGEL.
Opinion of the Court.

The specification, claim and drawings oi the patent are .as
follows: "This invention relates to swivelling casters, and the
objects of the invention are to secure in such casters freedom
from pivotal wear of carpet or floor and increased mobility in
swivelling. The first, object is attained by the use of two
floor-wheels whose 'axes are coincident, in connection with
devices which insure the contact of both wheels with the floor,
regardless of ordinary irregularities of floor surface. The
second object of the invention is a natural result of the suppression of floor friction. In the accompanying drawing, Fig.
1 is an elevation of my improved caster. Part of Fig. 1 is a
vertical section. Fig. 2 is-a side elevation, and Fig. 3 is a part
elevation, exhibiting the portion cut away in Fig. 1. Common
casters, in swivelling, pivot upon the floor. The point of pivot
motion is the point of contact between wheel and floor. Such
pucker and wear carpets, and are sluggish 'in their swiVelling
action. Two rollers side by side will, in swivelling, turn in
opposite directions, and it will be found that they roll upon
the floor instead of piv6ting, as does the single wheel; but if
the floor should .be iriegular, as is often the case, one wheel
of the pair would not touch the floor, and the two-wheeled
caster would become pratically a one-wheeled caster. -My
improvement consists in making the axis of the two wheels
oscillatory with reference to the article to which the furniture
caster is attached. The axis of oscillation, being at right
angles to the floor-wheels' axis, allows the wheels to accommodate themselve6 to ordinary inequalities of floor. Referring
to the drawing, A is a flange, from which depends the stem
or boss. 0. This stem serves as a pivot for the swivelling
motion, as a draft-pin for the wheel-housing, and as a means
of uniting the parts. The housing B furnishes bearing supports for the two floor-wheels EE and the anti-friction pivotwheel F. 'The latter wheel is situated centrally letwren and
vertically above the floor-wheels. The housing swivels upon
the stem in the usual manner.- Were only a swivelling motion
of the housing desired, its fit upon the central pivot might be
close, allowing only looseness enough for the swivelling action;
but the object sought by my improvement demands that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

housing should have a compound motion with reference to the
central pivot. It must revolve upon a vertical axis and oscillate upon a horizontal axis. This compound bearing is formed
by making the housing bearing slightly elliptical and the
housing collar bearing in rocker form, as shown in Fig. 3.
The rocker may be on the side of the hole nearest the antifriction wheel or on the opposite side, and the axis of the
rocker should be in line with, and a continuation of, the axis
of the anti-friction wheel F, so that the anti-friction wheel
may not impede the oscillating motion. By means of the
relief resulting from the elliptic nature of the housing opening
and the rocker bearing, freedom for oscillation is secured without interfering with the functions of the central pivot as a
bearing of rotation, draft-pin and means of union. I claim

as my invention, a furniture caster composed of the following
,elements: The floor-wheels EE, the anti-friction pivot-wheel
F, the housing B, the elliptical housing opening or its mechanical equivalent, and the rocker-formed collar bearing or its
mechanical equivalent, all combined so as to allow the floor-

PH(EIIX CASTER CO. -v. SPIEGEL.

.363

Opinion of the Court.

Wheel axis to Oscillate horizontally, substantially as and for
bhe purpose specified."
The answer sets up as defences want of novelty and noninfringement. After a replication, proofs were "taken on both
sides. The case was heard before Judge Woods, and a decree
was entered which stated that the court found that there had
been no infringement of the patent, and that the bill was
dismissed, with costs. From this decree the plaintiff has
appealed. The opinion of the court is reported in 26 Fed.
Rep. 272.
The caster used and sold by the defendants was known as
"the Yale caster," and was made at New Haven, Connecticut.
The opinion of the court stated that the prior art was shown
by reference to numerous earlier patents, both American and
English, "which, it is alleged, anticipated the Martin combination entirely, or, at least, in so far as to impose upon it a
strict construction, limiting it to the particular arrangement of
parts described and excluding any pretence of infringement
by
the defendants." The opinion then proceeds as follows: "After
a painstaking consideration of the evidence and accompanying
models, the opinions of the experts, and the arguments and
briefs of counsel, which upon both sides have been quite exhaustive, I am compelled to the conclusion that infringement
has not been shown, and consequently that the bill must be
dismissed. The combination of the patent in question accomplished no new result in mechanics, and differed from previous
known combinations, designed for the same and like purposes,
only in the construction of one or two of the parts, whereby,
perhaps, a better but certainly not a different kind of result
was accomplished than had been before effected. *More than
this cannot be justly claimed, as it seems to me. Besides, it
appears that Martin's application for a patent was rejected and
withdrawn two or moie times, the examiner insisting, upon
certain references, ' that all applicant's novelty in entire device
is only expressed by words "as specified."' In obedience to this
ruling the claim, and perhaps the specificatiobn, was modified
and the patent granted. It follows that the patent cannot
now, by a liberal construction, be. made to include anything

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

so denied by the Patent Office, and without this the device of
the defendants cannot, I think, be said to infringe."
The claim of the patent is for a combination of the following elements: (1) the floor-wheels EE; (2) the anti-friction
pivot-wheel F; (3) the housing B; (4) the elliptical housing
opening, or its mechanical equivalent; (5)the collar; (6) the
rocker-formed collar bearing, or its mechanical equivalent. All
these are to be so combined as to allow the axis of the two
floor-wheels to oscillate horizontally with reference to the article to which the caster is attached. The floor-wheels EE are
mounted in a housing. This housing also furnishes bearing
supports for an anti-friction pivot-wheel F, which latter wheel
constitutes the principal bearing-surface between the floorwheels' housing and the plate at the bottom of the piece of
furniture, on which plate the anti-friction pivot-wheel travels
in the swivelling movement of the caster. The collar, which is
not referred to by letter in the specification, is marked D in
figure 3 of the drawings. It sustains the downward pressure
at the heel of the housing, which is that part most remote from
the floor-wheels. The convex surface of the rocker-formed
collar bearing, which is between the heel of the housing and
the collar, is formed on the housing itself. There is an elliptical opening in the housing, in which the entire caster swivels,
so as to permit its lateral oscillation. No one oi the six elements above mentioned can be dispensed with, without departing from the invention specified in the claim of the patent.
The collar is a necessary element in the combination specified
in the claim, because there cannot be a rocker-formed collar
bearing unless there be a collar.
A copy of the file wrapper and its contents, in the matter of
the patent, is found in the record. The claims in the specification originally filed were as follows:
"First. The housing B, in comlination with the anti-friction
wheel F, and two or more floor-wheels, E, substantially as
described.
"Second. The combination of the housing B, flange A, boss
0, so arranged that the axis of rotation and oscillation of the
housings shall intersect below the flange A, substantially as
and for the purpose specified.

PHCENIX CASTER CO. v. SPIEGEL.
Opinion of the Court.

"Third. The combination of the flange A, boss C, and screw
G, substantially as and for the purpose specified."
The application was rejected on the 27th of September; 1876,
by a reference to four United States patents, the examiner saying that the invention claimed lacked apparently any element
of patentable novelty, and adding, that, in view of those references, "and in the absence, as far as is perceived, of any new
formation or showing of patentable improvement over them,"
the application was rejected.
The applicant then cancelled said three claims, and substituted for them the follo*ing, leaving the text of the specification to stand:
"In a furniture-caster, the combination of the above-described
housing B with the anti-friction wheel F and floor-wheels EE,
wi.en the anti-friction wheel F is situated above and centrally
between the floor-wheels EE, substantially as and for the purpose specified."
On the 5th of October 1876, the Patent Office informed the
applicant that it was not patentable to double the number of
wheels which before existed, the 'examiner adding: "It would
not, of course, be possible to re-patent all our devices used with
a single wheel to every one who should put in two wheels
instead of one."
The applicant then mfade amendments in his specification
and drawings, and submitted his case again, with an argunient, to which the Patent Office replied, on the 19th of October, 1876, that if the applicant would define, in his claim, his
"housing B" as "having an elliptical opening bearing upon
a point opposite to and farthest from the anti-friction wheel
F," the case would pass all reference.
In reply to this, the applicant, on the 23d of October, 1876,
substituted a new specification and 'claims for those already
presented. The new claims were as follows:
"In a caster, the combination of the housing B, anti-friction
wheel F, and floor-wheels EE, when the anti-friction wheel is
located centrally between and vertically above the floor-wheels,
for the purpose and' substantially as specified.
"In a caster, the combination of the flange A, stem 0,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

housing B, and floor-wheels EE,so arranged that the axis of
the floor-wheels may oscillate with reference to the plane of
the flange A."
On the 26th of October, 1876, the examiner wrote to the
applicant as follows: "The examiner, in official letter of 19th
inst., suggested all he felt that he could possibly allow, considering the state of the art. Applicant's present amended first
claim could not be allowed, as it is for. just what in every letter the office has stated that it could not-allow, viz., ' dding
the usual friction roller in the usual way to two wheels, also
-old.' This is a mere double use. The second amended claim
could not be allowed, even were applicant the first to use two
wheels, for it is not for devices, but for a result or function
(never patentable), applicant claims, 'so arranged that the
axis may oscillate, etc.' A dozen inventions may do this, and
-yet not be equivalents of applicant's arrangement of devices,
to which alone he is entitled. Just as stated in letter of 19th,
the examiner thinks that in granting the claim there suggested
h if. anything, errs on the liberal side."
In.
reply, the applicant, on the 31st of October, 1876, amended
his specification and claim. The following paragraph was inserted in the specification: "It is also necessary that the housing should be capable of having a compound motion upon the
central pivot. It must revolve upon a vertical axis and oscillate upon a horizontal axis. This compound bearing is formed
by making the housing bearing slightly elliptical and making
its collar bearing in rocker form, as shown in Fig. 3. The
rocker may be on the side of the hole nearest the anti-friction wheel, or on the opposite side. By neans of the described, relief and rocker bearing, freedom for oscillation 'is
secured, without interfering with the function of the pivot as
a bearing of rotation, draft-pin, and means of union." The
following claim Was substituted for all previous claims: "In
a caster, the floor-wheels, EE, and an anti-friction wheel, F,
in the relative position specified, when combined with the
hoftsing B,having its pivot-bearing relieved as specified, or its
mechanical equivalent, substantially as and for the purpose
specified."

PR(ENIX CASTER CO. v. SPIEGEL.
Opinion of. the Court.

In reply, the examiner said, in a letter to the applicant dated
lNovember 15, 1876: "Part of applicant's claim reads as follows: 'having its pivot bearing relieved as specified, or its
mechanical equivalent.' Applicant will see at once that all
applicant's novelty in entire device is only expressed -by words
'as specified.' This sort of claim has never been allowed,
save through some error, since 1870. . . . Again, 'its
mechanical equivalent' refers to no specified devices. One
cannot say 'having a thing done so. and so, or its mechanical
equivalent.' Again, the specification says, ' One important
feature of my invention is so and so,' and, 'a further improvement consists in," etc. Applicant has one novelty only, and
should be well aware that Lhe should not still claim, in his
nature of invention, the anti-friction wheel. Applicant should
claim definitely his devices (which he includes in 'relieved as
specified') and their equivalents, and change specification to
correspond, as suggested. An appeal from the examiner, is,
of course, proper at any time, but he can issue no patent unless
the specification and claims, fairly and without ambiguity,
only cover the novel device."
The applicant then, on the 17th of November, 1876, withdrew his existing specification and claim, and substituted
those which are in the patent as issued, and it was granted.
It therefore appears, that while, the applicant at first
claimed a combinati6n of merely three *elements, namely, the
housing, the anti-friction wheel, and the floor-wheels, he
finally limited that combination by adding to those three elements the elliptical housing opening, the collar, and the
rocker-formed collar bearing. When the applicant presented
his original application, he evidently supposed that he was
the first inventor of a two-wheeled caster in which the axis
of the floor-wheels could oscillate relatively to the furniture
leg. In his letter of October 26, 1876, the examiner criticised
the second amended claim, namely, "in a caster, the combination of the flange A, stem C,housing B, and floor-wheels EE,
so arranged that the axis of the floor-wheels may oscillate
with reference to the plane of the flange A," as not being for
devices, but for an arrangemeft- so made that the axis of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

floor-wheels could oscillate, while the applicant was entitled
only to his arrangement of devices. The combination of
specified elements constituting such arrangement, selected by
the applicant after all the correspondence between him and
the Patent Office, is contained in the claim as granted.
It is well settled that where a patentee has modified his
claim in obedience to the requirements of the Patent Office,
he cannot have for it an extended construction which has been
rejected by the Patent Office; and that, in a suit on his patent, his claim must be limited, where it is a combination of
parts, to a combination of all the elements whicl he has included in his claim as necessarily constituting that combination. The authorities on the subject are collected in the case
of Roemer v. Peddie, 132 U. S. 313, 317.
The defendants' caster is a two-wheeled caster, with two
floor-wheels and two anti-friction wheels, one of the latter
located on each side of the vertical plane of the axis of the
floor-wheels, the attachment of .the floor-wheel housing to the
furniture-plate being through the medium of a pivot-pin
which turns in the furniture-plate' and is secured to the floorwheel housing by the horizontal axis-pin of the anti-friction
wheels, which axis-pin thus becomes the centre of oscillation
for the caster. It is provided also with a hollow stud, formed
in one piece with the furniture-plate and projecting downward
therefrom, within which hollow stud the vertical swivellingpin turns. It is wanting entirely in the collar of the Martin
patent, at the bottom of the attaching stud, by which the'
caster-housing is secured to the furniture leg, to prevent its
dropp'ng when the furniture is lifted; and it is wanting also in
Martin's "rocker-formed collar bearing," which rests upon the
collar beneath it and forms one point of the axis of oscillation.
The expert for the plaintiff concedes that he does not find in
the Yale caster anything that in terms might be called a
rocker-formed collar bearing, except so far as the pivot-pin,
being permanent in the housing, might be said to be a part
thereof.
In view of the state of the art, as shown by the various patents
put in evidence, the words " the rocker-formed collar bearing,

PI(ENIX CASTER CO. v. SPIEGEL.

369

Opinion of the Court.

or its mechanical equivalent," in the claim of the Martin pV
ent, cannot embrace all modes .of affording vertical support
between the floor-wheel housing and the furniture-plate, where
by lateral oscillation of such housi~g is permitted; and those
words must be restricted to such a bearingx.esting on a collar
beneath the floor-wheel housing, as is- shown in the Martin
patent. The housing in the Yale caster is not of a construction
similar to that described by Martin; and there is not in the
Yale caster any equivalent for such "rocker-formed collar
bearing;" nor is there any collar beneath the housing on which
such collar bearing can rest. The housing of the Martin patent
has an opening from top to bottom, through which the vertical
swivelling-stud of the furniture-plate passes; while the Yale
caster has no such opening, but only a recess or cavity in the
top of the housing, an arrangement which results from the use
in the Yale caster of a different mode from that of Martin, of
attaching the housing to the furniture-plate, by the substifution for the Martin stud and screw, and a collar held by the
screw beneath the housing, of a horizontal pin passing entirely
through the swivelling pintle of the housing, which pintle is
thus made to revolve with the housing, and turns in the fixed
furniture-plate, the horizontal pintle of the anti-friction wheels
being used for the attachment of the housing.
For these reasons we concur with the Circuit Court in its
view that infringement has not been established.
It is to be regretted that while this case was orally argued
on the part of the appellant, it was not so argued on the part
of the appellees, nor have we been furnished with any brief on
their part. This leads to the conclusion that, although the
decree dismissing the bill states that the plaintiff claimed his
appeal in open court and gave good and sufficient surety, and
that the appeal was accordingly allowed, the defendants, for
some reason, have not sufficient interest in the questions involved to endeavor to sustain the decree. Perhaps the case,
as. presented to us, is substantially a moot case; still, there is
nothing to show it, and the appellant, on the record, has a
right to have the questions he .presents decided.
-Decreeafflired.
VOL. cx=-24

