OTOI3ER TERM, 1889.
.Statement of the Case.

IQORBIN v. GOULD.
APPEAL FROMI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 131. Argued November 22, 1889.-Decided February 3,1890.

The trade-mark for tea (No. 9952) registered in the Patent Office by Ingraham, Corbin & May December 27, 1881, was for the combination of the
figure of a diamond and the words " The Tycoon Tea" enclosed in it;
and its registration conferred no exclusive right to the use of the word
"Tycoon" considered by itself.

THIS was a suit in equity brought in the court below by
Calvin R. Corbin and Horatio N. May, copartners as Corbin,
May & Company, doing business in Chicago, against Walter
J Gould, Edward Telfer, David D. Cady and L. F Thompson, copartners as W J. Gould & Company, doing business in
'Detroit, for the alleged infringement of a trade-mark.
The bill filed on the 24th of September, 1885, alleged substantially as follows That for over six years complainants
had been engaged in manufacturing, preparing and shipping
to the United States, and selling in the United States and elsewhere, a particular qut lity of tea, of which their immediate predecessors in business, Ingraham, Corbin & May, were the first
and exclusive manufacturers, importers and wholesale dealers
in this country, that during this period they had imported
large quantities of such tea, which, by reason of its superior
quality and because of the advertising they gave it, became
well and favorably known, and was sold extensively in the
chief cities and towns of the United States, particularly in
Michigan, "that said particular tea was known as "Tycoon
Tea," the word "Tycoon" being properly attached to the
cases and coverings in which the tea was imported, that this
name "Tycoon" was given by them to their tea in 1879 in
order to more clearly identify it, and had since been used as
their adopted trade-mark for it, that haviig complied with
-the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and with

CORBIN v. GOULD.
Statement of the Case.

the regulations prescribed by the Commissioner of Patents,
they procured the registration and recording of said trademark in the Patent Office on the 27th of.December, 1881, and
received from the Commissioner of Patents a certificate, [No.
9952], showing such record, that sInce the word "Tycoon"
was first applied by them as a trade-mark, and since the date
of such registration, the defendants, confederating with di. ers
other persons in different parts of the United States,-with full
knowledge of complainants' rights under and by virtue of
their trade-mark, in violation thereof, without complainants'
consent, and with the intent fraudulently to divert to themselves complainants' trade in such tea, put upon the market
in Detroit and elsewhere large quantities of tea in packages or
cases of the same size and general appearance as those used
by complainants, with the word "Tycoon" stamped thereon
in. imitation of complainants' trade-mark - all of which was
intended to deceive and mislead the public into buying defendants' tea, which is of an inferior quality, greatly to the
injury of the reputation of complainants' tea, that by reason
of such fraudulent acts and practices on the part of defendants, complainants had been deprived of great gains and
profits in the sale of their tea, and had been damaged more
than $10,000, and that defendants were still using the aforesaid facings or labels with the word "Tycoon" stamped
thereon upon tea, and threaten to continue to do so, to the,
great injury and damage of plaintiffs. The bill prayed for an
injunction to restrain the defendants and their agents from the
further use of complainants' trade-mark, for an accounting, and
for damages.
Upon the filing of this bill, supported by a number of affidavits corroborating its allegations, the court issued a temporary
restraining order as prayed for, and the defendants thereupon
filed their -answer denying specifically all the material allegations of the bill' The answer further alleged that the word
"Tycoon" could not have been lawfully adopted and used. as
a trade-mark, because it had been a word in common use in
trade as a brand.or name for various kinds of tea imported
from Japan, for many years prior to the time when complain-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

ants claim to have adopted it as a trade-mark. It further set
forth that the defendants had been using the word "Tycoon"
on the facings or labels of their tea in connection with the
word "chop," but it denied that these labels bore any more
similarity to those of complainants than is usually the case
with tea labels, and alleged that except in the word "Tycoon"
there was no resemblance whatever between them. It, therefore, prayed that the bill be dismissed.
Considerable testimony was taken in the case, and the court
below, on the 14th of June, 1886, rendered a decree dismissing
the bill, without delivering any opinion. An appeal from that
decree brought the case here.
.M-r

euns L. Coburn for appellants.

I. The complainants, having acquired a valuable interest in
the good will of their trade in a specially prepared, pure, uncolored and unadulterated tea, and having adopted a particular trade-mark indicating to their customers that the article
which was made by their authority and sold by them possessed
those superior qualities, are entitled to protection against any
one who attempts to deprive them of their trade or customers
by using substantially the same name, or such devices and representations as would deceive the trade. McLean v Flem-ng,
96 U. S. 245.
IT. Where a firm has adopted and used a trade-mark for a
number of years to denote a special kind of tea and built up
a large trade, the firm should be protected in the use of its
trade-mark as against imitations, even though it be proven
that said trade-mark had previously been used as a trademark for the same class of goods, provided the first user had
abandoned it. Symons v Greene, 28 Fed. Rep. 834. The
plaintiff in that case adopted the word " Eureka" to denote a
special kind of cement. He was held to be entitled to an injunction even though another firm had used it for several
years before to designate a certain kind of cement, but had
discontinued its use.
ITL The prior use must be either such continued use as to

CORBIN v. GOUhLD.
Opinion of the Court.

cause the word to become descriptive of kind or quality, or a
continued use of the word as a trade-mark by some one having
the prior right to its use. Liebig's Extract became descriptive of. a lknd of extract put up under a certain formula. In
" fanufacturing Co. v. Trasner, 101 U. S. 51, it was held that
"A. 0. A." designated ticking of a particular quality Fairbanks' scales and Singer's sewing machine had by long use become descriptive of the particular kind of machines, for that
reason they could not be held as trade-marks.
IV The word "€Tycoon" as used on teas prior to its adoption by the complainants as a trade-mark had no significance
whatever. It was not used as a trade-mark by any one,
neither had it become descriptive of any kind or quality of tea.
Its prior use, therefore, was not of such a character as would
deprive the complainants of the right to protection m it use
as a trade-mark.
Mrh Don f. Dwzknson and .Mr Elliott G Stevenson. for
appellees, cited Carrollv Ertheiler,I Fed. Rep. 688, Collins
Company v Oliver Ames c Sonms Corporation, 20 Blatchford,
542, . C. 18 Fed. Rep. 561, Amoskeag Ml 'fg Co. v Garner,
54 How Pr. 214, Bardou v. Lacrow, 29 Annales, (Cour de
Cassation, France,) 226.
MR.

-uJsTIoi

Lm-,

after stating the case as above, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the decree below must be affirmed.
The material allegations of the bill are not sustained by the
evidence, and the one which presents the entire foundation for
the claim of relief is disproved by the exhibit which the complainants append to their. bill. After alleging that complainants had adopted as their trade-mark the word "Tycoon,"
and stamped itupon packages of a particular kind of tea, manufactured and imported by themselves alone into the American
market in 1879, and that the said word "Tycoon," having
never before been adopted as a trade-mark, had become known
to the trade as exclusively designating a particular kind of tea
dealt in by the complainants, the bill states that, for the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

pose of obtaining protection for their exclusive right to the
said word "Tycoon" as a trade-mark, they deposited it as
above described in the Patent Office at Washington, and that
in 1881 the same was registered and recorded by the Cominmissioner of Patents of the United States, and a certificate was
issued therefor, securing to the complainants protection for
'the said trade-mark. The exhibits A and B, appended to the
bill, and other exhibits attached to Corbin's deposition, show
that the trade-mark adopted by the complainants, deposited
and registered in the Patent Office, is not the word "Tycoon,"
as stated in the bill, but a transverse diamond-shaped symbol
inclosing the word "The" at the top, and "Tea" at the
bottom, between which, lengthwise the diamond, is the word
"Tycoon." A fac-simile is as follows

TEA

The claim of the complainants, filed in the Patent Office for
the registr tion of the trade-mark in question, is in these words
"Ojir trade-mark consists of the letters and words and arbitrary
symbols ' The Tycoon Tea, 1.0. & Al., C., Japan Tea,' ornamental scroll border, transverse diamond shape.
The
letters or words ' I. C. & Al., C., Japan Tea,' may be omitted
or they may be partly omitted and partly changed as to their
position with.in the square without materially altering the
character of our trade-mark, the essentialfeatures of whzch are

the symbol of a diamond and the arbitrarily selected word
Tycoon.'"
It is not pretended that this combination, clained'and registered as the 'trade-mark of complainants, has ever been used by
the defendants either in the identical form, or in a form having
such resemblance thereto as mia'ht be calculated to deceive.
A comparison of the label of lefendants with that of the
complainants, -as-given in the. exhibit to the bill, shows many
s..riking points -of difference, and but few, if any, points of

CORINT v. GOULD.
O1inmon of the Court.

silnilarity, except that the word "Tycoon" is found in both.
In the complainants' label, the diamond figure, the words
"The Tycoon Tea," "Choicest," and "Spring Leaf" are
printed m blue ink, and the other words are printed in black
ink, all in different kinds of ornamental letters- the whole
surrounded by an ornamental black scroll border. The defendants' label is water-marked in red and pink colors, surrounded
by a heavy blue border, with black decorations. The words
are printed in various styles of letters of different colors -the
words "Tycoon Chop," for instance, being m large white
letters with red facings, on a solid black ground, and "J apan
Tea," in large black letters, some of which are plain and some
ornamental. On the complainants' label the proprietorship of
the tea is indicated by the letters "I., C. & M., representing
Ingraham, Corbin & May, the predecessors of the present firm,
while on the defendants' label the name of their firm and-their
place of business appear prominently near the bottom ofB-it.
These labels are so entirely dissimilar that it is difficult to
perceive how they could be mistaken the one for the other.
A. mere glance is sufficient to distinguish them. There ae
certainly no more points of similarity between them than are
to be found ordinarily between tea labels or facings, and were
it not for the fact that the word "Tycoon" is found in both
of them there would be no semblance of a case of infringement.
With respect to the word "Tycoon," the evidence shows
beyond question that it has been used as a name or brand for
Japan tea for many years. Invoices of "Tycoon Tea" were
received at the custom house in San Francisco as early as May
15, 1873, as shown by a copy of the official records of that
office filed in this, case, and the evidence of dealers and mer
chants of California is all to the effect that the word was ltA
common use as a brand for Japan tea for several years prior
to that date. It is unnecessary to go into this evidence in
detail, but it is conclusive as to the long use of the word prior
to, the alleged adoption of it as a part of the trade-mark of the
complainants.
The authorities cited by complainants' counsel, to show that
the prior use of a word as a trade-mark by another party who

OCTOBER TER]M, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

had abandoned it is-not sufficient to debar the present owner
of it from protection, do not apply to this case. At the time
complainants claim to have adopted the word "Tycoon" as
their trade-mark, for the particular species of tea dealt in by
them, it was not an abandoned trade-mark. previously used
by some other person or firm to designate a particular quality
of tea, but it was, and had been for many years, in general
and common use as a term descriptive of a class of teas introduced into the American market- a term which all men
engaged in the tea business had an equal right to use, and
which belonged to no one individual either as a trade-mark or
a trade~label. It belonged to the public, as the common property of the trade, and, therefore, was not subject to appropriation by any one person. The following language used in
The Amoskeag AManufacturng Company v Spear, 2 Sandford,

Sup. Ct. N. Y 599, quoted with approval by this court in Canal
Cori pany v Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 324, is applicable to the
claim of the complamant in this case "He has no right to
appropriate a sign or a symbol [or a name] which, from the
nature of the fact it is used to signify, others may empioy with
equal truth and, therefore, have an equal right to employ for
the same purpose."
See also Goodyear Co. v Goodyear
Rubber Co., 128 IT. S. 598, Liggett & lyers Tobacco Co. v.
Finzer, 128 U. S. 182, Stachelberg v Ponce, 128 U. S. 686,
MAfenendez v Holt, 4128 U. S. 514.

Even conceding that the complainants may claim a trademark for the combination of the diamond and the words inclosed in it, as described in their application to the Patent
Office, there was, upon the authorities above cited, clearly no
trade-mark in the word "Tycoon" considered by itself.
The decree bf the court below dismissing the bill should be,
and it hereby is,
Afflmed.

