30

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

RICHARDSON'S EXECUTOR v. GREEN-.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ?AICHIGAN.
No.19. Argued October 17, 18, 1889.-Decided January 13, 1890.

While the relations of a party towards a corporation, as a director and
officer, or as its principal stockholder, do not preclude him from entering
into contracts with it, from making loans to it, and from taking its bonds
as collateral security, a court of equity will refuse to lend its aid to their
enforcement unless satisfied that the transaction was entered into in
good faith, with a view to the benefit of the company as well as of its
creditors, and not solely with a view to his own benefit.
In the case of a corporation, as in that of a natural person, any conveyance
of its property, without authority of law, in fraud of its creditors, is
void as to them.
The capital stock of a corporation, when it becomes insolvent, is, in law,
part of its assets, to be appropriated to the payment of its debts, and if
any part of it has been issued without being fully paid up, a court of
equity may require it to be paid up.
R. loaned to a railroad company $100,000 upon its notes, and received from
it 1250 shares of paid-up stock- as a bonus, and 200 mortgage bonds of
the company and the practical control of the board of directors of the
corporation. After this he demanded of this board 100 more bonds, as
further collateral, and they agreed to it. Subsequently he proposed
to the board that he would make further advances if they would put 300
wpore bonds in his hands as collateral, and they assented to this.proposal,
but he never made such further advances. These 400 bonds, together
with other bonds and property of the company, then came into his hands
at a time when he was acting as and claiming to be the treasurer of the
company. After the insolvency of the company took place, R. claimed
to hold these 400 bonds individually, as collateral for his debt; Held,
that, as between him and the other creditors of the company, he could
not, under the circumstances, hold them as collateral for his debt.
At the last term of court motions to dismiss Nelson v. Green and Nelson
et al. v. Green were argued at the same time with a motion to dismiss
this case, and the motion was granted as to those cases, and denied as to
this case. After the entry of judgment counsel in those cases moved on
behalf of the appellants that the sum of $450 which had been deposited
with the clerk for copies of the record should be refunded, Held, (the
judgment being announced in delivering the opinion and announcing the
judgment in this case,) that $200 of that amount should be refunded.

IN EQUITY. The previous proceedings in this case on a
motion to dismiss are reported in Richardson v Green, 130

RICIARDSON "v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

°U. S. 104. The case now made, at the hearing on the merits,
is stated in the opinion.
.Mr Zyman D _rorrsfor appellants.
.rr Dansel P Hays for Sickles and Stevens, appellees.
Mfr T J O'Brwa for Sickles, Stevens and the Wrought
Iron Bridge Company, appellees..
Mr Jr Hubley Ashton, (with whom was Xr Henry .M.
Dechert and .Mr -Henry T Dechert on the brief,) for Bower
& Co. and Betz, appellees.
Xr _D A. A.3fnqght for Thomas W Ferry, Edward P
Ferry and Nims, appellees.
MR.

JusTiE.

L&mRn delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, originally brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Michigan by Ashbel Green and William Bond, trustees, against the
Chicago, Saginaw and Canada Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of'Michigan, to
foreclose a mortgage given by that company on all its property and effects of whatsoever description to the plaintiffs, to
secure the payment of 5500 of its bonds of $1000 each, payable
to said trustees or bearer.
The suit was commenced on the 16th of- November, 1876.
A receiver was at once appointed. The company made no
defence, but numerous parties, holders of the bonds titus
secured, and others with claims of various kinds against ihe
company, with leave of the court, intervened in the case, alid
were allowed to prove their respective claims. The controversy resolved itself into a contest for priority among the
respective claimants in the distribution of the proceeds of the
sale of the mortgaged property thereafter to be made.
On the 30th of' June, 1882, a decree was rendered that the,
bill was well filed, and that the complainants were entitle& to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

a foreclosure. The matter was referred to a master to take
testimony and report upon the validity, and also the priority,
of the various claims filed. On the 6th of :November, 1882,
the master filed his report, in which he divided the claims
presented into four classes, numbered A, B, 0 and D, respectively In class C he placed the claims secured by the first
mortgage bonds, and the amount of said security In this
class was the claim of Benjamin Richardson for money fur
nished to aid in the construction of the road, amounting, with
interest, to $273,282.87, secured, as the master found, by 200
bonds, amounting to $374,904.
Exceptions to this report
were filed by nearly all of the parties interested, but, in tae
main, it was confirmed by the court, and, on the 3d of May,
1883, a decree was entered on the question of pr.iority among
the respective claimants in the distribution of the fund arising
from the sale of the mortgaged property, which had occurred.
This decree, among other things, provided that, after certain
expenses 'and certificates given by the receiver had been paid,
the remainder of the fund should be ratably divided among
the bond claimants, and where the bonds were held as collateral security no greater amount should be allowed than
sufficient to satisfy the debt thus secured.
Benjamin Richardson's claim is in this class. It was for
600 bonds claimed as collateral security for the amount of
money advanced by him for the construction of the road, and
for 1105 other bonds which he alleged he had redeemed from
certain bankers in London, and, in another form, was for
3574 bonds which he had purchased at an execution sale in
New York City that was had to satisfy a judgment he had
obtained against the railroad company in the Court of Common Pleas for the city and county of New York for the
amount of his debt with interest. The decree allowed Richardson's claim as respects 200 of the 600 bonds, but rejected
it as to the other bonds claimed by him.
Subsequently, that decree was amended by the decree of
October 8, 1883, so as to correct certain mistakes in the calculation of interest u on the bonds. The effect of this latter
decree was to reduce Richardson's share of the proceeds by \

RICHARDSON v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

$2173.91 fiom what the original decree of May 3, 1883. had
made it, and also to reduce in like manner the share of one
of the other intervening parties, the Wrought Iron Bridge Company of Canton, Ohio, by the sum of $183.60.
Four separate appeals were taken from the decree of May
3, 1883, and an appeal was also taken by Richardson and his
assignee, Henry Day, from the amended decree of October 8,
1883. At the last term of the court all the appeals were dismissed except that of Richardson and Day from the decree of
October 8, 1883. Rchardson. v Green, 130 U. S. 104. Before the decision at the last term of the court was rendered
Richardson died, and his legal representatives are now prosecuting the appeal. As a decision upon the questions presented
by this appeal affects the distribution decreed by the court
below of $137,154.94 among the -other claimants, it becomes
necessary to examine the facts and to give consideration to
the equities which relate to the claims of all those parties.
The Chicago, Saginaw and Canada Railroad Company was
organized about the 4th of December, 1872, under an act of the
Michigan legislature approvea April 18, 1871, with a capital
stock of $4,200,000, divided into 4200 shares, for the purpose
of building a railroaa from St. Clair, in the eastern part of the
State, to Grand Haven, on Lake Michigan, a distance of about
210 miles.
The original incorporators each subscribed for 210 shares of
this capital stock, five per cent of which was paid in. This was
all the stock ever subscribed, and all the money paid in or any
stock. Nine of those corporators were elected directors, all
but three of whom resigned in 1873, transferring their stock,
it is supposed, to those. three. The sto k subscribed and the
money paid on it may;for all practical purposes, be considered
as having afterwards disappeared from the organization.
For the purpose of raising funds to build the road:and equip
it the corporation executed a mortgage and issued 5500 seven
per cent bonds of $1000 each, due in 30 years, -with interest
payable semmlannually, and placed them in the hands of its
executive committee to be put upon the market. Before selling any of its bonds; however, the corporation borrowed conVOL. cxxxm-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opim0A of the Court.

siderable money from various parties, giving the bonds as
security, at the rate of two dollars in bonds for every dollar
borrowed, and also giving, as a bonus, to the parties from
whom the money was borrowed, a large amount of capital
stock.
These loans were negotiated with the following persons (1)
With a syndicate of four persons in Philadelphia, designated
in the record as the "Philadelphia parties," who advanced
money to the company on the terms above stated until the
amount aggregated, according to the report of the master,
$143,629.62. The number of bonds pledged to the syndicate,
as collateral security for this loan, was 462. The Philadelphia
parties claimed before the court below to be entitled to prove
all the bonds held by them to the full amount of principal and
accrued interest, and to a share in the proceeds of the fund
derived from the sale of the mortgaged property. to the extent
of their loans and the interest thereon. The decree of the
court allowed their claim, to the extent of 287.26.bonds only,
that number being twice the amount of the principal advanced.
The second party from whom the company obtained a loan
was the appellant Richardson, upon terms hereinafter stated.
The third party was George G: Sickles of New York, who
loaned the company $100,000 upon a pledge of 250 of the
bonds, as collateral, and also a bonus of $100,000-fall paid
stock. Afterwards his son, Daniel E. Sickles, bought 163 of
the bonds for the consideration that he would assume and pay
the debt due his father, which he afterwards did. The bonds
held by the elder Sickles were then returned to the company
Daniel E. Sickles claimed that, as an innocent purchaser, he
was entitled to priority over the other collateral bondholders.
who were the directors, officers and promoters of the company
His demand for priority was disallowed by the court, and the
only part of his claim that was allowed was, that as innocent
purchaser of the 163 bonds he might prove them to the full
amount of his principal and interest.
After the negotiation- for the three loans above named,
Thomas M. Nelson contracted with the company to ballast
and iron the first twenty miles of the road from the town of

RICHARDSON v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

St. Louis west, etc. This contract he substantially performed.
Two months afterwards he entered into another contract with
the company to clear, grub and grade the road, and build
bridges and culverts on the second division thereof to Lakeview Part of this second contract was assigned to the claimant Soule. This contract also, with the exception of a part of
the grading, was performed -by these parties. They had no
security for the payment of their services. They relied on the
solvency of the company and the assurances of Richardson,
who was then a director and the treasurer of it, that arrangements were perfected for the payment of the work as fast as
it progressed. 'The company failed to pay the amount due on
these contracts. Suits were brought, judgments obtained, and
executions issued which were returned nulla bona. They
presented their claims to the master, who reported in their
favor, and allowed them priority over the bondholders to the
amount of $16,342.68. Exceptions to this finding having been
filed were sustained by the court below, which allowed theii
debt, but put it inthe fourth class, to be paid pro rata from
any surplus remaining after the bondholders were paid.
The claim of the Wrought Iron Bridge 0dmpany was based
upon a contract with the railroad company, under which it
built an iron bridge across the Saginaw River, which was sold
by the receiver for the sum of $20,000. This claimant was
allowed a share m the proceeds of the sale on the basis of the
66 bonds of which it had become the actual owner.
The claim of Stevens was based upon a-bonaflde loan made
to the company by him. By the decree of the court below he
was allowed a sharein the funds to the extent of 32 bonds.
Any modification of the decree of the court below favorabla
to the contention of the appellants herein will correspondingly
reduce the allowances made to the above-mentioned claimants.
The loan of $100,000 by Richardson to the railroad company, on which he obtained the first 200 bonds, as collateral,
was made by him on the 31st of Mareh, 1875, under a contract
with the company, in which he agreed, to lend the corporation
that amount upon certain terms, which, among Others, were,
(1) that the company should deliver to him 200 mortgage

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

bonds of $1000 each, (2) that, within fourteen days, he should
be elected a director of the company, (3) that John A. Elwell,
of New York City, should be employed by the company at a
salary of $2500 and his personal expenses, for the purpose of
superintending the construction of the road and of looking
after the interests of Richardson, (4) that as a further collat,.
eral security the company should lease the first 20 miles of
the road as soon as it should be completed, and assign such
lease to Richardson, and should also assign to him all the
subsidy notes pertaining.-to that division of the road, lie to
retain all the money derived from the lease and subsidy notes,
.and render unto the company, at final settlement, seven per cent
interest upon the money so received, and (5) that the company
should execute and deliver to Richardson 1250 full paid shares
of capital stock of $100 each. Although, on its face, this was
to be fully paid up stock, it was understood that no money
was to be actually paid for it, the consideration, as recited in
the agreement, being YRichardsod's services, good offices and
influence in favor of the company in the financial world:
In the contest for priority among the claimants before the
master the judgment creditors of the corporation claimed that
they entered into the contracts with the company whereon
they obtained their judgments relying upon its resources,
which they were led to think were ample by reason of the
amount of the outstanding paid up stock in the hands of such
responsible stockholders and owners as Richardson and the
Philadelphia parties, and it was contended that those stockholders should not be allowed to share in the proceeds arising
from the sale of the mortgaged property on the basis of the
bonds held by tnem, as collateral, unless they should first pay
to the company the full amount of the shares of stock of which
they had held themselves out to the world as the owners.
The master concurred in this view, but, because there was no
proof of the actual value of the stock, he declined to make
any deduction from the amount due to Richardson, but limited
his claim to the 200 bonds. The appellants received the
amount'wmnch the decree allowed, but appealed to this court
from that decree, contending that they were ehtitled to a

RICHA.RDSON v. GREEN.
Opmion of the Court.

larger share of the fund on the basis of the additional 400
bonds.
To determine the merits of the contention of the appellants,
a somewhat minute statement of the circumstances which led:
the board of directors to vote to Richardson those 100 additional bonds becomes necessary The 1250 shares of paid up
stock for.which he paid nothing made him the largest stockholder in the company He and the Philadelphia parties held
all the outstanding stock with the- exception of a few shares,
and the entire and absolute control of the corporation was
thus in their hands. Richardson soon controlled a majority
of the board, and dominated its proceedings. He was at once
made a director, according to the contract. He became chairman of its executive committee and its managing director.
The lease of the first 20 miles of the road was made to him,
and that part was turned over to his possession. He had John
A. Elwell, his coadjutor and representative, elected a director,
who became, successively, secretary, auditor and a member of
the executive committee of the board. He afterwards caused
Ambrose, Hamm and Cooper to be put upon the board of
directors, to each of whom he assigned small portions of his
stock to enable them to vote in furtherance of his schemes and
interests, and the 1250 shares of paid up stock were in due
'time issued to him.
At a meeting of the board of directors, held on the 5th of
July, 1875, although he had advanced nothing beyond his
original loan already secured, he demanded 100 additional
bonds, representing $100,000, as collateral, and the board,
yielding to his exactions, unanimously adopted a resolution
directing the secretary and treasurer to deposit with him that
number of bonds for such purpose. Within one month afterwards, to wit, August 5, 1875, Richardson was unanimously
elected treasurer of the company, to fill the vacancy caused by
the resignation of E. P Ferry, which he had tendered, to take
effect when his accounts should be adjusted by the executivecommittee, and when the personal obligations he had made
should be settled, or be be relieved therefrom. The board of
directors also voted to Richardson 800 additional :first mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

gage bonds as collateral. How be accomplished these results,
to wit, the resignation of Ferry, his own election as Ferry's
successor, and also the vote to himself of the 200 bonds, is
very fully explained by the testimony of the directors and of
Richardson himself. Ferry thus states why he resigned
"Mr. Richardson said to me that he thought that, advancing as much money as he did, he not only should, have all the
moneys of the company in his hands, as treasurer, to see that
they were properly disbursed, but also the securities if the
company under his control." In explanation of his tendering
his resignation, to take effect upon being settled with and
relieved from personal responsibility, he says "I had endorsed
the company's notes to the amount of about $20,000, and furnished them with money, both. I had advanced the company,
.as treasurer, from my own funds, in the neighborhood of
$10,000. I think it was $9000 and something." He further
stated that Mr. Richardson assured him that the adjustment
and release asked for should be effected. He also stated that
Richardson had never performed those promises. The vote of
300 bonds to Richardson is thus explained by himself "I demanded of the board 300 more bonds, and got them by resolution of the board." The resolution directed a conveyance to
Richardson of 300 of the first mortgage bonds of the company
upon the consideratibn of advances made and to be made by
him. The fact is, that the sum actually advanced by him in
addition to his original loan, for which these 400 bonds were
successively voted to him, amounted to a little over $31,000.
The terms upon which he made the demand for these additional bonds are stated by Ferry and Elwell. At this same
meeting, held August 3, 1875, Richardson introduced the
following resolution.
"Resolved, That the president and secretary be, and they
are hereby, authorized to execute a contract for the purpose
of grading, tying and bridging the company's located road
from its western terminus to Lakeview"
Elwell testifies that Richardson stated to the board that if
they would, by resolution, authorize him to receive 800 additional bonds of -the company of $1000 each, he would make

RICHARDSON v. GREEL.
Opinion of the Court.

further advances to a sufficient amount for the company to go
on with the extension and equipment of the road to Lakeview
It was in consideration of these promised advances that the
resolution was adopted directing the'300 bonds to be conveyed
to him. This promise was never fulfilled by Richardson.
Elwell testifies that he advanced no money for the extension
or equipment of the road to Lakeview, nor did he purchase
any iron or other material to be used on that part of the road.
Both Richardson and Ferry, according to their own testimoy,
considered that the action of the board of directors placed
Richardson, as treasurer, in the shoes of Ferry, at least with
regard to the custody of the unissued bonds of the company
These bonds, 2985 in number, were deposited with a Safe
Deposit Company in New York City, subject to the control
of Ferry Fcrry immediately drew an order on that company
authorzing it to deliver to Richardson 41 the bonds belonging
to the railroad company deposited with it, and, through Elvell,
gave to Richardson the key to the vault in which, they werekept, in order that he (Richardson) might take possession of
them. Armed with this order to the Trust Company to deliver
the bonds to him, as treasurer, Richardson, on the 20th of
August, 1875, in company with Messrs. 0. W Child and M. J
Baney, proceeded to the place of business of the Trust Company, and, his order having been accepted by that company,
took possession of all the unissued bonds there belonging to
the railroad company, Messrs. Child and Baney counting them
and making a memorandum of them. This memorandani- of
the number counted included the 400 now claimed by the
appellants, as collateral security On the following day, Richardson, claiming to act under the authority of the aforesaid
resolutions of the board of directors, voting the 400 bonds to
him as collateral -security, and the order of the president of
the company to Ferry, separated 400 of the bonds from the
remainder, (Child and Baney assisting him,) and placed them
in-a tin box, which he afterwards kept in his personal p9ssession.
On the 11th of'October, 1815, Richardson was appointed
managing director,. irrevocable, and chairman of the executive

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

committee, and, on the 12th of the same month, he gave to

Ferry the following receipt
"Received of Edward JP Ferry, treasurer of the Chicago,
Saginaw & Canada Railroad Co., twenty-two hundred and
eighty-nine (2289) of the first-mortgage bonds of the company,
numbered as detailed by the memorandum above, dated New
York, Aug. 20, '75, and signed by 0. W Child & M. J Baney,
placed in my custody as chairman of the executive committee
of said R. R. Co., in accordance with the resolution of the

board of directors passed Oct. 11, '75, for custody, disposal,
or sale.
"Endorsed Benjamin Richardson.
Oct. 12, 1875."

BE-NJAMIN

RICHARDSON.

Receipt-

2289 bonds.

The list thus receipted for by Richardson as chairman of
the executive committee, included the 400 bonds numbered
from 3201 to 3600, inclusive, which he previously,, as before
stated, had separated from the original number, and claimed
had been pledged to him as collateral security It is safe to
say, too, we think, that no one interested in the affairs of the
company, except Elwell and Richardson, knew, at. that time,
that Richardson was holding those 400 bonds in any other
capacity than as treasurer of the company Elwell testified
that at the meeting of October 11, 1875, none of the other
parties knew that Richardson had those bonds.
W J Kelley testified that, at a meeting of the board of
directors on that day, the understanding of the board derived
from Richardson's statement was, that he had in his possession
only the original 200 bonds as collateral. Secured in the possession of the company's bonds, Richardson refused to comply
with the conditions on which Ferry had resigned. On the
16th of August, 1875, Elwell enclosed in a letter to Richardson two renewal notes to be substituted for those on which
Ferry had been endorser, saying "Mr. Ferry demands that.,
before he resigns his office of treasurer and turns everything
over to you, you shall endorse the renewal notes person-

RICIARDSON v. GREENY.
Opinion of the Court.

ally, as he did the original ones, and it is for that purpose
that I send them, and they ought to be returned to Mr. Ferry
immediately, so as to reach him the last of this week, to be
used in the bank next Monday
Mr. Ferry gave me one
of his envelopes stamped, in whch you had better enclose the
notes to him.
Mr. Ferry has agreed to turn over to you
or to deliver to me for you on your order all books, accounts,
vouchers, etc., in his possession as treasurer upon the two
notes being returned to him endorsed." Richardson remonstrated with Elwell against this, and on the 21st of the same
month he replied to Elwell's next letter, declining to sign the
notes, and declaring himself indifferent to Elwell's retention
of the books and papers pertaining to the office of treasurer,
inasmuch as he (Pichardson) had already become not only the
treasurer, but also the receiver, advancer and chief controller
of the company On that day the board of directors voted
120 bonds to Richardson as a bonus. Counsel for the appellants insist in their brief that this was done in his absence,
and that he repudiated this resolution and refused to take
those bonds. This statement is in conflict with that of Kelley,
president of the company, who testifies that Mr. Richardson
was present, -and, so far from objecting to the vote of the
bonus to him of 120 bonds, he insisted upon it, but as they
make no clam on these bonds as a bonus, it is not necessary
to add anything further, except the remark that the action of
the board illustrates the readiness of the directors to subserve
all Richardson's wishes.
At the meeting of July 8, 1876, the board, in anticipation
of the foreclosure of the mortgage then determined on, passed
resolutions auditing the entire account of Richardson against
the company, and declared the sum of $185,584.18 to be due
to him from it. Another resolution, unanimously adopted,
ratified and approved the bonds issued to him for that aggregate sum. A third resolution was adopted directing the secretary to execute and deliver to him the notes of the company
at seven per cent, payable at such times as could be agreed on
with Richardson, and that there should be embodied in'the note
3n authority to the holder, in default of payment, to sell such

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds without notice and with the right to become himself the
purchaser if sold at public sale. On the same day, immediately after the meeting, Elwell, the secretary, gave to Richardson those notes, in which were recited the numbers of the 600
bonds under discussion. On the same day, Richardson and
Ferry addressed to the mortg4ge trustees a written request to
institute proceedings to foreclose the mortgage. These notes,
on the 11th of July, at the request of Richardson, were torn
up by Elwell, and demand notes, bearing the same date, substituted therefor. Forthwith Richardson commenced suit
against the corporation in the Court of Common Pleas of the
city of Neiv York on those notes, and on the 12th of August
obtained the judgment hereinbefore mentioned. Execution
was issued on that judgment, and, as the proofs clearly show,
the sheriff levied upon and sold all the bonds of the company
which had been placed in Richardson's custody, namely, the
600 bonds which he claimed had been pledged to him as afore.
said, and 2974 other bonds, including 1105 which he claimed
to have redeemed from a bank in London. At the sale Richardson -purchased all those bonds at the price of $50 each,
$178,700. A short time after this sale and purchase, to wit,
November 16, 1876,, this suit for foreclosure was commenced,
and as an intervener therein he claimed that by virtue of his
purchase at the sheriff's sale he became the absolute owner of
the entire 3574 bonds. Afterwards he appears to have confined his claim to the 600 bonds alleged to have been held by
him originally as collateral security and the 1105 bonds just
referred to. It would seem from the briefs filed in this court
by counsel on behalf of appellants that the claim heie is confined to the 400 bonds above described.
In view of all the facts and circumstances presented by this
record we are unable to see any such superior eqiity arising
out of the transactions of Richardson with this company as
entitles him to a priority over the other creditors in the distribution of the fund in question, or anything in his mode of
getting possession of the 400 bonds which gives him a better
claim to them than that of the other creditors. While we may
not be prepared to concur with the master in some of the rea-

RICHARDSON v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

sons upon which he based his report,-yet we do not think either
that report or the decree of the court below confirming it contains any error of which the appellants can complain.
Richardson's relation to the subject matter of this controversy was threefold (1) That of a creditor of an insolvent
corporation claiming for his debt priority of payment over
those of all other creditors, out of the fund arising from a
foreclosure sale of the mortgaged property, (2) that of a
director and officer of that corporation at the tine his debt
against it was created, and (3) that of the largest shareholder
of its capital stock. Undoubtedly his relation as a direct&.
and officer, or as a stockholder of the company, does not preclude him from entering int( ,ontracts with it, making loans
to it and taking its bonds as collateral security, *butcourts of
equity regard such personal transactions of a party in either
of these positions not, perhaps, with distrust, but with a large
measure of watchful care, and unless satisfied by the proof
that the transaction was entered into in good faith, with a
view to the benefit of the company as well as of its creditors,
and not solely with a view to his own benefit, they refuse to
lend their aid to its enforcement. In Tww. LcoT Oil Co. v
_Mcrbwry, 91 U. S. 587, 588, Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the
opinion of the court, said "That a director of a joint-stock
corporation occupies pne of those fiduciary relations where.his
dealings with the subject matter of his trust or agency, and
with the beneficiary or party whose interest is confided to his
care, is viewed with jealousy by the courts, and may be set
aside on slight grounds,.is a doctrine founded on the soundest
morality, and which has received the clearest recognition. in
this court and in others."
In relation to the rights and liabilities of a stockholder, this
court said in Sawyer v. Hoag, 17 Wall. 610, 620, Mr.Justice
Miller also delivering the opinion of the court "We think it
now well established that the capital stock of a corporation,
especially. its unpaid subscriptions, is a trust fund for the
benefit of the general creditors of the corporation." Proceeding to show that this trust cannot be defeated by a simulated
payment of the stock subscription, nor by any device short of

OOTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

an actual payment in good faith, he concluded with these
words "It is, therefore, but just that, when the interest of
the public or of strangers dealing wnh this corporation is to
be affected by any transaction between the stockholders who
own the corporation and the corporatiou itself, such transaction should be subject to a rigid scrutiny, and if found to be
infected with anything unfair towards such third person, calculated to injure him, or designed intentionally and inequitably to screen the stockholder from loss at the expense of the
general creditor, it should be disregarded or annulled so far
as it may inequitably affect him."
In the case last cited the stockholder nominally paid the
stock subscription, but the money was inmediately taken back
as a loan, and it was claimed by him as a valid payment. The
transaction was characterized by the court as a "fraud upon
the public who were expected to deal with them."
In Graham v Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 148, 161, this court
said, Mr. 'Justice Bradley delivoring the opinion "When a
corporation becomes insolvent, it is so far civilly dead, that its
property may be administered as a trust-fund for the benefit
of its stockholders and creditors. A court of equity, at the
instance of the proper parties, will then make those funds
trust-funds, which, in other circumstances, are as much the
absolute property of the corporation as any man's property
is his."
In the more recent case' of TWabash, St. Louzs & PacXc
Railway Co. v. Ham, 114 U. S. 587, 594, it was said by this
court, speaking through Mr. Justice Gray "The property of
a corporation is doubtless a trust fund for the paymerit of its
debts, in the sense that when the corporation is lawfully dissolved and all its business wound up, or when it is insolvent,
all its creditors are entitled -in equity to have their debts paid
out of the corporate property before any distribution thereof
among the stockholders. It is also true, in the case of a corporation, as in that of a natural person, that any conveyance
of property of the debtor, without authority of law, and in
fraud of existing creditors, is void as against them."
Can the transactions between Richardson and the insolvent

RICIA RDSOIN v. GREEIN.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation of whih he was largely the owner and controller,
especially with respect to the claim he is urging in this cake,
stand the test of the fairness and good faith which, as a
director and stockholder, he owed to the corporation, its creditors andbona flde bondholders.? His very first transaction
with the corporation, by which he introduced himself into it
as a stockholder, was an illegal and fraudulent act. We refer
to the agreement on the part of the company to issue to
Richardson 1250 shares of bonus stock. At the time this
agreement was made and the stock issued in pursuance thereof,
the statutes of Michigan provided "That it shall not be lawful for any railroad company, existing by virtue of the laws
of this State, nor for any officer of any such company, to sell,
dispose of, or pledge any shares in the capital stock of such
company, nor to issue certificates of shares in the capital, stock
of such company until the shares so sold, disposed ,of, or
pledged, and the shares for which such certificates are to be
issued shall have been fully paid." 2 Comp. Laws Miqh. par.
/
'T757'.
We have seen that all the acts of Richardson as director,
stockholder, chairman of the executive committee and treasurer, all of which offices he-held at one time, had their origin
in this bonus stock. After 'having exercised all the privileges
and powers of a stockholder in the corporation, it cannot be
seriously contended that he is to be held exempt from the
liabilities which would attach to a bona fide shareholder who
has taken shares purporting to be paid up, but which in truth
are not paid up. The case of Scovill v. Dwtayer, 105 U. S.
143, 153, 154, bears a close analogy to this Mr. Justice
Woods delivering the opinion of the court in that case said
"The stock held by the defendant was evidenced by certificates of full-paid shares. It isconceded to have been the
contract between him and the company that he should never
be called upon to pay any further assessments upon it.
But the doctrine of thai court is, that such a contract, though
binding on the company, is a fraud in law on its creditors,
which they can set aside, that when their rights intervene
and their clams are to be satisfied, the stockholders can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

required to pay their stock in full." The same rule is laid
down in Ex parte .Dan ell, 1 DeG. & J 372. In that case
the directors of the company allotted to themselves a number of shares by a resolution that the shares so allotted
were to be treated as paid up stock in full. Daniell, one of
the directors, was not present at the time the resolution was
adopted, but he afterwards accepted the shares allotted to him.
An order having been made for winding up the company,
assessments were made upon those shares for the purpose, it
is supposed, of paying the debts of the company It was held
that Daniell was liable to those assessments to the same
extent as if the resolution had not provided that the shares
were to be treated as paid up stock.
The principle underlying all of the decisions which we have
cited upon this point is, that the capital stock of a corporation,
when it becomes insolvent, is in law assets of the corporation,
to be appropriated to the paymeift of its debts, and that
creditors have the right to assume that the stock issued by
the corporation and held by its stockholders as paid up stock
had beert paid up, or, if unpaid, that a court of equity, at the
instance of the proper parties, could require it to be paid up.
In the case now before us, the bonds claimed by the appellants
were voted to Richardson by his associate directors, every one
of whom owed his election to the. holders of this bonus stock
alone. The total amount of the advances made oy mm, for
which these bonds are collateral, is very little larger than onehalf of the amountof the stock which he had as paid up stock.
If the stock given to him and the Philadelphia parties had been
really paid up stock, there would have been no insolvency on
the part of this corporation.
Irrespective of the questijn whether he can be made liable
for the face amount of this stock, or for its proved value, the
facts we -have detailed certainly do not entitle his claim to
outrank that of any bona fide creditor, whether secured or
unsecured, in the matter of distribution.
The master found that the 400 bonds had never been delivered by the company to Richardson in his individual capacity,
in pledge as collateral security for the moneys advanced. It

RIOHARDS OI v. GREENY.
Opmlon of the Court.

is strenuously argued in behalf of appellants that the evidence taken under the order of the court, after the findings
of the master had been made and his report filed, for the purpose of explaining the receipt given by Richardson to his
predecessor, Ferry, is sufficient to overturn the master's report
on that point. That evidence was before the court when it
rendered the decree complained of, and, so far as the decree
shows, it was not regarded as essentially modifying the facts
as found by the master. We think the conclusion of the
court was correct. We do not deny that cases may arise in
which; if everything were admitted to be fairly done, with the
knowledge and acquiescence of the company, such a personal
possession as that which Richardson obtained, although not
such an actual delivery as the board had intended and directed,
might be considered as equivalent to a legal delivery But
under the special circumstances of this case, in view of the
unfair means employed by Richardson to have the entire body
of the company's bonds transferred from the custody of Ferry
into his own custody, and the clandestine manner in which he
took out the 400 from that body, not only without notice of
the fact to the company, but with an implied, if not an -expressed, denial of the transactions, we do not think that he
can be regarded as standing in the position of a legal and
equitable pledgee, or that he ever acuired, as such pledgee,
a lien on the 400 bonds. But even if there could be anr
doubt on this point, Richardson himself by his own act has
removed it. He waived and abandoned all claim to any lien,
as a pledgee, by his voluntary surrender and delivery of the
bonds to the sheriff of the county of New'York, as the property of the company, to be sold under execution. If. the 400
bonds were not delivered to Richardson, as we think the court.
below correctly held, it follows that the unisgued bonds were
not subject to attachment or to execution as valid and binding
obligations against, the company, and that Richardson's purchase at the sheriff's sale vested in him no title or ownership
in them.
Counsel for the appellants in their brief put not a little
stress upon the fact that Richardson's claim is based upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

advance of aqtual money for the enterprise to the full amount
of $185,58,.18. The answer to this is, that the decree of the
court below recognized his claim to the entire amount and
gave him his ratable share of the proceeds of the sale, upon
the footing of the 200 bonds delivered to him, up to the
amount of $273,282.87. We are of the opinion that that ctecree gave him the fullest measure of allowance to which he

could possibly be justly entitled.
It is hardly necessary to say much with respect to the claim
ofRichardson to the 1105 bonds alleged by him to have been
redeemed as aforesaid. Upon this question the master says"
"The case is briefly this The board of directors sent one
of their number as financial agent to Europe with authority to
negotiate a sale of bonds. While there, to defray expenses,
he borrowed a sum of money from a Mr. Stevens and pledged
to him 50 of the bonds as collateral security, these, together
with the 1105 bonds, tins agent and Stevens deposited with
the Consolidated Bank of London, with agreement that the
bonds should not be delivered to any one without the joint
order- or consent of the agent and Stevens. The agent was
withdrawn from Europe, the indebtedness due Stevens was
allowed to go to protest, and the directors were fearful Stevens
would not only sell the bonds pledged, but would also sell the
1105, and the purchaser obtain title to the whole, and thus
render nearly valueless the securities held by the directors.
To prevent this calamity Richardson advanced the money,
charged it to the company, and received its notes therefor. He
then Atempted to do what he was fearful might have been
done in London, namely, levy upon and sell the 1105 bonds,
and himself become the purchaser at a nominal sum, and thus
.gaim an unconscionable advantage over other-bondholders. It
is a general rule that fraud or any gross misconduct on the
part of the salvors in connection with the property saved will
work a forfeiture of the salvage, and the evidence in this case
with reference to the means employed to obtain a levy on the
bonds in question and the sale thereof fully justifies us in the
conclusion which I have reached that no allowance ought to
b.e made to Richardson by way of I equitable salvage' for the

