OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ST. LOUIS 'AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY
COMPANY v. JOHNSTON.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 41. Argued Decembr 19, 1889. - Decided Marcb 3, 1890.

A, customary depositor in a bank in New York deposited with it a sight
draft on a railway company in Boston. It was described as a "check"
on the deposit ticket, which distinguished between "checks" and " bills."
le had made similar deposits before, never dra*ing against them, the
bank always reserving the right to charge exchange and interest for the
time taken in collection. The depositor's bank-book was with the bank
at the time of the deposit. No entry was made in it until some days
later, and then not by direction of the depositor. The receiving teller
applied to the cashier for instructions on the receipt of the deposit and
was directed to receive it as cash. The bank sent the draft to Boston
for collection, and it was collected there. Before that was done, the
bank in New York, which was insolvent when the transaction took place,
suspendel, closed its doors, and never resumed; Held, that the question whether the bank had become the owner of the draft, or was only
acting as the agent of its customer, was one of fact, rather than of law,
and that there was not enough evidence to establish that the customer
understood that the bank had become the owner of the paper.
When a bank has become hopelessly insolvent, and its president knows that
it is so, it is a fraud to receive deposits of checks from an innocent depositor, ignorant of its condition, and he can reclaim them or their proceeds; and the pleadings in this case are so framed as to give the
plaintiff in error the benefit of this principle.

FOR more than five years prior to the 6th day of May, 1884,
the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway Company had an
account with the Marine National Bank of the city of New

York.

On the 5th day of May of that year it drew a sight

draft on the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Conipany at Boston, -Massachusetts, payable to the order of the
Marine Bank, for the sum of $17,835, an amount due' from the
latter company, and sent the same to the Marine Bank with a

deposit ticket filled up by the assistant treasurer of the San
Francisco Company, in the following words and figures:

ST. LOU'IS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. JOHNSTON..-

67

Statement of the Case.

"Deposited by the St. Louis & San Francisco Railway Co. in
the Marine National- Bank May 5th, 1884.
Cents.
Dolars.
.....
........
"Bills ...
$1,835"
.............
"Chec&s .....
The messenger who took the .draft and deposit ticket to the
bank had no special instructions, and handed them to an assistant of the receiving teller, who was absent at the time. 'The
railway company's pass-book was then, and had been since
April 30, 1884, in the possession of the bank, and no entry was
made i/n it until some days afterwards, and then not by direction of the railway company, The assistant receiving teller
applied to the assistant cashier for instructions. and was by him
directed to receive the draft as cash, and it was so entered on
the credit ledger of dealers with the .bank, but not with the
knowledge or by the request of the railway company. The
Marine Bank sent the draft to the Atlantic National Bank of
Boston for collection and credit, and it was by that bank presented to the Atchison Company on the 6th of May, 1884,
and .that company at five minutes before one o'clock P. of
that day delivered its check on the National 'Bank of North,
America to the Atlantic Bank, which was presented for payment and paid to the Atlantic Bank on May 7, 1884. The
Marine Bank was insolvent when it received the draft, and
closed its doors at twenty minutes before eleven o'clock on the
morning of the 6th of May, 1884, and never resumed business.
Walter S. Johnston was appointed receiver of the bank on the 13th of May, 1884, and thereupon a correspondence ensued
between the receiver and the San Francisco Company, which
resulted in an agreement between, them that the receiver might
retain the proceeds, subject to the right of the San Francisco
Company to assert its claim thereto, which it does in this
action. It is conceded that the Marine Bank never paid or
advanced anything to the San Francisco Company on the
draft, and that the latter, at the time the draft was sent to the
bank, or at any time since, was not indebted to it. The balance
to the credit of the railway company in the Marine Bank at
nine o'clock A.M. on May 6, 1884, not including the draft, was

-uu'OBER TERIVf, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

$11 7,981.72, besides some checks it had drawn and which i
was obliged t6 take up.
The treasurer and assistant treasurer of the railway company testified that there was no arrangement or understand.
ing, verbal or written, or dealing, to their knovvledge,'with
the Marine Bank, by which the San Francisco Company was
authorized or entitled to draw against out-of-town paper
before actual collection, and that no drafts were ever so
drawn; that they knew of no such agreement, verbal or in
writing; that they drew -on what they had and not on what
they did not have; that the railway company had no occasion
to draw against drafts or checks before collection, and did not
do so; and that the company was allowed interest on its daily
balances. Four deposits of out-of-town paper, other than that
in question, were proven to have been made under the dates
of August 23, August 27 and November 3, 1883, and April 10,
1884. The deposit tickets in each case referred to the deposit
as "checks."- The deposits of August 23, August 27 and
November 3, were made up of two items each, but neither
was marked on the tickets as cash, and there was no evidence
that either of them was. The receiving teller testified that
generally foreign paper, (paper outside of the city of New
York,) of large amount, when received, was marked "F,"
and such a mark in red pencil appeared on the deposit tickets
of November 3, 1883, for $17,860; of April 10, 1884, for
$18,930; and of May 5, 1884, for $17,835, being the deposit
in controversy. The witness said this was done, so "that if
any of the officers should ask what certain checks consisted of
- if a large deposit - we would be able to tell." These drafts
or checks on banks outside .of the city were kept on a slip
called "foreign and general office slip," and put in a different
pigeon-hole from that where domestic paper was placed.
The assistant note-teller had charge of the transmission of
paper drawn on banks or persons outside of the city of New
York, and testified thus: "Q. And all that you had to do, as
it was out-of-town paper, was to transmit it for collection,
was it not? A. And see that we got the money back again.
Q. Those were all your duties in regard to it? A. Well, I had

ST. LOUIS &c. R AILWAY CO. v. JOHNSTON.'

59

Statement of the Case.

dther duties. Q. What were they? A. To see that the.St.
Louis and San Francisco Railway Company did not deposit
too many large foreign checks as cash. Q. Why did you do
so? A. Because I had entire charge of the foreign checks.'
The foreign checks are usually out five days, and that is five
days' interest, and unless those concerned kept a large balance
we charged them exchange, and where we paid interest on the
balances we then charged interest and exchange where they
kept large balances, and for that reason we watched all foreign checks deposited. . . . Q. What were the instructions you received in regard to the St. Louis and San FranCisco
Railway Company? A. To see whether they were depositing
.many large foreign checks and how much it cost, and whether
it was advisable to get exchange from them.. . . . Q. Do
you recollect what officer it was who gave you those instructions? A. No, sir. Q. Did you ever after that enforce them?
A. I do n6t understand, the meaning of the word 'enforce.'
I notified the officers of all large checks deposited by the St.
Louis and San Francisco Railway Company. ,Q. How frequently? A. I don't remember; as often as they, came in."
This particular draft was marked "F," and put in the
foreign pigeon-hole, and credited as cash by direction, of the
assistant cashier. The form of letter universally used in transmitting foreign paper for collection was put in by defendant,
and contained this paragraph: "Please return as.promptly as
possible all unpaid collections protested, unless marked thus X,
when please return without protest." In the five instances of
the deposit of these out-of-town drafts, they were credited to
the San Francisco Company on the bank'js books, and the 4n
Francisco Company entered and added their amount on th'e
margin of its check-book.
It appeared from the evidence that the bank bad been
insolvent for a year, and that it was hopelessly so on Saturday,
the third day of May, and until its doors were closed. The
receiver said that he got judgment for over $730,000 on the
over-drafts of a firm doing business with the bank, which overd afts occurred in the last two or three days in one account,
and had been running for two or three weeks in the other

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

account; that the over-draft in the individual account of one
of the partners amounted to $140,000 ; in the firm account,
to $300,000; and in the firm special account, to $350,000,
most of which was before Saturday, the 3d of May. Estimating the assets of the bank at what they were actually
worth, and not at their face value, the' deficit, according to
the receiver's judgment when he took charge, was over a
million and a half of dollars. The bank was really insolvent
from the time the indebtedness from the firm in question,
which was insolvent, grew to such a point, that, if called and
not paid, the bank could not meet its obligations. The president of the Marine Bank was a partner of that firm.
The bill in this case was filed to obtain the proceeds of the
draft as the property of the San Francisco Company, and,
among other things, alleged:
"On the said 5th day of May it was well known to the
said bank and to its officers, and so the fact was, thfat the said
bank was insolvent, and, well knowing the fact, the said bank
wrongfully neglected to disclose the sbme to your orator, but
by continuing business with open doors, and otherwise representing to your orator and all other persons dealing with it
that the said bank was solvent, and on the faith of such representations, your orator believed the said bank to be solvent,
and had no knowledge or suspicion or means of knowing that
it Was insolvent or in danger of becoming so,' and, acting
upon such representations and relying on the solvency of said
bank your orator delivered the said draft -to it, and the bank
received the same for collection as aforesaid. Thereafter, and
on the same day, the said bank, by its cashier, endorsed the
said draft as follows:
IPay Atlantic National Bank of
Boston or order, for collection, for account of Marine National Bank of the city of New York,' and transmitted the
said draft, so endorsed, to the said Atlantic National Bank
for collection."
And "that, by reason of the premises, the said draft, when
delivered as aforesaid to the said bank, did not become the
property of the said bank, and that your orator did not part
with its title to or interest in the said draft, but that it re-

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY 0O. v. JOHNSTON .
Argument for Appellee.

mained-the property of your orator, and that the proceeds of
the said draft, when collected, likewise did not become the
property of the said bank, or of the defendant, but remained
always, and still are, the property of your orator, and your
orator is entitled to follow them specifically into the hands of
the defendant and to recover them from him." Upon final
hearing the bill was dismissed, and the opinion of the Circuit
Court will be found reported in 23 Blatchford, 489, and in
27 Fed. Rep. 243.
.Xr. John E. Bun-ill for appellant.
.Mr. Charles E. Miller for appellee.
I. The deposit of a check in a bank accepted by it and
credited to the depositor creates a debt apd vests the property
in the check in the bank. .Metropolitan _Yat.'Bank v. Loyd,
90 N. Y. 530; Cragie v. Hadey,-99 N. Y. 131; Bank of the
Republic v. Millard, 10 Wall. 152; Scammon v. Himball, 92
U. S. 362, 370; Libby v. lop/kins, 104 U. S. 303, 308.
II. The law will not presume, from the mere fact that this
deposit was of out-of-town paper, that any different result followed from the deposit than in the case of other paper. "No
such distinction exists in law, and no custom or course of
dealing has beenshown to create any such distinction.'
The case comes before the court as an ordinary deposit of
cash or checks.
IIl. The case of Scott v. The Ocean Bank, 23 IN. Y. 289,
cited by appellant's counsel, is not in his favor.
The court, in that case, bases its decision mainly upon the
fact that neither by express agreement nor by any previous
dealings was it shown that the depositor was entitled to .4
credit for bills remitted by-him.
At page 290 the court says: "It is not shown nor claimed
that there was an express agreement between the company
and Lyell. that he should, on the receipt by it of the bills remitted, be entitled to have a credit in the account between
them for the Amount thereof ; nor is it found that in the course

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellee.

of the dealings between them any credit was in fact ever given
to him for any of such bills until the -proceeds thereof were
realized and received."
And at page 292 the court says: "When, therefore, it appears that the bill in question was retained in the possession of
the company after its acceptance, and that no credit had been
given for it at the time it was passed to the defendants, and
when nothing is disclosed in the whole course of dealings, between the parties, to show that any bill was ever credited or
agreed to be credited in account before its collection, or that
Lyell ever drew, or was entitled to draw, upon the company,
or that it was bound to accept drafts otherwise than upon and
for funds actually received in cash- it must be considered that
the company, at the time of the transfer, stood in the relation
of agents for its collection merely."
In the case at bar, the facts clearly establish a course of
dealing between the parties of credits for similar bills at the
time of their deposit, and the court has so found.
In the Scott case the court also dwells -upon the fact that
the depositor himself was not a party to the bill.
In .Dickinsonv. Wason, 47 N. Y. 439, the note was in terms
sent for collection.
In Balbach v. .relinghuysen, 15 Fed. Rep. 683, cited by
plaintiff, the court lays stress upon the fact that the account
between the parties had not changed between the date of the
deposit and the failure of the bank, and that no draft hadbeen
drawn by the depositor.
In the case at bar the plaintiff did draw checks after the
deposit, and before the failure, against its gross balance in the
bank, and such checks were paid and the account between the
parties had changed after the deposit.
IV. If it was the fact that the bank was insolvent when the
deposit was made, it would not affect the transaction.
(a) Fraud cannot be imputed to a party who contracts a
debt, knowing that he is insolvent, merely from the fact of
his insolvency and his omission on a purchase of property oncredit'to disclose that fact to his 'vendor. Nichols v. _Pinner,
18 N. Y. 295; .Nichol&v. -Michael,23 N. Y. 261; S. C. 80 Am.

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. JOHNSTON.

513

Opinion of the Court.

Dec. 259; Wright v. Brown, 67 N. Y. -;Peopjes B-ank v.
Bogart, 81 N. Y. 101; -orri& v. Talcott, 96 N. Y. 100.
V. There is no evidence that the directors/of the bank had
any knowledge of its condition. Such knoivledge, cannot be
presumed where fraud is charged. -fakeman v. Dalley, 51
N. Y. 27.,
I Knowledge by any of the officers of a-bank of its insolvency;
is insufficient to avoid transactions between the bank and its
customers, on the ground of fraud, unless the evidence clearly
shows that 'the directors who represent the corporation also
had such knowledge. Balbacl v. FreZinghuysen, 15 Fed.- Rep:
683..
.
VI. The bill contains no -allegation that the officers, of the
bank entertained any fraudulent intention toward the plaintiff
in receiving the deposit and a recovery cannot be had upon
that theory. The decree must be 8ecundum allegata.
MR.CmEF JusTmcg FuLLE delivered.the opinion of the cdu.rt.

This was ,not the deposit of a checkon the Marine Bank itself.
In such a case it was held in Oddie v. .NMational City Bank, 45
N. .Y. 735, that the check, if' received and credited, could not
be charged back for want of funds.-. Nor was it a check on
another, ibank, as to which Church, C. J., remarksi a different
principle would be applied, -as the presumption of agency
*mightarise. It was a sight, draft drawn by the San Francisco
Company on its debtor in Boston,: and collected through the
Mvarine-Bank's correspondent at that place. Neither it, nor
the money collected upon it, passed ifito the hands of any third
person for value. The collectio.was made after the Marine
Bank had closed its doors. It.is not claimed that there was
any express arrangement or, understanding between the San
Francisco Company and the bank that the deposits of out-oftown paper.should be treated as cash. Can such an under-standing be implied froni the mere fact that the San Francisco
Company was credited with the- draft upon'the books of the
bank, as if the deposit were of-money, although the deposit
ticket .named it -under the head of checks, and that the com-

. OCTOBER TERMT, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

pany itself added on the stubs of its check-book such deposits
to the current amount, coupled with an alleged commercial
usage to allow good customers to draw against a credit thus
created? In five years of business betw een them, the San
Francisco Company had never drawn against such paper. The
evidence of the bank's clerks leaves no doubt that, as to outof-town drafts for large amounts, the bank kept track of them
and reserved the right to charge exchange and also interest
for the average time taken in collection, notwithstanding its
agreement to pay interest on the daily balances. This was not
consistent with the theory of an understanding between the
bank and the company that the title to ihis and similar drafts
should pass absolutely to the bank. If ihe draft had not been
paid, the bank could have cancelled the credit, as it clearly
accepted no risk on the paper. The draft was entered at its
full value, which indicated that it was not discounted, liut
credited for convenience and in anticipation of its payment.
It is settled law in this court that the holder of a bank check
cannot sue the bank for refusing payment, in the absenceof
proof that it was accepted by the bank or charged against the
drawer, (Bank of The Republic v. -Hillard,
10 Wall. 152; -First
National Bank v. Whitman, 94: U. S. 343, 344; -aclede Bank
v. ScAuler, 120 U. S. 511, 514;) but the depositor can sue for
the breach of the contract to honor his checks. If, under the
circumstances disclosed in this case, the only balance the San
Francisco Company had was made up of the deposit of this
draft, and it had drawn against it, and the bank had declined
to honor the check, could the San Francisco Company have'
sustained an action on the ground of a general commercial
usage, when by the course of dealing for five years it had never
drawn against paper so deposited? Because banks often let
good customers overdraw, do the latter thereby get the right
to do so when the bank deems it improper to permit it? Undoubtedly if the San Francisco Company had overdrawn, and
this draft had been credited to cover the over-draft, or if the
company had drawn against the draft, the bank could hold the
paper until the account was squared. And if the bank had
transferred the draft to one occupying the position of a bona

ST. LOUIS &c.'RAILWAY CO.*,v. JON'MSTON.

575

Opinion of the Court.

fide holder, such transfer would have conferred title on 'its
transferee by reason of its reputed o inership, so far as the
latter was concerned. .MetroolitanNational Bank v. Loyd,
90 N. Y. 530.
In that case, as reported'in 25 Hun, 101, which was affirmed
in 90 N. Y. 530,. the Court of Appeals remarking in reference
to the opinion that it "so fully reviews the evidence and the,
authorities, that we should be content with simply expressing
our concurrence, if the case had not been sent here by that
court as involving a question of law which ought to be reviewed," the Supreme Court says "that the intention that the
check should be ieceived as cash is to'be inferred from the fact
that the check was due immediately and was'drawn on a bank,
and for all purposes of the parties was equivalent to so much
money,' .
and such intention is confirmed by preceding transactions, admitted by the depositor, in which checks
were deposited and entered as cash in his bank book, and that
the custom of the bank in its dealings with him was to credit
him with all checks as money."
And in Scott v. Ocean7,.Bank, 23 N. Y. 289, it was held that
"the property in notes o bills transmitted to a banker by his
customer to be credited the latter, vests in the banker only
when he has become absolutely responsible for the amount to
the depositor," and that "such an obligation, previous to the
collection of the bill, can only be established by a contract to
be expressly proved or-inferred from an unequivocal course of
dealing."
"Every man who pays bills not "then-due into the hands of
his banker," said Lord Ellenborough in -Giles v. Perkins, 9
East, 12, 14," places them there as in the hands of his agent
to obtain payment of them when due. If the banker discount
the bill, or advance money upon the credit of it, that alters,
the case; he then acquires the entire property in it, or has a
lien on it pro tanto for his advance."
If there be no bargain that the property should be, changed,
the relation resembles that of principal and agent. Mere liberty to draw does not make out such a'bargain, particularly
where interest is allowed by the 'banker upon the
bills only

OCTOBER TERM,. 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

.rom the time when their amount is received. Exrparte Barkworth, 2 De G. & J. 194:; Tkorpson v. Giles, 2 B. & C. 422;
Ex parte Sargeant, 1 Rose, 153.
The question was one of fact rather than of law, and we
think there should be something more in the evidence tending
to establish that the San Francisco Company understood that
the bank had become owner of the paper, than these mere
credits for convenience, before that can be held to be the fact,
notwithstanding it may be a recognized usage to allow a customer to draw.' So far from there being shown an unequivocal course of dealing tending to support that conclusion, it
seems to us the tendency of the evidence is otherwise.
But if there could be any question on that branch of the
case, we are unable to see that there could be on the other.
This bank was hopelessly insolvent when the deposit was
made, made so apparently by the operations of a firm of
which the president of the bank was a member. The knowledge of the president was the knowledge of the bank. Martin
v. Webb, 110 U. S. 7, 15; Bank v. JThlker, 130 U. S. 267;
Cragie v. Hadley, 99 N. Y. 131. In the latter case it was held
that the acceptance of a deposit by a bank irretrievably insolvent, constituted such a fraud as entitled the depositor to reclaim his drafts or their proceeds. And the Anonymous Case,
67 N. Y. 598, was approved, where a draft was purchased
from the defendants, who were bankers, when they were hopelessly, insolvent, to their knowledge, and the court held the
defendants guilty of fraud in contracting the debt, and said
their conduct was -not like that of a trader "who has become
embarrassed and insolvent, and yet has reasonable hopes that
"by continuing in business he may retrieve his fortunes. In
such a case he may buy- goods on credit, making no false representations, without the necessary imputation of dishonesty.
Nichols v. Pinner, 18 N. Y. 295; Brown v. Montgomery, 20
N. Y. 287; Johnson v. Morrell, 2 Keyes, 655; Ch fee v. Fort,2
Lans. 81. But it is believed that no case can be found in the
books holding that a trader who was hopelessly insolvent,
knew that he could not pay his debts and that he must fail in
business and thus disappoint his creditors, could honestly take

.ST.. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. JOHNSTON .
Opinion of the Court.

advantage of a credit induced by his apparent prosperity and.
thus obtain property which he had every reason to believe he
could never pay for. In such a case he does an act, the necessary result of which will be to cheat and defraud another and
the intention to cheat will be inferred." And it was decided
that "in the case of bankers, where greater confidence is
asked and reposed, and where dishonest dealings may causo
widespread disaster, a more rigid responsibility for good faith
and honest dealing will be enforced than in the case of merchants a-Rd other traders;" and that " a banker who is, to his
own knowledge, hopelessly insolvent, cannot honestly continue
his business and receive the' money-of his customers; and
although'having no actual intent to cheat and defraud a particular customer, he will be held to have intended the inevitable consequences of his act, i.e. to cheat ,and defraud all
persons whose money he receives, and whom he fails to pay
before he'is compelled to stop business."
The Circuit Court did not, in, the present case, express any
different view, but held that the bill was not propefly framed
to pregent the question. Certainly there must be sufficient
equity apparent on the face of a bill to warrant the court in
granting the relief prayed; and the material facts on which
the complainant relies must be so distinctly alleged as to put:
them in issue. Harding v. Handy/, 11 Wheat. 103. And if
fraud is r.elied on, it is not sufficient to make the charge in
general terms. -"M ere words, in and of themselves, and even
as qualifying adjectives of more specific charges, are not sufficient grounds of equity jurisdiction, unless the transactions to
which they refer are such as in-their essential nature constitute
a fraud or' a breach of trust, for which a court of chancery
can give relief."
-Fan Weel v. .inston, 115 U. S. 228, 237;
Ambler v. Choteau, 107 U. S. 586, 591. The defendant should
not be subjected to being taken by surprise, and enough
should be stated to justify the conclusion of la-w, though without undue minuteness.
The bill alleged that the bank was insolvent on the 5th day
of May; that this was well known to its officers; that it
wrongfully neglected to disclose its insolvency to complainant,
VOL. cxxx-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and, by continuing business and otherwise, represented to complainant and all other persons dealing with it, that it was solvent; that complainant, on the faith of these representations
believed such to be the fact, without suspicion that the bank
was, or was in danger of becoming, insolvent; that, acting
upon the representations, and relying on the bank's solvency,
complainant delivered the draft; that next morning the bank
closed its doors, and the draft was collected thereafter; and
that, by reason of the premises, the draft or its proceeds did
not become the property of the bank. The receiver in his
answer specifically denied these averments. We think the
issue thus framed was sufficient to enable the court to proceed
to a decree. The fraudulent intention flowed from the guilty
knowledge, and the bank must be held to the consequences of
a representation which it knew to be contrary to the fact, and
upon which the complainant innocently acted. Granted that
the mere omission to disclose the insolvency, if there had been
ground for the supposition that the bank might continue in
business, would not be sufficient, there is nothing for such a
belief to rest on here. As.a matter of pleading, the averment
,was that the bank wrongfully neglected to make the disclosure; as a matter of fact, the condition of the bank was so
hopeless that it was its duty to make it.. The omission to specifically state in the pleading the- degree'of insolvency which
rendered the bank's conduct fraudulent, was not fatal, as the.
conclusion asserted showed the intention of the pleader, and
the particular contention could fairly be tested on the hearing.
Tie decree is reversed,and the cause remandedwith directions
to enter a decree in favor of the complainant according to
theprayer of the bill and to take further jproceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

was not a member of the court when

this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.

