UNITED STATES v. HOSBY.
Syllabus.

inheritance an interest in the real property- in the District of
Columbia of which their uncle died seized. The decree of the
court below will, therefore, be
Reversed and the cause remanded, with directirn to overmdre
J&e demurrer of the defendants; and it ss so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. MOSBY.
MOSBY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
Nos. 1112,1420. Argued January 17, 1890.-Decided Fellruary 3. 1890.

question considered, as to what axe "offical services" performed by
.onsuls, under the consular regulations of 1874 aud'1881, prescribed by
the President by virtue of the provisions of ยง 1745 of the Revised Statutes.
Fees collected by a consul for the examination of Chinese emigrants going
to the United States on foreign vessels; agd fees for certificates of shipment of merchandise in transit through the United States to other countries; and fees for recording instruments which are not bflcial documents
recorded in the record books required to be kept by the consul, but relate
to private transactions for individuals not requiring the use of the consql's
title or seal of office; and fees for cattle-disease certificates; and fees
for acknowledgments and authentications of :instruments certifying the
official character and signature of notaries public; and fees for settling
private estates; and fees for shipping and discharging seamen on
foreign-built vessels sailing *on the Chiha coast under the United States
flag; are not moneys which he is required to account for to the United
States.
Fees collected by him-for certifying extra copies of quadruplicate invoices
of goods shipped to the United States; and money received for interest
on public moneys deposited in bank, and fees collected for certificates
of shipments or extra invoices; and fees for certifying invoices for free
goods imported into the United States; are moneys which he is required
to account for to the 'United States.
The practice of consuls to do acts which are not official is recognized by the
statutes and the consular regulations.
The claimant had a judgment in- the Court of Claims against the United
States for $13,839.21. Both parties appealed. 'The items of the disal~w-ance of which the claimant complained did not amount to more than
$3000. But it was held that he could avail himself of anything in the case
VOL. CXXx=i-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
which properly showed that the judgnent was not for too large a sum;
and this court, disallowing one of the items allowed to him, allowed one
of the items disallowed, and rendered a judgment m his favor for a less
amount than that rendered below.
THESE were appeals from a judgment in the Court of Claims
in favor of Mosby against the United States. The case is
stated in the opinion.

.Mr John S. .Mosby, in person.
.Mr Asststant Attorney General Maury for the United

States.
M .

JUSTiCE

BLTOHFOBD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought in the Court of Claims by John S.
M osby against the United States, claiming to recover the sum
of $29,180.01, moneys which he had received while he was
consul of the United States at Hong-Kong, from February 4,
1879, to July 21, 1885, and had paid into the treasury, the
items composing the above sum being as follows (1) For
examining Chinese emigrants departing on foreign vessels for
-the United States, $5147, (2) for certifying extra copies or
quadruplicate invoices, about $2000, (3) 'for certifying invoices
for goods in transit through the United States to other countries, $5805, (4) for notarial and clerical work, $644.01,
(5) for services to foreign-built vessels carrying the American
flag, $584, and (6> for certifying invoices for goods exported
to the United States which were on the free list, and for
which no invoice was required by law as a condition of entry,
about $15,000.
The petition alleged that those fees were paid voluntarily
to the claimant by persons at whose request the services were
performed, and were turned by him into the treasury, because
he did not wish to involve himself in a 'controversy with the
Department as long as he held a subordinate position in it, and
because he was compelled to obey its orders or be dismissed,
from office and subjected to the imputation of appropriating
money which did not belong to him, and that he credited the

UNITED STATES v. MOSBY.
Opunon of the Court.

fies to the treasury, relying on the good faith of the government to restore to him whatever belonged to him on a finalt
settlement of his accounts.
The Court of Clains found the facts as follows
"1. The claimant was consul of the United States at HongKong from February, 1879, until July, 1885, and remained at
his post until the latter date, when he returned to the United
States.
..
"2. During his term he turned into the treasury the sum
of $5147.00 on account of fees collected for examining Chinese
emigrants going to the United States on foreign vessels, of
this sum $3923.50 were collected prior to September 1, 1881,
and $1223.50 were collected between September I and Decem
ber 31, 1881. Said fees were voluntarily paid by the masters
and charterers of said vessels at whose solicitation the service
was rendered, and were collected in good faith by the consul.
'" 3. Soon after assuming charge of the consulate, to ..wit;
February 21 and March 19, 1879, claimant informed the Department of State that, since the enactment of the law of
February 19, 1862, prolibiting the coolie trade in which
American vessels had been engaged, it had been the .practice
at Hong-Kong to procure for American and foreign vessels
carrying Chinese passengers to the United Sthtes a consular
certificate of the fact that they were free and voluntary emigrants. The claimant addressed said communications to theState Department to establish that the fees belonged 'to him,
but paid into the treasury, before receiving a reply, the sum
of $731.75. In reply to a claim that he, the consul, was.-entitled to such fees, the Secretary of State replied, in substance,
that the fee is an official fee, and must be accounted for to the
treasury
"4. He gave written advice to the agent of the O. & 0. S.
S. Co., at Hong-Kong, to send steamships whielh were under
the English flag without a consular certificate for the Chinese
emigrants, as no law required it, and the agent declined to do
so. A copy of his letter to the said agent was forwarded to.
the State Department. It does not appear that the Departinent replied to his communication accompanying said.letter.

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

"5. The Bothwell Castle, an English steamship, sailed from
Hong-Kong about January 6, 1882, carrying Chinese emigrants
without the usual consular certificate of examination, but with a
letter from the United States consul addressed to the collector
at San Francisco, explaining why the master did not have it.
Said vessel entered the port of San Francisco without trouble
about February 1, 1882, all other foreign vessels after that
time ceased to procure the said consular certificate. A copy
of said letter to the collector at San Francisco was forwarded
to the State Department, but claimant did not receive a reply
All emigration fees collected up to December 31, 1881, were
turned into the Treasury
"6. The sum of $633.25 was collected in January, 1882, for
examination of Chinese on foreign vessels, which was first
credited and then charged back to the Treasury, and a letter
was written by the claimant to the First Comptroller explaining that item in his accounts. The Comptroller allowed the
item as a proper charge.
"17. The charterers of foreign vessels who had paid these
fees to the consul afterwards applied to the Treasury to have
them refunded, which was refused by the Comptroller on the
ground 'that the collection of said fees was proper and they
should not be refunded.'
"8. The claimant, after his removal from office, claimed the
emigration fees from foreign vessels. His claim was also
disallowed. The fees collected subsequently to January 3,
1882, were refunded by the consul to the parties who paid
them. The consul was not charged with the fees so refunded, or those he might have collected if he had not
declined to continue the practice of examining Chinese emigrants on foreign vessels. The claimant refused to collect
fees after receiving from the State Department notice that
such fees must thereafter be accounted for as official fees.
Said notice, in the form of a letter from the Department, was
dated on said date, and reached claimant in due course of
mail.
"9. The claimant paid into the Treasury the sum of $5805
on account of fees received by him for certificates of shipment

UNITED STATES -v. MOSBY.
Opinion of the Court.

of merchandise m transit through the United States to other
countries.
"10. The claimant paid into the Treasury the sum of $1592
for certifying extra copies or quadruplicate invoices of goods
shipped to the United States. The said sum was collected by
claimant before the 1st day of September, 1881.
"11. He credited and paid to the Treasury $58: on account
of fees collected for shipping and discharging seamen on foreignbuilt vessels sailing on the China coast under the United States
flag. He credited and paid into the Treasury $2095 on account
of invoices certified -byhim for free goods imported into the
United States.
"12. The claimant credited and paid into the Treasury fees
aggregating $644.01, accruing as follows
(a) Recording instruments at various times, between February 4,
1879, and December 31, 1880 .........
(b) Cattle-disease certificates, collected in small items from time to
time, between February 4, 1879, and September 30, 1880 ....
(c) Interest on deposits at the bank (public moneys deposited between February 4, 1879, and June 30, 1882) ...............
(d) Acknowledgments and authentications of instruments, collected
from time to time in small quantities, between February 4,
1879, and December 31, 1879, certifying official character and
.....................
signature of notary public ...
(e) Certificates of shipments, or extra invoices, collected during the
December quarter, 1881, $2.50 each ....................
(f) Five per cent commission on the estate of Alice Evans, May
.... ....
. ....
............
1881 ....................

$39 29
152 00
104 51

48 00
292 00
821
$644 01

"13. The payment by the claimant of these several sums of
money into the Treasury was for the purpose of avoiding a
controversy with the Department. Soon after the claimant
was removed from office, and before a final settlement of his
accounts, he made a demand that all fees now claimed be
credited to him.
"14. At the request of claimant's counsel, the following
facts are also found Said- claimant wrote to the State Department, MiIarch 19, 1879, as stated in finding 3, in which
communication he informed said Department that it had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the habit of his predecessors to retain said fees as unofficial.
and-asked to be instructed whether he, the claimant, was not
entitled to same. The said Department replied as follows
'It is now deemed to be the more advisable course to prescribe
the fee as an official one to be accounted for to the Treasury'
In instructions to said claimant, dated August 26, 1879, the
said Department instructed claimant that the fees for acts
which the consul is empowered but not required by law to
perform and which relate only to private transactions are
unofficial."
As conclusions of law, the court held that the claimant was
entitled to recover, for item (1) in the petition, $5147, for
iterpn (3), $5805, for items b, d, andf in finding 1.2, being part
of item (4), $208.21, for item (5), $584, and, as a part of item
(6), $2095. It rejected the claim of $1592 for certifying extra copies or quadruplicate invoices of goods shipped to the
United States, being the amount proved and found as to item
(2), and also items a, o, and e, in finding 12, amounting to
$435.80, being a part of the- $644.01 in item (4). A judgment
was rendered for the claimant for $13,839.21, from which Jioth
parties appealed. The opinion of the Court of Claims, disposing of the various matters involved, is reported in 24 C. C1..1.
It is provided as follows by section 1745 of the Revised
Statutes: "The President is authorized to prescribe, from
time to time, the rates or tariffs of fees to be charged fo
official services, and to designate what shall be regarded as
official services, besides such as are expressly declared by law,
in the business -of the several legations, consulates, and commercial agencies, and to adapt the same, by sirch differences
as may be necessary or proper, to each legation, consulate, or
commercial agency, and it shall be the duty of all officers and
persons connected with such legations, consulates, or commercial agencies to collect fo such official services such-and only
such fees as may be prescribed for their respective legations,
consulates, and commercial ,agencies, and such rates or tariffs
shall be reported annually to Congress."
This section concerns itself wholly with "offidial services."
*The tatriffs of fees to be prescribed by the President from time

'UINITED STATES v. MOSBY.
Opimon of the Court

to time are those to be charged for "official services." The
President is to designate what are to be regarded as "official
services," m addition to such as are expressly declared by law
The inhibition on consular officers, as to the collection of fees,
is only against the collection, for "such official services," of
other fees than the prescribed fees. It. is not claimed by the
United States in this case that the fees sued for by the claimant fall within the class mentioned in section 1745, of "such
as are expressly declared by law" The question for determination is, whether the fees collected by the claimant, and
paid into the Treasury, were fees for official services, within
the regulations prescribed by the President nder section
1745.
The claimant acted with propriety, and with a high sense
of honor, in paying the fees into the Treasury, in order to avoid
a controversy with the Department, and he asserted his right
to have the fees refunded to him, by making a demand that
they should be-credited .to him in his accounts, before such
accounts were finally settled. He did not concede the right
of the government to retain the fees, and his action was
equivalent to a formal protest made at the time of paying
them over. As is said by Judge Weldon, speaking for the
Court of Claims in its opinion- "Public officers (upon the
question of their compensation and the payment of money
into the Treasury) are not bound, in ordei- to save their rights,
to place themselves in antagonism to the accounting officers of
the Department, suffer themselves to be sued, and incur the
odium, for the time, of being in default, but have the right to
pay into the Treasury the disputed moneys, and then seek the
courts to adjust and determine their claims against ther superior and sovereign." Nothing done in the present -case can
amount to an estoppel against the claimant.
Part of the fees in question accrued while the consular regulations of 1874: were in force, and part under those of 1881.
These regulations must be considered in regard to each specific item.
1. As to item (1), $5147, the facts relating to that item are
in findings 2 to 8, both inclusive. The consular regulations of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

1874 were prescribed by the President on September 1, 1874,
and those of 1881 on May 1, 1881.
Paragraph 321 of the regulations of 1874 is as follows
"321. All acts are to be regarded as 'official services,' when
the consul is required to use his seal and title officially, or
either of them, and the fees received therefor are to be accounted for to the Treasury of the Umted States." It is to be
observed that this paragraph uses the word "required," and
does not say that all acts are to be regarded as official services
when the consul uses his seal and title officially, or either of
them.
Paragraph 333 of those regulations contains a tariff of fees
for 107 different services, but none of them specifies the fee
for an examination of Chinese emigrants going to the United
States on foreign vessels.
Paragraph 489 of the regulations of 1881 reads as follows
"489. All acts or services for which a fee is prescribed in the
tariff of fees are to be regarded as o/iesal services, and the fees
received therefor are to be reported and accounted for to the
Treasury of the United States, except when otherwise expressly
stated therein."
Paragraph 496 in those regulations says "The following
is the revised tariff of official fees, prescribed by order of
the President, and to be observed by all consular officers."
Among 106 items contained in that tariff, item 35 prescribes a
fee of 25 cents for a certificate "to the examination required
by section 2162 of the Revised Statutes, for each emigrant.
(Art. 21.)"
Section 2162 of the Revised Statutes, in connection with section 2158, provides for a certificate to be
signed by the consul of the United- States residing at the port
from which any vessel registered, enrolled or licensed in the
United States may take her departure, carrying a subject of
China, Japan or any other Oriental country, known as a
coolie, containing his name, and setting forth the fact of his
'voluntary emigration from such port, such certificate to be
given to the master of the vessel, and not to be given until the
consul is first personally satisfied by evidence of the truth of
the facts therein contained. These provisions do not refer to

UNITED STATES v. MOSBY.
Opimon of the Court.

foreign vessels. Article 21 of the regulations of 1881, referred to in item 35 of paragraph 496, embraces seven paragraphs, and is headed "Duties as to American Vessels
engaged in the Transportation of Chinese and other Ehmigrants," and the article expressly states that the duties of
the consul under it apply to vessels of the United States. Article 18 of the regulations of 1874 is to the same purport as
article 21 of the regulations of 1881.
N{either in the regulations of 1874 nor in those of 1881 is
there any designation, as an official service, of the examination
of the subjects of China, Japan or any other Oriental country,
known as coolies, carried as passengers on board of any vessel
other than a vessel registered, enrolled or licensed in the
United States. Therefore, the consul, in examining Chinese
emigrants going to the United States on foreign vessels, did
not perform a service required by law or by the regulations, or
any service specified in any tariff of fees, or any official service. The fees received for such service, being paid voluntarily
to the consul by the person to whom it was rendered, became
the private property of the consul and not the money of the
United States. This view is not varied by the fact that the
person employed the consul to render the service because he
was consul, or by the fact that the consul attached his seal
as evidence of his official character, because he was not required by any law or regulation to use either his seal or his
title of office officially, nor was any fee prescribed for the service in any tariff of fees.
The practice of consuls to do acts which are not official is
recognized in several places in the consular regulations of
1874, as in paragraphs 296 -and 297, where it is stated that
consuls are at liberty to examine titles for their countrymen
at home, "or to.do other services for them in a foreign land,"
"for a private compensation, if it does not interfere with the
performance of their official duties;" in paragraph 308, the
performing of notarial acts, in paragraph 309, the taking the
acknowledgment of deeds, and the taking of depositions and
affidavits under the laws, of the States and Territories of
the Union. for use as evidence in such States and Territories,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

respectively; in paragraph 310, the execution of a commission
for taking testimony under the authority of a state or territorial tribunal, which function paragraph 311 states "is regarded
as outside of the regular duties and responsibility of a consular
officer," and in regard to which paragraph 312 states as follows. "It is to be understood that in such cases the consular
officer does not act in his quality of an agent of the Federal
Government, but simply as a citizen of the United States whose
local position and character render him available to his fellowcitizens for such services as might have been rendered by a
private individual. lHe should make himself as useful as he
can to his fellow-citizens, without giving offence to the government which gives him his exequatur. But it must be understood in all such cases that he acts as a private citizen, and
that the government cannot in any way be made responsible
for his acts."
Like provisions are found in paragraphs 471 to 477 of
the consular regulations of 1881, and paragraph 478 of the
latter says "The compensation -or fee of a consular officer
for performing a notarial service, executing a judicial commission, or letters rogatory, or the unofficial services referred to
in paragraphs 471, 472 and 475, is not an official but a personal fee, for which he is not responsible to the government
as for official fees, unless the service, or a part of it, is one for
which a fee is prescribed in the Tariff of Fees. In that case
he must account to the government for the fee prescribed in
the tariff."
Section 1724 of the Revised Statutes makes a consul liable
for the omission to collect any fees "which he is entitled to
charge for any official service." By section 1726 it is made
the duty of a consular officer to "give receipts for all fees
collected for his official services," by section 1727, to keep
a fee-book for the registry of "all fees so received by him ,"
and by section 1728, to render with his account of fees received
a full transcript of such register, and make oath that it contains "a full and accurate statement of all fees received by
him, or for his use, for his official services as such consular
officer, during the period for which it purports to be rendered."

UITTED STATES v. MOSBY.
Opinion of the Court.

It is quite clear, therefore, that the statutes and regitlatiolis
make a distinction between official and unofficial services rendered by a consul.
The allowance to the claimant of the item of $5141 was,
therefore, proper.
2. The next item, but which was disallowed, is $1592, for
certifying extra copies of quadruplicate invoices of goods
shipped to the United States, and which sum was collected by
the claimant before the 1st of, September, 1881, and is covered
by finding 10, It is stated in the opinion of the Court of
Claims that all such fees paid after the regulations of 1881
took effect have been refunded, and are not now in controversy
Sections 2853 and 2855 of- the Revised Statutes, as they
stood prior to the 1st of July, 1880, when the act of June 10,
1880, c. 190 (21 Stat. 173), took effect, provided as follows:
"See. 2853. All invoices of merchandise imported from any
foreign country shall be made in triplicate, and signed by the
person owning or shipping such merchandise, if the same has
actually been purchased, or by the manufacturer or owner
thereof, if the same has-been procured otherwise than by purchase, or by the duly authorized agent of such purchaser, manufacturer or owner." "Bee. 2855. The person so producing
such invoice shall at the same time declare to such consul, vicconsul or commercial agent the port in the United States at
which it is intended to make entry of merchandise, whereupon the consul, vice-consul or commercial agent shall endorse
upon-each of the triplicates a certificate, under his- hand and
official seal, stating that the invoice has been produced to hin,
with the date of such production, and the name of the personi
by whom the same was produced, and the port in the UnitedStates at which it shall be the declared intention to make entry
of the merchandise therein mentioned. The consul, vice-consal or commercial agent shall then deliver to the person pioduoing the same, one of the triplicates, to be used in making
entry of the merchandise, shall file another in his office, to be
there carefully preserved; and shall, as soon as practicable,
transmit the remaining one to the collector of the port of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

United States at which it shall be declared to be the intention
to -make entry of the merchandise."
Paragraph 491 of the consular regulations of 1874 reads as
follows "491. Consular officers will, on request of the proper
collectors, supply them, free of charge, with copies of any such
documents on file in their offices as they may need in the discharge of their official duties. Copies prepared by other persons for their own use will, on request, be certified on payment
of two dollars. When, however, duplicates of originals are
required, or the copy is prepared by the consul, the schedule
fee will be exacted as for original service." A like provision
is found in paragraph 668 of the regulations of 1881.
By section 4 of the act of June 10, 1880, before referred to,
it was provided that sections 2853 and 2855 of the Revised
Statutes should be so amended as to require that all invoices
of merchandise imported from any foreign country and intended to be transported without appraisement to any of the
ports mentioned in section 7 of that act, should be made in
quadruplicate, and that the consul, vice-consul or commercial
agent, to whom the same should be produced, should certify
each of said quadruplicates under his hand and official seal in
the manner required by section 2855, and should "then deliver
to the person producing the same two of the quadruplicates, one
to be used in making entry at the port of first arrival of the
merchandise in the United States, and one to be used in making entry at the port of destination, file another in his office,
there to be carefully preserved, and as soon as practicable, transmit the remaining one to the collector or surveyor of the port
of final destination of the merchandise Prowded, however,
That no additional fee shall be collected on account of any
service performed under the requirements of this section."
By item 36 of the tariff of fees in paragraph 333 of the
regulations of 1874, a fee of $2.50 is prescribed for a certificate
"to invoice, including declaration, in triplicate." Nothing is
there said as to a fee for a copy of an invoice, but in paragraph
491, before quoted, a fee of $2 is prescribed for a certificate to
a copy of a document on file in the office of a consular officer,
which would include an invoice. In the tariff of fees in para-

UNITED STATES v. MOSBY.

285,

Opinion of the Court.

graph 496 of the regulations of 1881, in item 36, a like fee of
$2.50 is prescribed for a certificate "to invoice, including
declaration, in triplicate," and a like fee of $2 under paragraph
668 of the regulations of 1881.
The charges which make up the $1592 are manifestly for
official services, which can be performed only under the hand
of the consul and his seal of office to the certificate. As is
said by the Court of Claims "The -act pertains to a duty
specifically prescribed by the laws of the United States, and,
upon a tender of the fee, the party making application is
entitled to have a certificate attached to the instiument, if it
is a copy of the document executed in triplicate. The party
b6ing entitled to the certificate, it is the duty of the officer to
attach his official seal upon payment of the fees. This is an
official duty, and the emolument becomes an official fee."
The item of $1592 was, therefore, properly disallowed.
3. The item of $5805, which was allowed, is covered by finding 9, and is for fees received for certificates of shipment of
merchandise in transit through the 'United States to other
countries. These were not the invoices referred" to in sections 2853 and 2855 of the Revised Statutes, either as they
originally stood or as they were amended by the act of June
10, 1880. The law did not require the consul to issue those
certificates, no provision was made for a fee for them in the
regulations of 1874, or in those of 1881, and it does not appear
that the regulations of the Treasury Department- required a
consul to perform any duty in relation to such goods. This
item was, therefore, properly allowed.
4. The next item, $64.01, relates to fees "for notarial and
clerical work," being six items covered by finding 12. )f
these, item a, being fees collected for "recording instruments
at various times, between February 4, 1879, and December 31,
1880, $39.29," was disallowed. This iteln was rejected by the
Court of Claims because it did not appear, from the specification or proof, what was the character of the instruments
recorded, and because it was, therefore, said to be impossible
to determine whether the recording came within the regulations of 1874 or those of 1881, and because, for aught that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

appeared, the instruments might have been those specially
provided for by the tariff of fees in the regulations.
But we think the Court of Claims erred in rejecting that
item. The fees accrued from February 4, 1879, to December
31, 1880, while the regulations of 1874 were in force. Article
25 of those regulations, headed "Record-Books and Archives,"
in paragraphs 398 to 414, requires that a consul shall keep
various books of records. Of course, the fees in question were
not for keeping such record books or for recording in them
the instruments which were recorded in them, because such
instruments were all of them official documents, and the fact
that the item covers fees collected by the consul for recording
instruments and paid into the Treasury shows that the recording did not relate to official instruments, or to official acts, but
related to private transactions for individuals, not requiring the
use of the consul's title or seal of office. This item should
have been allowed.
Item i in finding 12, which was allowed, is for "Cattle-disease certificates, collected in small items from time to time,
between February 4, 1879, and September 30, 1880, $152."
It was properly allowed, as there is nothing in the statutes or
in the regulations in relation to the duties or powers of a
consul m to "cattle-disease" or certificates respecting the
same.

Item c,in finding 12 is "Interest on deposits at the bank,
(public moneys deposited between February 4, 1879, and June
30, 1882,) $104.51." This was disallowed, and we think properly The moneys are stated to be "public moneys," in respect to which the consul was a trustee, and any interest
which he received on the funds belonged to the United States.
He was not required to put the funds out at interest, but if he
did so, the accretion belonged to the government.
Item d in finding 12, which was allowed, is for "Acknowledgments and authentications of instruments, collected from
time to time in small quantities, between February 4,1879, and
December 31, 1879, certifying official character and signature
of notary public, $48." These were tot official serviqes required by statute or the regulations, and were rendered to

UNITED 'STATES v.. MOSBY.
Opimon of the Court.

pdrsons who requested their performance. The allowance
of this item was proper.
Item e m finding 12, which was disallowed, is for "Certificates of shipments, or extra invoices, collected during the
December quarter, 1881, $2.50 each, $292." This disallowance
was proper, for the reasons stated in regard to the item of
$1592.
Itemnfin finding 12 is for "Five per cent commission on
the estate of Alice Evans, May, 1881, $8.212' This evidently
was a fee in the settlement of a private estate, and was prop-.
erly allowed.
Thus, of the $64.01 in finding .12, items a, b, d and f are
allowable, -amounting 'inall to $247.50, instead of $208.21
allowed by the Court of Claims.
5. The next item,. and which was allowed, is $584 on account
of fees collected for shipping and discharging seamen on foreign-built vessels sailing on the China coast under the United
States flag, and is covered by finding 11. The claimant insists
that, while he had authority to perform those services, he was
not required to do so by any statute or regulation.
Paragraph 194 of the regulations of 1881 says "194. In
the case of American or foreignbuilt vessels purchased abroad
and wholly owned by American citizens, it is known that the
crews -are usually made up of men who are not American
citizens, and who have not acquired the character of American
seamen under the law and as set forth in paragraph 199. Seamen of this class, when not serving under, a contract made in
the United States, are not regarded as within the jurisdiction
of a consular officer as to their shipment or discharge."
In paragraph 131 of the regulations of 1874, it is said, that
the statutory authority of a consul to act in respect to the.
discharge of seamen from a vessel of the United States clearing
from a port of the United States, is limited to "1st. The sale
in a foreign country of a ship or vessel belonging to a citizen
f the United States. 2d. The discharge, with his own consent, of a seaman or mariner, being a citizen of the United
States. 3d. A discharge after a survey of the vessel, and findmg the same unseaworthy"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, what the consul did was to ship and
discharge seamen on foreign-built vessels sailing on the China
coast under the United States flag. It must be taken that these
seamen were not American citizens, and that the vessel did not
clear from a port of the United States, so as to come within the
provisions of paragraphs 128,129, 130 and 131 of the regulations
of 1874. The item of $584: was therefore properly allowed.
6. The next item allowed was one of $2095, for certifying
invoices "for free goods imported into the United States," and
is covered by finding 11. This allowance seems to have proceeded upon the view that the law did not require an invoice
of goods which were not subject to duty, that the consul had
no official duty to perform in respect to an invoice of such
goods, that the service was performed at the instance of the
shipper, and for his convenience, that the matter was one
purely personal between the consul and the party who paid
the fee for the certificate, and that, as the government was
not interested in the goods, the consul was under no obligation
to account to the United States for the fees.
We think this view was erroneous. By section 2853 of the
Revised Statutes, " all invoices of mercnandise imported from
any foreign country" are to be made in triplicate, whether the
goods have actually been purchased or have been procured
otherwise than by purchase. By section 2854: "all such invoices" are required, before the merchandise is shipped, to be
produced to the proper consul By section 2855, the person
producing "such invoice" is to make a specified declaration,
and the consul is to endorse upon each of the triplicates a
specified certificate, and is to transmit one of the triplicates
"to the collector of the port of the United States at which it
shall be declared to be the intention to make entry of the merchandise." By section 2860, it is provided that, except as
allowed in the four preceding sections, which do not apply to the
present question, "no merchandise imported from any foreign
place or country shall be admitted to an entry unless the invoice presented in all respects conforms to the requirements"
of sections 2853, 2854 and 2855, and has thereon the certificate
of the consul specified in those sections, nor unless the invoice
is verified, at the time of making the entry, by a specified

UNITED STATES v. MQSBY.
Opinon of the Court.

oath, nor unless the triplicate transmitted by the consul to the
collector has been received by him. By section 2851, a consul is entitled to demand and receive a fee of $2.50 for taking
the verification of an invoice and making the certificate. It is
quite clear, therefore, that there can be no entry without a
properly certified invoice.
By paragraph 462 of the regulations of 1874 and paragraph
637 of those of 1881, "all invoices of importations from countries in which there are" consular officers, "must, before the
shipment of the merchandise, be produced to and authenticated by the United States consular officer nearest the place of
shipment for the United States."
In addition to this, it is entirely clear, that the question of
determining whether goods to be shipped will, when imported
into the United States, be free from duty, is a question which
could not be left to the determination of a consul. It often
involves intricate points of fact and of law, and must. be as
wholly cognizable by the proper officers and tribunals of the
United States, appointed for the purpose, as the question of
the proper rate of duty on dutiable goods.
The item of $2095 was, therefore, improperly allowed.
It results, therefore, that the items to be allowed are $5147,
$5805, $247.50 and $584, being an aggregate of $11,783.50.
It is contended for the United States that the claimant has
no right to appeal in regard to the items which he claims were
improperly disallowed, because they do not in the aggregate
amount to more thAn $3000. But we are of opinion thati as
section 107 of the Revised Statutes authorizes an appeal to
this court on behalf of the United States, from all judgments
of the Court of Claims adverse to the United States, and as
the appeal by the United States in this case is from the judgment of $13,839.21 in favor of the claimant, it is competent
for the claimant, as he also has taken an appeal from that
judgment, -to avail himself of anything in the case which properly shows that that judgment was not for too large a sum.
The judgment of the Court of Oaoms w reversed, and the-

case ss remanded to that court witk a direction to enter a
judgment isn favor of the clatmantfor $11,783.50.
VoL. cxxxm-19

