320.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

renewed legislative -consideration and of many changes, it has
always retained the language which was construed in the case
of Strawbrzdge v. Carttss, that we are at liberty to give that
language a new meaning, when it is used in reference to the
same subject matter. It is not readily to be conceived that
the Congress of the United States. in a statute mainly designed
for the purpose of restricting the jufisdiction of the Circuit
Courts of the United States, using language which has been
construed m a uniform manner for over ninety years by this
court, intended that that language should be given a construction which would enlarge the jurisdiction of those courts, and
which would be directly contrary to that heretofore placed
upon it by this court.
These conszderationsrequsre the affirmance of the judgment
of the Circuit Court, and it ws so ordered.

BUFORD v. HOUTZ.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRrIORY OF UTAH.
No. 711. Submitted January 6, 1890.-Decided February 3, 1890.

There is an implied license, growing out of the custom of nearly one hundred years, that the public lands of the United States, especially those
in which the native grasses are adapted to the growth and fattening of
domestic animals, shall be free to the people who seek to use them,
where they are left open and unenclosed, and no act of the government
forbids their use.
During the progress of the settlement of the newer parts of the country
the rule that the owner of domestic animals should keep them confined
within his own grounds, and should be liable for their trespasses upon
unenclosed land of his neighbor, has nowhere prevailed, but, on the
contrary, his right to permit them, when not dangerous, to run at large,
without responsibility for their getting upon such land of his neighbor,
has been universally conceded, and is a part of the statute law of Utah.
Comp. Laws, ยง 2234.

Iw

The bill was dismissed and the plaintiffs apThe case is stated in the opinion.

EQuITY.

pealed.

BUFOID .v. HOUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

.'

.!. Kirkyatrzek for appellants.

.At Joseph L. Rawlins (with whom were Mr James JY
_Kimball and Mr Ogden Hiles) for appellees.
MR. JuSTIE

MILLEP. delivered

the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Utah.
The bill was originally filed by the appellants in the Third
Judicial District Court of Utah Tulritory in and for Salt Lake
County, and in that court a demurrer was filed setting forth
two grounds of objection to the bill, first, that it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and, second,
that several causes of action have been improperly united in
this, that said complant states a separate cause of action
against each individual defendant, and nowhere states or
attempts to state a cause of action against all of the defendants. This demurrer was sustained, and a decree rendered
dismissing the bill at the costs of plaintiffs, and on appeal to
the Supreme Court of the Territory that decree was affirmed.
The case is here on an appeal from that judgment. The
complainants were M. B. Buford, J. W Taylor, Charles.
Crocker and George Crocker, copartners under the firm name
and style of the Promontory Stock Ranch Compai.y The
defendants were John S. Houtz and Henry and Edward
Conant, under the firm name.,and style of Houtz & Conant,
the Box Elder Stock and Mercantile Company, a corporation,
and twenty individuals whose names are given in the bill.
The pltiutiffs allege that they are the owners of certain
sections and parts of sections of land in the Territory of Utah,
which they describe specifically by the numbers and the style
of their Congressional subdivisions, very much of which is
derived from the Central Pacific IRailroad Company, to which
they were granted by the Congress of the United States.
These lands were alternate sections of odd numbers according
to the Congressional grant to the ,railroad company, and they
with the other tracts mentioned in the \plaintiffs' bill are said
vor. cxxxu-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

to amount to over 350,000 acres, "and extend over an area of
forty miles in a northerly and a southerly direction, by about
thirty-six miles in an easterly and westerly direction."
The allegation is, that these lands are very valuable for
pasturage and the grazing of/stock, and are of little or no
value for anyother purpose, and were held by the plaintiffs,
That
and are now held by them, for that purpose solely
owing to their character, the scarcity of water and the aridity
of the climate where these lands are situated, th-ey can never
be subjected to any beneficial use other than the grazing ofstock. That plaintiffs own and are possessed of large numbers
of horned cattle, to wit, 20,000 head, of the value of $100,000,
and are engaged in the sole business of stock raising. That
for a long time they have had and now have all said cattle
running and grazing upon these lands. That all the even
numbered sections in each and all of the townships and fractional townships above mentioned belong to and are part of
the public domain of the United States. That the defendants
have not, nor has either of them, any right, title, interest or
possession or right of possession, of or to any of the lands
embraced in any of the townships or fractional townships
above mentioned, nor have they ever had any such right, title,
interest or possession. That none of the lands included within
said townships or fractional townships are fenced or enclosed,
except a small portion owned by plaintiffs, which they have
heretofore enclosed with fences for use as corrals within which
to gather from time to time their cattle in order to brand the
young thereof. They allege that for various reasons they
cannot fence and enclose their lands without enclosing large
portions of the lands of the United States, and without rendering large and valuable portions of their own of no value,
by reason of the shutting off and preventing their own cattle
from obtaining necessary water. That the defendants, Houtz
and Conant, now and for a long time past, have owned a large
number, to wit, 15,000 head of sheep, and each of the other
defendants to this action is now and for a long time past has
been the owner of a large flock or herd of sheep. The smallest
number owned by any one party exceeds, as plaintiffs believe,

BUFORD v. HOUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

five thousand, and the aggregate number of ,sheep so held
exceeds two hundred thousand.
It is then alleged that the official survey of the United
States has been extended over all land within the townships
and fractional townships mentioned in the bill, and that there
are seven well-defined and well-known travelled highways
over those lands, four of which run in a northerly and southerly direction, and three in an easterly and westerly direction,
entirely across the lands embraced in said townships and fractional townships, along which the sheep of the defendants
may be driven without injury to plaintiffs' lands, not withstanding which each of said defendants claims and asserts that he
has the lawful right and is entitled to drive all sheep owned by
him over and across any of said lands of these plaintiffs, and
to pasture and graze his sheep thereon whenever and wherever
he may desire so to do. That all of said defendants respectively rely upon and set up a common, though not a joint,
pretended right to drive, graze and pasture his sheep thereon,
and each of said defendants bases his pretended right to drive,
graze and pasture his sheep upon the lands of the plaintiffs
upon precisely the same state of facts as that relied upon by
each of the other defendants. That is to say, each of said
defendants claims that all the even numbered sections in each
of said townships and fractional townships being unoccupied
public domain of the United States, he has an implied license
from the government of the United States to drive, graze and
pasture his sheep thereon, and that he cannot do this without
having. them run, graze and pasture upon the lands of the
plaintiffs. Therefore each of said defendants claims and
asserts that he is entitled to have his said sheep run, graze
and *pasture upon the lands of the plaintiffs as aforesaid, and
that during the year past each of said defendants did repeatedly drive large bands and herds of sheep over, upon and
-across the lands of these plaintiffs, and graze and pasture the
same thereon, to the great injury and damage of the said
plamtiffs, and that they and each of them threaten to continue
to do this and will do it unless restrained by order of the court.
It is then alleged that .the sheep, in grazing upon the lands,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

do it a permanent injury, and drive away the cattle from such
lands, whereby, if the defendants are permitted to drive and
pasture their sheep on the lands of the' plaintiffs, those lands
will be greatly damaged, and, for a long period of time in the
future, rendered valueless for the purpose of grazing and
pasturing their cattle. They then allege that they have no
adequate way of estimating the damage which they will suffer
should defendants, or either of them, do as they have threatened to do as herein stated, for the reason, among others, that
the destruction of the food grasses and herbage on plaintiffs'
"lands will result in depriving plaintiffs' cattle of necessary
food, thereby causing great deterioration in flesh and consequent value, which loss and deterioration cannot be adequately
determined by witnesses, which will result in the destruction of plaintiffs' business, will waste and impair their freehold,
and obstruct them and each of them in the use of their said
property They allege, therefore, that they have nc plain,
adequate and speedy remedy at law, and that it will be
'impossible to establish the amount of damages which said
plaintiffs will suffer by the wrong or trespass of any particular
one of said defendants.
The prayer of the plaintiffs is for a judgment and decree of
the court
1st. That said defendants have not, nor has either of them,
any right of way for any of his or their sheep over said lands
.of plaintiffs or any part thereof, except over and along the
highways aforesaid, that they have not,-nor has either of
them, any right to graze or pasture any of his or their sheep
thereon or on any part thereof.
2nd. That, pending this action, said defendants and each of
them, their and each of their agents, servants and employes,
be enjoined from driving any of his or their sheep upon any
of said lands, except over and along said highways, or permitting any of them to go, graze or pasture thereon, and that
upon the final decree herein said injunction be made perpetual.
3rd. For such other and further relief as may be just and
equitable, together with their costs in this behalf incurred.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, in affirming the judg-

BUFORD v. HOUTZ.
Opmion of the Court.

ment of the court of the Third Judicial District, did not consider the question of the misjoinder of defendants, but rested
its judgment upon the want of equity in the bill. It might be
difficult to sustain a bill which, like this, united fifteen or
twenty different defendants, to restrain them from committing
a trespass where, if the paities are guilty or should attempt to
commit the trespass, they do it without concert of action, at
different times, in different parts of a large district of country
such as here describedi and each in%his own way and by his
own action, or that of his servants. But, waiving this question,
we are of opinion that the bill has no equity in it.
The appellants being stock-raisers, like the defendants, whose
stock are raised and fattened on the unoccupied public lands
of the United States mainly, seek by the purchase and ownership of parts of these lands,. detached through a large body of
the public domain, to exclude the defendants from the use of
this public domain as a grazing ground, while they themselves
appropriate all of it to their own exclusive use. This they
propose to do, not by any act of Congress or of any legislative
body whatever, but by means of this bill in chancery, obtaining an injunction against the defendants, whom they allege to
be the owners of 200,000 sheep grazing upon these public
lands, which shall exclude defendants from the use of them,
and thereby secure to themselves the exclusive right to pasture
their 20,000 head of cattle upon the same lands.
If we look at the condition of the ownership of these lands,
on which the plaintiffs rely for relief, we are still more impressed with the injustice of this attempt. A calculation of
the area from which it is proposed to exclude the defendants
by this injunction under the allegation that it is forty miles in
one direction and thirty-six in another, shows that irembraces
1440 square miles, or 921,000 acres, all of which, as averred
by the bill, is unenclosed and unoccupied except for grazing
purposes. Of this 921.000 acres of land the plaintiffs only
assert title to 350,000 acres, that is to say, being the owners
of onethird of this entire body of land, which ownership
attaches to different sections and quarter-sections scattered
through the whole body of it, they propose by.excluding the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants to obtain a monopoly of the whole tract, while
two-thirds of it is public land belonging to the United States,
in which the right of all parties to use it for grazing purposes,
if any such right exists, is equal. The equity of this proceeding
is something which we are not able to perceive.
It seems to be founded upon the proposition that while they,
as the owners of the 350,000 acres thus scattered through the
whole area, are to be permitted for that reason to exercise the
right of grazing their own cattle upon all of the land embraced
within these 1440 square miles, the defendants cannot be permitted to use even the lands belonging to the United States,
because in doing this their cattle will trespass upon the unenclosed lands of plaintiffs. In other words, they seek to introduce into the vast regions of the public domain, which have
been open to zhe use of the herds of stock-raisers for nearly
a century without objection, the principle of law derived from
England and applicable to highly cultivated regions of country,
that every man must restrain his stock within his own grounds,
and if he does not do so, and they get upon the unenclosed
grounds of his neighbor, it is a trespass for which their owner
is responsible.
We are of opinion that there is an implied license, growing
out of the custom of nearly a hundred years, that the public
lands of the United States, especially those in which the native grasses are adapted to the growth and fattening of domestic animals, shall be free to the people who seek to use them
where they are left open and unenclosed, and no act of government forbids this use. For many years past a very large
proportion of the beef 'which has been used by the people of
the United States is the meat of cattle thus raised upon the
public lands without charge, without let or hindrance or obstruction. The government of the United States, m all its
branches, has known of this use, has never forbidden it, nor
taken any steps to arrest it. No doubt it may be safely stated
that this has been done with the consent of all branches of
the government, and, as we shall attempt to show, with its
direct encouragement.
The whole system of the control of the public lands of the

'BUFORD v. HOUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

United States as it had been conducted by the government,
under acts of Congress, shows a liberality in regard to their
use which has been uniform and remarkable. They have always been open to.sale at very cheap prices. Laws have been
enacted authorizing persons to settle upon them, and to cultivate them, before they acquire any title to them. While in the
incipiency of the settlement of these lands, by persons entering upon them, the permission to do so was a tacit one, the
exercise of this permission became so important that Congress,
by a system of laws, called, the preiimption laws, recognized
this right so far as to confer a priority of the right of purchase on the persons who settled upon and cultivated any
part of this public domain. During the time that the settler
was perfecting his title, by making the improvements which
that statute required -and paying, by instalments or otherwise,
the money necessary to purchase it, both he and all other
persons who desired to do so had fall liberty to graze their
stock upon the grasses of the prairies and upon: other nutritious substances found upon the soil.
The value of this privilege grew as the population increased,
and it became a custom -for persons to make a business-or pursuit of gathering herds of cattle or sheep, and Tiising them and
fattening them for market upon these unenclosed lands of the
government of the United States. Of course the instances
became numerous in which persons purchasing land from the
United States put only a small part of it in cultivation, and
permitted the balance to remain unenclosed and in no way
separated from the- lands owned by the United States. All
the neighbors who had settled near one of these prairies or on
it, and-all the people who had cattle that they wished to graze
upon the public lands, permitted them to run at large over the
whole region, fattening upon the public lands of the United
States, and upon the unenclosed lands of the private individual,
without let or hindrance. The owner of a piece of land, who
had built a house or enclosed twenty or forty acres of it, had
the benefit of this universal custom, as well as the party who
owned no land. Everybody used the open unenclosed country,
which produced nutritious grasses, as a public common -on

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opnon of the Court.

which their horses, cattle, hogs and sheep could run and
graze.
It has never been understood that in those regions and in
this country, in the progress of its settlement, the principle
prevailed that a man was bound to keep his cattle confined
within his own grounds, or else would be liable for their trespasses upon the unenclosed grounds of his neighbors. Such a
'principle was ill-adapted -to the nature and condition of the
country at that time. Owing to the scarcity of means for
enclosing lands, and the great value of the use of the public
domain for pasturage, it was never adopted or recognized as
the law of the country, except as it might refer to animals
known to be dangerous, and permitted to go where their dangerous character might produce evil results. Indeed, it is only
within a few years past, as the country has been settled and
become highly cultivated, all the land nearly being so used
by its owners or'by their tenants, that the question of compelling the owner of cattle to keep them confined has been
the subject of agitation.
Nearly all the States in early days had what was called the
fence law, a law by which a kind of fence, sufficient in a general way to protect the culhivated ground from cattle and other
domestic animals which were permitted to. run at large, was
prescribed. The character of this fence in most of the statutes
was laid down with great particularity, and unless it was in
strict conformity to the statute there was no liability on the
part of the owner of cattle if they invaded the enclosure of a
party and inflicted injury on him. If the owner of the enclosed ground had his fence constructed in accordance with
the requirements of the statute, the law presumed then that
an animal which invaded this enclosure was what was called
a breacky animal, was not such animal as should be permitted
to go at large, and the. owner was liable for the damages done
by him. Otherwise the right of the owner of all domestic
animals, to permit them to run at large, without responsibility
for their getting upon the lands of his neighbor, was conceded.
The Territory of Utah has now, and has always had, a
similar statute, section 2234 of the compiled laws of Utah,

BUFORD u HOUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

1888, VoL L p. 789. It is now a matter of occasional legislation in the States which have been created out of this public
domain, to permit certain counties, or parts of the State, or
the whole of the State, by a vote of the people within such
subdivisions, to determine whether cattle shall longer be permitted to run at large and the owners of the soil compelled to
rely upon their fences for protection, or whether the cattleowner shall keep them confined, and in that manner protect
his neighbor without the necessity on the part of the latter of
relying upon fences which he may make for such protection.
Whatever policy may be the result of this current agitation
can have no effect upon the present case, as the law of Utah
and its customs m this regard remain such as we have described
it to be in the general region of the Northwest, and the privileges accorded by the United States for grazing upon her
public lands are subject alone to their control.
These principles were very clearly enunciated by the Supreme
Court of Ohio in 1854 in the case of .Kerwkacker v The
C. C. & C. Railroad 6 nany, 3 Ohio St. 172, 178-9. In discussing this question, the court expresses so well the principle
which we are considering that we venture to make an extensive quotation from the opinion.
"Admitting the rule of the common law of England in relation to cattle and other live stock running at large to be such
as stated, the question arises whether it is applicable to the
condition and circumstances of the people of this State, and in,
accordance with their habits, understandings and necessities.
If this be the law in Ohio now it has been so since the first
settlement of the State, and every person who has allowed
his stock to run at large and go upon the uninclosed grounds
of others has been a wrong-doer, and liable to an action for
damages by every person on whose lands his creatures may
have wandered. What has been the actual situation of affairs,
and the habits,.understandings and necessities of the people of
this State from. its first settlement up to the .present period in
this respect? Cattle, hogs and other kinds of live stock not
known to be breachy and unruly, or dangerous, have been
allowed at all times and in all parts of the State to run at

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

large and graze on the range of uncultivated and uninclosed
So that it has been the general custom of the
lands.
people of this State, since its first settlement, to allow their
cattle, hogs, horses, etc., to run at large, and range upon the
uninclosed lands of the neighborhood in which they are kept,
and it has never been understood by them that they were tortfeasors, and liable in damages for letting their stock thus run
at large. The existence or enforcement of such a law would
have greatly retarded the settlement of the country, anyd have
been against the policy of both the general and the state governments.
"The comnmon understanding upon which the people of this
State have acted since its first settlement has been that the
owner of land was obliged -to inclose it with a view to its.cultivation, that without a lawful fence he could not, as a general
thing, maintain an action for a trespass thereon by the cattle
of his neighbor running at large, and that to leave uncultivated lands umnclosed was an implied license to cattle and
other stock at large to traverse and graze them. Not only,
therefore, was this alleged rule of the common law inapplicable to the circumstances and condition of the people of
this State, but inconsistent with the habits, the interests, necessities and understanding of the people."
In the case of Seeley v Peters, 10 Illinois (5 Gilman), 130,
142, in the Supreme Court of Illinois in 1848, six years earlier
than the Ohio case, the court in reference to the same subject
by Judge Trumbull uses the following language
"Perhaps there is no principle of the common law so mapplicable.to the condition of our country and people as the one
which is sought to be enforced now for the first time since the
settlement of the State. It has been the custom in Illinois, so
long that the memory of ian runneth not to the contrary,
for the owners of stock to suffer them to run at large. Settlers
have located themselvs contiguous to prairies for the very
purpose of getting the benefit of the. range. The right of all
to, pasture their cattle upon uninclosed ground is universally
conceded. No man has questioned this right, although hundreds of'cases must have occurred where the owners of cattle

BUFORD v. HOUTZ.
Opinon of the Court.

have escaped the payment of damages on account of the
insufficiency of the fences through which their stock have
broken, and never till now has the common law rule, that -the
owner of cattle is bound to fence them up, been supposed to
prevail or to be applicable to our condition. The universal
understanding of all classes of the community, upon which
they have acted by inclosing their crops and letting their cattle
run at large, is entitled to no little consideration in determining
what the law is, and we should feel inclined to hold, independent of any statutes upon the subject, on account of the
inapplicability of the common law rule to the condition and
circumstances of our people, that it does not and never has
prevailed in Illinois. But it is unnecessary to assume that
ground in this case. The legislature [legislation] upon this
subject, from the time when we were a part of the Indiana
Territory down to the last law contained in the Revised Statutes, clearly shows that the legislature never supposed that
this rule of the common law prevailed in Illinois, or intended
that it should."
The same principle is asserted in the case of Comerford v
JDvuy, 17 California, 308, 310, and in the case of Logan v.
Gedney, 38 California, 579, the court distinctly held that "the
rule of the law~of England, that every man is bound to keep
his beasts in his own close under the penalty of answering in
damages for all injuries resulting from their being permitted
to range at large, never was the law in California." This
decision is the more in point, as California, like Utah, was
acquired from Mexico by the same treaty See also Studwell
v. Bitch, 14 Connecticut, 292.
As evidence of the liberality with which the government of
the United States has treated the entire region of country
acquired from Mexico by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, it
is only necessary to refer to the fact that while by the laws
of Mexico every discoverer of a mine of the precious metalg
was compelled to pay a certain royalty to the government for
the use of the mine in extracting its minerals, as soon as the
country came under the control of the United States, an unlimited right of mining by every person who chose to enter

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

upon and take the risks of the business was permitted without
objection and without compensation to the government, and
while this remained for many years as a right resting upon
the tacit assent of the government, the principle has been
since incorporated into the positive legislation of Congress
and to-day the larger part of the valuable mines of the United
States are held by individuals under the claim of discovery.
without patent or any other instrument from the government
of the United States granting this right, and without tax or
compensation paid to the government for the use of the
precious metals.
As shoiwng this extreme liberality on the part of the general government,, reference may be had to the case of Forbes
v. Gracey, 94: U. S. 762. In that case a mining company
which 'had no title whatever from the United States, and
which was taking out mineral ore of immense value from the
lands of the United -States, sought to enjoin- the State of
Nevada from taxing the ore thus taken, on the ground that
it was the property of the United States, and not taxable by
the State of Nevada. But this court, reverting to the liberality of the government in that regard, decided that the
moment the ore became detached from the main vein in
which it was embedded in the mine, it became the property
of the miner, the United States having no interest m it, and
was therefore subject to state taxation.
Upon the whole, we see no equity in the relief sought by
the appellants in this case, which undertakes to deprive the
defendants of this recognized right to permit their cattle to
run at large over the lands of the United States and .feed upon
the grasses found in them, while, under pretence of owning
a small proportion of the land which is the subject of controversy, -theythemselves -obtain the monopoly of this valuable
privilege.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Utah is therefore

Afflrmed.

