CASES ADJUDGED
fn THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

UNITED STATES v. STO WELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
DISTRICT OF

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
ASSAOHUSETTS.

No. 167. Submitted December 2, 1889.-Decided January 20, 1890.

Statutes to prevent frauds upon the revenue, although they impose penalties
or forfeitures, are not to be construed, like penal laws generally strictly
in favor of the defendant; but they are to be fairly and reasonably construed) so as to carry out the intention of the legislature.
Tbe forfeiture imposed by the act of February 8, 1875, c. 36, § 16, for
carrying on the business of a distiller without having given bond, or
with intent to defraud the United States of the tax on the spirits distilled,
includes all personal property owned by other persons, knoawingly and
voluntarily permitted by them to remain on any part of the premises,
and actually used, either in the uiilawful business, or in any other business openly carried on there; but in thelot of iand on which the distillery
is situated, only the right, title and interest-of the distiller, and of persons
who have consented to the carrying on of the business of -a distiller
thereon, is forfeited. And there is a like forfeiture of personal property
under Rev. Stat. § 3258, for setting up an unregistered still, and of personal property and interests in real estate under § 3305, for omitting to
keep books as required by law.
The forfeiture imposed by the act of February 8, 1875, c. 36, § 16, and by
Rev. Stat. §§ 3258, 3305, takes effect from the time of the commission of
the offence, both as to the right, title and interest-in the land, and as to
personal property then upon the land.
When the owner of land, upon which an illicit distillery has been set up and
carried on with his consent, has previously made a mortgage thereof, to
VOL. Cxxxiii- 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
one who does not permit or connive at the illicit distilling, and the mortgagor, upon a subsequent breach of condition of the mortgage, makes a
quitclaim deed to the mortgagee, the forfeiture of the land, as well
as of trade fixtures annexed to it for a lawful purpose before the setting
up of the still, is of the equity of redemptioi only.

THis was an information, filed November 18, 1884, under

§§ 3258 and 3305 of the Revised Statutes, and § 16 of the act of
'February 8, 1875, c. 36, (the material parts of which are printed
in the margin,') for the forfeiture of property particularly
described in the information, and- seized by the collector of internal revenue on November 14, 1884, and including 1st. All
the right, title and interest of Thomas Dixon, Eli B. Bellows
1 By Rev Stat. § 3258, "every person having in his possession or custody, or under his control, any still or distilling apparhtus set up, shall
register the same with the collector of the district in which it is." "Stills
and distilling apparatus shall be registered immediately upon their being
set up. Every still or distilling apparatus not so registered, together with
all personal property in the possession or custody or under the control of
such person, and found in the building, or in any yard or inclosure connected with the building in which the same may be set up, shall be forfeited,"
and he shall be punished by fine and imprisonment.
By the act of February 8, 1875, c. '36, § 16, (substantially reenacting
Rev. Stat. § 3281,) any person "who shall carry on the business of a distiller without having given bond as required by law, or who shall engage
in or carry on the business of a distiller with intent to defraud the United
States of the tax on the spirits distilled by him, or any part thereof," shall
be fined and imprisoned. "And all distilled spirits or wines, and all stills
or other apparatus, fit or intended to be used for the distillation or rectification of spirits, or for the compounding of liquors, owned by such person,
wherever found, and all distilled spirits or wines and personal property
found in the distillery or rectifying establishment, or in any building, room,
yard or inclosure connected therewith, and used with or constituting a part
of the preipises; and all the right, title, and interest of such person in the
lot or tract of land on which such distillery is situated. and all right, title,
and interest therein of every person who knowingly has suffered or permitted the business of a distiller to be there carried on. or has connived
at the same;" shall be forfeited to the lVnited States. 18 Stat. 310.
By Rev. Stat. § 3305, every distiller who omits to keep books in the form
prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall be punished by
fine and imprisonment, and " the distillery distilling apparatus, and the lot
or tract of land on which it stands, and all. pergonal propertf on said
premises used in-the bu3iness there carried on, shall be forfeited to the
United States."

UNITED STATES v. STOW-ELL.
Statement of the Case.

and William Stone in a lot of land in the city of Lawrence,
with the buildings thereon. 2d: A copper still, a boiler and
engine, a pump, vats and tanks, and other machinery and ixtures. 3d. A number of butts, a quantity of malt and hops,
two horses and wagons and harnesses, and other personal
property
Joseph Stowell filed a claim for the real estate, the machinery and fixtures, (except the still,) the butts, and the malt
and hops, and Thomas Bevington filed a claim for the horses,
wagons and harnesses.
A decree was entered against the property not claimed,
and upon a trial in the District Court between the UnitedStates and the claimants the only evidence introduced was an
agreement in writing, signed by the counsel of all the parties,
that certain facts were true, which was, in substance. as
follows
For some time before and until the seizure, Dixon carried
on the business of a brewer. on the premises. which consisted
of a three-story frame building and adj6ining sheds with doors
between, and a yard connected therewith. The requirements
of the internal revenue laws concerning breweries were complied with. In the latter part of September, 1884, Stone and
Bellows, with Dixon's knowledge and consent, set up in the
third story of the principal building (which story was not
used in the brewing business, except as the large tanks used
in brewing reached up into it) a copper still, which remained
in position and in proper condition for use until November 9;
1884, and with which, during that time, two hogsheads and
one.barrel of rum were made from molasses. The still wAs
not registered as required by law, no bond therefor wasgiven,
no government book was kept, the still was run with intent
to defraud the United States of the tax on the spirits distilled,
and the United States were defrauded of that tax. It did not
appear that the sheds were in any way used in connection
with the distillery Dixon continued to carry on his business
as a brewer while the still was being used, and on Noveniber
10 and 11 took down and removed the still.
There were on the premises a large boiler set in brick, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

'small engine, a small pump, and large vats and tanks, which
the claimants alleged to be real estate, but which the United
States asserted to'be fixtures. It was admitted that a part or
all of them would be trade fixtures as between landlord and
tenant, that part or all of them were apparatus used in the
brewery, and such as might properly be in the brewery, and
that part or all of them were used as apparatus for the illicit
distilling, and were fit to be used in connection with the still.
At the times of the illicit distilling and of the seizure, all
these fixtures and the still, as well as all the personal property
s~ized, were in Dixon's possession and custody and under his
.control, and they were found in the brewery, sheds and yard.
Neither of the claimants knew until after the seizure that a
still had been set up on the premises.
On June 11, 1883, Dixon conveyed the real estate to Stowell
by a mortgage deed, duly recorded, subject to a prior mortgage of $1500, to secure a debt of $2500. On October 13,
1884, upon a breach of condition of this mortgage, Stowell,
instead of foreclosing it, took from Dixon a quitclaim deed of
the premises, the consideration named in which was $8000.
On June 5, 1884, Stowell took a bill of sale from Dixon of
The butts, as security for endorsing a note for $350, which
went to protest, and was paid by hin on November 10, 1884.
At the time of that bill of sale, the butts were pointed out by
Dixon to Stowell as those which he was to have, but they
remained in Dixon's possession.
On November 8, 1884-, Stowell took a bill of sale of part of
the malt and hops, as security for endorsing a note for $100
payable in ten days, and paid that note also after it had been
duly protested. No delivery was ever made of the malt and
hops. Neither of those bills of sale was ever recorded.
On November 11, 1884, a bill of sale of the horses, wagons
and harness was executed and delivered by Dixon to Bevington, as security for a loan of $700, which was never paid.
This bill of sale was recorded in the city clerk's office on November 18, 1884. The property so conveyed to 3evington
was kept on a farm of Dixon's at North Andover, and was
used in the business of the brewery, and seized at the brewery

'UNITED STATES v. STOWELL.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

At the time of the sale, Dixon pointed it out to Bevington,
and said that he delivered it, and Bevngton appointed Dixon's
son as nominal keeper, but never otherwise took possession of
it, and it remained under the control of Dixon, and was used
by him.
Upon these facts the District Court ruled that the information could not be maintained against the property claimed by
Stowell and Bevmngton, and adjudged that it be dismissed as
to that property The United States alleged exceptions, and,
upon the affirmance by the Circuit Court of the judgment of
the District Court, sued out this writ of error.
Mr Solitor General and .Xr Alphonso Hart, Solicitor ofInternal Revenue, for the plaintiffs in error, cited. Dobbns'
Distillery v United States, 96. U. S. 395, 399, United States
v. 1960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398, 405, United States v.
Bmgantine Mars, 8 Cranch, 417, Gelston v. Hoyt. 3"Wheat.
246, 311, Wood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342, 362, Cadwell
v United States, 8 How 366, Thatcher's Dstilled,Spzrits,
103 U. S. 679, 16 Opinions Attys. Gen. 41, United States-v.
7 Barrels Dzstilled Oil, 6 Blatchford, 174, United States v
56 Barrels Whzskey, 1 Abbott (U. S.) 93, . 6 . 4 Int. 'Rev
Rec. 106, United States v Whiskey, 11 Int. Rev Rec. 109,
United States v 100 Barrdels Spzrits, 1 Dillon, 49, 57, S. C.
12 Int. Rev Rec. 153, S. . (sub nom. Henderson's Dzstilled
Spiiits) 14 Wall. 44, United States v Distilleryat Spring Yal
ley, 11 Blatchford, 255, United States v 76,125 Gigaro, 18
Fed. Rep. 147, Taylor,v. United States, 3 How 197, Cliquot',
Champagne, 3 Wall. 114, United States v All tha Dzstilled'
S.prits, 2 Ben. 486.
Arb Egar J Sherman and Xr Charles U Bell for defendants m error.
The only material part of the record is the' agreed facts,
by which it appears that neither of the claimants knew that.
an illicit business was carried on in the prenmses, and that
a legal business was ostensibly and actually carried on there:

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

The court must find that these claimants were innocent, not
only of any wrongful intent, but even of negligence or blame
of any kind.. The question then to be argued is whether the
property of a person innocent of any charge or suspicion of
crime or negligence is to be forfeited, and he thereby punished, because a third person has committed an offence. To
the consideration of this question we invite the attention of
the court.
I. Penal laws are to be construed strictly 1 Bi. Com. 91,
.argate Pzer Co. v. Hannam, 3 B. & Ald. 266, Edwards v
£?zok, 4 B. & Ad. 212, Green v Eemp, 13 Mass. 515, 8. C. 7
Am. Dec. 169, Reed v Davw, 8 Pick. 513, Caledonzan Railway v NForth British Railway, 6 App. Cas. 114, 122, WValton,
Ex par'te, 17 Oh. D. 746, Jackson v. Collins, 3 Cowen, 89, 96,
People v. Utica Ins. Co., 15 Johns. 358, 380, S. C. 8 Am. Dec.
243: Especially forfeitures are not favored. Hubbardv Johnstone, 3'Taunton, 177, Adams v Banoroft, 3 Sumner, 384.
IL Forfeiture is a punishment, and therefore, if a man
who is wholly innocent can ever be punished for the crime
of another, it must require language absolutely unequivocal
before the court will so construe a statute. The cases we
have cited show how strong the language must be. The language of the law and the intent of the law must clearly coincide in requiring such a construction. All the cases assume
that in order to subject property to a forfeiture, the owner
must himself have violated the law or must knowingly have
suffered the property to go into possession of and control of
some other person engaged in the regulated business. That is,
if he either himself violates the law or knowing that another
is violating the law permits him to have the use of his property
in the unlawful business, or even permits him to have the use
of his property in a business which is lawful, only if it be
lawfully conducted, he may forfeit the property There must
be some degree of blame on the owner of the property, for.
property has no guilty character except as connected with
persons who are chargeable with responsibility or blame. If
the owner is absolutely innocent the property cannot be forfeited. The mere accident of its situation cannot give it a

UNITED STATES v. STOWELL.
Argument for fDefendants in Error.

criminal character independent of its owner's fault. United
States v. Barels of Spi rzts, 1 Lowell, 239, Dobbins's Distilled
Spzrits v. UnitedStates, 96 U. S. 395.
III. The general object of the statute is to enforce the
payment of a tax on all liquor manufactured. - It proposes to
d5complish this object by inflicting punishments of fine, imprisonment and forfeiture on all actually guilty of attempting to
defraud the government of the tax and by requiring vigilance
on the part of all who are.n any way concerned in the business and property to prevent and disclose any-illegal acts
under a penalty of a forfeiture of their g6ods. The legislature
thought that -the watchfulness of a man whose property was
in danger would be greater than that*of any government
officer. Therefore every one concerned with an open distillery
is bound to see that the law is not violated. If he chooses to
leave his property in such a distillery, he does so knowing the
risk and ought first to satisfy himself that there is no violation
of law
But if the distillery is a secret one and the owner is in
ignorance of its existence and in no fault, what conceivable
purpose is served by punishing him by a forfeiture of his
propertyI
IV If then the construction of tne statute claimed by the
government is, first, unjust, and, second, in no way within the
object or intent of the law, the next question would seem to
be whether the words of the statute are so imperative that
we are driven to say that Congress intended this unjust and
unreasonable thing when they passed the law We claim on
the contrary that it clearly appears that the intontion was
just and reasonable and that Congress does not deserve the
imputation which the government would cast upon them.
V Examining the whole chapter, Rev Stat. Title 35',
c. 4, in the light of these principles we find the law contemplates (1) open lawful distilleries which are stringently
regulated with numerous penalties and forfeitures. §§ 3259,
3260, 3262, 3263, 3264, 3267, 3269, 3271, .3275, 3277, 3279,
3280, 3283; 3284, 3286, 3288, 3303, 3304, 330p.
In all cases arising under these sections knowledge of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
.Argument for Defendants in Error.

nature of the business at least is either expressly required or
is assumed from the very nature of the thing. Thus every
such open distillery must have a conspicuous sign stating that
it is a distillery § 3279.
For instance, the elaborate provisions of § 3269 are absurd
if applied to an illicit distillery Of what consequence is it
whether the pipes are painted black -or red so long as the
whole is concealed and secret.
The spirit of the law is farther well indicated by § 3262
which contains elaborate provisions, the sole object of which
appears to be to protect the government on one side and on
the other to secure all innocent parties from loss. The spirit
of that section is that no person is to be subjected to the
forfeiture unless he has consented to assume that liability
United States v Dzstillenj at Spring Valley, 11 Blatchford,
255, 271.
It is clear then that the statute both by its express provisions and by necessary implication, in the case of open
distilleries, imposes no forfeiture except on those who have
expressly consented or knowingly exposed their property to
the risk of forfeiture.
But there is another class of distilleries against which the law
This falls under
is also aimed, which are illicit distillerie.
§§ 3257 and 3281, which latter sectmo has been superseded by
Stat. 1875, c. 36, § 16, 18 Stat,. 310. In this latter case the
owner of the property may be wholly innocent of any knowledge of the existence of the distillery 'The proposition which
we desire to maintain is that if he is ignorant of the existence
of the distillery, his property cannot be forfeited.
As we have seen in case of lawful distilleries no person's
goods are forfeited unless he has knowingly exposed them to
forfeiture. There is no reason why any harsher rule should
Gregory v United
be applied in case of illicit digtilleries.
328.
States, 17 Blatchford,
It is undoubtedly true that the presumption is against any
one whose property is found an the illicit distillery, especially
if such property is in its nature adapted to use in the illegal
business. But it is equally clear that the owner may rebut

UNITED STATES v. STOWELL.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

this presumption and prove that he was wholly innocent.
United States v One Still, 5 Blateliford, 403, S. C. 5 Int. Rev
Rec. 189. Take the case for instance of stolen property It
is clear that it wouldbe unjust, unreasonable and preposterous
that the real owner should forfeit such property by its being
found in an illicit distillery
Suppose that a person drives his
horse upon premises secretly usea as a distillery for some innocent and legitimate purpose and while there the distillery and
the horse are seized, cannot he claim it 2
These illustrations and others of the like class which will
suggest themselves prove two.points first, that innocence may
be proved, and second, that there are exceptions to the literal
meaning of the law The moment it-is admitted that there
are such exceptions the matter is settled, for if there is any
exception, no one will dispute that our case will fall within it.
2. Opinions Attys. Gen. 428, The Bello Corrunes, 6 Wheat.
152, Pesch v War'e, 4 Cranch, 347, 362.
VI. It ought to be enough simply to state our position. If
a man leaves his property and parts with the control of it for
a legal and proper purpose, no act of the tenant, unknown to
him, and without. his consent, can deprive him of his property
VII. We understand that the decision in United States v.
33 Barrels of Sjpzrits, I Lowell, 239, covers this case, and we
cite the words of Judge Lowell "It is impossible to believe
that any such sweeping condemnation is intended to be passed
founded upon mere proximity in place upon the goods of al
persons, innocent or guilty." It is a rule of law as well as of
natural justice that statutes will not be understood to forfeit
property except for the fault of the- owner, general or special,
unlbss such a construction is unavoidable.
V II. As the statute has absolutely required the assent of
the landlord or lessor to the business of licensed distilling, it
would certainly have reserved to him some power to control
the property and 'restrain vi6lations of the law, if it had'intended to hold him responsible. If the law is as is claimed by
the governuhent the 6ase would stand like this A man lets
his estate for a legal and legitimate business. After a time
he learns that the tenant has set up an illicit still. fle has no

OCTOBER -TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

power to enter the premises and -stop him. He can only inform the government officers that they may come and seize the
premises, that is, mlay come and seize his own property The
government construction of this statute says to the landlord
"If you give us any information of the illegal acts of your
tenant, you shall be punished by a heavy fine." Our construction says to the landlord. "If you do not as soon as you
learn of the crime of your tenant inform the government, you
shall be punished." Which construction will carry out the
end of the law? Which construction is it probable the legislature had n view?
IX. Werclaim that any such construction would be unconstitutional. And, we cite 'the dictum of the court in United
States v..Dstillery at prng Valley, 11 Blatch. 255, 271.
X. But it may be asked whyCongress did not more explicitly guard against such a construction as that claimed? The
answer is that no Congress for one moment supposed that the
government would ever attempt- to rob a -citizen of his property, when it knew and admitted that he was guilty of no
criiiie: The suggestion made in one case that the remedy for
an innocent person is to ask favor of some government officer,
is unworthy of the court. If a man has rights a court of justice is the place to maintain them. If he has no rights except
by the favor of government officers, it is oppression. But if a
person humbled himself to beg, what encouragement has hei
when the governnent with full knowledge of his innocence
has instituted and pressed the prosecution. The place for discretion, if any, is in refusing to institute unjust suits.
XI. In the very late case of Unted States v 16 Barrels .DTstilled Spu-tts, 10 Ben. 481, the court although criticising the
case in Lowell admit that the statute must be limited in some
way and suggest another lan of escaping from its literal
terms by limiting the forfeiture to goods found in the very
room where the illegal acts were. This seems to us a very
illogical way of avoiding the difficulty It amounts .to this.
The court sa~ys the forfeiture is too unjust to be allowed in a
case of magnitude, but if it is only a small amount of property
which is affected, we will overlook the injustice. But even if

UNITED STATES v. STOWELL.
Opinion*of the Court.

this construction was adopted, there would be too small an
amount of goods left here to make it worth the government's
while to, continue this controversy
XII. There can be no question that the real estate is not
liable to forfeiture. A farther question arises as to what is
part of the real estate. It is not a question of fixtures but of
the division line between real and personal estate. If an article is personal estate, it is not a fixture. If it is a part of the
real estate and is severable by a tenant, it is a fixture, but this
is allowed only in favor of trade and not in favor of forfeitures
and penalties. In.a case like that before the court the rule in
its utmost strictness as between heir and executor is applicable
and all machinery and other articles which are annexed to the
realty or which go to make it the manufactory for which it is
intended are part of the realty
MnE. JuSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The property sought to be-forfeited consisted of real estate,
and of machinery and fixtures and personal property found
thereon.
The real estate was a single lot of land, part of which was
covered by a building and sheds opetnng by doors into one
another, and the rest of which was a yard connected with the
buildings. Dixon owned the premises, and used them for a
lawful brewery Stone and Bellows, with Dixon's knowledge
and consent, set up and used a still in the principal building,
and there carried on the business of distillers, without the still
having been registered, and without giving bond, or keeping
books, a8 required by the internal revenue laws, and with
intent to defraud the United States of the tax on the spirits
which jhey distilled.
The omission to register the still was a cause of forfeiture
under § 3258 of the Revised Statutes, the carrying on of the
business of a distiller, without having given bond, or with
intent to defraud the United States of the tax on the spirits
distilled, was a cause of forfeiture under § 3281, as reenacted

OCTOBER TERXf, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in § 16 of the act of February 8, 1875, c. 36, and the omission
to keep books was a cause of forfeiture under § 3305 of the
Revised Statutes. The questions presented are of the extent
of the forfeiture.
By the now settled doctrine of this court, (notwithstanding
the opposing dictum of Mr. Justice McLean in United States
v. Sugar, 7 Pet. 453, 462, 463,) statutes to prevent frauds
upon the revenue are considered as enacted for the public
good and to suppress a public wrong, and therefore, although
they impose penaltieg or forfeitures, not to be construed, like
penal laws generally, strictly in favor of the defendant, but
they are to be fairly and reasonably construed, so as to carry
out the intention of the legislature. Taylor v Unted States,
3 How 197, 210, Oliquot's Champagne, 3 Wall. 114, 145,
United States v Hodson, 10 Wall. 395, 406, Srni.the v. Fiske,
23 Wall. 374, 380.
It will be convenient, in the first place, to ascertain the
construction and effect of the provisions of § 16 of the act of
18'(5, by which, if any person carries on the business of a
distiller, without having given bond, or with intent to defraud
the United States of the tax on the spirits distilled by him,
he shall be punished by fine and imprisonment, and there shall
be forfeited to the United States 1st. "All distilled spirits or
wines, and all stills or other apparatus fit or intended to be
used for the distillation of spirits, owned by such person,
_
distilled spirits or wines and perwherever found." 2d. " All
sonal property, found in the distillery, or in any building,
room, yard or inclosure connected therewith, and used with or
constituting a part of the premises." 3d. "All the right, title
and interest of such person in the lot or tract of land on which
such distillery is situated." 4th. "All right, title and interest
therein of every person who knowingly has suffered or permitted the business of a distiller to be there carned on, or has
connived at the same." 18 Stat. 310.
By the first of these proyisions, all distilled spirits or wines,
and all stills or other apparatus fit or intended to be used for
the distillation of spirits, owned by the illicit distiller, and
found on the premises or elsewhere, are forfeited, without

UNITED STATES- v. STO WELL,
Opinion of the Court.

regard to the question whether the apparatus, by reason of
the manner in which and the purpose for which it is placed on
or affixed to the land, is technically personal property or realestate. But this provision does not extend to property owned
by any ther person than the distiller.
The second provision forfeits "all distilled spirits or wines
and personal property, found in the distillery, or in any building,
room, yard or inclosure connected therewith, and used with or
.constituting part of the premises." The last words, wand used
with or constituting part of the premises," like the words next
preceding', "connected therewith," aptly designate real estate,
and naturally and grammatically relate to and qualify "any
building, room, yarq or inclosure," and not "all distilled spirits
The provision is clearly
or wines and personal property"
not limited to personal property owned by the illicit distiller.
To hold it to be so limited would give no effect to that-.part
of this provision which forfeits distilled spirits or wines, for all
distilled spirits or wines owned by the distiller, wherever found,
have been already forfeited -by the first provision. The first
provision is restricted in point of ownership, and not in 'point
of place. The second provision is restricted in point of place,
and not in point of ownership. Nor can the second provision
be restricted to property fit or intended to be used for the distillation of spirits, for,. while the first provision contains such
a restriction as regards apparatus, the second provision omits
all requirement. of fitness or intention for the unlawful use.
Each of the two provisions clearly defines its own restrictions,
and the restrictions inserted in the one cannot be imported
into the other. The second provision must therefore extend to
some property not owned by the distiller, and to some property not:fit or intended to be used- in distilling spirits. In
order to give it such effect as will show any reason for its insertion in the statute, it must be-construed to intend, at least,
that all personal property whibh is-knowingly and voluntarily
permitted by its owner to remain on any part of the premises,
and which is actually used, either in the unlawful business, -or
in any other' business openly carried on upon the premises,
shall be forfeited, even if he has no participation in or knoWl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

edge of the un!Awful acts or intentions of the person carrying
on business there, and that persons who entrust their personal
property to the cqsiody and control of another at his place of
business shall take the risk of its being subject to forfeiture if
ihe conducts, or consents to the conducting of, any business
there in violation of the revenue laws, without regard to the
question whether the owner of any particular article of such
property is proved to have participated in or connived at any
violation of those laws. The. present case does not require us
to go beyond this, or to consider whether the sweeping words
"all personal property" must be restricted by implication in
any other respect, for instance, as to personal effects having
no connection with any business, or as to property stolen or
otherwise Drought upon the premises- without the consent of

its owner.
The significance of the omission of all restrictions in point
of ownership, and in point of fitness or intention for the unlawful use, in the second provision concerning personal property, is clearly brought out by contrasting that provision with
the provisions immediately following it, concerning real estate.
The third provision forfeits only "all the nght, title or interest of" the distiller "in the lot, or tract of land on which
the distillery is situated." And the fourth provision forfeits
only "all right, title and interest therein of every person who
knowingly has suffered or permitted the business of a distiller

to be there carried on, or has connived at the same."
Congress has thus clearly manifested its intention that the
forfeiture of land and buildings shall not reach beyond the
right, title and interest of the distiller, or of such other persons
as have consented to the carrying on of the business of a
distiller upon the premises.
In the case, on which- te attorney for the United States
much relied, of Dobfns's D)zstillery v United States, 96 U S.
395, the jury, under the instructions given 'them '.at the trial,
had. found that the -owner of the, distillery; whose title was
held to be included in the forfeiture for unlawful acts of his
lessee, hadleased the property for the purpose of a distillery,
which brought the case within the provision of the act under

UNITED STATES v. STOWELL.
OpImon of.the Court.

which the condemnation was sought, corresponding to the
fourth provision now under consideratipn. Act of July 20,
1868, c. 186, § 44, 15 Stat. 143.
,The intention of Congress, that no interest in land 'and
buildings shall be forfeitedj which does not belong. to some
one who has participated in or consented to the carrying on
of the business of distilling .therein, is further manifested in
the provision of § 3262 of the Revised Statutes, which directs
that "no bond of a distiller shall be approved, unless he is the
owner in fee, unincumbered by any mortgage, judgment or
other lien, of the.lot or tract of land on which the distillery is
situated, or, unless -he files with the collector, in connection
with his notice, the written consent of .the owner of the fee,
and of any mortgagee, judgment creditor, or other petson
having a lien thereon, duly acknowledged, that the premises
may. be used for the purpose of distilling spirits, subject to the
provisions of law, and expressly stipulating that the lien of the
United States for taxes and penalties shall have. priorjty of
such mortgage, judgment or other incumbrance, and that
in case -of the forfeiture of the distillery premises, or of any
part thereof, the. title of the same shall vest in the United.
States, discharged from such mortgage, judgment. or other
incumbrance."
That sect1on clearly indicates that the interest of an innocent. mortgagee or other person having a lien on the lot or
tract of land on which the-distillery is situated would not
otherwise be ipcqluded in- a forfeiture for acts of the owner
only
The provisions of the,'other sections df the Revised Statutes,
relied on to support this information,. may be more brieflkr
treated.
Section 3258 does not forfeit any land or buildings. But it
does forfeit every still or distilling apparatus not registered by
'the .person having it m his possession or custody, or under. his
control, as well as "all personal property in the possession
or custody or under the control of such person, and found in
the building, or in any yard or inclosure connected with the
building in which the same may be set up." Personal. prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

erty, by whomsoever owned, is thus included in the forfeiture,
provided that it is in the possession, custody or control of the
distiller, as well ad found upon the premises. There is no
reason for giving a narrower construction to this enactment
than to the second provision of § 16 of the act of 1815, above
considered.
Section 3305 provides t1~at in case of. omission to keep the
books required by law, "the distillery, distilling apparatus,
and the lot or tract of land on which it stands, and all personal
property on said premises used in the business there carried
on," shall be forfeited. This description, taken by itself and
literally construed, would include not only the distillery and
distilling apparatus, but "the lot or tract of land on which it

stands," by whomsoever owned, as well as all personal property on the premises and used in the business there carried on.
But it is hard to believe that Congress intended that a0forfeiture of real estate, under this section, for not keeping books,
should be more comprehensive than the- like forfeiture, under
the leading section already considered, for the graver offence
of carrying on the business of a distiller without having given
bond, or with intent to defraud the United States of the tax
upon the spirits distilled. The more reasonable construction
is that the brief summary of § 3305 was intended to conform
substantially, in scope and effect, to the fuller definitions in
§ 3281, (reenacted in § 16 of the act of 1875,) and to forfeit,
without regard to the question of ownership, the distillery and
distilling apparatus, and all personal property found on the
premises and used in the business there carried on, but, as to
the real estate, to forfeit only tne right, title and- interest
of the distiller, and of any persons who participate in, or consent to the carrying on 6f the distillery
The next question to be -determined is from what time the
forfeiture takes effect.
By the settled doctrine of this court, whenever a statute
enacts that upon the commission of a certain act specific property used in or connected with that act shall be forfeited, the
forfeiture takes effect immediately upon the commission of the
act; the right to tae property then vests in the United States,

UNITED STATES, v. STOWELL.
Opnion .of the Court.

although their title is not perfected until judieiulicondemnation., the forfeiture constitutes a statutory transfer of the right
to the United States at the time the offence is committed, andthe condemnation, when obtained, relates back to that time,
and avoids all intermediate sales and- alienations, even to purchasers in good faith.
The rule was early -applied 'under statutes enacting that
whenever goods, the importation of which was prohibited,
should be imported, they should be forfeited, and that if any
ship should leave port without clearance or giving -bond as
required by law, the ship and the cargo should be forfeited.
Unted States v. Coffee. 8 Cranch, 398, The .Mars, 8 Oranch,
417. It has been recognized and acted on in cases of goods
nnported in. fraud of the customs laws. Gelston v. iloyt, 3
Wheat. 246, 311 'lFood v United States, 16 Pet. 342, 362,
Caldwell v Un-dted States, 8 How 366. And it has been
steadfastly upheld under the internal revenue laws; in one
case, under -fa enactment punishing by fine and imprisonment
any person removing distilled spirits from the distillery contrary to law, with intent to evade the payment of the tax
thereon, and providing that -spirits so removed should be forfeited, and in another case under an enactment that any person fraudulently executing an instrument required by the
internal revenue laws should- be punished by fine and imprisonment, and the property to -which- the instrument related
should be forfeited. Hfendersons Dzstilled Spirits,' 14 Wall.
44, Thiac/er'sDzsti~led Spirits, 103 U. S. 679.
The rule is equally applicable to -the statutes now in qhlestion. In the act of February 8, 1875, c. 36, § 16, the four provisions, before quoted, relating to forfetture, follow immediately after the clause prescribing thepnnishment .byfine and
imprisonment of the offender, and contain nothing to imply
that the forfeiture of all the kinds of property mentioned is
not to take effect at one and the same' time. The forfeiture
under the first of those provisions, of spirits 'and wines, stills
and apparatus, owned by the offender, is evidently intended to
take effect immediately upon the commission of the offence,
so as to prevent any subsequent alienation by him before seiz.
VoL. cxxxm-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ure and condemnation, and the words "wherever found"
merely preclude all limit of place, and have no tendency to
postpone the time when the forfeiture shall take effect. In
the second provision, the restriction to personal property
"found in the distillery," or upon the premises of which it is
part, is a limit of place only, and does not postpone the forfeiture of such property which is on the premises when the
offence is committed, and from what date a forfeiture of personal property not on the premises at the time of the commission of the offence, but brought there afterwards, should take
effect, this case does not require us to consider. That the forfeiture of real estate, under the third and fourth provisions,
must take effect as soon as the offence is commritted, is yet
clearer, for those provisions contain nothing which by any
possible construction could be supposed to postpone the forfeiture, and by the common law of England, even in the case
of the forfeiture of all the real and personal estate of an offender, while the forfeiture of his goods and chattels was only
upon conviction and had no relation backwards, the forfeiture
of his lands had relation to the time of the offence committed,
so as to avoid all subsequent sales and mcu.mbrances. 4 31.
Coin. 387. The forfeitures under §§ 3258 and 3305 of the
Retised Statutes are governed by the same considerations.
It remains to apply the provisions of the statutes to the
admitted facts of this case.
Stowell claims the real estate and certain machinery and
fixtures, as well as a number of butts and a quantity of malt
and hops.
The butts were personal property, used in the business of
the brewery Assuming them to have beensold and delivered
by Dion to Stowell before any offence was committed by which
a forfeiture was incurred, yet. they were suffered by Stowell
to remain in Dixon's possession, 6ustody and control, and were
upon the premises at the time of the commission of the offence,
and found there at the time of the seizure. They were therefore forfeited under each of the sections relied on.
As to the malt and hops, the case is even clearer in favor of
the United States, for not only were they intended to be

UNITED STATES v. STOWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

used in the brewery, and -were in the possession, custody and
control of Dixon, and upon the premises, both at the time of.
the commission of the criminal acts and of the seizure, but
Stowell acquired no right whatever in them until after such
acts had been committed.
Of the real estate, Stowell, more than a year before the
unlawful acts began to be committed by which a forfeiture
was incurred, took a mortgage from Dixon, subject to a prior
mortgage for $1500, and to secure a debt of $2500. This
mortgage conveyed a distinct interest m the real estate to the
mortgagee, and, by the law of Massachusetts, as between
the mortgagor and the mortgagee, vested the fee in the latter,
but, subject to the mortgage, and as regarded third persons
left the legal title in the mortgagor.. Conard v Atlantc Ins;
Co., 1 Pet. 386, 441', -oer -v ffo~bs, 5 Met. 1, 3, Howard v
Robnson, 5 Cush. 119, 123. As .socn as a still was set up on.
the land, with the mortgagor's knowledge and consent, in
violation of the internal revenue laws, the forfeiture under
those laws took effect, and (though needing judicial condemUntion to perfect it) operated from that time as a statutory conveyance to the United States of all the right, title and interest
then remaining in the mortgagor; and was as valid and
effectual, against all the world, as a recorded deed.. The
right so vested in the United States could' not be defeated or
impaired by any subsequent dealings of the mortgagee with
the mortgagor. Ujpton v South Reading N1 ational Rankd,
120 Mass. 153, 156. The mortgagor's subsequent conveyance
of the land by quitclaim deed to *the mortgagee, therefore,
passed no title as against the intervening right of the United
States. But this deed did not have the effect of merging or
uniting the mortgage and the equity of redemption in one
estate, because, by reason of that intervening right, -it was for
the interest of the mortgagee that the mortgage should be
kept on foot. The quitclaim deed, being -void or voidable, left
the mortgaged estate exactly where it found it. Factors'&
Traders' Ins. Co. v .Murpliy, 111 U. S. 738, 744, -Dexter v
.rfrrzs, 2 Mason, 531, 539,
fVew England Jewelry Co. v
XAerrtam, 2 Allen, 390, Stantons v Thompson, 49 N. H. 272.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It being admitted that the business of a distiller was not
carried on with the mortgagee's permission or connivance,
and that he did not even know, until after the seizure, that a
still had been set up on the premises, it follows, for the reasons
already stated in discussing the construction and effect of the
statutes in question, that the mortgage is valid as against the
United States, and that, so far as concerns the real estate,
the judgment of condemnation must be against the equity of
redemption only
As to the boiler, engine, pump, vats and tanks, the forfeiture must be equally limited. As we understand the somewhat ambiguous statement of the facts regarding them, they
were upon the premises before the still was set up, and were
owned by Dixon, and not by the distillers, and it is not
shown that any of them were i'sed or fit to be used in connec
tion with the distillery, which were not already in lawful use
in the brewery In that view, even if they, or some of them,
would'be trade fixtures as between landlord and tenant, yet,
while annexed to the land, they were real estate, and covered
by the mortgage. Hutter v Smbth, 2 Wall. 491, FT'eeman. v
Dawson, 110 U. S. 264, 270, fRismow v Aferckants' Ins. Co.,
4 Mlet. 306, Bliss v Whstney, 9 Allen, 114.
The horses, wagons and harnesses claimed by Bevington
were personal property, used in the business of the brewery,
and were sold and a formal delivery of them made to BeVington by Dixon after the acts had been committed by which a
forfeiture was incurred, they were afterwards suffered by
Bevington to remain under Dixon's control and in his use,
and they were found upon the premises at thetnxie of the
seizure. They were, therefore, forfeited under each of the
sections relied on by the United States.
Judment reversed, and case remandedfor further proceedng8 n conforrmity with thi opinon.

