UNITED STATES v. HANCOCK.
Statement of the Case.

of error forms no part of the record upon which action here
is taken. C1ar"k v 1Penn&ylvansa, 128 U. S. 395, Tarfeld v
Chafe, 91 U. S. 690.
The writ of errormust be dismassedfor want ofj urrsdiotion.

UITED STATES v. HANCOCK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNWED STATES FOR
THE ORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 688. Submitted January 8,1890. -Decided January 27, 1890.
When a decree in equity In a suit relating to public land gives the boundaries of the tract, the claim to which Is confirmed, with precision, and
has become final by.stipulation of the United States and the withdrawal of
their appeal therefrom, it is conclusive, not only on the question of title,
but also as to the boundaries wich it speciies.
Proof that a surveyor of public land, who in the course of his official duty
surveyed a tract which bad been confirmed under a Mexican land-grant,
accepted from the grantee some years after the survey a deed of a portion of the tract, which he subsequently sold for $1500, though it may be
the sub3ect of criticism, is not the." clear, convincing and unambiguous"
proof of fraud -which is required to set aside a patent of public land.
Doubts respecting the correctness of a survey of public land, which was
made in good faith and passed unchallenged for fifteen years, should be
resolved in favor of the title as patented.

.Tms was a bill filed to set aside a patent. The facts were
these
In'1843 Michael White petitioned for a tract of land at the
mouth of the Ca3on de los Iejicanos. This petition was sustained and a grant made by Governor Manuel Micheltorena,
theMexiban governor of the Californias, which read
"Whereas Don MichaelWhite, a Mexican by naturalization,
has petitioned for his own benefit and that of his family for
the place known by Phe name of ' Muscupiabe,' bounded on the
north by the foot of the mountain, on the south by Agua
Caliente, and on the.west by the IAlisos,' (sycamores,),which
are on the other side of the creek called I De los Negros,'
having practised the proceedings and relative observation,
according to the direction of the laws and regulations, exer:
VOL. c30=-13

OCTOBER TERM
E, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

cising the authority conferred upon me in the name of the
Mexican nation, I have concluded to grant him the aforesaid
land, declaring it to be his property, by the present letters,
subject to the approval of the most excellent departmental
assembly, in and under the following conditions.
"3d. The land of which grant is hereby made consists of
one league, (un sito de ganado mayor,) a little more or less,
according to the explanation of the diagram wlhieh is attached
to the respective I expediente.'
"The judge that shall give the possession shall cause it to
be measured in conformity with the ordinance, reserving the
overplus that may result to the nation for convenient uses."
On February 8, 1853, a petition for confirmation was pre"sented in the name of the original grantee to the board of
commissioners appointed to ascertain and settle private land
claims, and on March 6, 1855, the grant was confirmed by an
order in these words
"In this case, on hearing the proofs and allegations, it is
adjudged by the comissmon that the claim of the petitioner
is valid, and it is therefore decreed that his 'pplication for a
confirmation be allowed, \vith the following boundaries, to
wit On north and cast by the foot of- the mountains, on the
south by the Agua Caliente, and on the west by the cottonwoods, which are on the other side of the creek, reference
being had to the map accompanying the expediente."
An appeal was taken from this order of confirmation, but
was dismissed on June 8, 1857. This confirmation-was not
challenged.
In 18;7 instructions were issued by the surveyor general of
California for the survey, and the survey as made and returned
to the surveyor general's office was by him approved, and, on
July 11, 1868, forwarded to Washington.
This survey in
January, 1871, was disapproved by the Secretary of the
Interior as not conforming to the decree of confirmatoi, and
a new survey ordered. On J-une 10, 1872, the surveyor general reported that he had examined the original title papers
and had compared them with the calls of the decree of confir-

UNITED STATES v. HAINCO.K.
Opinion of the Court.

mation, and had caused an examination to be made of the
premises, and that therefrom he found that a survey made in
strict accordance with the boundary calls of the decree of
confirmation would include something like a league more of
land than the present survey, and that the owners of the grant
were satisfied with the present survey, and therefore suggested
the propriety of accepting it. This report was returned to the
Secretary of the Interior, by him approved, and, on June 22,
1872, the patent was issued. This bill was filed on May 29,
1885. The bill charged that the surveyor, Henry Hancock,
who made the survey was the real owner of a large interest in
the grant, although the title was nominally in another party,
that concealing his interest he secured his appointment as
deputy surveyor, and in making the survey fraudulently
included within its limits about twenty-six thousand acres
more of land than justly belonged therein, that without any
knowledge of the fraudulent acts of Hancock in the premises
the surveyor general thereafter published the required notice
of the survey in a newspaper Vublished in the city of Los
Angeles, a city of another county and over, fifty miles from
the land, whereas, at the time, there was a newspaper published within the county and within two miles-of the land.
It also charged that after the survey had been disapproved by
the Secretary of the Interior, Hancock fraudulently represented
to the surveyor general that a correct survey would include
about one league in addition to what was embraced within
-the present survey, but that the owners were content to take
the survey as it stood, and that, induced by and relyingupon
these fraudulent representations, the surveyor general made
the report and recommendation heretofore mentioned. The
Circuit Court, on final hearing, dismissed the bill, and the
United States appealed to this court.
.Mr Asststant Attorney General Aaury, for appellant.
Mr A. T B2ritton.and

rlr A. B. Browne, for appellees.

MR. JusTi.cE BRwER, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It is obvious that the confirmation was of a tract with specified boundaries, and as such covered all the land within those
boundaries, irrespective of quantity, and this, notwithstanding
there appeared in the prior proceedings statements that the
tract contained a certain amount, "a little more or less," which
,amount was very much less than that included within the
boundaries. "When a decree gives the boundaries of the tract
to which the claim is confirmed, with precision, and has become final by stipulation of the United States and the withdrawal of their appeal therefrom, it is conclusive, not only on
the question of title, but also as to the boundaries which it specifies." Un'ted States v IEalleck, 1 Wall. 439, Unted States v
Billig, 2 Wall. 444, Higuerasv Un-ted States, 5 Wall. 827.
And the act of Congress of July 1, 1864, 13 Stat. 334, ยง 7,
requires the surveyor general, "in making surveys of the private land claims finally confirmed, to follow the decree of
confirmation as closely as practicable whenever such decree
designates the specific boundaries of the claim."
The charge of fraudulent misconduct on the part of the surveyor, Hancock, is not substantiated. Mr. Hancock was not
appointed surveyor with reference to this survey He was
the regular deputy surveyor for this district, having been appointed more than ten years prior thereto. While at one time
lie had owned an interest in the grant, he had more than eight
years before the survey sold and conveyed it for a full consideration to his brother, and from that time forward, during
all these proceedings, was without any interest in the premises.
It is true that during these years Mr. Hancock acted as the
general agent of his brother, and that is all the ground there
is to susp ct wrong on his part. There is not a syllable
of testimony that, after the Secretary had ordered the new
survey, Mr. Hancock had anything to do with the matter,
either in suggestion, recommendation or otherwise, so that
the report of the surveyor general was not made by virtue of
anything that Hancock had said or done. The examination
referred to by the surveyor general in his report was made
by one R. 0. Hopkins, under the direction of the surveyor
general, a person who was at the time, so far as the testimony
discloses, entirely disinterested.

UNITED STATES v. HANCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

It is true there is testimony furnished by Mr. Hopkins
lmself that some time after the patent had been issued he
accepted a deed of a portion of this- grant as a present from
the owners-a tract which he subsequently sold for $1500.
Whatever criticism may be placed upon the acceptance of
this gift-a gift made long after his relations to the survey
had ceased -it
certainly does not establish dereliction in his
discharge of prior official duty
These matters, together with the failure to publish notice
in the nearest paper, are all the evidences of fraud in the
transaction, Not only are they not "the clear, convincing
and unambiguous" proofs of fraud required to set aside a
patent, as declared by this court in the case of Colorado Coal
Conqpany v Unsted States, 123 U. S. 307, 31, but they, all
combined, create nothing more than a suspicion. They may
leave a doubt, but they do not bring the assurance of certain
Ivrong.
Some question is made as to the correctness of. the survey,
and that turns as a question of fact upon what is meant by
the expression "1-Agua Ciliente" in the various descriptions.
If it means a stream known as Agua Caliente, then the government has no cause to challenge the survey, for it includes
less than was really confirmed, but if it means a district of
country known by that :name in the northwestern portion of
the San Bernardino rancho, a neighboring tract, then the survey was excessive. If it were necessary for us to determine
this question, we think the evidence in the case indicates that
the stream and not the district was intended, but it is not the
province of this court to correct a mere matter of survey like
that. If made in good faith and unchallenged as this has
been for over fifteen years, whatever doubts may exist as to its
correctness must be resolved in favor of the title as patented.
We see no error in the decree, and it is
AfLa hed.
MR.

JusmioE

FmLD

takes no part in this decision.

