531

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

LINCOLN COUNTY V. SUTRO, Nwo. 1275.

LINCOLN COUNTY V. VIN.

CENT, No. 1276.

Error to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Nevada. These cases are similar, and the same
judgment will therefore be entered in them.
Mr. H. F. Bartine for plaintiffs in error.
* Mr. Abraham Clark Freeman for defendants in error.

FOGG v. BLAIR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN
No. 188.

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Argued January 24, 27, 1890. -Decided

March 3, 1890.

A liquidated claim against a railroad company, not converted into a judgment, which another railroad company, purchasing its road and property,
agrees with the selling company to assume and pay as part of the consideration, does not thereby become a lien upon the property so as to take
priority over the lien of a mortgage made by the purchasing company to
secure an issue of bonds.

, ON the 16th of Februar',, 1867, the St. Louis knd Keokuk
Railroad Company was incorporated by the legilature of Missouri to construct and operate a railroad froni some suitable
point on the North Mlissouri Railroad, not exceeding thirty
miles west of St. Charles, in St. Charles County, to some point
near the mouth of the Des Moines River, on 'the northern
boundary of the State. Under its charter the company lobated
its road between the points designated and ponstructed q portion of it and graded other portions, and in this work eipended
several hundred thousand dollars.
The appellant, Josiah Fogg, held a demand against this
company for work and advances on its account, and on the
22d of September, 1870, an adjustment and settlement of the
amount was had between them; and it was found that the company was indebted to him in the um of $9547.75.
Afterwards, on the 13th of June, 1872, a corporation known

FOGG v. BLAIR.
Statement of the Case.

as the St. Paul, Hannibal and Keokuk Railroad Company was
formed under the general law of Missouri, to construct and
operate a railroad with one or more tracks, from the city of St.
Louis to a point near the northeast corner of the State opposite to Keokuk in Iowa, with a branch, in Lincoln County, to its
coal fields, from a point near Troy, au. a .branch up the valley
of Mill Creek, from a point where the line crosses the creek.
To this new corporation the old corporation, upon the request
and direction of the holders and owners of a majority of its
stock, on the 4th of March, 1873, sold and transferred its entire
road and all the branches, buildings, machinery and appurtenances belonging to or connected with it.
In consideration of the transfer, the new corporation, that
is, the St. Louis, Hannibal and Keokuk Railroad Company,
among other things agreed to assume, pay and satisfy all the
debts and liabilities incurred by the first company or legally
imposed upon it, for right of way, station grounds, ties and
bridging, and also to perform various contracts of that company which are specially mentioned. The new corporatibn was
composed principally of the same persons and the same officers
as the old corporation, and among the contracts assumed was
one with the 'Missouri and Iowa Construction Company. for
building the road, and it stipulated that in payment of this
work bonds of the company should be issued secured by a first
mortgage on its property.
Pursuant to this contract, the new company, on the 1st -of
October, 1872, executed to Dewitt C. Blair of New Jersey, and
Clarence C. Mitchell of New York, a mortgage or deed of trust
of its railroad, then constructed or that might thereafter be
constructed, with its right of way, buildings and appurtenances
then existing or which might afterwards be acquired, its rolling
stock and machinery of every kind, and all its franchises and
property, to secure bonds of the company issued on that day,
in sums of $1000 each, to the amount of $4,200,000.
Afterwards this mortgage was taken up and cancelled, and
on the 1st of August, 1877, a new mortgage or deed of trust
was executed by the company to Dewitt C. Blair, of all its
property situated betweefi the cities of St. Louis and Hannibal

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the'Case:

in Missouri, and its franchises, to secure the payment of its
bonds issued of that date,,amounting to $1,680,000. The interest was not paid upon these bonds, and the trustee, on the
6Oth of February, 1881, commenced a suit in the Circuit Cohrt
of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, to
foreclose the mortgage and sell the property. The bill not
only made the mortgagor a party defendant, but also certain
persons named, of whom Josiah Fogg was one, representing
that they claimed to have liens, as judgment creditors, incumbrancers, or otherwise, upon the mortgaged premises, but alleging that their interest, if any, accrued subsequently to the lien
of the mortgage and was subordinate thereto.
As mentioned above, on the 22d of September, 1870, Josiah
Fogg had a settlement with the St. Louis and Keokuk Railroad
Company, by which the amount due him by the .company on
that date was agreed to be $9547.75. For this amount and
interest he brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States in April, 1881, and on the 3d day of October, 1882, he
recovered judgment for $16,439.63. - Execution issued thereon
having been returned unsatisfied, in May, 1883, he brought
suit, on the. equity side of the court, against the St. Louis,
Hannibal anl Keokuk Railroad Company to have that judgrapnt declared a lien upon its property and to compel that
company to -pay the judgment, and to enjoin it from selling
or inoumbering its property until such payment was made.
The, suit was brought against both the old and new company,
and resulted in a decree entered on the 5th of May, 1884, ad-,
judging that the two companies were liable jointly and severally
for the judgment and interest, which amounted then to
$18,365.11, the payment of which was decreed against theni.
The judgment was not declared to be a lien upon the property
of the company, nor was the use or disposition of its property
enjoined.
To the suit for the foreolosura of the mortgage brought by
Dewitt C. Blair, trustee, Josiah Fogg appeared and answered
the bill, and also filed a cross-bill. By his cross-bill he sought
to obtain priority for -his judgment over the d~mauds of the
trustee, acting for and representing the bondholders. He set

,j-FOTG w. BLAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

forth the origi. of ;his demand, the recovery.of judgment for
th6 amount against both the first and second corporations, and
founded his olaim to priority over the mortgage on the theory,thit the old corporation could not transfer its -property to the
new corporation without the new corporation becoming trustee,
for all the creditors of the old company ;- that its property -was
thus affected with-, a trust, and could not be subjected to a,
mortgage so as to give priority to the bonds sedured over thedemands of creditors -existing at the timeof such transfer; and
that the trustee,, Dewitt 0. Blair, took the bonds of the company for Jbhn 1.,'Blair. and the executors of Moses Taylor,
deceased; and. charged, upon .information and. belief, that he
took them with:,full, notice of the claim of the complainant
against the old corporation ;. -and that the suit to foreclose the.
mortgage was a scheme designed to cut him off from enforcing
his demand, and to have the railroad and its appurtenances
sold under a decree of foreclosure and bought in by said John
I. Blair and: the eiecutors of -N[oses Taylor, at a-price greatly
under their actual value. To this cross-bill the trustee, Dewitt
0: Blair, as defendant, .aniswered denying its allegations, some,
of them positively and others upon information and beliefpositively the Allegations that the transfer of the property of
the first corporation was made in fraud of the rights of the'
complainant, and that -the second corporation took the po9perty with knowledge and notice of the debt owing t6 him by'
the first corporation. A replication was filed to the answer
and proofswere taken. Upon the hearing the -court dismissed
the cross-bill, holding that the claim of the complainant was"
not entitled-.to priority over the bonds secured by-the mrrt
gage. .25 Fed. Rep. 684, and 27 Fed. Rep. 176. From tAis
d6cree the case was brought by appeal to this court.
Xr. Jaws Carr (with whom was .Mr. George P. .Reynold
and
ffr.
]n.

ir. E.,A. i..wr)

for appellant.,

aZfer'C.' ,l'rnedfor appellee.
JUMTIOE

FvLD, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.

-

...

, OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The claim of the appellant that his demand, which passed
into judgment May 5, 1884, against both the St. Louis and
Keokuk Railroad Company and the St. Louis, Hannibal -and
Keokuk Railroad Company, is entitled to payment prior to
the bonds secured by the mortgage or trust deed; would seem
to be answered by the dates of the judgment and mortgage
respectively. The judgment was not rendered against the
original company until October 3, 1882, and not against both
companies until May 5, 1884. The mortgage was executed on
the 1st day of August, 1877, five years before the first judgment and nearly seven years before the second.
It does not appear in the record precisely what the services
were which were rendered by the complainant, or for what
purposes advances by him were made. This is not material,
however, as no claim is made, because of the nature of those
services and advances, to a lien on the property of the original
company, under the statute of the State. It does not appear
that any proceedings were taken to'establish such a lien. Independently of that statute, there was no lien upon any property of the railroad company for the demand of the complainant. It stood like any ordinary debt against a corporation,
which could only be enforced by legal proceedings establishing its validity and amount by judicial determination, andthen by process upon the judgment obtained, in subordination
to any previously existing liens upon the property.
In some States - and this is the case in Missouri - statutes
make judgments of their courts liens upon the real property
of the judgment debtor, and the same rule applies in such
States to judgments in the courts of the United States. But
in all cases the judgments become liens only from the time
they arQ rendered, or notice thereof is filed in the register's
office of'the county where the property is situated. They are
subordinate to any prior mortgage upon the property. This
doctrine is so familiar that it is surprising that any other can
be supposed to exist. The property of a railroad company
is not held under any such trust to apply it to the payment of
its debts as to restrict its use for any other lawful purpose, it
matters not how meritorious the demand of the creditor may

FOGG

. BLAIR.

539

Opinion of the Court.

be. He must obtain a lien upon the property of the company, or security in some other form, or he will have to take
his chances with all other creditors to obtain payment in the
ordinary course of legal proceedings for the collection of debts.
In Thompson v. White Water Valley RailroadCo., decided at
the present term, 132 U. S. 68, it was held that the claim of
bondholders of the company secured by a mortgage upon its
railroad, and all property then appertaining thereto, or which
the company might afterwards acquire, had priority over a
claim of contractors to a lien upon the rents and profits of a
portion of the road constructed by them subsequently to the
mortgage. It was earnestly contended that they had an equitable lien upon the earnings of that portion of the road because with their moneys it was constructed. But the court
replied that the work was not done at the request of the mortgagees, but upon a contract with the lessee of the road, by
which the latter stipulated, as one of the considerations of the
lease, to construct tlrat part of the line, and that with those
contractors the bondholders secured by the mortgage had no
relations, and therefore incurred to them no obligation. Inthe opinion of the court reference was made to the case of.
Galveston Co. v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, 481. In that case
there were several creditors, and it was contended that priority should be given to the last creditor, for he had aided in
preserving the property. But the court answered that this
rule had never been introduced into our laws, except in maritime cases, which stood on a particular reason; that by the
common law whatever is affixed to the freehold becomes a
part of the realty, except certain fixtures erected by tenants,
which did not affect the question; that rails put down upon
the company's road become a part of the road, and that the
rule also applies to those permanent fixtures which are essential to the successful operation of the road; they become the
property of the company, as much so as if they existed when
the mortgage was executed. The case of Thompson v. White
Water TFalley Railroad Co. was much stronger than the one
now before us; for there a special contract existed between
the lessee company and the contractors that such lien should

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

exist; -while here there was no contrabt that the complainant's
claim should be a lien upon 'any property.
In Dunham, v. Railway Co., 1 Wall. 254, 267, it was held
that a mortgage by a railroad company of its road ." built and
to be built" took precedence, even as regards' the unbuilt portion, over the claim of a contractor who had himself finished
it under an agreement with the company that he should retain
,its possession and apply its earnings to the liquidation of the
debt to him, and who had in accordance with such agreement
taken possession of the road and retaifed it. The mortgage
was 'executed and recorded before the contract for the. completion of the road was made; and the court said: "All of
the bonds, except those subsequently delivered to the contractor, had, long before that tirhe, been issued, and were in
the hands of innocent holders. The contractor, under the circumstances, could acquire no greater interest in the road than
was held by the company. He did not exact any formal
conveyance, but if he had, and one had been executed and
delivered, the rule would be the same. Registry of the mortgage was notice to all the world of the lien of the complainant,
and in that point of view the case does not even show a hardship upon the contractor, as he must have known, when he
accepted the agreement, that he took the road subject to the
rights of the bondholders."
. We do not attach any weight to the objection that the
transfer by the old company of its entire property to the new
company was illegal and ultra vires, and, therefore, to be
disregarded. However such a transfer might be considered in
a suit, to set it aside, the objection does not lie in the mouth of
the appellant, for he has proceeded against the new company
and obtained, upon the assumed validity of such transfer, a
decree that it pay his judgment, which is founded upon a
demand that company agreed to assume, as part of the consideration of the transfer.
-There is no evidence in the record before us that the parties
who took the bonds issued by the St. Louis, Hannibal and
Keokuk Railroad Company had any notice, actual or constructive of the demand of the complainant. But if they had, it

