SOUDDER V. UNION NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

SCUDDM V. UNION NATIONAL BANx.
1. Where a bill of exchange was drawn by a party in Chicago upon a firm in
St. Louis, and verbally accepted by a member of the firm then present in
Chicago,-Held, that the validity of such acceptance was to be determined
by the law of Illinois.
2. In Illinois, a parol acceptance of a bill of exchange is valid, and a parol promise to accept it is an acceptance thereof.
3. Matters bearing upon the execution, interpretation, and validity of a contract
are determined by the law of the place where it is made. Matters connected
with its performance are regulated by the law prevailing at the place of
performance. Matters respecting the remedy depend upon the law of the
place where the suit is brought.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit against William H. Scudder
and others, constituting the firm of Henry Ames & Co., to
recover the amount of a bill of exchange. Process was served
only upon Scudder, who pleaded non-assumpsit and several
special pleas.
The statute of Illinois on which one of the pleas is based
provides that no action shall be brought whereby to charge the
defendant upon any special promise to answer for the debt,
default, or miscarriage of another person, "unless the promise or
agreement upon which such action shall be brought, or some
memorandum or note thereof, shall be in writing, and signed by
the party to be charged therewith, or some other person thereunto by him specially authorized."
The Missouri statute provides: "SEcTION 1. No person within this State shall be charged as an
acceptor of a bill of exchange, unless his acceptance shall be in
writing, signed by himself or his lawful agent.
" SECT. 2. If such acceptance be written on a paper other than the
bill, it shall not bind the acceptor, except in favor of a person to
whom such acceptance shall have been shown, and who, upon the
faith thereof, shall have received the bill for a valuable consideration.
"SECT. 3. An unconditional promise in writing, to accept a bill
before drawn, shall be deemed an actual acceptance in favor of
every person to whom such written promise shall have been shown,
and who, upon the faith thereof, shall have received the bill for a
valuable consideration.

Oct. 1875.]

SCUDDER V. UNION NATIONAL BANx.

"SECT. 4. Every holder of a bill presenting the same for acceptance may require that the acceptance be written on the bill; and a
refusal to comply with such request shall be deemed a refusal to
accept, and the bill may be protested for non-acceptance.
"SECT. 5. The preceding sections shall not be construed to impair
the right of any person to whom a promise to accept a bill may have
been made, and who, on the faith of such promise, shall have drawn
or negotiated the bill, to recover damages of the party making such
promise, on his refusal to accept such bill."

The parties went to trial; and the bank offered evidence tending to establish, that for over a year prior to the seventh day
of July, 1871, the firm of Henry Ames & Co. were engaged in
business at St. Louis, Mo., and that Leland & Harbach, commission-merchants in Chicago, had from time to time bought
lots of pork for said firm, on commission; that on the seventh
day of July, 1871, the defendant Scudder, a member of said
firm, came to Chicago at the request of Leland & Harbach, who
were then in an embarrassed condition, owing to speculations in
grain; that, on the same day, John L. Hancock delivered to
Leland & Harbach 500 barrels of pork, which they had bought
of him for Ames & Co., by their request and direction, at
816.25 per barrel, in May, to be delivered in July, of which
purchase said Ames & Co. had been duly advised; that, in
payment of said pork, Leland & Harbach gave Hancock their
check on the Union National Bank of Chicago for $8,031; and
that the charges for inspection and commissions made the total
cost of the pork $8,125.
That Leland & Harbach, on the same day, shipped the pork
to Ames & Co. at St. Louis, Mo., who received and sold it; and
that, at the time the bill was drawn, Scudder, who was then
present in the office of Leland & Harbach, consented to the
receipt of said pork, and verbally authorized them to draw on
Ames & Co. for the amount due therefor.
That a bill of exchange in words and figures following"88,125.00.

"CHIcAGO, July 7, 1871.

"Pay to the order of Union National Bank eight thousand one
hundred and twenty-five dollars, value received, and charge to
"1LELAND & HARBACH.
account of
"To Messrs. Henry Ames & Co., St. Louis, Mo."

SCUDDER V. UNION NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

was on said seventh day of July, 1871, presented for discount
at the Union National Bank by Leland & Harbach's clerk; and
the vice-president of the bank declined to give Leland & Harbach credit for the bill without a bill of lading or other security.
That the clerk then returned to Leland & Harbach's office, and
stated the bank's objections, Scudder being present; and, in the
presence and hearing of said defendant, Scudder, the clerk was
told by Leland or Harbach to return to the bank, and tell the
vice-president that Scudder, one of the firm of Ames & Co.,
was then in Chicago, and had authorized the drawing of said
draft, and that it was drawn against 500 barrels of pork that day
bought by Leland & Harbach for Henry Ames & Co., and duly
shipped to them. That the clerk returned, and made the statement as directed; and the vice-president, upon the faith of such
statement that the bill was authorized by defendants, discounted
said bill, the proceeds were passed to Leland & Harbach's credit,
and the check given by them to Hancock in payment of said
pork was paid out of the proceeds of said draft.
The bank then offered in evidence the said bill of exchange
with a notarial certificate of protest, showing that the bill was
presented to Henry Ames & Co. for payment July 8, 1871, and
duly protested for non-payment.
It was admitted that said Ames & Co. had never paid said
bill.
The court charged the jury. To the following parts thereof
Scudder excepted: "If you find from the evidence that Mr. Scudder, one of the
defendants, authorized the drawing of the draft in question, and
authorized the clerk, George H. Harbach, to so state to the vicepresident of the bank, and that the said draft was discounted by
the bank upon the faith of such statement, such conduct on the part
of Mr. Scudder may be considered by you as evidence of an implied
promise by the defendants to pay the draft : and it is not necessary
for that purpose that Mr. Scudder should have expressly sent word
to the bank if such statements were made in his hearing and presence, and no objections made to them by him; that is to say, if he
stood by and allowed either Leland or Harbach to send such word
to the bank without dissenting therefrom. If you find by a fhir
preponderance of the testimony that Mr. Scudder knew the pork
had been delivered to Leland & Harbach at the time the draft was
-

Oct. 1875.]

SCnDER

V.

UNION NATIONAL BANK.

drawn, and acquiesced in the drawing of the draft, and acquiesced
in the word sent to the bank that be had authorized it, you may
from such facts find an implied promise by the defendants to pay
the draft. It was not necessary that Scudder should go to the
bank and state that he had authorized the draft, if you are satisfied
that he allowed such statements to be made by the messenger.
"It being an admitted fact that the defendants have the proceeds of the pork against which this draft was drawn, such fact
may also be considered by you as an additional circumstance tending to show a promise on the part of the defendants to pay the
draft.
"The real issue in this case is, whether Mr. Scudder authorized
the drawing of the draft in question, and expressly or impliedly
promised to pay it."
The jury found a verdict in favor of the bank; and the
court, overruling a motion for a new trial, rendered judgment.
Scudder sued out this -writ of error.
Mr. John I.T Thompson for plaintiff in error cited Maggs
v. Ames, 4 Bing. 470; 2 Par. on Notes and Bills, 324 et seq.;
Story's Confl. of Laws, sects. 280, 318; Worcester Bank v. Wells
et al., 8 Met. 107; H1unt v. Standart,15 id. 33; Boyce v. E-dwards, 4 Pet. 123; -Yrazier v. Warfield, 9 Sm. & M. 220;
Springer v. Poster, 2 Story, 387.
Mr.Melville W. Puller, contra.
An acceptance of a bill need not be in writing, except when
so required by statutory provisions. 1 Par. on Notes and Bills,
285.
In Illinois it is well' settled that a parol promise to pay an
existing bill is valid (Jones v. .Bluff's Bank, 34 Ill. 319),
and a parol promise to pay an existing or non-existing bill is a
virtual acceptance thereof. Nelson v. First Nat. Bank, 48 id.
39; Mason v. Dousay, 35 id. 424; Jones v. Bank, 34 id. 319.
M. TusTIcE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
It is ,ot necessary to examine the question, whether a denial
of the motion to set aside the summons can be presented as a
ground of error on this hearing. The facts are so clearly
against the motion, that the question does not arise.
Nor does it become necessary to examine the question of
pleading, which is so elaborately spread out in the record. The

SOUDDR V. UNION NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

only serious question in the case is presented upon the objection
to the admission of evidence and to the charge of the judge.
Upon the merits, the case is this: The plaintiff below sought
to recover from the firm of Henry Ames & Co., of St. Louis,
Mo., the amount of a bill of exchange, of which the following
is a copy; viz.:"$8,125.00.
"CHICAGO, July 7, 1871.
" Pay to the order of Union National Bank eight thousand one
hundred and twenty-five dollars, value received, and charge to
account of

" LELAND &

HARBACH.

"To Messrs. Henry Ames & Co., St. Louis, Mo."
By the direction of Ames & Co., Leland & Harbach had
bought for them, and on the seventh day of July, 1871,
shipped to them at St. Louis, 500 barrels of pork, and gave
their check on the Union bank to Hancock, the seller of the
same, for $8,000.
Leland & Harbach then drew the bill in question, and sent
the same by their clerk to the Union Bank (the plaintiff below)
to be placed to their credit. The bank declined to receive the
bill, unless accompanied by the bill of lading or other security.
The clerk returned, and reported accordingly to Leland & Harbach. One of the firm then directed the clerk to return to the
bank, and say that Mr. Scudder, one of the firm of Ames & Co
(the drawees), was then in Chicago, and had authorized the
drawing of the draft; that it was drawn against 500 barrels of
pork that day bought by Leland & Harbach for them, and duly
shipped to them. The clerk returned to the bank, and made
this statement to its vice-president; who thereupon, on the faith
of the statement that the bill was authorized by the defendants,
discounted the same, and the proceeds were placed to the credit
of Leland & Harbach. Out of the proceeds the check given
t)Hancock for the pork was paid by the bank.
The direction to inform the bank that Mr. Scudder was in
Chicago and had authorized the drawing of the draft was made
in the presence and in the hearing of Scudder, and without
objection by him.
The point was raised in various forms upon the admission of
evidence, and by the charge of the judge, whether, upon this

Oct. 1875.]

SCUDDER V. UNION NATIONAL BANK.

state of facts, the firm of Ames & Co., the defendants, were
liable to the bank for the amount of the bill. The jury, under
the charge of the judge, held them to be liable; and it is from
the judgment entered upon that verdict that the present writ
of error is brought.
The question is discussed in the appellant's brief, and properly, as if the direction to the clerk had been given by Scudder
in person. The jury were authorized to consider the direction
in his name, in his presence and hearing, without objection by
him, as made by himself.
The objection relied on is, that the transaction amounted at
most to a paxol promise to accept a bill of exchange then in
existence. It is insisted that such a promise does not bind the
defendants.
The suit to recover upon the alleged acceptance, or upon the
refusal to accept, being in the State of Illinois, and the contract having been made in that State, the judgment is to be
given according to the law of that State. The law of the expected place of performance, should there be a difference, yields
to the lexfori and the lex loci contractus.
In Wheaton on Conflict of Laws, sect. 4 01 p, the rule is thus
laid down: "Obligations, in respect to the mode of their solemnization, are
subject to the rule locus regit actum; in respect to their interpretation, to the lex loci contractus; in respect to the mode of their
performance, to the law of the place of their performance. But the
lexfori determines when and how such laws, when foreign, are to
be adopted, and, in all cases not specified above, supplies the applicatory law."
Hillerv. Tiffany, 1 Wall. 310; Chapmanv. Bobertson, 6 Paige,
634; Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 78; .amesse v. Bacer, 3 Wheat.
147; Adams v. Robertson, 37 Ill. 59; Ferguson v. PYuffe, 8 0.
& F. 121; Bain v. Whitehaven and Purness Junction Ry. Co.,
3 1. L. Cas. 1; Scott v. Pilkinton,15 Abb. Pr. 280; Story, Confl.
Laws, 203; 10 Wheat. 383.
The rule is often laid down, that the law of the place of
performance governs the contract.
Mr. Parsons, in his "Treatise on Notes and Bills," uses this
language: "If a note or bill be made payable in a particular

SCUDDER

V.

UNION NATIONAL BAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

place, it is to be treated as if made there, -without reference to
the place at which it is written or signed or dated." P. 324.
For the purposes of payment, and the incidents of payment,
this is a sound proposition. Thus the bill in question is
directed to parties residing in St. Louis, Mo., and contains no
statement whether it is payable on time or at sight. It is, in
law, a sight draft. Whether a sight draft is payable immediately upon presentation, or whether days of grace are allowed,
and to what extent, is differently held in different States.
The law of Missouri, where this draft is payable, determines
that question in the present instance.
The time, manner, and circumstances of presentation for
acceptance or protest, the rate of interest when this is not
specified in the bill (Young v. Hfarris, 14 B. Mon. 556; Parry
v. Ainsworth, 22 Barb. 118), are points connected with the
payment of the bill; and are also instances to illustrate the
meaning of the rule, that the place of performance governs
the bill.
The same author, however, lays down the rule, that the place
of making the contract governs as to the formalities necessary
to the validity of the contract. P. 317. Thus, whether a contract shall be in writing, or maybe made by parol, is a formality
to be determined by the law of the place where it is made. If
valid there, the contract is binding, although the law of the
place of performance may require the contract to be in writing.
.Dacostav. Jatch, 4 Zab. 319.
So when a note was indorsed in New York, although drawn
and made payable in France, the indorsee may recover against
the payee and indorser upon a failure to accept, although by
the laws of France such suit cannot be maintained until after
default in payment. Aymar v. Shelden, 12 Wend. 439.
So if a note, payable in New York, be given in the State of
Illinois for money there lent, reserving ten per cent interest,
which is legal in that State, the note is valid, although but
seven per cent interest is allowed by the laws of the former
State. Miller v. Tiffany, 1 Wall. 310; Depeau v. H~umphry,
20 How. 1; Chapman v. Bobertson, 6 Paige, 634; Andrews v.
Pond, 13 Pet. 65.
Matters bearing upon the execution, the interpretation, and

Oct. 1875.]

SCUDDER V. UNION NATIONAL BANK.

the validity of a contract are determined by the law of the
place where the contract is made. Matters connected with its
performance are regulated by the law prevailing at the place
of performance. Matters respecting the remedy, such as the;
bringing of suits, admissibility of evidence, statutes of limita,
tion, depend upon the law of the place where the suit is
brought.
A careful examination of the well-considered decisions of
this country and of England will sustain these positions.
There is no statute of the State of Illinois that requires an
acceptance of a bill of exchange to be in writing, or that prohibits a parol promise to accept a bill of exchange: on the
contrary, a parol acceptance and a paxol promise to accept are
valid in that State, and the decisions of its highest court hold
that a parol promise to accept a bill is an acceptance thereof.
If this be so, no question of jurisdiction or of conflict of laws
arises. The contract to accept was not only made in Illinois,
but the bill was then and there actually accepted in Illinois, as
perfectly as if Mr. Scudder had written an acceptance across
its face, and.signed thereto the name of his firm. The contract
to accept the bill was not to be performed in Missouri. It had
already, by the promise, been performed in Illinois. The contract to pay was, indeed, to be performed in Missouri; but that
was a different contract from that of acceptance. Nelson v.
First Nat. Bank, 48 Ill. 39; Mason v. .Dousay, 85 id. 424;
Jones v. Bank, 84 id. 819.
Unless forbidden by statute, it is the rule of law generally,
that a promise to accept an existing bill is an acceptance
thereof, whether the promise be in writing or by parol. Wynne
v. Raikes, 5 East, 514; Bank of Irelandv. Archer,11 M. & W.
883; How v. Loring, 24 Pick. 254; Ward v. Allen, 2 Met. 53;
Bank v. Woodruff, 84 Vt. 92; Spalding v. Andrews, 12 Wright,
411; Tilliams v. Tinans, 2 Green (N. J.), 809; Storer v. Logan,
9 Mass. 56; Byles on Bills, sect. 149; Barney v. Withington,
37 N. Y. 112. See the Illinois cases cited, supra.
Says Lord Ellenborough, in the first of these cases, "A promise to accept an existing bill is an acceptance. A promise to
pay it is also an acceptance. A promise, therefore, to do the
one or the other, - i.e., to accept or certainly pay, - cannot be
less than an acceptance."

SCUDDER V. UNION NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

In Tilliams v. Winans, Hornblower, C. J., says, "The first
question is, whether a parol acceptance of a bill will bind the
acceptor; and of this there is at this day no room to doubt.
The defendant was informed of the sale, and that his son had
drawn an order on him for $125; to which he answered, it was
all right. He afterwards found the interest partly paid, and
the evidence of payment indorsed upon it in the handwriting
of the defendant. These circumstances were proper and legal
evidence from which the jury might infer an acceptance."
It is a sound principle of morality, which is sustained by wellconsidered decisions, that one who promises another, either in
writing or by parol, that he will accept a particular bill of
exchange, and thereby induces him to advance his money upon
such bill, in reliance upon his promise, shall be held to make
good his promise. The party advances his money upon an
original promise, upon a valuable consideration; and the promisor is, -upon principle, bound to carry out his undertaking.
Whether it shall be held to be an acceptance, or whether he
shall be subjected in damages for a breach of his promise to
accept, or whether he shall be held to be estopped from impeaching his word, is a matter of form merely. The result in
either event is to compel the promisor to pay the amount of the
bill with interest. Townley v. Sumdel, 2 Pet. 170; Boyce v.
_Edwards, 4 id. 111; Goodrich v. Gordon, 15 Johns. 6; Scott v.
Pilkinton, 15 Abb. Pr. 280; Ontario Bank v. WForthington,
12 Wend. 593; Bissell v. Lewis, 4 Mich. 450; Williams v.
Winans, supra.
These principles settle the present case against the appellants.
It certainly does not aid their case, that after assuring the
bank, through the message of Leland & Harbach, that the draft
was drawn against produce that day shipped to the drawees,
and that it was drawn by the authority of the firm (while, in
fact, the produce was shipped to and received and sold by them),
and that the bank in reliance upon this assurance discounted
the bill, Mr. Scudder should at once have telegraphed his firm
in St. Louis to delay payment of the draft, and, by a subsequent
telegram, should have directed them not to pay it.
The judgment must be affirmed.

