Oct. 1875.]

MLLER
]
ET AL. V. EnEIMS.

tertained such an appeal; but the .decree there appealed from
was final. There was no order to resell, for the reason, that,
between the time of Blossom's bid and the time of the order
of the court appealed from, the decree for the satisfaction of
which the sale had been ordered was paid. The decree against
Blossom, therefore, was the last which the court could make
in the case. It ended the proceedings, and dismissed the parties from further attendance upon the court for any purpose
connected with that action.
This appear is, thierefore, dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

M~ffrat ET AL.

v.

EBmERSs.

Where the court below rendered judgment upon a finding, and at the next term,
in the absence of any special circumstances in the case, and without the consent of parties or any previous order on the subject, allowed and signed a
bill of exceptions, and directed it to be filed as of the date of the trial, Held, that the bill, although returned with the record, cannot be considered
here as a part thereof.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The parties to this suit, by stipulation in writing filed with
the clerk, waived a jury, and submitted to a trial by the court,
which was had at the October Term, A. D. 1872, when the case
was taken under advisement. At the next term, and on the
28th April, 1873, the court found generally for the plaintiff:
whereupon defendants moved for a new trial. This motion
was continued until the next term; when, on the 15th July,
it was overruled, and judgment entered on the finding.
On the 25th July, 1873, this writ of error, returnable on the
second Monday of October then next ensuing, was sued out and
served, and on the same day a supersedeas bond was approved
and filed. The citation was filed Aug. 4, 1873.
Down to this date, as appears by the record, a bill of exceptions had not been signed or allowed, nor time given, either by
consent of the parties or by order of the court, to prepare one.
In this condition of the case, the court adjourned for the term.

MULLER ET AL. V. EHLERS.

[Sup. at.

At the next term, on the 27th October, 1873, and after the
return day of the writ of error, a bill of exceptions was signed
and filed by order of the court, as of the 28th April, 1873. It
nowhere appears from the record that this was done with the
consent of the plaintiff, or even with his knowledge. It is for
errors appearing in this bill of exceptions alone that a reversal
of the judgment is asked.
.Ir. Iit-att. H. Carpenter for the plaintiff in error, and Ir.
. W. Cotzhausen for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
It perhaps sufficiently appears from the bill of exceptions in
this case, if it is to be taken as a part of the record, that the
rulings complained of were excepted to in proper form at the
time of the trial; but it does not appear that the bill of exceptions was filed, signed, tendered for signature, or even prepared,
before the adjournment of the court for the term at which the
judgment was rendered. No notice was given to the plaintiff
of any intention on the part of the defendants to ask for the
allowance of a bill of exceptions, either during the term or
after. No application was made to the court for an extension
of time for that purpose. No such extension of time was
granted, and no consent given.
Upon the adjournment for the term the parties were out of
court, and the litigation there was at an end. The plaintiff
was discharged from further attendance; and all proceedings
thereafter, in his absence and without his consent, were coram
non judice. The order of the court, therefore, made at the
next term, directing that the bill of exceptions be filed in the
cause as of the date of the trial, was a nullity. For this reason, upon the case as it is presented to us, the bill of exceptions, though returned here, cannot be considered as part of
the record.
This case differs very materially from that of United States
v. Breitling, 20 How. 253. There the bill of exceptions was
prepared during the term, and presented to the court for allowance four days before the adjournment. It was handed back
to the attorney presenting it, three days before the adjourn-

Oct. 1875.]

MUihER ET AL. V. EHLERS.

ment, with the request that he submit it to the opposing counsel. Delay occurred, and the signature was not actually affixed
until after the term. Under the special circumstances of that
case, the signature, after the term, was recognized as proper.
The particular grounds for this ruling are not stated; but it
was probably for the reason, that, upon the facts stated, the
consent to further time beyond the term for the settling of
the exceptions might fairly be presumed. That case went to
the extreme verge of the law upon this question of practice,
and we are not inclined to extend its operation. It was said
by this court in (eneres v. Bonnemer, 7 Wall. 565, that "to
permit the judge to make a statement of the facts on which
the case shall be heard here, after the case is removed to this
court by the service of the writ of error, or even after it is
issued, would place the rights of parties who have judgments
of record entirely in the power of the judge, without hearing
and without remedy." This language is substantially adopted
in Flandersv. Tweed, 9 Wall. 425, where it was said "the statement of facts by the judge is filed upon the 29th May, 1868,
nearly three months after the rendition of the judgment. This
is an irregularity, for which this court is bound to disregard it,
and to treat it as no part of the record."
As early as Walton v. United States, 9 Wheat. 651, the power
to reduce exceptions taken at the trial to form, and to have them
signed and filed, was, under ordinary circumstances, confined to
a time not later than the term at which the judgment was
rendered. This, we think, is the true rule, and one to which
there should be no exceptions without an express order of the
court during the term or consent of the parties, save under
very extraordinary circumstances. Here we find no order of
the court, no consent of the parties, and no such circumstances
as will justify a departure from the rule. A judge canot act
judicially upon the rights of parties, after the parties in due
course of proceeding have both in law and in fact been dis.
missed from the court.
The judgment is affirmed.

