AmORY V. AmiORY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

that it exposes a defendant to be harassed with many suits. An
answer to the latter objection is, that granting the writ is discretionary with the court, and it may well be assumed that it
will not be unnecessarily granted.
There is also, perhaps, a reasonable implication that Congress,
when they authorized writs of mandamus to compel the Union
IDacific Railroad Company to operate their road according to
w, did not contemplate the intervention of the Attorney,neral in all cases. The act of 1873 does not prescribe who
shall move for the writ, while the Attorney-General is expressly
directed to institute the necessary proceedings to secure the performance of other duties of the company. For these reasons,
-we think the Circuit Court did not err in holding that Hall and
Morse were competent to apply for the writ in this case.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissenting.
I am obliged to dissent from the judgment of the court in
this case. The Missouri River is, by common acceptation, the
western boundary of Iowa; and the fair construction of the
charter of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, which adopts
that boundary as its eastern terminus, is, that the road was to
extend from the Missouri River westwardly. The subsequent
express authority given to construct a bridge across the river,
in my judgment, confirms this view of the subject; and as a
mandamus is a severe remedy, requiring a clear right and clear
duty to support it, I think it ought not to be granted in this
case, especially as it requires the company to use the bridge as
a part of their continuous line with all their trains, which may
impose much inconvenience on them, without corresponding
benefit to the public.

AmORY v. AmORY ET AL.
1. A cause will not, on the ground that it has no merits, be advanced for argament; nor will it be dismissed on motion simply because the court may be
of opinion that it has been brought here for delay only.
2. The court will not hesitate to exercise its power to adjudge damages where it
finds that its jurisdiction has been invoked merely to gain time.

Oct. 1875.]

MORSELL ET AL. V. FMRST NAT. BANK.

357

ERIoR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
.Hr. M.H. Carpenterin support of a motion to advance and
dismiss the cause.
31r. George -F. .dmunds, contra.
Mn-. CB= JUsTicE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We cannot dismiss a case on motion simply because we may
be of the opinion that it has been brought here for delay only.
Both parties have the right to be heard on the merits; a4d one
party cannot require the other to come to such a hearing upon
a mere motion to dismiss. To dismiss under such circumstances
would be to decide that the case had no merits. Neither can
we advance a cause for argument for the reason that we may
think it has no merits. Further argument may show the contrarY.
We can adjudge damages, under sect. 1010 Rev. Stat. and
rule 23, in all cases where it appears that a writ of error has
been sued out merely for delay. This gives us the only power
we have to prevent frivolous appeals, and writs of error; and
we deem it not improper to say that this power will be exercised without hesitation in all cases where we find that our
jurisdiction has been invoked merely to gain time.
.lotion denied.

MoRsMMl

ET AL. V. Fn ST NATIONAL BAMX.

4. judgment at law is not a lien upon real estate in the District of Columbia,
which, before the judgment was rendered, had been conveyed to trustees
with a power of sale to secure the payment of the debts of the grantor de.
scribed in the deed of trust.

APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the District of Co.

lumbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Jr.
. JT Johnson and Mr. B. IC BIliot for the appellants.
Mr. Enoch Totten, contra.

