JACKSON V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

JACKSON V. JACKSO1I.
1. Although, by the common law, the money which the wife has at the time of
her marriage, not secured to her by a settlement or contract, and that which
she subsequently earns, belong to the husband, it is competent and lawful
for him to allow its investment in the purchase and improvement of real
property for her separate use, if the rights of existing creditors are not
thereby impaired.
2. The doctrine of resulting trusts has no application to an investment of this
kind: it constitutes a voluntary settlement upon the wife, whether made
through the husband, or directly by the wife with his consent.
8. A divorce granted to the wife for cruel treatment by the husband is not of
itself sufficient reason for awarding to him any portion of the property thus
settled upon her.

APPr.U,, from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This is a case of divorce. The parties were married on the
25th of November, 1856, in the District of Columbia, where they
then and ever since have resided. Each prayed for a dissolution
of the marriage contract for the alleged misconduct of the other.
The appellee, in his cross-bill, set up that the appellant held
in her individual name the title to certain real estate in said
District which had been acquired and paid for since their marriage with his money and earnings, and prayed that she be
decreed to convey the same to him.
The appellant's answer to the cross-bill alleged that the land
had been purchased with money received from her father's
estate, and from the proceeds of her own industry and savings.
The cause being set down for hearing, the court found, as
a matter of fact, that the appellee was guilty of cruel treatment,
as charged in the appellant's bill; that the cause of divorce in
the cross-bill mentioned was not made out; and that the property was in part acquired and paid for with money belonging
to the appellant at the time of her marriage, and for the rest
with moneys earned by the joint efforts of said parties.
The court thereupon decreed that the married relations be
tween the parties be dissolved; that the title to the property be
held by the appellant in trust for both parties; and that, from
the date of the decree, the appellant should hold, as of her own
absolute right, a specifically described portion thereof, and convey in fee-simple the remainder to the appellee.

Oct. 1875.]

JACKSON V. JACKSON.

From so much of the decree as relates to the property the
plaintiff below appealed to the General Term of said Supreme
Court. The decree being affirmed, an appeal was taken to this
court.
There is no conflict in the proofs as to the purchase of the
real estate by the appellant with the money which she possessed at the time of her marriage. The rent of the house
which was then standing on the property, and her earnings,
wvere used in the erection of the additional buildings; but the
evidence adduced by the appellee tended to show that a part
of his earnings was applied to the same purpose.
The appellant took the deed in her own name, paid taxes on
the property, caused it to be insured, and managed and controlled it as her own separate estate, with the full knowledge
and consent of the appellee.
The common law as to the rights of a married woman to real
or personal property belonging to her at the time of her marriage, or thereafter acquired, prevailed in said District until
April 20, 1869, when an act was passed to regulate such rights.
16 Stat. 45.
The ninth section of the "Act to authorize divorces in the
District of Columbia, and for other purposes," approved June 19,
1860 (12 Stat. 59), provides "that, in all cases where a divorce is
granted, the court allowing the same shall have power, if it see fit,
to award alimony to the wife, and to retain her right of dower,
and to award to the wife such property, or the value thereof,
as she had when she was married, or such part, or the value
thereof, as the court may deem reasonable, having a regard to
the circumstances of the husband at the time of the divorce."
The above provisions, except in so far as they relate to
alimony and the right of dower, appear not to have been re
enacted in the Revised Statutes.
The case was argued by Hr. A. G. Riddle for the appellant,
and by 3Hr. William A. Heloy and Hr. FraneisMiller for the
appellee.
AIR. JUSTICE FEwD delivered the opinion of the court.

The land in controversy in this case was purchased by the
wife with money which she had previous to her marriage, given
to her by her father. The buildings erected thereon were con-

JACKSON V. JACKSON.

[Sup. at.

structed partly with such money, and partly with her subsequent
earnings. The deed of the land was taken in her name; the
contract for the houses was made by her alone with the builder;
the policy of insurance upon the buildings was executed to her;
and she paid the taxes upon the property. It is true, that at
the date of the marriage, and when the land was purchased and
the improvements were made, the common law governed in the
District of Columbia as to the rights of married women to the
personal property possessed by them previous to their marriage,
and not secured by a settlement or contract to their separate
use, and as to their subsequent earnings. By that law, the
money which the wife then possessed and her subsequent earnings belonged exclusively to her husband. They vested as
absolutely in him as though the money had been originally his,
and the earnings were the proceeds of his own labor and industry. This harsh rule of the common law was founded upon the
idea, that, as the husband was bound by the marriage to support
the wife and the rest of the family, he was entitled to whatever
she possessed, or subsequently acquired, which was available
for that purpose, - a rule which would have had some good
ground for its existence, had it only applied when the money
or earnings of the wife were necessary for that purpose. But,
becoming absolutely the property of the husband, they were
subject to his disposal without regard to the necessities of the
family, and might be taken from them at the suit of his creditors. They partook of the condition, and were subject to the
fate, of his separate property.
But though the money which the wife in the present case
had at her marriage, and her subsequent earnings, must be regarded as the property of the husband, it was competent and
lawful for him to allow her to invest them forher own use, so
as to be beyond his reach and control. Being at the time free
from debt, he could have taken whatever money she had,
whether given to her or earned by her own labor, and purchased with it the land in controversy, and received the deed
in her name. The investment would then have been an advancement for her benefit,- a voluntary settlement upon her;
and the subsequent application of her earnings to the construction of improvements would have equally been a legal disposition
of them. The improvement of property settled upon the wife

Oct. 1875.]

JACKSON V. JACKSON.

is not forbidden to the husband, if not made with a fraudulent
intent; and the moneys used for that purpose do not interfere
with any rights of existing creditors.
The law on the subject of post-nuptial settlements of this
character is well settled, and will be found stated in numerous
adjudications of the American courts. Picquetv. Swan, 4 Mas.
444; Haslkell v. Bakewell, 10 B. Mon. 206. The doctrine of
resulting trusts, arising where a conveyance is taken in the name
of one person and the consideration is advanced by another, has
no application to investments of this kind. Such trusts are raised
by the law from the presumed intention of the parties, and the
natural equity that he who furnishes the means for the acquisition of property should enjoy its benefits. But no presumption
that a personal benefit was intended to the party advancing the
funds for a purchase in the name of another can arise where an
obligation exists on his part, legal or moral, to provide for the
grantee, as in the case of a husband for his wife, or a father for
his child. The circumstance that the grantee stands in one of
these relations to the party is of itself sufficient evidence to
rebut the presumption of a resulting trust, and to create a contrary presumption of an advancement for the grantee's benefit.
3furless v. Franklin, 1 Swans. 17; @rey v. Grey, 2 id. 597;
Finch v. Finch,15 Yes. 50; Guthriev. Gardner,19 Wend. 414;
Perry on Trusts, sects. 143, 144.
The case of Sexton v. Wheaton, 8 Wheat. 229, which arose
in the District of Columbia, is a determination of this court
upon the points here presented. There the husband had purchased a house and lot within the District, and taken the conveyance in the name of his wife, and afterwards improvements
were made upon the property. Subsequent creditors, having
obtained judgment against him, Mfled a bill to subject the property to its payment, contending that the conveyance to the wife
was fraudulent and void as to them, and praying, that, if the
conveyance was sustained, the wife might be compelled to account for the value of the improvements. But the court held,
Mr. Chief Justice Marshall delivering its opinion, that, the
husband at the time being free from debt, the conveyance to
the wife was to be deemed a voluntary settlement upon her,
which, not being made with any fraudulent intent, was operative and binding against subsequent creditors; and that the

JACKSON V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ot.

improvements upon the property stood upon the same footing
as the conveyance itself, they being made before the debts were
contracted. The Chief Justice observed that it would seem to
be a consequence of that absolute power which a man possesses
over his own property, that he might make any disposition of
it which did not interfere with the existing rights of others;
that such disposition, if it were fair and real, would be valid;
and that the limitations upon this power were those only which
were prescribed by law. The Chief Justice then proceeded to
show that the law only limited this power when its exercise
impaired the rights of existing creditors; and that a voluntary
settlement by a husband in favor of his wife could not be impeached by subsequent creditors, unless it was made to defraud
them.
The present case is one much stronger than the case cited;
for here there are no creditors complaining. It differs from the
one cited in this, that the investment was made directly by the
wife, instead of being made through the husband; but we do
not perceive in this fact any valid objection to the legality of
the transaction. There can be no doubt that she acted with
his approval. Fifteen years of acquiescence in her holding the
land in her name, and in making improvements thereon with
her earnings, ought to be deemed satisfactory evidence of his
original authorization of the investments. The amount paid
for the land was only $300 (less than one-sixth of the sum received from her father), and the whole cost of the improvements for the fifteen years was only about $2,000; and it does
not appear that any third parties have been in any respect
prejudiced by the investments, or have ever questioned their
validity.
The divorce decreed was not of itself a sufficient reason foi
restoring to the husband any rights to the property thus settled upon the wife. That was granted for cruel treatment; and,
whatever may be the power of the court over the property of
parties upon the dissolution of the marriage relation, there was
no call for its exercise in a case like the present.
The decree of the iSupreme Court of the District, so far as it
awards any portion of the property in controversy to the
husband, and directs a conveyance by the wife to him, must
be reversed ; and it is so ordered.

Oct. 1875.]

BALT.

& POT. R.R. Co. v. TRUSTEES, ETC.

127

MIR. JUSTICE DAvIS dissenting.
I agree to the legal propositions advanced by the court; but,
in my opinion, the evidence in this case does not warrant the
application that has been made of them.
It would serve no useful purpose to discuss the evidence, in
order to show that it is so; and I shall, therefore, content myself with saying, that it justified the conclusion reached by the
court below, that the property should be divided between tho
parties. As the appeal only brought up the question of property rights, I am not at liberty to consider the merits of the

decree for divorce.

BALTIMORE AND POTOMAC RAJL-IOAD COMPANY v. TRUSTEES OF SIxTH PRESBYTERIANT CHURCH.
Affidavits, depositions, and matters of parol evidence, though appearing in
the transcript of the proceedings of a common-law court, do not form part
of the record unless they are made so by an agreed statement of facts, a

bill of exceptions, a special verdict, or a demurrer to the evidence.

EnRor. to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. -Daniel Clarke and 11fr. Mayne Kaeeagh for the plain-

tiff in error.
The court declined hearing Mr. James A. Garfield and Mr.
.ussey
H.
for the defendant in error.

.

Mr. JUSTICE CLI:FFOPI o

delivered the opinion of the court.

Compensation was claimed in this case by the Trustees of
the Sixth Presbyterian Church of this District for injuries occasioned to their real property by the railroad company; and
they made application to a justice of the peace in and for the
District, representing that the railroad company "have laid
their tracks and are now running their trains along Sixth Street
and in front of the property of said church, and have built and
now occupy and use a d6p~t building upon said Sixth Street
and in the near vicinity of said church, to the great damage of
the sane."
Pursuant to that application the magistrate to whom it was

