HALL ET AL. V. LANNING ET AL.

HALL ET AL.

'. LANNING

[Sup. Ct.

EiT AL.

1. A member of a partnership, residing in one State, not served with process and
not appearing, is not personally bound by a judgment recovered in another
State against all the partners after a dissolution of the firm, although the
other members were served, or did appear and cause an appearance to be
entered for all, and although the law of the State where the suit was brought
authorized such judgment.
2. After the dissolution of a partnership, one partner has no implied authority
to cause the appearance of another partner to be entered to a suit brought
against the firm. Qucrere, whether such implied authority exists during the
continuance of the partnership.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action of debt brought on a judgment rendered
in New York against the plaintiffs in error. One of them,
Lybrand, pleaded separately nul tiel record, and several special
pleas questioning the validity of the judgment as against him
for want of jurisdiction over his person. On the trial, the
plaintiff simply gave in evidence the record of the judgment
recovered in New York, which showed that an attorney had
appeared and put in an answer for both defendants, who were
sued as partners. The answer admitted the partnership, but
set up various matters of defence. The cause was referred, and
judgment given for the plaintiffs. This was the substance of
the New York record. The plaintiffs gave no further evidence.
Lybrand then offered to prove that he never was a resident
or citizen of the State of New York; and that he had not
been within said State of New York at any time since, nor for
a long time before, the commencement of the suit in which
the judgment was rendered, upon which the plaintiff in this
case brought suit; and that he never had any summons, process, notice, citation, or notice of any kind, either actual or
constructive, ever given or served upon him; and that he never
authorized any attorney or any other person to appear for him ;
and that no one ever had any authority to appear for him in
said suit in the State of New York, or to enter his appearance
therein, nor did he ever authorize any one to employ an attorney to appear for him in the action in which said judgment was
entered; and that he never entered his appearance therein in

Oct. 1875.]

IALL

T AL. v. LANNG ET AL.

person; and that he knew nothing of the pendency of said
suit in the said State of New York until the commencement
of the present suit in this court; that he was a partner in business with his co-defendant Hall at the time the transaction
occurred upon which the plaintiffs brought suit in New York,
though said partnership had been dissolved, and due notice
thereof published, some six months prior to the commencement
of said suit in New York.
This evidence, being objected to, was overruled by the court,
which instructed the jury as follows: "That the record introduced in evidence by the plaintiffs was conclusive evidence for
the plaintiffs to maintain the issues submitted to the jury by
the pleadings; and that they should return a verdict for the
plaintiffs, and against both defendants."
A bill of exceptions was taken to this ruling, and the matter
brought here on writ of error.
fr. Samuel W. Packardfor the plaintiffs in error.
The controlling question in this case is, whether the court
erred in refusing to allow the introduction of evidence to show
that the judgment obtained in New York was void, as to
Lybrand, for want of jurisdiction of the person. The general
rule of law in that State is, that "want of jurisdiction may always
be interposed against a judgment when sought to be enforced, or
when any benefit is claimed from it: the want of jurisdiction,
either of the subject-matter or of the person of either party,
renders the judgment a mere nullity."
Kerr v. Kerr, 41
N. Y. 275, per James, J.; Shumway v. Stillman, 6 Wend. 447;
.Borden v. Eitch, 15 Johns. . 121; Dobson v. Pearee, 12
N. Y. 164, per Allen, J.; Kinnier v. Rinnier, 45 id. 542, per
Church, C. J.
For the purpose of showing that the court did not have
jurisdiction, the recitals in the judgment record may be contradicted. Adams v. Saratoga& VFermont B. W. Co., 10 N. Y.
(6 Selden) 332, 333, per Gridley, J.; Hfarrington v. People,
6 Barb. 607, 610, per Paige, J., and other cases in New York
there cited; Latham v. Edgerton, 9 Cow. 228, and cases there
cited.
But there is this exception to the general rule above stated in
New York. Where an attorney has appeared without authority
VOL. 1.

11

HALL ET AL. v. LANNING ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

for a party, he cannot be allowed to dispute the authority of
the attorney when the judgment is brought in question, except by a direct proceeding in the court where the judgment
remains; and he cannot always do that if the attorney is
responsible, as a suit against the attorney is, under some circumstances, held an adequate remedy.
The reasons of the exception are, because the title to real
estate depends to a great extent upon the records of the courts;
and the injured party has an ample remedy against the attorney,
if responsible, or he can apply to the court in which judgment
was rendered for relief. Bown v. Nichols, 42 N. Y. 26, pei
Ingall, J., 32, and per Earle, J., 30; -Dentonv. Noyes, 6 Johns.
296.
These reasons do not apply to a suit upon such judgment in
another State; because,
First, The title to real estate is not thereby affected.
Second, There is no remedy in any of the courts of the State
where suit is brought upon the judgment, either by direct
application to the court in which it was rendered, or by suit
against the attorney who appeared without authority.
The fact that a party must resort to a distant forum outside
the limits of his own State for redress has frequently been held
to be an inadequate or insufficient remedy, and almost equivalent
to none at all. Buckmasterv. Grundy, 3 Gilman (Ill.), 626, 630,
631; Tribbles v. Toul, 7 Mon. 455; Green v. Campbell, 2 Jones
(Eq.), N. C. 448; Richardson v. Williams, 3 id. 119; Smith v.
Field, 6 Dana (Ky.), 364; Taylor v. Stowell, 4 Met. (Ky.)
176, 177; Pander v. Cox, 28 Ga. 306, 307; Key v. Robinson,
29 id. 34; Lirch v. Foster, 1 Ves. Sr. 88; Edminson v. Baxter,
4 Hayw. (Tenn.) 112; Graham v. Tarkersby, 15 Ala. N. s.
644; Hinrichson v. Reinbach, 27 Ill. 301.
As the evidence offered by Lybrand that the attorney who
appeared for him did so without authority does not contradict,
but simply explains, the record, he was not estopped. Shelton v. Tiffin, 6 How. 186; Gleason v. -Dodd,4 Met. 338; Barden
v. Fitch, 15 Johns. 121; White v. Jones, 38 Ill. 163; Welch v.
Sykes, 3 Ill. 200; Hall v. Williams, 6 Pick. 232; Shlumway v.
Stillman, 6 Wend. 447; Aldrich v. -inney, 4 Conn. 380, and
cases cited therein; Hakin v. Blackmer, 20 Iowa, 162, and

Oct. 1875.]

HALL L

AL. v. LANING ET AL.

cases cited therein; Kerr v. Kerr, 41 N. Y. 272; WTilson v.

Bank of .ift..Pleasant,6 Leigh, 570; Price v. Ward, 1 Dutch.
229; Bigelow on Estoppel, 226; 6 Robinson's Practice, 438;
2 American Leading Cases (5th ed.), 633, 642, and cases
cited; Freeman on Judgments, sect. 563 (2d ed. p. 559).
The recitals in the record of a judgment of one State, when
sought to be enforced in another, can be contradicted as to any
jurisdictional fact, notwithstanding their conclusive effect in
the State where the judgment was rendered, and notwithstanding the constitutional provision "that full faith and credit
shall be given in each State to the public acts, records, and
judicial proceedings of every other State," and the act of
Congress passed to carry it into effect. Thompson v. Whitman,
18 Wall. 457; nowles v. Gas-Light & Coke Co., 19 id. 59;
Starbuek v. Murray, 5 Wend. 148, per Marcy, J.; Rope v.
Heaton, 9 Wis. 328, 382-337; Kerr v. Kerr, 41 N. Y. 272;
Shumway v. Stillman, 6 Wend. 453; Noyes v. Butler, 6 Barb.
613; Norwood v. Cobb, 24 Tex. 551; Carletonv. Bickford, 13

Gray, 591.
M1r. Sidney S. Harrisfor the defendants in error.
The excluded evidence, if admitted, would not have impeached
the validity of the judgment.
Hall and Lybrand were partners. The suit in New York
which resulted in the judgment related wholly to their partnership transactions. The authority of one partner to employ an
attorney to represent the firm in a suit, and to enter the appearance of all its members, rests on the undisputed doctrine, that
such partner, in all things relating to the firm transactions, can
lawfully represent the firm, unless restricted by agreement.
Parsons on Partn. 174.
It is clear that one partner can make contracts for the partnership which will not only bind it to the extent of its assets,
but which may lead to the ultimate individual liability of all
the partners. This is a necessary legal result of his exercise of
partnership authority; and either partner, acting for the firm,
can employ an attorney to resist a recovery in a suit against
it and to defend its interests. Parsons on Partn. 175, note;
Harrison v. Stickney, 7 T. R. 208, Dampier, arguendo; Col-

lyer on Partn., sects. 441, 678, and note; Winship v. The Bank

HALL ET AL. v. LANNING ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

of the United States, 5 Pet. 561 ; Bennett v. Stickney, 17 Vt.
531; -Everson v. Gehrman, 10 How. Pr. 301; Taylor v. Coryell,
12 S. & R. 250.
One partner can bona fide admit service of process for both,
and the judgment rendered will not be set aside on the motion
of the other partner.
Olwell v. NilcLaughlin, 10 N. Y. Leg.
Obs. 316; Lippman v. Judson, 1 Code, N. s. 161, note, Hammond v. Harris, 2 How. Pr. 331; Crane v. French, 1 Wend.
311; Grazebrook v. McCrudie, 17 id. 437; Blodget v. Conklin,
9 How. Pr. 442.
If the partnership was dissolved, Hall still had the power to
act for the firm in respect to any transactions which occurred
when the partnership continued. Wood v. Braddick, 1 Taunt.
104, per Lord Mlansfield; Pritchardv. Draper,1 Russ. & Myl.
191; Final v. Burrill, 16 Pick. 401; Bridge v. Gray, 14 id.
55; Simpson v. Geddes, 2 Bay, 533; Garlandv. Agee, 7 Leigh,
362; Woodworth v. Downer, 13 Vt. 522.
The rule in this country is, that the dissolution operates as a
revocation of all authority to make new contracts, but not to arrange, liquidate, settle, and pay those before created (Darling v.
31farch, 22 le. 184) ; and that either partner, after dissolution,
may acknowledge in the name of the partnership a balance due
from it (Ide v. Ingraham, 5 Gray, 106). In Pennsylvania
it is held that a partner may, after dissolution, borrow money
to pay partnership debts (-Estate of Davis, 5 Whart. 530), renew the notes of the firm (Brown v. Clark, 14 Penn. St. 469),
or give notes in its name in payment of debts (Robinson v. Taylor, 4 Barr, 242).
As the power of each partner must be equal to that of any
other partner, unless modified by agreement, this power of one
partner of winding up the affairs of the firm must be complete.
The conclusion to be drawn is, that a partner, after dissolution, has the same power as before in regard to suits brought by
or against the firm; and that, if Hall had the power to authorize an appearance for the firm during its existence, he still had
such power after its dissolution.
AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The question to be decided in this case is, whether, after the

Oct. 1875.]

HALL ET AL. v. LA.-NmG ET AL.

dissolution of a copartnership, one of the partners in a suit
brought against the firm has authority to enter an appearance
for the other partners who do not reside in the State where the
suit is brought, and have not been served with process; and, if
not, whether a judgment against all the partners, founded on
such an appearance, can be questioned by those not served with
process in a suit brought thereon in another State. We recently
had occasion, in the case of Tompson v. Wkitman, 18 Wall.
457, to restate the rule, that the jurisdiction of a foreign court
over the person or the subject-matter embraced in the judgment
or decree of such court is always open to inquiry; and that, in
this respect, the court of another State is to be regarded as a
foreign court. We further held in that case, that the record of
such a judgment does not estop the parties from demanding
such an inquiry. The cases bearing upon the subject having
been examined and distinguished on that occasion, it is not
necessary to examine them again, except as they may throw
light on the special question involved in this cause. In the
subsequent case of .Knowles v. Thze Gas-Light Company, 19
Wall. 58, we further held, in direct line with the decision in
Thomyson v. Whitman, that the record of a judgment showing
service of process on the defendant could be contradicted and
disproved.
It is sought to distinguish the present case from those referred
to, on the ground that the relation of partnership confers upon
each partner authority, even after dissolution, to appear for his
copartners in a suit brought against the firm, though they are
not served with process, and have no notice of the suit. In
support of this proposition, so far as relates to any such authority after dissolution of the partnership, we are not referred to
any authority directly in point; but reliance is placed on the
powers of partners in general, and on that class of cases which
affirm the right of each partner, after a dissolution of the firm,
to settle up its business. But, in our view, appearance to a
suit is a very different thing from those ordinary acts which
appertain to a general settlement of business, such as receipt
and payment of money, giving acqiiittances, and the like. If
a suit be brought against all the partners, and only one of them
be served with process, he may undoubtedly, in his own de-

HALT, ET AL. V. LANNING ET AL.

[Sup. t

fence, show, if he can, that the firm is not liable, and to this
end defend the suit. But to hold that the other partners, or
persons charged as such, who have not been served with process,
will be bound by the judgment in such a case, which shall conclude them as well on the question whether they were partners
or not when the debt was incurred as on that of the validity of
the debt, would, as it seems to us, be carrying the power of a
partner, after a dissolution of the partnership, to an unnecessary
and unreasonable extent.
The law, indeed, does not seem entirely clear that a partnei
may enter an appearance for his copartners without special
authority, even during the continuance of the firm. It is well
known, that by the English practice, in an action on any joint
contract, whether entered into by partners or others, if any defendant cannot be found, the plaintiff must proceed to outlawry
against him before he can prosecute the action; and then he
declares separately against those served with process, and obtains a separate judgment against them, but no judgment except
that of outlawry against the defendant not found. 1 Chitty's
Plead. 42; Tidd's Pract., ch. vii. p. 423, 9th ed. A shorter
method by distringas in place of outlawry has been provided by
some modern statutes, but founded on the same principle.
Now, it seems strange that this cumbrous and dilatory proceeding should be necessary in the case of partners, if one partner
has a general authority to appear in court for his copartners.
On the basis of such an authority, had it existed, the courts, in
the long lapse of time, ought to have found some means of
making service on one answer for service on all. But this was
never done. In this country, it is true, as will presently be
shown, legislation to this end (applicable, however, to all joint
debtors) has been adopted; but it is generally conceded that a
judgment based on such service has full and complete effect
only as against those who are actually served. Further reference to this subject will be made hereafter.
It must be conceded, however, that the general authority of
one partner to appear to an action on behalf of his copartners,
during the continuance of the firm, has been asserted by several
text-writers. Gow on Partn. 163; Collyer on Partn. sect. 441;
Parsons on Partn. 174, note. But the assertion is based on

Oct. 1875.]

RIL

LR AL. v. LA-nmG ET AL.

somewhat slender authority. We find it first laid down in Gow,
who refers to a dictum of Serjeant Dampier, made in the
course of argument (7 T. R. 207), and to the case of Morley v.
Stronbong, 3 Bos. & Pull. 254, where the court refused to discharge partnership goods taken on a distringas to compel the
appearance of an absent partner, unless the partner who was
served would enter an appearance for him. As to this case,
it may be said that it is not improbable that the home partner had express authority to appear in suits for his copartner; for, in a subsequent case (Goldsmith v. Levy, 4 Taunt.
299), a distringas, issued under the same circumstances, was
discharged where the home partner made affidavit that the
goods were his own, and that he had no authority to appeax
for his copartner. These seem to be the only authorities
relied on.
But, as said before, these authorities, and one or two American cases which follow them, refer only to appearances entered
whilst the partnership was subsisting; and it is pertinent also
to add, that they only refer to the validity and effect of judgnents in the state or country in which they are rendered.
Domestic judgments, undoubtedly (as was shown in Thompson v. Wdtrman), stand, in this respect, on a different footing
from foreign judgments. If regular on their face, and if appearance has been duly entered for the defendant by a responsible attorney, though no process has been served and no
appearance authorized, they will not necessarily be set aside;
but the defendant will sometimes be left to his remedy against
the attorney in an action for damages: otherwise, as has been
argued, the plaintiff might lose his security by the act of an
officer of the court. Denton v. Noyes, 6 Johns. 296; Grazebrookc v. MeCreedie, 9 Wend. 437. But, even in this case, it is
the more usual course to suspend proceedings on the judgment,
and allow the defendants to plead to the merits, and prove any
3ust defence to the action. In any other State, however, except
th t in which the judgment was rendered (as decided by us in
the cases before referred to), the facts could be shown, notwithstanding the recitals of the record; and the judgment
would be regarded as null and void for want of jurisdiction of
tue person,

HALL ET AL. V. LANNING EL' AL.

[Sup. Ct.

So, where an appearance has been entered by authority of
one of several copartners on behalf of all, it may well be that
the courts of the same jurisdiction will be slow to set aside the
judgment, unless it clearly appears that injustice has been done;
and will rather leave the party who has been injured by an
unauthorized appearance to his action for damages.
There are many other cases in which a judgment may be
good within the jurisdiction in which it was rendered so far as
to bind the debtor's property there found, without personal
service of process, or appearance of the defendant; as in foreign
attachments, process of outlawry, and proceedings in rem.
Another class of cases is that of joint-debtors, before alluded
to. In most of the States legislative acts have been passed,
called joint-debtor acts, which, as a substitute for outlawry,
provide that if process be issued against several joint-debtors
or partners, and served on one or more of them, and the others
cannot be found, the plaintiff may proceed against those served,
and, if successful, have judgment against all. Various effects
and consequences are attributed to such judgments in the States
in which they are rendered. They are generally held to bind
the common property of the joint-debtors, as well as the separate
property of those served with process, when such property is
situated in the State, but not the separate property of those
not served; and, whilst they are binding personally on the
former, they are regarded as either not personally binding at
all, or only primafaeiebinding, on the latter. Under the Joint
debtor Act of New York, it was formerly held by the courts of
that State that such a judgment is valid and binding on an
absent defendant as primafacie evidence of a debt, reserving to
hini the right to enter into the merits, and show that he ought
not to have been charged.
The validity of a judgment rendered under this New York
law, when prosecuted in another State against one of the
defendants who resided in the latter State, and was not served
with process, though charged as a copartner of a defendant
residing in New York, who was served, was brought in question
in this court in December Term, 1850, in the case of D'Arecy v.
Ketch7um, 11 How. 165. It was there contended, that by the
Constitution of the United States, and the act of Congress

Oct. 1875.]

TEAT

T .A.. v. LANNG ET AL.

passed May 26, 1790, in relation to the proof and effect of
judgments in other States, the judgment in question ought to
have the same force and effect in every other State which it'
had in New York. But this court decided that the act of
Congress was intended to prescribe only the effect of judgments
where the court by which they were rendered had jurisdiction;
and that, by international law, a judgment rendered in one
State, assuming to bind the person of a citizen of another, was
void within the foreign State, if the defendant had not been
served with process, or voluntarily made defence, because neither
the legislative jurisdiction nor that of the courts of justice had
binding force.
This decision is an authority which we recognized in Thornson v. Whitrnan and in .Knowles v. Gas-Light Company, before
cited, and which we adhere to as founded on the soundest principles of law; and, in view of this decision, it is manifest that
many of the authorities which declare the effect of a domestic
judgment, in cases where process has not been served on one
or all of the defendants, and where those not served have not
authorized any appearance and do not reside in the State, can
have little influence as to the effect to be given to such a judgment in another State.
It appearing to be settled law, therefore, that a member of
a partnership firm, residing in one State, cannot be rendered
personally liable in a suit brought in another State against him
and his copartners, although the latter be duly served with
process, and although the law of the State where the suit is
brought authorizes judgment to be rendered against him, the
case stands on the simple and naked question, whether his
copartners, after a dissolution of the partnership, can without
his consent and authority involve him in suits brought against
the firm. by voluntarily entering an appearance for him.
We are of opinion that no authority can be found to main.,
tain the affirmative of this question.
In the case of Bell v. Morrison, 1 Pet. 851, this court decided, upon elaborate examination, that, after a dissolution of
the partnership, one partner cannot by his admissions or
promises bind his former copartners. Appearance to a suit is
certainly quite as grave an act as the acknowledgment of a debt.

HALL ET AL.

v. LANNING ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

It is well settled by numberless cases, that, even before dissolution, one partner cannot confess judgment, or submit to
arbitration so as to bind his copartners. Stead v. Salt, 3 Bing.
101; Adams v. Bancart, 1 Cromp. Mee. & R. 681; .Karthaus
v. Ferrer,1 Pet. 222, and cases referred to in Story on Partn.,
sect. 114; 1 Amer. Lead. Cas., 5th ed. 556; Freeman on Judgments, sect. 232; Collyer on Partn., sects. 469, 470, and notes;
Parsons on Partn. 179, note.
It is equally well settled, that, after dissolution, one partner
cannot bind his copartners by new contracts or securities, or
impose upon them a fresh liability. Story on Partn., sect. 322;
Adams v. Bankart, supra.
Appearance to a suit does impose a fresh liability. If there
is no doubt of the validity of the demand, it places that demand
in a position to be made a debt of record. If there is doubt of
it, it renders the defendant liable to have it adjudicated against
him, when, perhaps, he has a good defence to it.
On principle, therefore, it is difficult to see how, after a dissolution, one partner can claim implied authority to appear for
his copartners in a suit brought against the firm. It may, in
some instances, be convenient that one partner should have
such authority; and, when such authority is desirable, it can
easily be conferred, either in the articles of partnership or in
the terms of dissolution. But, as a general thing, one can
hardly conceive of a more dangerous power to be left in the
hands of the several partners after the partnership connection
between them is terminated, or one more calculated to inspire
a constant dread of impending evil, than that of accepting
service of process for their former associates, and of rendering
them liable, without their knowledge, to the chances of litigation which they have no power of defending.
Few cases can be found in which the precise question has
been raised. The attempt to exercise such a power does not
appea2 to have been often made. Had it been, the question
would certainly have found its way in the reports; for a number of cases have come up in which the power of a partner to
appear for his copartners during the continuance of the partnership has been discussed. The point was raised in Phelps v.
Brewer, 9 Cush. 390; but the court, being of opinion that the

Oct. 1875.]

SEWALL V.

JONES.

power does not exist even pending the partnership, did not find
it necessary to consider the effect of a dissolution upon it.
In Alabama, where a law was passed making service of process
on one partne'r binding upon all, it was expressly decided, after
quite an elaborate argument, that such service was not sufficient
after a dissolution of the partnership, and that acknowledgment
of service by one partner on behalf of all was also inoperative
as agaiist the other partners. -Duncan v. Tombeckbee Bank,
4 Port. 184; Demott v. Swaim's Adm., 5 Stew. & Port. 293.
In the case of Loomis & Co. v. Pearson & . eiekael, Harper (S. C.), 470, it was decided, that, after a dissolution of
partnership, one partner cannot appear for the other; although it is true that it had been previously decided by the
same court, in Hfaslet v. Street et at., 2 McCord, 311, that no
such authority exists even during the continuance of the partnership.
But the absence of authorities, as before remarked, is strong
evidence that no such power exists.
In our judgment, the defendant Lybrand had a right, for the
purpose of invalidating the judgment as to him, to prove the
matter set up by him in his offer at the trial; and for the refusal of the court to admit the evidence the judgment should
be reversed, with directions to award a venire de novo.
Judgment reversed.

m. Cmsi-, JUSTICE WAIME, M . JUSTICE STnNG, and
Mu. JusTicE HUNT, dissented.

SEWALL V. JONES.
1. Patents No. 34,928, dated April 8, 1862, and No. 35,274, dated May 13, 1862,
issued to Isaac Winslow for a new and useful improvement in preserving
Indian corn, are void for want of novelty.
2. To entitle a party to recover for the violation of a patent, he must be the
original inventor, not only in relation to the United States, but to other
parts of the world.
3. When a patentee recommends in his specifications a particular method, he
does not thereby constitute it a portion of his patent.

A.PPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maine.
This suit was brought by Jones, assignee of Winslow, against

