Oct. 1875.]

THE

"D. R.

MARTIN."

in this section seems to have been the purpose of Congress.
The phrase oil-cloth foundations would not necessarily import
the article known in commerce as floor-cloth canvas; nor would
the phrase floor-cloth canvas necessarily import an article to be
used for "oil-cloth foundations."
Considering the juxtaposition and connection in which the
two phrases are found, and letting in upon them the light of
the mercantile evidence, the inference is clear that Congress
used them, and intended that they should be understood, as
convertible terms. This gives all the certainty and freedom
from doubt which could be effected by the largest circumlocution.
It evinces unmistakably the purpose that the floor-cloth canvas
which is known in commerce as the article used for oil-cloth
foundations should pay a duty of forty per cent ad valorem.
The two designations have no effect beyond this result.
This examination of the statute and the record leaves no
doubt in our minds upon the questions presented for our consideration.
As the case stood before the jury, the plaintiffs were clearly
entitled to a verdict. The court, therefore, properly directed
the jury to find accordingly. Shugart v. Allens, 1 Wall. 359.
It would have been error to refuse so to instruct them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

nn.
Tnn "D. R. MAR=
Where the libellant recovered in the District Court a decree for $500, which,
upon appeal by the adverse party, was reversed by the Circuit Court and the
libel dismissed, and the libellant thereupon appealed to this court, - Held,
that, the amount in controversy in the Circuit Court and here being but$500,
the appeal must be dismissed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
This suit was brought by Barney, the libellant, to recover
damages for his wrongful eviction from the steamboat "D. R.
Martin." He demanded in his libel $25,000 damages, but in

THE "JUNIATA."

[Sup. Ct.

the District Court recovered only $500. From this decree the
claimant appealed. Barney did not appeal. The Circuit
Court reversed the decree of the District Court, and dismissed
the libel. From this decree of the Circuit Court Barney
appealed to this court.
IJr. Thomas Young for the appellee moved to dismiss the
appeal because the matter in dispute did not exceed $2,000
Mr. John M. Guiteau, contra.
MR. CBIEF JUSTICE WAITr
delivered the opinion of the
court.
Barney, having failed to appeal from the decree of the District Court, is concluded by the amount found there in his favor.
He appears upon the record as satisfied with what was done by
that court. In the Circuit Court, the matter in controversy was
his right to recover the sum which had been awarded him as
damages. If that court had decided against the claimant, he
could not have asked an increase of his damages. Stratton v.
Jarvis, 8 Pet. 9, 10; Iouseman v. Schooner North Carolina,
15 id. 40. As the matter in dispute here is that which was
in dispute in the Circuit Court, it follows that the amount in
controversy between the parties in the present state of the
proceedings is not sufficient to give us jurisdiction. Gordon v.
Ogden, 3 Pet. 34; Smith v. Honey, id. 469; Walker v. United
States, 4 Wall. 164.
The appeal is dismissed.

THE

" JUNIATA."

Depositions taken under a commission from a circuit court in an admiralty case,
after an appeal to this court, will not be made a part of the record, unless a
sufficient excuse be shown for not taking the evidence in the usual way before
the courts below.

APPI EAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The decree of the Circuit Court in this case was signed Feb.
13, 1874. An appeal was taken therefrom, and the record
filed here on the thirteenth day of the following October.

