656

LASIP CHIMNEY Co. v. BRASS & COPPER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

But sect. 954 of the Revised Statutes, which was sect.
32 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, was founded on the English
statute of 32 Henry VIII., and is no broader. This act of
Congress has been frequently construed by this court in such
a manner as to forbid its application to the case before us.
Garlandv. Davis, 4 How. 131; Stockton et al. v. Bishop, id. 155;
Jackson v. Ashton, 10 Pet. 480.
There is no room here for amendment. There could have
been none in the court below. To allow a verdict to stand
which is responsive to no issue made by the pleadings, or which
could have been made by any pleading in that action, is farther
than we can go in the promotion of abstract justice.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, with
direction to the court below to set aside the special verdict of
the jury for the $11,708, and to enter a judgment in favor of
plaintiffs on the general verdict of $107,353.44, with interest
from the day it was rendered; and the plaintiff in error is to
recover costs in this court.
If, however, the defendants in error shall within a reasonable
time, during the present term of this court, file in the Circuit
Court a remittitur of so much of the judgment of that court
in their favor as is based on the special verdict, and produce
here a certified copy of the remittitur, the judgment of that
court will be affirmed.

NEW LA-rP CUD-NwEY COurPAN-Y

v.

ANsomiA BRASS AND

COPPER COiPA-TNY.
1. The creditor of a manufacturing corporation, which was duly adjudicated a
bankrupt, who proved his claim and received a dividend thereon, does not
thereby waive his right of action for so much of the claim as remains
unpaid.
2. A decree adjudging a corporation bankrupt is in the nature of a decree in rem
as respects the status of the corporation, and, if the court rendering it has
jurisdiction, can only be assailed by a direct proceeding in a competent
court, unless it appears that the decree is void in form, or that due notice
of the petition was not given.

E RROR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
The case was argued by Mr. J. I. i~artin for the plaintiff in
error, and by M1Tr. D. D. Lord for the defendant in error.

Oct. 1875.]

LAMP CHIMNEY CO. V. BRASS

&

COPPER CO.

657

delivered the opinion of the court.
Corporations, whether moneyed, business, or commercial, and
joint-stock companies, are subject to the provisions of the Bankrupt Act; and the thirty-seventh section of the act provides to
the effect, that upon the petition of any officer of any such corporation or company, duly authorized by a vote of a majority
of the corporators at any legal meeting called for the purpose,
or upon the petition of any creditor or creditors of the same,
made and presented in the manner provided in respect to other
debtors, the like proceedings shall be had and taken as are required in other cases of voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy;
but the same section provides that no allowance or discharge
shall be granted to any corporation or joint-stock company, or
to any person or officer or member thereof. 14 Stat. 535.
Nine overdue promissory notes executed by the corporation
defendants were held by the corporation plaintiffs, amounting
to the sum of 85,266.94; and they instituted the present suit in
the Supreme Court of the State to recover the amount.
Service being made, the defendants appeared, and set up as a
defence in their answer, that they, the defendants, had on their
own application been declared bankrupt, and that the plaintiffs
had proved the claim in suit in the bankrupt proceedings, and
had been paid a dividend on the same, and that they were
thereby prevented under the Bankrupt Act from recovering the
claim or any part of the same in a subsequent action.
Issue being joined, the parties went to trial; and, the bankrupt proceedings having been introduced in evidence, the
defendants moved the court to dismiss the suit, insisting that
the plaintiffs, having proved the claim in the bankrupt proceedings and received a dividend on the same, had waived the cause
of action; but the presiding justice denied the motion, and
directed the jury to render a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs
for the balance due on the notes. Exceptions were duly filed
by the defendants, and they appealed to the general term, where
the judgment was affirmed; the court holding that the bankrupt
court had no jurisdiction to adjudge the defendant corporation
bankrupt, and that the proceedings in bankruptcy were void.
Brass and Copper Gompany v. Lamp Chimney Uompany, 64
Barb. 436.
AIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

VOL. i.

42

658

LAMP CHIMNEY

Oo. v.

BRASS & COPPER Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Still dissatisfied, the defendants appealed to the Court of
Appeals of the State, where the parties were again fully heard;
and the Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment rendered by the
court sitting in general term, holding that the decree of the
Bankrupt Court adjudging the defendant corporation bankrupt,
and the subsequent proceedings in pursuance of the same, did
not have the effect to discharge the corporation from the claim
in suit beyond the amount paid to the plaintiffs as dividends,
even though the claim was proved by the plaintiffs in the bankrupt proceedings. Same v. Same, 53 N.Y. 124.
Sufficient appears to show that the defendants are a manufacturing corporation organized under the law of the State,
which authorizes three persons to form such a corporation, and
requires that the trustees shall be stockholders of the company.
Sess. Laws (1848), ch. 40, p. 54.
Nothing being alleged to the contrary, it must be assumed
that the, corporation was duly organized. It appears that a
meeting of the trustees was duly called and notified to inquire
into the condition of the affairs of the corporation ; that the
meeting was regularly held, and, it having been ascertained to
the satisfaction of the meeting that the corporation was insolvent, it was voted and resolved, by a majority of the trustees
present, that the president of the company be required to file
a petition in the District Court that the corporation may be
adjudged bankrupt. Such a petition was accordingly filed; and,
if the president of the company was duly authorized to sign
and file it, the plaintiffs do not deny that the bankrupt proceedings were regular.
Two objections are taken to the jurisdiction of the Bankrupt
Court, which, in point of fact, involve the same considerations. They are, that the majority of the stockholders did not
sign the petition filed in the District Court, and that the president of the corporation was not authorized to sign it; which is
a mere inference from the fact that the meeting, when the vote
and resolution were adopted, was a regular meeting of the
trustees: but inasmuch as the statute of the State requires that
the trustees shall be stockholders, and no objection is made
to the organization of the company, it may well be presumed
that the trustees were stockholders as required by law.

Oct. 1875.]

LAMP

CHIMNEY

Co. v.

BRASS

&

COPPER Co.

659

As before remarked, three persons may form such a corporation. The record shows that a majority of the trustees present adopted the vote and resolution, which necessarily implies
that a minoyity did not concur; and if not, then certainly there
must have been three or more present. The record does not
show that the whole capital stock of the company is not owned
by three persons.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it follows that the
want of jurisdiction in the Bankrupt Court is not clearly shown,
and that the case is plainly one where every presumption should
be that the action of the court was rightful.
Due notice, it is conceded, was given to all concerned, and
that the defendants appeared in the Bankrupt Court, and that
they never made any objection to the jurisdiction of the court;
and, in view of these circumstances, the rule is that every presumption is in favor of the legal character of the proceedings
Voorhees v. Bank, 10 Pet. 473.
Concede that, still it is said that courts created by statute
cannot have jurisdiction beyond what the statute confers;
which is true: but no such question arises in the case before
the court, as all concede that the District Court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and that the defendants appeared,
and claimed and exercised every right which the Bankrupt Act
confers. They are, therefore, estopped to deny the jurisdiction
of the court; nor are the plaintiffs in any better condition, unless it appears that the bankrupt proceedings are actually void.
Void proceedings, of course, bind no one not estopped to set up
the objection; and, in order to establish the theory that the
proceedings in this case are void, the plaintiffs deny that the
president of the corporation was authorized to make and file
the petition in the District Court. McCormick v. -Pickering,
4 Comst. 279.
Such a petition might properly be made by the president of
the company, and be by him presented to the District Court,
if he was thereto duly authorized at a legal meeting called for
the purpose by a vote of a majority of the corporators; and
whether he was so authorized or not was a question of fact to
be dete mined by the District Court to which the petition was
presented; and the rule in such cases is, that if there be a total

660

LAMP CHIMNEY Co. v. BRASS & COPPER CO.

[Su). Ct.

defect of evidence to prove the essential fact, and the court find
it without proof, the action of the court is void; but when the
proof exhibited has a legal tendency to show a case of jurisdiction, then, although the proof may be slight and inconclusive, the
action of the courb will.be valid until it is set aside by a direct
proceeding for that purpose. Nor is the distinction unsubstantial, as in the one case the court acts without authority, and the
action of the court is void; but in the other the court only rrs
in judgment upon a question properly before the court for adjudication, and of course the order or decree of the court is only
voidable. Staples v. Fairchild,3 Comst. 46 ; Hiller v. Brinkerhoff, 4 Den. 119; Voorhees v. Banle, 10 Pet. 473; Kinnier v.
Same, 45 N. Y. 539.
Jurisdiction is certainly conferred upon the District Court
in such a case, if the petition presented sets forth the required
facts expressly or by necessary implication, and the court, upon
proof of service thereof, finds the facts set forth in the petition
to be true; and it is equally certain that the District Court
has jurisdiction of "all acts, matters, and things" to be done
under and in virtue of the bankruptcy until the final distribution and settlement of the estate of the bankrupt and the close
of the bankrupt proceedings. 14 Stat. 518.
Power, it is true, is vested in the circuit courts in certain
cases to revise the doings of the district courts, and in certain
other cases an appeal is allowed from the District Court to the
Circuit Court; but it is a sufficient answer to every suggestion
of that sort that no attempt was made in the case to seek a
revision of the decree in any other tribunal. Nothing of the
kind is suggested, nor can it be, as the record shows a regular
decree unreversed and in full force.
Grant that, and still the proposition is submitted that the
decree was rendered without jurisdiction, for the reason assigned; and that that question is open to the defendants, even
though the decree was introduced as collateral evidence in a
suit at law or in equity in another jurisdiction. But the court
here is entirely of a different opinion, as the district courts
are created by an act of Congress which confers and defines
their jurisdiction; from which it follows that their decrees rendered in pursuance of the power conferred are entitled in every

Oct 1876.]

LAMP Cm~uNE Co. v. BRAss & CoPpEm Co.

661

other court to the same force and effect as the judgments or
decrees of any domestic tribunal, so long as they remain unreversed and are not annulled.
Shawhan v., Merritt, 7 How.
643-; Huff v. Hutchinson, 14 id. 588; Parker v. Danforth,
16 Mass. 299; Peeks v. Barnum, 24 Vt. 76; 2 Smith's Lead.
Cas. (7th ed.) 814.
Judgments or decrees rendered in the district courts may be
impeached for the purpose of showing that the particular judgment or decree was procured for the purpose of avoiding the
effect and clue operation of the Bankrupt Act, and competent
evidence is admissible for that intent and purpose; but the
judgment or decree of the District Court, in a case like the
present, is no more liable to collateral impeachment, except to
show that it was designed to prevent the equal distribution of
the debtor's estate, than it is to such impeachment in the court
where it was rendered. -Palmerv. Preston,45 Vt. 159 ; Miller
vU. S., 11 Wall. 300.
Authority to establish uniform laws upon the subject of
bankruptcy is conferred upon Congress; and, Congress having
made such provision in pursuance of the Constitution, the
jurisdiction conferred becomes exclusive throughout the United
States. By the act of Congress, the jurisdiction to adjudge
such insolvent corporations as are described in the thirty-seventh
section of the act to be bankrupts is vested in the district
courts; and it follows that such a decree is entitled to the same
verity, and is no more liable to be impeached collaterally than
the decree of any other court possessing general jurisdiction ;
which of itself shows that the case before the court is controlled
by the general rule, that where it appears that the court had
jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and that process was duly
served or an appearance duly entered, the judgment or decree
is conclusive, and is not open to any inquiry upon the merits.
2 Smith's Lead. Cas. (7th ed.) 622; Freeman on Judgments
(2d ed.), sect. 606; Hampton v. He ( onnel, 3 Wheat. 234; Gelston v. ffoyt, id. 312; Slocum v. Mayberry, 2 id. 10; Nations v.
Johnson, 24 How. 203; D 'Arey v. Keteham, 11 id. 166; WT5ester v. Reid, id. 437.
Such a decree adjudging a corporation bankrupt is in the
nature of a decree in rem, as respects the status of the cor-

662

LA3P CHIMNEY CO. v. BRAss & COPPER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

poration; and, if the court rendering it has jurisdiction, it can
only be assailed by a direct proceeding in a competent court,
unless it appears that the decree is void in form, or that due
notice of the petition was never given. Way v. How, 10 Mass.
503; Ex parte Wieland, Law Rep. 8 Chan. App. 489; Ocean
Bank v. Olcott, 46 N.Y. 15; Bevell v. Blake, Law Rep. 7 C. P.
308.
Suppose that is so: then it is insisted by the deFendants
that the case before the court is controlled by the twentyfirst section of the Bankrupt Act, which, among other things,
provides that no creditor proving his debt or claim shall be
allowed to maintain any suit at law or in equity therefor
against the bankrupt, but shall be deemed to have waived all
right of action and suit against the bankrupt, &c. 14 Stat. 526.
Debtors, other than corporations and joint-stock companies,
are certainly within that provision ; and if corporations are also
within it, then it follows that the judgment must be reversed,
as the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover. Instead of that,
the plaintiffs deny that corporations or joint-stock companies
are within that provision, and insist that the case before the
court is controlled by the thirty-seventh section of the Bankrupt Act, which provides that no allowance or discharge shall
be granted to any corporation or joint-stock company, or to any
person or officer or member thereof; which is the view of the
case taken by the Court of Appeals of the State whose judgment
is brought into review by the present writ of error. Id. 535;
Brass and Copper Co. v. Lamp Chimney Co., 53 N. Y. 124.
Difficulties perhaps insurmountable would attend the theory
of the plaintiffs if the twenty-first section of the Bankrupt
Act stood alone; but it does not stand alone; and, being a part
of a general system of statutory regulation, it must be read and
applied in connection with every other section appertaining to
the same feature of the general system, so that each and every
section of the act may, if possible, have their due and conjoint
effect without repugnancy or inconsistency.
Statutes must be interpreted according to the intent and
meaning of the legislature; and that intention must, if practicable, be collected from the words of the act itself; or, if the
language is ambiguous, it may be collected from other acts in

Oct. 1875.]

LAIP CHmINEY Co. v. BRASS & COPPER Co.

663

pari materia, in connection with the words, and sQmetimes from
the cause or necessity of the statute: but where the language
of the act is unambiguous and explicit, courts are bound to seek
for the intention of the legislature in the words of the act
itself, and they are not at liberty to suppose that the legislature
intended any thing different from what their language imports.
Potter's Dwarris, 146.
Words and phrases are often found in different provisions
of the same statute, which, if taken literally, without any
qualification, would be inconsistent, and sometimes repugnant,
when, by a reasonable interpretation, - as by qualifying both,
or by restricting one and giving to the other a liberal construction,- all become harmonious, and the whole difficulty disappears; and in such a case the rule is, that repugnancy should,
if practicable, be avoided, and that, if the natural import of
the words contained in the respective provisions tends to establish such a result, the case is one where a resort may be bad
to construction for the purpose of reconciling the inconsistency,
unless it appears that the difficulty cannot be overcome without
doing violence to the language of the law-maker.
Sect. 21, if taken literally, would require that the whole
claim of every creditor proving his claim, who is included
within its operation, should be for ever discharged; but the
thirty-third section of the act provides that no debt created
by the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while acting in a fiduciary
character, shall be discharged under the Bankrupt Act. Such
debts may be proved, and the provision is that the dividend
shall be a payment on account of the debt; but it is incorrect
to suppose that the creditor, by proving such a debt, waives
"all right of action and suit against the bankrupt." On the
contrary, it is well settled that no consequences can be allowed
(o flow from proving a debt which are inconsistent with the
provisions of sect. 33. Exparte 1?obinson, 6 Blatch. 253 ; In re
Rosenberg, 2 N. B. R. 81.
Where the bankrupt has in all things conformed to his duty
under the Bankrupt Act, he is entitled to receive a discharge;
and the thirty-fourth section provides that a discharge duly
granted shall, with the exceptions specified in the preceding

664

LAiP CHIMNEY Co. v. BRASS & COPPER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

section, release the bankrupt from all debts, claims, liabilities,
and demands which were or might have been proved against
his estate in bankruptcy.
Debts due to the United States are not enumerated in the
exceptions contained in sect. 33; but all admit that such debts
may be proved in the bankrupt proceedings; and yet it is settled law that the certificate of discharge does not release any
debt which the bankrupt owes to the United States. United
States v. Herron, 20 Wall. 253.
Other examples of the kind might be referred to where it
has become necessary to qualify, restrict, or limit certain provisions of the Bankrupt Act, in order to reconcile seeming
incongruities and inconsistencies; but those mentioned will be
sufficient for the present investigation.
Beyond all question, corporations of the kind and joint-stock
companies are brought within the provisions of the Bankrupt
Act by the thirty-seventh section; and the whole administrative
proceedings in respect to such bankrupt corporations and jointstock companies are specifically regulated by that section as a
separate feature of the bankruptcy system. Much of the system
applicable to such corporations and companies, it is true, is borrowed by general phrases from the other sections of the same
act; but only such portions of the same as are expressly or impliedly adopted by that section are applicable to such corporations and companies, as clearly appears from the distinct features
of the regulations prescribed, which are as follows: (1.) That the officer signing the petition for voluntary bankruptcy must be duly authorized by a vote of the majority of
the corporators at a legal meeting called for the purpose. (2.)
That the petition for involuntary bankruptcy may be made and
presented by any creditor or creditors in the manner provided
in respect to debtors, without any specification as to the number
of the creditors or the amount of their debts. (3.) That the
like proceedings shall be had and taken as provided in the case
of debtors. (4.) That all the provisions in the act which apply
to the debtor, or set forth his duties in regard to furnishing
schedules and inventories, executing papers, submitting to examination, disclosing, making over, secreting, concealing, conveying, assigning, or paying away his money or property, shall

Oct 1875.]

LAMP 0IMIN-EY CO. v. BRASS & COPPER

Co.

666

in like manner, and with like force, effect, and penalties, apply
to each and every officer of such corporation or company in
relation to the same matters concerning the corporation or
company, and the money and property thereof. (5.) That all
payments, conveyances, and assignments declared fraudulent
and void by the act, when made by a debtor, shall in like manner, and to the like extent, and with like remedies, be fraudulent and void when made by a corporation or company. (6.)
That no allowance or discharge shall be granted to any corporation or joint-stock company, or to any person or officer or
member thereof. (7.) That all the property and assets of any
corporation declared bankrupt by proceedings under the Bank
rupt Act shall be distributed to the creditors of the corporation
in the manner therein provided in respect to natural persons.
14 Stat. 535.
Special regulations in respect to petitions are enacted by
sect. 37 of the Bankrupt Act, where the insolvent is a corporation or joint-stock company, different from those prescribed in
cases where the insolvent party is a natural person or partnership. But, subject to the exception that no allowance or discharge shall be granted to any such corporation or joint-stock
company, all of the administrative proceedings are to be the
same as in case of bankrupt individuals, not because corporations are within the words of the other provisions of the Bankrupt Act, but because the thirty-seventh section of the act
provides that the provisions of the act shall apply to such corporations and joint-stock companies; and it appears that all the
administrative proceedings, with that exception, are required
to be in conformity to the regulations prescribed in respect to
individual bankrupt debtors.
By the terms of the section, corporations adjudged bankrupt
are also made subject to the same duties as individual bankrupt
debtors in regard to all the matters therein specified; but the
emphatic exception to all those general regulations is that no
allowance or discharge shall be granted to any corporation or
joint-stock company, or to any person, officer, or member
thereof.
Examined in the light of these suggestions, it is as clear as
any thing dependent upon the construction of a statute well

666

LAMP

CHIMNEY Co. v. BRASS & CUPPER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

can be, that Congress, in giving jurisdiction to the district
courts to adjudge moneyed, business, and commercial corporations and joint-stock companies bankrupt, never intended to
adopt the introductory paragraph of sect. 21 or sect. 32 as applicable to such corporations or companies. Neither corporations
of the kind nor joint-stock companies are within the words of
either of those sections; and it is equally clear that nothing is
contained in sect. 37 to support such a conclusion; from which
it follows that the claim of the plaintiffs, beyond the amount
received as dividends, is not discharged by the proceedings in
bankruptcy.
Good and sufficient reasons may be given for granting a discharge from prior indebtedness to individual bankrupts which
do not exist in the case of corporations, and equally good and
sufficient reasons may be given for withholding such a discharge
from corporations which do not in any sense apply to individual
bankrupts. Certificates of discharge are granted to the individual bankrupt "to free his faculties from the clog of his indebtedness," and to encourage him to start again in the business
pursuits of life with fresh hope and energy, unfettered with
past misfortunes, or with the consequences of antecedent improvidence, mismanagement, or rashness.
Many corporations, it is known, are formed under laws which
affix to the several stockholders an individual liability to a
greater or less extent for the debts of the corporation, which,
in case certain steps are taken by the creditors, become in the
end the debts of the stockholders. Such a liability does not,
in most cases, attach to the stockholder until the corporation
fails to fulfil its contract, nor in some cases until judgment is
recovered against the corporation, and execution issued, and
return made of nulla bona. Stockholders could not be held
liable in such a case if the corporation is discharged, nor could
the -creditor recover judgment against the corporation as a
necessary preliminary step to the stockholder's individual liability.
Consequences such as these were never contemplated by
Congress; and the fact that they would flow from the theory
of the defendants, if adopted, goes very far to show that the
theory itself is unfounded and unsound. Instances of such

Oct. 1875.]

STA

OF FLORIDA V. ANDERSON IT AL.

667

individual liability are not rare; and it appears that the law
under which the defendants were organized makes the several
stockholders individually liable to the creditors of the company,
in an amount equal to the amount of their stock, for all-debts
and contracts of the company, until the whole amount of the
capital stock is subscribed and paid. Sess. Laws of N. Y.
1848, p. 56, sect. 10.
Bankrupts other than corporations or joint-stock companies,
if they have conformed in all things to their duty under the
Bankrupt Act, are entitled to receive a certificate of discharge;
and the provision is that such certificate shall operate to discharge such a bankrupt from all debts and claims which by
said act are made provable against his estate, subject, of course,
to the exceptions described in the thirty-third section of the
same act. ,Bennett v. Goldthwait, 109 Mass. 494; Wilson v.
Capm'o, 41 Cal. 545; 1I re Wight, 36 How. Pr. 174.
Since this litigation was commenced, Congress has amended
the tweity-first section of the Bankrupt Act, and provided that
where a discharge has been refused, or the proceedings have
been determined without a discharge, a creditor proving his
debt or claim shall not be held to have waived his right of
action or suit against the bankrupt. 18 Stat. 179.
Comment upon that provision is unnecessary, as it clearly
appears that the unamended act did not discharge the claim of
Judgment affirmed.
the plaintiffs.

.STATE OF lLORIDA V.

ANDERSOX ET AL.

Certain railroad companies, availing themselves of the provisions of an act of the

legislature of Florida of Jan. 10, 1855, to provide for and encourage a liberal
system of internal improvements in that State, issued their bonds to the extent
of $10,000 per mile, the interest whereon was duly guaranteed by the trustees
of the internal-improvement fund created by the act. Such bonds thereby
became a first lien or mortgage on the roads, their equipments, and the franchises, of the respective companies. The latter having failed to pay the in-

terest on the bonds, or the instalments due the sinking fund for their ultimate
redemption, the roads were seized by the trustees, pursuant to their authority
under the act, and sold for an amount equal to the principal of the bonds.
The purchasers being allowed the privilege of paying the purchase-money by
delivering the bonds at their par value, nearly a million dollars of them were

