.ETNA LIFE INS. Co. v. FRANCE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

defendant or his family resided at the time the notice was
posted. tarris v. Jardeman, 14 How. 340; Buchanan v.
Bucker, 9 East, 192; Boswell v. Otis, 9 How. 350; Oakley v.
Aspinwall, 4 Comst. 513.
Even in proceedings in rem, notice is requisite in order that
the sentence may have any validity. Every person, said Marshall, C. J., may make himself a party to such a proceeding,
and appeal from the sentence, but notice of the controversy iz
necessary in order that one may become a party; and it is a
principle of natural justice, of universal obligation, that, before
the rights of an individual can be bound by a judicial sentence,
he shall have notice, either actual or implied, of the proceedings against him. The Mary, 9 Cranch, 144.
No man shall be condemned in his person or property without notice, and an opportunity to be heard in his defence, is a
maxim of universal application; and it affords the rule of decision in this case.
-Decree affirmed.

ETA LinE INsuRA.A

cE Co. v. FRACE ET AL.

1. Where a party, in order to effect an insurance upon his life, agreed that if the
proposal, answers, and declaration made by him-which he declared to be
true, and which were made part and parcel of the policy, the basis of the
contract, and upon the faith of which the agreement was entered into should be found in any respect untrue or fraudulent, then, and in such case,
the policy should be null and void,- Held,that the company was not liable
if the statements made by the insured were not true.
2. The agreement of the parties that the statements were absolutely true, and
that their falsity in any respect should void the policy, removes the question of their materiality from the consideration of the court or jury.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Afr. Samuel C. Perkins for the plaintiff in error.
3fr. Nathan Hf. Sharpless for the defendant in error.

MR. JUSTI E HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The action was assumpsit to recover $10,000, the amount of
a policy insured upon the life of Andrew J. Chew in July, 1865.

Oct. 1875.]

AlTNi LIFE INS.

Co. v. FRANCE ET

AL.

511

The issuing of the policy, the death of Chew, and the service of
the necessary proofs of his death, are not seriously disputed.
The policy contained the following clause: "And it is also understood and agreed to be the true intent and
meaning hereof, that if the proposal, answers, and declaration made
by said Andrew J. Chew, and bearing date the twelfth day of July,
1865, and which are hereby made part and parcel of this policy as
fully as if herein recited, and upon the faith of which this agi ee.
ment is made, shall be found in any respect false or fraudulent, then
and in such case this policy shall be null and void."
The issuing of the policy was preceded b a proposal for insurance, which contained a number of questions propounded to
Chew by the company, with the answers made by him.
In relation to such questions and answers, the policy con-

tained this clause:

-

"It is hereby declared that the above are correct and true answers
to the foregoing questions; and it is understood and agreed by the
undersigned that the above statements shall form. the basis of the
contract for insurance, and also that any untrue or fraudulent answers, any suppression of facts in regard to the party's health, or
neglect to pay the premium on or before the day itbecomes due,
shall render the policy null and void, and forfeit all payments made
thereon."
Among others were the following questions and answers;

viz. : "4. Q. Place and date of birth of the party whose life is to be
insured ?
"A. Born in 1835, interlined (Oct. 28), Gloster County, N. J.
"5'. Q. Age next birthday?
-A. Thirty years.
"11. Q. Has the party ever had any of the following diseases ?
if so, how long, and to what extent? - palsy, dropsy, palpitation,
spitting of blood, epilepsy, yellow fever, consumption, rupture, apoplexy, asthma, convulsions, paralysis, bronchitis, disease of the heart,
disease of the lungs, insanity, gout, fistula, affection of the brain, fits.
1"
A. None."
Evidence upon both sides was given as to the age of Chew,
tending to sho-s that he was thirty-seven years old, or at least

ETNA LIFE INS. Co. v. FRANCE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

-thirty-five years old, when he signed the application, and upon
the question of his having suffered from a rupture. Before the
ease was submitted to the jury, a number of requests to charge
were made by the judge, which will be referred to presently.
In its main features, this case bears a close resemblance to
that of Jeffries v. Life Ins. Co., decided at the last term of
this court. 22 Wall. 47. In that case, as in this, it was insisted that the falsity of a statement made in the application
did not vitiate the policy issued upon it, unless the statement
so made was material to the risk assumed. The opinion then
delivered contains the following language in answer to that
claim: "The proposition at the foundation of this point is this, that the
statements and declaration made in the policy shall be true.
"This stipulation is not expressed to be made as to important or
material statements only, or to those supposed to be materi ii, but
as to all statements. The statements need not come up to the degree of warranties. They may not be representations even, if this
term conveys an idea of an affirmation having any technical character. Statements and declarations is the expression, - what the
applicant states, and what the applicant declares. Nothing can be
more simple. If he makes any statement in the application, it must
be true. If he makes any declaration in the application, it must be
true. A faithful performance of this agreement is made an express
condition to the existence of a liability on the part of the company."
This decision is so recent, and so precise in its application,
that it is not necessary to go back of it. Itis only necessary to
reiterate that all the statements contained in the proposal must
be true; that the materiality of such statements is removed
from the consideration of a court or jury by the agreement of
the parties that such statements are absolutely true, and that, if
untrue in any respect, the policy shall be void.
The judge was requested to charge, 5. If the jury believe that the answers to questions Nos.
4 and 5 in the application for insurance, as to the date of
birth, and age net birthday, of said Andrew J. Chew, were
false and untrue, the policy issued upon the application is void,
and their verdict must be for the defendants.
In response to this request, the judge said, "If the jury be-

Oct. 1875.]

_MMA

Luz INs. Co. v. FRANcE

ET AL.

513

lieve that the answer to the questions numbered 4 and 5
were materially untrue as to the age of the said Andrew J.
Chew, the policy is void, and the verdict must be for the defendants." The defendants were entitled to the charge they
requested, without the addition made by the judge of the word
"materially."
The judge, however, proceeded to say, "And
if he was thirty-seven, or even thirty-five years old, the difference was not immaterial.
I give the fifth instruction as re
quested."
The process of reasoning by which the learned judge reached
his conclusion on this point we have held to be erroneous: viz.,
that, to make the representation important, it must be material
to the risk assumed; that the representation that he was but
thirty years old, when he was thirty-seven, or even thirty-five,
was material to the risk; and, if the jury believed that he was
of the greater age mentioned, their verdict must be for the defendants; and therefore he charged as requested. The charge
should have been, that, as Chew had represented himself to be
but thirty years of age, if the jury found him then to be thirtyfive years old the false statement would avoid the policy, and
they must find for the defendants, resting his direction upon the
falsity alone of the statement.
Still we do not see that the defendants can ask relief for this
reason. The charge was right, and could not be misunderstood
by the jury. The allegation of the defendants was that Chew
had misrepresented his age in the manner stated, and therefore
the policy should be adjudged void. The judge charged, that,
if he had so misrepresented, the policy was void, and the verdict must be for the defendants. We think no valid exception
can be taken to this charge.
Upon the subject of the disease of rupture, or of having
been ruptured, the record gives this statement; viz., the defendants requested the court to charge the jury, 6. If the jury believe that the answer to question No. 11 in
the application for insurance, whether said Andrew J. Chew
ever had any of the diseases therein specified, &c., was false
and untrue as to any one of said diseases, the policy issued upon
the application is void, and their verdict must be for the
defendants.
VOL. i.

33

514

IETNA LIFE INS.

Co. v.

FRANCE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct,

7. If, at the time when the application for insurance was
made and the policy issued, Andrew J. Chew was or had been
ruptured, he was bound, in answer to question No. 11, to state
the fact, and also how long, and to what extent; and, if the jury
believe that at the time mentioned he was or had been ruptured,
his answer "None" to said question No. 11 was untrue and
false, and their verdict must be for the defendants.
The judge declined thus to charge, but said, "If you believe
that Andrew J. Chew was ruptured at the time, or at any such
previous period that the rupture may have been material to any
question of the soundness of his health when his life was insured; or if at that time, or within any such prior period, he
wore a truss in order that he might repress hernial extrusion, your verdict should, in either case, be for the defendants. But
though he was ruptured in 1846 and 1854, and although the
rupture accidentally recurred in a worse form in 1870 from an
extraordinary exertion of strength in lifting a heavy weight,
yet if you find that from 1855, or thereabouts, until after the
last insurance in 1865, he had no such disease, and was, in all
this interval, in the habit of working, and using bodily exercise,
and occasionally dancing, bathing, and travelling, and could
walk long distances without being fatigued, and either did not
wear a truss, or wore it only from continuance of early habit;
that his health was not impaired or affected by the former rupture; that it would not, if mentioned, have increased the risk or
the premium; and that there was, in this respect, no falsehood
or -wilful suppression, - I cannot give the instruction seventhly
requested in the absolute form in which it is expressed."
This charge was erroneous. It left to the 'decision of the
jury, and under circumstances of much embarrassment, a question which the parties had themselves determined. An ordinary jury of twelve men, without the aid of experts, are poorly
qualified to determine a question of medical science. To submit to a jury the question, conceding the fact that Chew was
ruptured in the year 1846, and again in the year 1854, and
again in a worse form in the year 1870, whether, during an
intermediate period from 1855 to 1865, he had no disease of
rupture, and that the jury might decide that because he walked
and worked and danced and bathed without fatigue, and either

Oct. 1875.]

FrNA LiFB INs. Co. v. FRANCE ET AL.

515

did not wear a truss, or wore it only from continuance of early
habit, that his health was not impaired, is to impose a great
strain upon the powers of a jury. In the ordinary course of
things, persons not skilled in medical science could not know
what caused a rupture, whether at any particular time the disease was conquered, because its appearance was not then present, or whether it was suspended to reappear sooner or later.
[lei nia, or rupture, appears in infants of but a few days old, in
youth, maturity, and extreme old age. It manifests itself in the
abdomen, the groin, the scrotum, the navel, and the thigh. It
is external, or may be internal only. Laurence on Rupture,
pp. 4, 10. The author, quoted says that this "complaint affects
indiscriminately persons of both sexes, of every age, condition,
and mode of life. . . . It is true," he says, "that a hernia, if properly managed, is not immediately dangerous to the patient, does
not affect his health, or materially diminish his enjoyments; but
it is a source of constant danger, since violent exercise or sudden
exertion may bring it from a perfectly innocent state into a
condition which frequently proves fatal. .

.

. The treatment of

rupture," he adds, "demands from all these circumstances as
great a combination of anatomical skill, with experience and
judgment, as that of any disorders in surgery." Pp. 2, 3.
These facts illustrate the gravity of the error committed on
the trial of the cause.
The facts and circumstances stated should not have been given
to the jury for their judgment. The parties had themselves
adjudged and agreed what should be the result if certain facts
existed. It was for the jury to determine whether the facts
existed; and, according as they determined upon that point, the
one or the other result must necessarily follow. Thus the applicant, when she asked for a policy of insurance, expressly agreed
that the answers made by Chew to the questions put to him
should be true, and that, if any of them were false, thepolicy
issued to her should be void. She expressly declared, again,
that the answers made by him were true, that they formed the
basis of the contract of insurance, and that any untrue answer
should render the policy void.
, It was alleged by the defendants, that when Chew was asked
whether he "had ever had any of ihe following diseases,"

LATHROP, ASSIGNEE, v. DRAKE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

among which was "rupture," and to which he answered "None,"
that such answer was untrue.
We decided, in the case of Jeffries v. Life Ins. Co., &upra,
that the question of the materiality of the answer did not
arise; that the parties had determined and agreed that it
was material; that their agreement was conclusive on that
point; and that the only questions for the jury were, first, Was
the representation made? second, Was it false? This principle
was precisely embraced within the requests 6 and 7 made in
this case, and the judge erred in not charging as therein requested.
New trial granted.

LATHIOP, AssIGNEn,

v.

DRA.A

ET AL.

Under the Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 517), an assignee in bankruptcy, without regard to the citizenship of the parties, could maintain a suit
for the recovery of assets in a circuit court of the United States in a district
other than that in which the decree of bankruptcy was made.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Mr. David C. Harrington and AIr. F. Carroll Brewster for
the appellant.
M~r. William ff. Armstrong, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The question in this case is, whether, under the Bankrupt
Act as passed in 1867, an assignee in bankruptcy, without regard to the citizenship of the parties, could maintain a suit for
the recovery of assets in a circuit court of the United States
in any district other than that in which the decree of bankruptcy was made; if not, whether the amendatory act of 1874
(18 Stat. 178, sect. 3) validated such a suit already commenced.
The jurisdiction of the circuit courts in cases of bankruptcy,
as conferred by the act of 1867, was twofold, -original
and
appellate; the latter being exercised in two different modes, by petition of review, and by appeal or writ of error. But the
enacting clauses which tonfer this jurisdiction make such direct

