NUDD ET AL.

v. BuRRows, AssIGN[.

[Sup. Ct.

This court has not directed any judgment to be entered in
favor of the plaintiff below.
To command the court below to enter a judgment for the
plaintiff would be contrary to truth and justice, as appears
from the facts disclosed by the record.
In cases arising under sects. 649 and 700, where the facts
found are not sufficient to support the judgment below, it
should be reversed here, and the cause remanded for a new
trial. An order for a judgment for the other party would be
improper.
If the parties in such a case desire to bring up every thing for
review here, they can easily turn the findings into the form of
pleas and replications, and thus have the cause heard here as
if on a demurrer.
AIR. C=IF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The finding brought here for review was special, and met
only a part of the issues. If the conclusion of law to which
the court came was correct, the other issues were immaterial.
The case was disposed of without reaching them. We have,
however, determined that the facts found were not sufficient to
justify the conclusion reached; and have ordered the court to
proceed with the case, notwithstanding the finding. In effect,
we have decided that the court erred in not proceeding to try
the other issues. Our action only precludes that court from
adjudging in favor of the defendants upon the special facts
found and sent here for our opinion. In all other respects, it is
at liberty to proceed in such manner as, according to its judgment, justice may require.
The petitionfor a mandamus is denied

NUDD ET AL.

v. BuRRows,

ASSIGNEE.

1. Where, in a suit by an assignee in bankruptcy to recover moneys paid a cred.
itor within four months prior to the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, the
evidence tended to prove that the payment was the result of a conspiracy
between the bankrupt and the creditor to give the latter a fraudulent preference within the meaning of the Bankrupt Act, - Held, that the declarations

Oct. 1875.]

NunD FT AL. v. BuRows, AssmGut.

of the bankrupt at and prior to the time of such payment, although made
in the absence and without the knowledge of the creditor, were, when offered
by the assignee, admissible in evidence.
2. The assignee claimed that a partnership formerly existing between the bankrupt and other parties had been dissolved prior to a certain transaction; and
that, consequently, that transaction was had with the bankrupt individually,
and not with the firm. The defendants, insisting to the contrary, offered
the declarations of such other parties touching the points in controversy.
Held, that such declarations were not evidence.
l. The defendants having claimed that they appropriated the money and proceeds
of the property in question, in the exercise of a factor's lien, to satisfy a
prior indebtedness alleged to be due them by the bankrupt,- Held, that the
attempt to set up such a lien, when the creditor knew that the debtor was
on the eve of bankruptcy, and thus secure apreference over other creditors,
was a fraud upon the Bankrupt Act.
4. The Practice Act of fllinois provides that the court shall instruct the jury
only as to the law; and that the jury shall, on their retirement, take the
written instructions of the court, and return them with their verdict. In
this case, the court below, while it commented upon the evidence, but without
withdrawing from the jury the determination of the facts, refused to allow
the jury to take to their room the written instructions given them. Held,that
the act of Congress of June 1, 1872, sect. 5 (17 Stat. 197), has no application
to the case, and that there was no error in the action of the court below.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action brought by the defendant in error, as the
assignee of one Norton Emmons, a bankrupt, against the plaintiffs in error, to recover the net proceeds of about eleven carloads of live-stock and dressed hogs shipped by the bankrupt to
the plaintiffs in error, and one thousand dollars in money paid
by him to them, which proceeds and money they had applied
to the payment of his indebtedness to them, in fraud, as contended by the assignee, of the provisions of the act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United
States, approved March 2, 1867. Judgment was rendered in
favor of the assignee.
A bill of exceptions was allowed in the court below, which is
in substance as follows :The plaintiff introduced evidence tending to show that
Emmons had for a number of years been engaged in the stock
business in Wisconsin, purchasing cattle, sheep, and hogs, and
shipping them chiefly, but not always, to the defendants at
Chicago, for sale upon commission; that about the first day
of July, 1870, Emmons associated with him Richard B. Chan-

NUDD ET AL. v. Bumows, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

dler and James W. Chandler, and that said parties thenceforth,
-under the firm name of Emmons & Chandler, continued the
business, also shipping chiefly to the defendants the stock which
they bought; that about the thirteenth day of December, 1870,
said firm was indebted to the defendants between $4,000 and
$5,000; that Emmons was then insolvent; that it was then
arranged between the defendants, said Emmons and said
Richard B. and James W. Chandler, that said firm of Emmons
& Chandler should dissolve; that James W. Chandler had
previously gone out; that Emmons should continue the business until the first of the following January, and should at the
close of the year buy a large amount of stock upon credit,
which should be shipped to and sold by the defendants, and the
proceeds applied to pay his indebtedness to them ; that the firm
of Emmons & Chandler did dissolve about the thirteenth day
of December; that Emmons did in the first four days of the
following January, in his own name and on his own account,
ship to the defendants nine car-loads of cattle, sheep, and hogs,
which were sold by them, and the proceeds held to pay the said
indebtedness; that upon the sixth day of January, 1871, Emmons paid to the defendants $1,000 in money; that the net
proceeds of said last shipment, so held by them, was $7,553.27;
that a large part of the stock which went into the last shipment
was paid for by drafts drawn by Emmons on the defendants,
which were not accepted or paid by them; that the amount of
drafts so drawn and unpaid was about $4,000; that a petition in
bankruptcy was filed against Emmons in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, on
the eighteenth day of February, A.D. 1871, on which petition
he was duly adjudicated a bankrupt; that the defendants, at the
time of making the aforesaid arrangement, - to wit, on or about
the thirteenth day of December, 1870, -had reasonable cause
to believe said Emmons was insolvent.
As tending to show some of said matters, the plaintiff introduced in evidence a document as follows:" CHICAGo, Dec. 18, 1870.
"To whom it may concern: "This certifies that whereas Mr. R. B. Chandler has been a joint
partner with Norton Emmons from the first day of July, 1870, to
date, we release him from all further obligations that may be trans-

Oct. 1875.]

NuDD ET AL. v. BuRaows, ASSIGNEE.

acted between us and Norton Emmons, and look to Norton Em.
mons only for balance of present account and all business that may
hereafter be transacted with him.
"The above release of R. B. Chandler is made by the consent
"I. P. NUDD & Co."
of all parties.
Also the ledger of the defendants, showing the account of
Emmons and of the firm of Emmons & Chandler with the defendants.
The last item upon the account of Emmons & Chandler is as
follows: "1870, Dec. 13.

By balance due Nudd, $1,617.43."

Under which is written the following :"The above balance we transfer to the individual account o±
Norton Emmons, by request of both parties."
Immediately after and upon the same ledger page is the following, showing all the entries made subsequent to said Dec.
13, 1870: DR.

NORTON EMMONS.

CR.

1870.

To balance due Nudd,
and transferred from
the ac. ofEmmons &
$1,617 43
Chandler .
1,500 00
TO paid draft
1,500 00
1,500 00
750 00
,,
, draft..
B. Peterson
,,
,,
187 00
1,500 00
3,500 00
200 00
,,

,,S..

,,

,

Aontagu

draft

. .

, ,,ch1andler.

,,
,,

,,
,,

Peterson
Johnson
pretest fees
draft

.acceptance

500
05
1,000
400
40

00
72
00
00
00

35
5
10
3oo
600
4,000
1,000
750
334

00
00
20
00
00
00
00
00
84

$1,140 OT
24 By net proceeds
4,767 51
$1 243
dressed hogs
107 04
,,
28
651 88
proceeds
766 31
28
1,929 48
28
765 84
29
2
20
1,398 64
.& ' ., dressed hogs

Dec.

2

29

1871.
Jan.
7

5
6

10
10
10

&b., dresed hogs
" sK re'
nne6I roceeds
dr. I.

863 58
1,444
1,000
4,002
1,174

15
00
03
37

1,268 16

To certain questions put to the witnesses, calling for the
declarations and statements of Emmons at and before the

NuID ET AL. V. BURROWS, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

consignment was made, the defendants objected, because said
declarations, not being made in the presence of either of the
defendants, nor brought to the knowledge of either, could
not be used to prejudice them; which objections being overruled by the court, and the answers admitted, the defendants
then and there excepted.
The defendants introduced evidence tending to show that
they acted as the factors of said Emmons prior to the time
of his partnership with Richard B. and James W. Chandler,
and for said firm of Emmons & Chandler after that time and
until the closing of the account, Jan. 10, 1871; that during all
this time it had been the usual course of business and the
regular practice of the defendants to advance money to these
parties to buy stock, relying upon the consignments to be made
to them to cover such advances; that the defendants continued
to make such advances after the thirteenth day of December,
1870, in the same manner as before, receiving consignments, and
selling the same to cover their previous advances; that the indebtedness to the defendants at the time of the last shipments
of stock was for such advances; that these advances were made
by payment of drafts upon the defendants; that such drafts
were drawn in the name of Emmons, as well after as before
the formation of the copartnership of Emmons & Chandler;
that the bank business of the firm of Emmons & Chandler
was done at the First National Bank of Madison, Wis., in
the name of Emmons alone, as well after as before the formation of said copartnership, and that the drafts upon the
defendants usually came through said bank; that their ledger,
introduced in evidence, correctly shows the sums advanced
by them upon drafts since the 18th December, 1870; that
such advances were made in good faith, and in the usual
and ordinary course of business, and relying upon consignments to be made to the defendants to cover such advances;
that there was no such arrangement for the payment of the
indebtedness to the defendants made about the 13th of December, 1870, or at any other time, between the defendants, or
either of them, and said Emmons, Richard B. Chandler, and
James W. Chandler, or either of them, as claimed by the plaintiff; that said firm of Emmons & Chandler did not dissolve

Oct. 1875.] NuDD ET

iL. v. BuRRows, ASSIGNEE.

upon or about the 13th December, 1870; that said James W.
Chandler did not go out before that time, but that certainly
James W. Chandler, and probably Richard B. Chandler, continued to be interested in business with said Emmons subsequently to that time, and continued so interested till the time
of the closing of the account with defendants, Jan. 10, 1871;
that the transfer of the account on the book of the defendants from the name of Emmons & Chandler to that of
Norton Emmons was made at the request of said Emmons
and the Chandlers; that the reason given to defendants for
such request was, that all drafts were drawn in the name of
Emmons alone; their bank business of Madison, Wis., was
done in his name, and they desired their account on the defendants' books to correspond; that defendants had no idea
that the firm of Emmons & Chandler was dissolved, or that
their dealings with said firm were thereby brought to a close,
or that, by making such a change, they released either of the
Chandlers, but regarded the transfer simply as a change in the
manner of keeping their books; that the receipt or release to
Richard B. Chandler was not given to him until about the middle of January, 1871, after the account with the defendants
was closed; that it was antedated at the request of said Richard
B. Chandler; that it was given by the defendants unhesitatingly, and with but little inquiry into the reasons of Chandler
for wishing the same antedated, because, at the time it was
actually given, their account was paid in full; that business
was conducted in the same manner subsequently to the 18th
December, 1870, as before that time, and the defendants supposed they were doing business with the firm of Ennons &
Chandler up to the time the account was closed, and, until
such time, knew of nothing from which they could infer the
dissolution of said firm; that there was nothing unusual about
the size or quality of the last shipments, and the same were
not, nor was any part of them, sold by the defendants under
any arrangement with said Emmons and the Chandlers, or
either of them, that the proceeds should be used to close up
the account with the defendants; that shipments continued to
be made after Dec. 18, 1870, and up to the time of the closing
of the account, with one or two exceptions, in the name of Em-

NUDD ET AL. v. BURROWS, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

mons & Chandler, and not in the name and on account of Emmons alone; that Richard B. Chandler was worth $15,000
or $20,000; that James W. Chandler, though of small means,
was solvent; that if the copartnership of Emmons & Chandler
continued subsequently to the 13th December, 1870, and up to
the time of closing the account, said firm was not insolvent;
that the defendants did not know at any time prior to the closing of said account that said Emmons was insolvent, and that
they had no reasonable cause to believe that he -was. A witness for the defendants testified that the partnership between
Emmons, Richard B. Chandler, and James W. Chandler, continued until some time in January of 1871. To a question in
this connection as to the declarations of Richard B. Chandler
after the 13th of December, respecting his being interested in
the firm carried on in the name of Norton Emmons, the plaintiff
objected; and, the objection being sustained by the court, the
defendants duly excepted.
A witness for the defendants having testified that James W.
Chandler frequently came to Chicago after Dec. 18, 1870, in
charge of the consignments of stock, the defendants asked what
if any thing was said respecting the sale or prices at which
stock should be sold.
To -which, and to the admission of any declarations of said
Chandler, plaintiff objected. The court sustained the objection, and refused to admit the evidence; and the defendants
excepted.
Before the charge to the jury, and in apt time, defendants'
counsel requested that the court would in all respects in its
charge be governed by and follow the practice of courts of record
of the State of Illinois and the laws of the State applying to
such matters; but the court refused so to do, and defendants'
counsel then and there excepted.
Defendants' counsel then prepared and handed to the court
the following instructions in writing, requesting that they
be given to the jury, with permission to take them to their
room -

"First, If the jury believe, from the evidence, that either R. B.
or J. W. Chandler was a partner with Norton Emmons subsequent
to the 13th of December, 1870, and remained so until the settle-

Oct. 1875.]

NU)D

ET AL.

v. Bum.ows, ASSIGNEE.

ment of the account with the defendants, and, as such partner or
partners, was or were interested in the dealings with the defendants
subsequent to that date, they are instructed, that, in such case, the
plaintiff cannot maintain this suit.
"1,Second,If the jury believe from the evidence that the defendants advanced money to Norton Emmons to buy stock to be consigned to them, relying upon those consignments for the repayment
of those advances, they are instructed, that, in such a case, the
defendants would have a lien upon such consignments for such
advances as soon as the same came to their possession, even if the
defendants knew at the time of making such advances that said
Emmons was insolvent."
The court gave the first instruction, but added to and commented upon it as follows: 1I have charged you, as requested by the defendants' counsel,
that if this debt on the part of the defendants was against Emmons
and the Chandlers, or either of them, the plaintiff cannot recover.
. . ". On the main question, which covers most of the property, I

shall not occupy much time. The evidence to establish it rests in
writing, under the defendants' own signature. By the defendants'
books, it appears that the partnership account of Emmons & Co. was
settled, and the balance transferred upon their books to the individual account of :Norton Emmons on the 13th of December; that after
that it was kept with him alone, and the defendants did not pay
any amount to the Chandlers without an order from Emmons;
and, in addition to this, they signed a receipt, release, or declaration, as follows ,'CMCAGo, Dec. 13, 1870.
"'

l'o wlorn it may concern:-

" IThis certifies that whereas 31r. R. B. Chandler has been a joint partner with Norton Emmons from the first day of July, 1870, to date, we
release him from any further obligation that may be transacted between
us and Norton Emmons, and look to Norton Emmons only for balance of
present account and all business that may hereafter be transacted with
him.

"' The above release of R. B. Chandler is made by the consent of all
parties.'
"That would seem to settle all controversy upon this question.
That matter having been so carefully reduced to writing by the
defendants at the time, or soon after, while the matter was fresh in
their memory, it would seem most remarkablb to, allow them now to
VOL. i.

28

NUDD ET AL. V. BURROWS, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

swear it away. The book and the release show that they agreed to
deal thereafter with Emmons, and released Chandler altogether, and
did so on their books. So far as Chandler and Emmons are concerned, it was an individual matter with them; but as the assignee
represents Emmons's right, and is entitled to the benefits under his
contract, as to him, it would be very remarkable that they could, in
view of these entries and the statement or release, be allowed to set
up that he was still a party in interest as to that. Written testimony is much stronger than parol. It is like a disputed case in
regard to the boundaries of real estate in which a government
boundary is discovered. It generally disposes of the dispute, and
outweighs, ordinarily, any amount of verbal testimony depending
upon the recollection of witnesses, particularly interested parties
and witnesses.
"Nudd says he drew the release; but he says he did not draw it
until in January, after that date. The time when it was drawn is
quite immaterial. It declares the fact that they did business with
Emmons alone; and, if that is so, that disposes of the defence on
that ground. There is some testimony that the receipt was given
to Chandler on the 13th. Emmons says he heard him say that he
had a receipt when he returned home.
"If you are satisfied that the receipt was made at the time it
bears date, or afterwards, with a view to furnish evidence to release
Chandler from the 13th, and as stating the true condition of
their affairs, I hardly think that you will be justified in finding that
the transaction between the parties was not as stated in the books
of the defendants and this release or declaration; and it would be
unsafe to reject written evidence of that character upon the evidence of interested parties."
To all of which modifications and comments, and to that
portion of the charge, save as requested by them, the defendants
then and there excepted.
The court gave the second instruction asked by the defendants, but modified and commented upon it as follows "The books of account of defendants read in evidence, together
with the testimony, tend to show that the defendants had been
advancing the bankrupt money from time to time after the thirteenth day of December, 1870; and that on the thirty-first day of
December, 1870, the time of the last item of account, the bankrupt
was owing to them the sum of $8,553.87. This money it is claimed
was advanced by defendants, who were stock-brokers and general

Oct. 1875.]

NuDD LT A_.

v. BuRRows,

ASSIGNEE.

commission-men in this city, engaged in the business of receiving
stock, cattle, and hogs, making advances thereon, and selling for
the benefit of shippers. They state that their ordinary mode of
doing business was not to pay drafts drawn by their country customers or consignors until after the receipt of stock, but in this
case they permitted the bankrupt to draw and obtain the money to
use in buying stock. When that stock was received and sold, they
credited his account with the proceeds; and such appears to have
been the way they dealt with the bankrupt, so that he had overdrawn his shipments on the first day of January in the sum of
$8,553.87, above stated. This being the mode of business pursued,
as I understand to be stated, I think it would constitute the relation
of debtor and creditor between the bankrupt and the defendants;
that he, in law and fact, was owing on the first of January to the
amount above stated, which was unsecured at that time; that
the advances did not create a lien on such stock purchased with
the money advanced or loaned for that purpose until the bankrupt
had actually shipped them to the defendant.
" As I have charged you, at the request of the defendants' counsel, that the lien of the defendants did not attach until the actual
receipt of the stock by the defendants, such being the law, the
subsequent receipt of stock and appropriation of the avails to the
payment of the debts due them would be void, as a preferential payment, provided the other facts hereinafter mentioned are found to
have existed; by which I mean to be understood, that, if the transactions between the parties were as I have before stated them, they
would constitute the-relation of debtor and creditor, and bring their
debt under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act the same as any
other debt.'
To all of which defendants' counsel excepted.
The court having charged the jury upon the facts, notwithstanding the request that it would follow and be governed
by the laws of the State of Illinois and the practice of her
courts of record, defendants' counsel excepted thereto, as well
as to its refusal to permit the jury to take to their room the
written instructions given by the court, or the account-book,
freight-bills, and other papers introduced in evidence, other
than the depositions.
.Mr. f..
Swift and H1r. TF C. Grant,for plaintiffs in error,
filed printed briefs, from which the following points are
taken: -

NUDD ET AL.

V. BuRRows, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

1. The declarations of J. W. Chandler should have been
admitted. Phil. on Ev., vol. i. 498; Cady v. Shepherd, 11 Pick.
407; Pool v. Bridges, 4 id. 378; Richardsonv. Cato, 10 Humph.
138; 1 Greenl. Ev., sect. 181.
2. The court erred in not following the practice of the courts
of Illinois, and the laws of Illinois applying to such matters.
Rev. Stat. U. S., sect. 914.
"The court, in charging the jury, shall only instruct as to
the law of the case." 2 Gross's Stat. Ill., ch. 83, sect. 139.
"Instructions shall be taken by the jury in their retirement,
and returned by them with their verdict." Id., sect. 142.
3. The court erred in the instruction given upon the question
of copartnership.
This question of the continuance of the partnership is material. If a preference is given by a firm of which only one
member goes into bankruptcy, such preference cannot be
avoided by the assignee of the bankrupt partner. Forsaith v.
llerritt, 3 N. B. 48; In re Shepherd, id. 172.
4. The court erred in its instruction upon the question of a
factor's lien.
The bankrupt estate is in no worse condition, if the defendants are allowed to retain the proceeds of the consignments,
than it would have been if the defendants had never made the
advances in reliance upon these consignments. Anderson v.
Clark, 2 Bing. 20; Harle v. Smith, 1 B. & P. 563; 3 Pars. on
Contr. 260; _oxeroft v. Devonshire, 2 Burr. 931.
Messrs. H. W. Tenney, 1T. ilL ewis, and . C. McKenney,
contra.
1. As to the declarations of the bankrupt.
When a conspiracy is formed to do an illegal act, or to commit a fraud, the acts or declarations of any of the conspirators
may be given in evidence. 1 Greenl., sect. 111; American Fur
Co. v. United States, 2 Pet. 358.
2. The declarations of R. B. Chandler were properly excluded. He could have been called as a witness.
3. As to the objection that the court did not follow the practice of the courts of Illinois.
The court did not instruct the jury as to the facts, but only
as to the law.

Oct. 1875.]

NVDD

T AL.

v. BuR2ows, ASSIGNEE.

4. As to the lien claimed by the defendants below as
factors or brokers. The indebtedness of the bankrupt to
the defendants below, Jan. 1, 1871, stood upon the same
footing as any other unsecured creditor. Arnold v. 1Jiaynard,
2 Story, 0. 0. 849; Wager et al. v. Hall, 16 Wall. 584;
Story on Ag., sect. 877; Russel on Factors, 207 (Law Lib.,
voL xlvi.).

The lien of a factor does not attach when the possession
comes to him wrongfully or by fraud. 2 Kent, Com. 638;
.Laruprierev. Pasley, 2 Term R. 485; Story on Ag., sects.
860, 861.
M .. JusTicE SwAr

delivered the opinion of the court.

The first of the assignments of error presents the question,
whether the court erred in admitting in evidence the declarations of the bankrupt.
The suit was brought by the assignee to recover against
Nudd and Noe for money and property which they had received
from Emmons.

They had applied the money and the proceeds

of the property in payment of a debt which Emmons owed
them. The property was live-stock, consisting of cattle, sheep,
and hogs. The net proceeds were $7,558.27. The money was
$1,000. The aggregate amount in controversy was $8,553.27.
The assignee claimed that the stock was bought largely upon
credit; that Emmons was at the time hopelessly insolvent; that
Nudd and Nee knew it; and that the transaction was the fruit
of a conspiracy between the parties, having for its object the
giving to Nudd and Noe by Enmons a fraudulent preference
over his other creditors.
Nudd and Noe received the property and money in January,
1871. The petition in bankruptcy against Emmons was filed
in the following month of February. The action is founded on
the thirty-fifth and thirty-ninth sections of the Bankrupt Act.
The transaction was within four months before the filing of the
petition. Upon the trial, the plaintiff proposed to prove what
Emmons had said touching the purchase of the stock and the
payment of the money to the defendants.
To each and all of the questions asked with this view the
counsel for the defendants objected, "on the ground- that they

NUDD ET AL. v. BURROWS, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

called for the declarations of Emmons not made in the presence
of either of the defendants, or brought to their knowledge."
Was this ground of objection well taken ?
The counsel for the defendant in error insists that they were
competent as the declarations of a co-conspirator.
In general, the rules of evidence are the same in civil and
criminal cases. United States v. Gooding, 12 Wheat. 469.
"Where two or more persons are associated for the same illegal purpose, any act or declaration of one of the parties in
reference to the common object, and forming a part of the res
gestce, may be given in evidence." American -Fur Company v.
United States, 2 Pet. 365.
The bill of exceptions does not purport to give all the evidence. What proof had been given of the alleged concert and
conspiracy on the part of the defendants when the declarations
of Emmons were offered to be proved does not appear.
It is to be presumed it was sufficient to lay the proper foundation as to them for the introduction of the evidence. The
declarations were competent to prove the whole case as against
Emmons. 1 Taylor's Ev. 486.
Vhether the declarations were made in the presence or
brought to the knowledge of either of the defendants is immaterial. The objection as taken was confined to this point; and this
is the only aspect in which it is necessary to consider it. If it
were intended to rest it upon any other ground, it should have
been so presented; and the court advised accordingly.
In the early part of December, 1870, Emmons and James
W. and Richard Chandler were partners, under the name of
Emmons & Chandler. The plaintiff claimed that the partnership was dissolved on the 13th of that month. The defendants
insisted that it continued down to the close of the business in
question, and that the transaction was not with Emmons alone,
but with the firm of Emmons & Chandler.
They offered in evidence the declarations of the Chandlers
touching the points in controversy. The court excluded the
testimony, and the defendants excepted.
This ruling was correct. The declarations of a party may be
evidence against him; but, except under circumstances which
bad no existence in this case, they cannot be received in his

Oct. 1875.]

NUDD E

AL.

v. BuRRows, AssGimu.

!

439

favor. The Chandlers might have been called as witnesses.
Their declarations -were merely hearsay, and, as regards this
case, were res inter alios acta.
It appears by the bill of exceptions, that, in charging the
jury, the judge commented upon the evidence.
Questions of law are to be determined by the court; questions of fact, by the jury. The authority of the jury as to the
latter is as absolute as the authority of the court with respect
to the former.
No question of fact must be withdrawn from the determination of those whose function it is to decide such issues.
The line which separates the two provinces must not be
overlooked by the court. Care must be taken that the jury
is not misled into the belief that they are alike bound by the
views expressed upon the evidence and the instructions given
as to the law. They must distinctly understand that what is
said as to the facts is only advisory, and in no wise intended to
fetter the exercise finally of their own independent judgment.
Within these limitations, it is the right and duty of the court to
aid them by recalling the testimony to their recollection, by collating its details, by suggesting grounds of preference where there
is contradiction, by directing their attention to the most important facts, by eliminating the true points of inquiry, by resolving
the evidence, however complicated, into its simplest elements,
and by showing the bearing of its several parts and their combined effect, stripped of every consideration which might
otherwise mislead or confuse them. How this duty shall be performed depends in every case upon the discretion of the judge.
There is none more important resting upon those who preside
at jury-trials. Constituted as juries are, it is frequently impossible for them to discharge their function wisely and well with
out this aid. In such cases, chance, mistake, or caprice, may
determine the result.
We do not think the remarks and suggestions of the learned
judge in this case exceeded- the proper license.
They did not go beyond the verge of what has been often
sanctioned by this and other courts. Games et al. v. Stiles,
14 Pet. 337; United States v. Fourteen Packages, Gilp. 251;
1 Taylor's Ev. 35.

NuDD ET AL. v. BURROWS, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

The. modifications of the two instructions asked for by the
defendants were, we think, correct in point of law. Only the
second one calls for any remarks.
There was proof tending to show that on the 13th of December, 1870, the defendants adjusted their account with Emmons & Chandler, and, by the agreement of all the parties,
transferred the amount due to themselves to the separate account
of Emmons, and gave the Chandlers a release. The balance
found due, and so transferred, was the same with the amount
in controversy, as before stated. The business of the defendants
was the selling of live-stock upon commission. The balance
accrued in the course of their previous business in this way with
the firm of Emmons & Chandler. They claimed a factor's lien
upon the money and proceeds of the property in question for
the satisfaction of this demand.
The court charged, that, as the lien could not attach until the
money and proceeds were received by the defendants, if the
previous transactions created the relation of debtor and creditors
between them and Emmons, and they could have sued Emmons
for the amount, "this would bring the debt under the Bankrupt Act the same as any other debt."
This must necessarily be so. The lien attempted to be set up
was repelled by the circumstances referred to. Such a claim
occupies no better ground than would a mortgage, pledge, or
power to confess judgment, given at the same time and for the
same purpose; otherwise every factor might be thus secured
when his debtor was in the article of bankruptcy, and this class
of creditors would have a monopoly of the preferences so given.
Such preference, to whomsoever given, is forbidden by the Bankrupt Law, and is a fraud upon it. Fraud destroys the validity
of every thing into which it enters. It affects fatally even the
most solemn judgments and decrees. Bankrupt Act, sect. 35;
1 Story's Eq., sect. 252; Freeman on Judgments, sect. 486.
Whenever fraud is perpetrated by one party to the injury of
another, the offender is liable. Paisleyv. Preeman, 3 T. R. 51;
Benton v. Pratt,2 Wend. 385. Here the jury have found the
facts charged by the assignee. This is conclusive against the
defendants with respect to any claim upon the fund.
The last assignment relates to alleged errors of the court in

Oct. 1875.] NJDD LT AL. v. Btmnows, AssiGEE.
matters of practice. Before the judge began his charge -to the
jury, the counsel for the defendants requested him, in giving it,
to conform in all things to the practice of the courts of record
and the law of the State. This he refused to do. He also
refused to allow the jury to take with them to their room the
written instructions he had given them, and likewise the accountbook, bills of lading, and additional papers, which had been
introduced in evidence, other than the depositions. To each
of these refusals the defendants excepted.
The Practice Act of Illinois provides that the court, in charg..
ing the jury, shall instruct them only as to the law of the case;
that no instruction shall be given, unless reduced to writing;
that instructions asked shall not be modified by the court, except
in writing; that the instructions shall be taken by the jury in
their retirement, and returned with the verdict; and that papers
read in evidence, other than depositions, may be carried from
the bar by the jury. 1 Gross's Stat. 289.
It is declared by the act of Congress of June 1, 1872 (17 Stat.
197, sect. 5), "that thepractice, pleadings, and forms and modes
of proceeding, in civil causes, other than equity and admiralty
causes, in the circuit and district courts, shall conform as near as
may be" to the same things "existing at the time in the courts
of record of the State within which such circuit and district
courts are held."
The purpose of the provision is apparent upon its face. No
analysis is necessary to reach it. It was to bring about uniformity in the law of procedure in the Federal and State courts
of the same locality. It had its origin in the code-enactments
of many of the States. While in the Federal tribunals the
common-law pleadings, forms, and practice were adhered to, in
the State courts of the same district the simpler forms of the
local code prevailed. This involved the necessity on the part
of the bar of studying two distinct systems of remedial law,
and of practising according to the wholly dissimilar requirements of both. The inconvenience of such a state of things is
obvious. The evil was a serious one. It was the aim of the
provision in question to remove it. This was done by bringing
about the conformity in the courts of the United States which
it prescribes. The remedy was complete. The personal ad-

UNITED bTATES V. MOKEE E

[L.
[Sup. Ot.

ministration by the judge of his duties while sitting upon the
bench was not complained of. No one objected, or sought a
remedy in that direction.
We see nothing in the act to warrant the conclusion that it
was intended to have such an application.
If the proposition of the counsel for the plaintiff in error be
correct, the powers of the judge, as defined by the common law,
were largely trenched upon.
A statute claimed to work this effect must be strictly construed. But no severity of construction is necessary to harmonize the language employed with the view we have expressed.
The identity required is to be in "the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding." The personal conduct and
administration of the judge in the discharge of his separate
functions is, in our judgment, neither practice,pleading, nor a
form nor mode of proceedingwithin the meaning of those terms
as found in the context. The subject of these exceptions is,
therefore, not within the act as we understand it.
There are certain powers inherent in the judicial office. How
far the legislative department of the government can impair
them, or dictate the manner of their exercise, are interesting
questions; but it is unnecessary in this case to consider them.
Houston v. Williams, 13 Cal. 24.
Judgment affirmed.

UNTED STATES v. MoKEE ET AL.
The claim of the heirs and legal representatives of Colonel Francis Vigo against
the United States, on account of supplies by him furnished in 1778 to the
regiment under the command of George Rogers Clarke, who was acting under
a commission from the State of Virginia, was, by an act of Congress
approved June 8, 1872 (17 Stat. 687), referred to the Court of Claims, with the
direction that the court, in settling it, should be governed by the rules and
regulations theretofore adopted by the United States in the settlement of like
cases, and without regard to the Statute of Limitations. Held, that the act
removes the bar of the lapse of time; and that, as the case is like those in
which interest was to be allowed by the fifth section of the act of Aug. 5,
1790 (1 Stat. 178), the claimants are entitled to recover the principal sum,
with interest thereon.

