Oct. 187b.]

KOHL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

Hr. Thomas J. 1urantfiled a certified copy of the order of
the said Circuit Court, bearing date June 1, 1875, for a commission to take the deposition of certain witnesses to be used
here, and moved that the depositions taken thereunder be made
a part of the record.
IR. CBmim JUSTI=E WA.na delivered the opinion of the
court.
The depositions in question were taken since the appeal,
under a commission issued from the Circuit Court. Further
proof in the case has not been ordered by this court. No such
order would have been granted if application therefor had been
made, unless a sufficient excuse was shown for not taking the
evidence in the usual way before the courts below. This was
the rule established in the case of The .Mabey, 10 Wall. 419.
We cannot admit depositions taken under a commission from
the Circuit Court, except upon a similar showing. That has
not been made. Leave is granted to renew the motion if this
defect can be supplied.
Notion denied.

KOBL ET AL. v. UlNrTD STATES.
1. The right of eminent domain exists in the government of the United States,
and may be exercised by it within the States, so far as is necessary to the
enjoyment of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution.
2. Where Congress by one act authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase in the city of Cincinnati a suitable site for a building for the accofimodation of the United States courts and for other public purposes, and by
a subsequent act made an appropriation " for the purchase at private sale,
or by condemnation of such site," power was conferred upon him to acquire,
in his discretion, the requisite ground by the exercise of the national right
of eminent domain; and the proper Circuit Court of the United States had;
under the general grant of jurisdiction made by the act of 1789, jurisdiction
of the proceedings brought by the United States to secure the condemnation
of the ground.
8 Where proceedings for the condemnation of land are brought in the courts
of Ohio, the statute of that State treats all the owners of a parcel of ground
as one party, and gives to them collectively a trial separate from the trial
of the issues between the government and the owners of other parcels"
but each owner of an estate or interest in each parcel is not entitled to a
separate trial.

KOHL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL.

ERORor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
This was a proceeding instituted by the United States to
appropriate a parcel of land in the city of Cincinnati as a site
for a post-office and other public uses.
The plaintiffs in error owned a perpetual leasehold estate in
a portion of the property sought to be appropriated. They
moved to dismiss the proceeding on the ground of want of jurisdiction ; which motion was overruled. They then demanded
a separate trial of the value of their estate in the property;
which demand the court also overruled. To these rulings of
the court the plaintiffs in error here excepted. Judgment was
rendered in favor of the United States.
There are three acts of Congress which have reference to the
acquisition of a site for a post-office in Cincinnati. The first,
approved March 2, 1872, 17 Stat. 39, is as follows: "Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the
Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to purchase a central and suitable site in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, for the erection of a building for the accommodation of
the United States courts, custom-house, United States depository,
post-office, internal-revenue and pension offices, at a cost not exceeding three hundred thousand dollars ; provided that no money
which may hereafter be appropriated for this purpose shall be used
or expended in the purchase of said site until a valid title thereto
shall be vested in the United States, and until the State of Ohio
shall cede its jurisdiction over the same, and shall duly release and
relinquish to the United States the right to tax or in any way assess
said site and the property of the United States that may be thereon
during the time that the United States shall be or remain the owner
thereof."
In the Appropriation Act of June 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 352, a
further provision was made as follows: "To commence the erection of a building at Cincinnati, Ohio,
for the accommodation of the United States courts, custom-house,
United States depository, post-office, internal-revenue and pension
offices, and for the purchase, at private sale or by condemnation, of
ground for a site therefor, - the entire cost of completion of which

Oct. 1875.]

KOHL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

building is hereby limited to two million two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars (inclusive of the cost of the site of the same), seven hundred thousand dollars; and the act of March 12, 1872,
authorizing the purchase of a site therefor, is hereby so amended
as to limit the cost qf the site to a sum not exceeding five hundred
thousand dollars."
And in the subsequent Appropriation Act of March 8, 1878,
17 Stat. 523, a further provision was inserted as follows "For purchase of site for the building for custom-house and
post-office at Cincinnati, Ohio, seven hundred and fifty thousand
dollars."
Sr. . T Jittredge for plaintiffs in error.
1. For upwards of eighty years, no act of Congress was passed
for the exercise of the right of eminent domain in the States, or
for acquiring property for Federal purposes otherwise than by
purchase, or by appropriation under the authority of State
laws in State tribunals. A change of policy by Congress in this
regard should not be supposed, unless the act is explicit. We
do not raise the question as to the existence of the right of
eminent domain in the national government; but Congress has
never given to the Circuit Court jurisdiction of proceedings for
the condemnation of property brought by the United States
in the assertion or enforcement of that right.
In view of the uniform practice of the government, the provision in the act of Congress "for the purchase at private sale
or by condemnation" means that the land was to be obtained
under the authority of the State government in the exercise of
its power of eminent domain. This is apparent from the language of the same section of the act of Congress of June 10,
1872, which appropriated a further sum for the "purchase" of
a site in Cincinnati, and also appropriated money "to obtain by
purchase, or to obtain by condemnation in the courts of the
State of Massachusetts," a site for a post-office in Boston.
In this case, the State delegates its sovereign power of eminent domain. The United States, if it accepts this grant of
power, accepts it as other corporations do, as the agent of the
State, and must exercise it in the mode and by the tribunal
which the State has prescribed.
2. If the proceeding was properly brought in the Circuit Court,
24
VOL. I.

870

KOHL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

then the act of Congress of June 1, 1872, 17 Stat. 522, requires
that it shall conform to the provisions of the law of the State
in a like proceeding in a State court. The eighth section of
the act of Ohio of April 23, 1872, 69 Ohio Laws, 88, secures
to the owner of "each separate parcel" of property a separate
trial, verdict, and judgment. The court below erred in refusing
this demand of the plaintiff.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Edwin B. Smith, cont'ra.
1. The right of eminent domain is an "inseparable incident
of sovereignty." Giesy v. C. W. & T. B.R. Co., 4 Ohio St.
323, 324; West River Bridge v. Dix, 6 How. 507; 2 Kent, 339;
Cooley, Const. Lim. 526.
Of course the right of the United States is superior to that
of any State. Dobbins v. Comms., 16 Pet. 447.
The authority to purchase includes the right of condemnation. 4 Kent's Com. 372; Burt v. Ins. Co., 106 Mass. 364;
7 Opinions of Att'y-Gen. 114.
Congress, by the use of the term "condemnation," indicated
an expectation that it might and would be resorted to.
The legislature of Ohio concurred in this view of the power
and necessity of such action, and passed an act of expropriation.
69 Ohio Laws, 81. But the right of a State to act as an agent
of the Federal government, in actually making the seizure, has
been denied. 23 Mich. 471.
The power to establish post-offices includes the right to acquire sites therefor, and by appropriation if necessary. Dickey
v. Turnpike Co., 7 Dana, 113; 2 Story on Const., sect. 1146.
Original cognizance "of all suits of a civil nature at common
law or in equity," where the United States are plaintiffs or
petitioners, is given to the Circuit Court of the United
States.
"The term [suit] is understood to apply to any proceeding in
a court of justice by which an individual pursues that rc medy
which the law affords." 2 Pet. 464.
No provision of local law confining a remedy to a State court
can affect a suitor's right to resort to the Federal tribunals.
Hyde v. Stone, 20 How. 170; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425;
Railway Co. v. Whitton, 13 id. 270.
Therefore the United States had the right to pursue in the

Oct. 1875.]

Koni, E AL. v. UN=_

STATEg.

Circuit Court the remedy given by the legislature of Ohio.
70 Ohio Laws, 86.
2. The power to consolidate different suits by various parties, so as to determine a general question by a single trial, is
expressly given by act of July 22, 1833. 8 Stat.; 21 R. S.,
ch. 18, sect. 921, p. 175.
The statute of Ohio, 69 Ohio Laws, 88, requires that the trial
be had as to each parcel of land taken, not as to separate interest in each parcel.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It has not been seriously contended during the argument that
the United States government is -without power to appropriate
lands or other property within the States for its own uses, and
to enable it to perform its proper functions. Such an authority
is.essential to its independent existence and perpetuity. These
cannot be preserved if the obstinacy of a private person, or if
any other authority, can prevent the acquisition of the means
or instruments by which alone governmental functions can be
performed. The powers vested by the Constitution in the
general government demand for their exercise the acquisition
of lands in all the States. These are needed for forts, armories,
and arsenals, for navy-yards and light-houses, for custom-houses,
post-offices, and court-houses, and for other public uses. If the
right to acquire property for such uses may be made a barren right
by the unwillingness of property-holders to sell, or by the action
of a State prohibiting a sale to the Federal government, the constitutional grants of power may be rendered nugatory, and the
government is dependent for its practical existence upon the will
of a State, or even upon that of a private citizen. This cannot be.
No one doubts the existence in the State governments of the
right of eminent domain, - a right distinct from and paramount
to the right of ultimate ownership. It grows out of the necessities of their being, not out of the tenure by which lands are
held. It may be exercised, though the lands are not held by
grant from the government, either mediately or immediately,
and independent of the consideration whether they would
escheat to the government in case of a failure of heirs. The
right is the offspring of politicalnecessity; and it is inseparable

KOHL ET AL. V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

from sovereignty, unless denied to it by its fundamental
law. Yattel, c. 20, 34; Bynk., lib. 2, c. 15; Kent's Com."
338-340; Cooley on Const. Lim. 584 et seq. But it is no more
necessary for the exercise of the powers of a State government
than it is for the exercise of the conceded powers of the Federal government. That government is as sovereign within its
sphere as the States are within theirs. True, its sphere is
limited. Certain subjects only are committed to it; but its
power over those subjects is as full and complete as is the
power of the States over the subjects to which their sovereignty
extends. The power is not changed by its transfer to another
holder.
But, if the right of eminent domain exists in the Federal
government, it is a right which may be exercised within the
States, so far as is necessary to the enjoyment of the powers
conferred upon it by the Constitution. In Ableman v. Booth,
21 How. 523, Chief Justice Taney described in plain language
the complex nature of our government, and the existence of
two distinct and separate sovereignties within the same territorial space, each of them restricted in its powers, and each,
within its sphere of action prescribed by the Constitution of
the United States, independent of the other. Neither is under
the necessity of applying to the other for permission to exercise
its lawful powers. Within its own sphere, it may employ all
the agencies for exerting them which are appropriate or necessary, and which are not forbidden by the law of its being.
When the power to establish post-offices and to create courts
within the States was conferred upon the Federal government,
included in it was authority to obtain sites for such offices and
for court-houses, and to obtain them by such means as were
known and appropriate.' The right of eminent domain was
one of those means well known when the Constitution was
adopted, and employed to obtain lands for public uses. Its
existence, therefore, in the grantee of that power, ought not
to be questioned. The Constitution itself contains an implied
recognition of it beyond what may justly be implied from the
express grants. The fifth amendment contains a provision that
private property shall not be taken for public use without just
compensation. What is that but an implied assertion, that, on

Oct. 1875.]

KOHL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

making just compensation, it may be taken?
Constitutional Limitations, 526, it is said,-

In Cooley on

" So far as the general government may deem it important to
appropriate lands or other property for its own purposes, and to
enable it to perform its functions, - as must sometimes be necessary
in the case of forts, light-houses, and military posts or roads, and
other conveniences and necessities of government,- the general
government may exercise the authority as well within the States as
within the territory under its exclusive jurisdiction: and its right
to do so may be supported by the same reasons which support the
right in any case; that is to say, the absolute necessity that the
means in the government for performing its functions and perpetuating its existence should not be liable to be controlled or defeated
by the want of consent of private parties or of any other authority."
We refer also to Tromlley v. Hfumphrey, 23 Mich. 471; 10
Pet. 723; -Diekey v. Turnpike Co., 7 Dana, 113; _AfcCullough
v. i]Maryland, 4 Wheat. 429.
It is true, this power of the Federal government has not
heretofore been exercised adversely; but the non-user of a
power does not disprove its existence. In some instances, the
States, by virtue of their own right of eminent domain, have
condemned lands for the use of the general government, and
such condemnations have been sustained by their courts, without, however, denying the right of the United States to act
independently of the States. Such was the ruling in Gilmer
v. Lime Point, 18 Cal. 229, where lands were condemned by
a proceeding in a State court and under a State law for a
United States fortification. A similar decision was made in
Burt v. The lierchants' Ins. Co., 106 Mass. 356, where land
was taken under a State law as a site for a post-office and subtreasury building. Neither of these cases denies the right of
the Federal government to have lands in the States condemned
for its uses under its own power and by its own action. The
question was, whether the State could take lands for any other
public use than that of the State. In Trombley v. Humphrey,
28 Mich. 471, a different doctrine was asserted, founded, we
think, upon better reason. The proper view of the right of
eminent domain seems to be, that it is a right belonging to a

KRoL ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

sovereignty to take private property for its own public uses, and
not for those of another. Beyond that, there exists no necessity; which alone is the foundation ol the right. If the United
States have the power, it must be complete in itself. It can
neither be enlarged nor diminished by a State. Nor can any
State prescribe the manner in which it must be exercised. The
consent of a State can never be a condition precedent to its
enjoyment. Such consent is needed only, if at all, for the
transfer of jurisdiction and of the right of exclusive legislation
after the land shall have been acquired.
It may, therefore, fairly be concluded that the proceeding in
the case we have in hand was a proceeding by the United States
government in its own right, and by virtue of its own eminent
domain. The act of Congress of March 2, 1872, 17 Stat. 39,
gave authority to the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase a
central and suitable site in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, for the
erection of a building for the accommodation of the United
States courts, custom-house, United States depository, postoffice, internal-revenue and pension offices, at a cost not exceeding $300,000; and a proviso to the act declared that no
money should be expended in the purchase until the State of
Ohio should cede its jurisdiction over the site, and relinquish
to the United States the right to tax the property. The authority here given was to purchase. If that were all, it might
be doubted whether the right of eminent domain was intended
to be invoked. It is true, the words "to purchase" might be
construed as including the power to acquire by condemnation;
for, technically, purchase includes all modes of acquisition other
than that of descent. But generally, in statutes as in common
use, the word is employed in a sense not technical, only as
meaning acquisition by contract between the parties, without
governmental interference. That Congress intended more than
this is evident, however, in view of the subsequent and amendatory act passed June 10, 1872, which made an appropriation
"for the purchase at private sale or by condemnation of the
ground for a site" for the building. These provisions, connected as they are, manifest a clear intention to confer upon
the Secretary of the Treasury power to acquire the grounds
needed by the exercise of the national right of eminent do-

Oct. 1875.]

KOHL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

main, or by private purchase, at his discretion. Why speak
of condemnation at all, if Congress had not in view an exercise of the right of eminent domain, and did not intend to confer upon the secretary the right to invoke it?
But it is contended on behalf of the plaintifs in error that
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the proceeding. There
is nothing in the acts of 1872, it is true, that directs the process by which the contemplated condemnation should be effected, or which expressly authorizes a proceeding in the
Circuit Court to secure it. Doubtless Congress might have
provided a mode of taking the land, and determining the compensation to be made, which would have been exclusive of all
other modes. They might have prescribed in what tribunal
or by what agents the taking and the ascertainment of the just
compensation should be accomplished. The mode might have
been by a commission, or it might have been referred expressly
to the Circuit Court; but this, we think, was not necessary.
The investment of the Secretary of the Treasury with power
to obtain the land by condemnation, without prescribing the
mode of exercising the power, gave him also the power to obtain it by any means that were competent to adjudge a condemnation. The Judiciary Act of 1789 conferred upon. the
circuit courts of the United States jurisdiction of all suits at
common law or in equity, when the United States, or any
officer thereof, suing under the authority of any act of Congress, are plaintiffs. If, then, a proceeding to take land for
public uses by condemnation may be a suit at common law,
jurisdiction of it is vested in the Circuit Court. That it is a
"suit" admits of no question. In Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet.
464, Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for this court, said, "The
term [suit] is certainly a very comprehensive one, and is understood to apply to any proceeding in a court of justice by which
an individual pursues that remedy which the law affords. The
modes of proceeding may be various; but, if a right is litigated
in a court of justice, the proceeding by which the decision of
the court is sought is a suit." A writ of prohibition has, therefore, been held to be a suit; so has a writ of right, of which the
Circuit Court has jurisdiction (Green v. 1iter, 8 Cranch, 229);
so has habeas corpus. Holmes v. Jamison, 14 Pet. 564. When,

KOHL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

in the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, jurisdiction of suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity was
given to the circuit courts, it was intended to embrace not
merely suits which the common law recognized as among its
old and settled proceedings, but suits in which legal rights were
to be ascertained and determined as distinguished from rights
in equity, as well as suits in admiralty. The right of eminent
domain always was a right at common law. It was not a right
in equity, nor was it even the creature of a statute. The time
of its exercise may have been prescribed by statute; but the
right itself was superior to any statute. That it was not
enforced through the agency of a jury is immaterial; for many
civil as well as criminal proceedings at common law were
without a jury. It is difficult, then, to see why a proceeding
to take land in virtue of the government's eminent domain,
and determining the compensation to be made for it, is not,
within the meaning of the statute, a suit at common law, when
initiated in a court. It is an attempt to enforce a legal right.
It is quite immaterial that Congress has not enacted that the
compensation shall be ascertained in a judicial proceeding.
That ascertainment is in its nature at least quasi judicial.
Certainly no other mode than a judicial trial has been provided.
It is argued that the assessment of property for the purpose
of taking it is in its nature like the assessment of its value for
the purpose of taxation. It is said they are both valuations of
the property to be made as the legislature may prescribe, to enable the government, in the one case, to take the whole of it, and
in the other to take a part of it for public uses; and it is argued
that no one but Congress could prescribe in either case that the
valuation should be made in a judicial tribunal or in a judicial
proceeding, although it is admitted that the legislature might
authorize the valuation to be thus made in either case. If the
supposed analogy be admitted, it proves nothing. Assessments
for taxation are specially provided for, and a mode is prescribed.
No other is, therefore, admissible. But there is no special provision for ascertaining the just compensation to be made for
land taken. That is left to the ordinary processes of the law;
and hence, as the government is a suitor for the property under

Oct. 1875.]

Kom

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATEs.

\ 77

a claim of legal right to take it, there appears to be no reason
for holding that the proper Circuit Court has not jurisdiction of
the suit, under the general grant of jurisdiction made by the
act of 1789.
The second assignment of error is, that the Circuit Court refused the demand of the defendants below, now plaintiffs in
error, for a separate trial of the value of their estate in the
property. They were lessees of one of the parcels sought to be
taken, and they demanded a separate trial of the value of their interest; but the court, overruled their demand, and required that
the jury should appraise the value of the lot or parcel, and that
the lessees should in the same trial try the value of their leasehold estate therein. In directing the course of the trial, the
court required the lessor and the lessees each separately to state
the nature of their estates to the jury, the lessor to offer his
testimony separately, and the lessees theirs, and then the
government to answer the testimony of the lessor and the
lessees; and the court instructed the jury to find and return
separately the value of the estates of the lessor and the lessees.
It is of this that the lessees complain. They contend, that
whether the proceeding is to be treated as founded on the
national right of eminent domain, or on that of the State, its
consent having been given by the enactment of the State legislature of Feb. 15, 1878 (70 Ohio Laws, 86, sect. 1), it was required to conform to the practice and proceedings in the courts
of the State in like cases. This requirement, it is said, was
made by the act of Congress of June 1, 1872. 17 Stat. 522.
But, admitting that the court was bound to conform to the
practice and proceedings in the State courts in like cases, we do
not perceive that any error was committed. Under the laws of
Ohio, it was regular to institute a joint proceeding against all
the owners of lots proposed to be taken (Giesy v. C. F & T.
B.R.. Co., 4 Ohio St. 808); but the eighth section of the State
statute gave to "the owner or owners of each separate parcel "
the right to a separate trial. In such a case, therefore, a separate trial is the mode of proceeding in the State courts. The
statute treats all the owners of a parcel as one party, and gives
to them collectively a trial separate from the trial of the issues
between the government and the owners of other parcels. It

KOHL ET AL. V. U)NITED STATES.

[Sup. at.

hath this extent; no more. The court is not required to allow
a separate trial to each owner of an estate or interest in each
parcel, and no consideration of justice to those owners would
be subserved by it. The Circuit Court, therefore, gave to the
plaintiffs in error all, if not more than all, they had a right
Rhe judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
to ask.
MR. JUSTICE FInLD dissenting.

Assuming that the majority are correct in the doctrine
announced in the opinion of the court,- that the right of
eminent domain within the States, using those terms not as
synonymous with the ultimate dominion or title to property,
but as indicating merely the right to take private property for
public uses, belongs to the Federal government, to enable it to
execute the powers conferred by the Constitution, - and that
any other doctrine would subordinate, in important particulars,
the national authority to the caprice of individuals or the will
of State legislatures, it appears to me that provision for the
exercise of the right must first be made by legislation. The
Federal courts have no inherent jurisdiction of a proceeding
instituted for the condemnation of property; and I do not find
any statute of Congress conferring upon them such authority.
The Judiciary Act of 1789 only invests the circuit courts of
the United States with jurisdiction, concurrent with that of the
State courts, of suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity; and these terms have reference to those classes of cases
which are conducted by regular pleadings between parties, according to the established doctrines prevailing at the time in
the jurisprudence of England. The proceeding to ascertain
the value of property which the government may deem necessary to the execution of its powers, and thus the compensation
to be made for its appropriation, is not a suit at common law
or in equity, but an inquisition for the ascertainment of a particular fact as preliminary to the taking; and all that is required
is that the proceeding shall be conducted in some fair and just
mode, to be provided by law, either with or without the intervention of a jury, opportunity being afforded to parties interested to present evidence as to the value of the property, and
to be heard thereon. The proceeding by the States, in the

Oct. 1875.]

ROnE
]
ET AL. V. CASANOVA.

exercise of their right of eminent domain, is often had before
commissioners of assessment or special boards appointed for
that purpose. It can hardly be doubted that Congress might
provide for inquisition as to the value of property to be taken
by similar instrumentalities; and yet, if the proceeding be a
suit at common law, the intervention of a jury would be required by the seventh amendment to the Constitution.
I think that the decision of the majority of the court in including the proceeding in this case under the general designation of a suit at common law, with which the circuit courts
of the United States are invested by the eleventh section of the
Judiciary Act, goes beyond previous adjudications, and is in
conflict with them.
Nor am I able to agree with the majority in their opinion,
or at least intimation, that the authority to purchase carries
with it authority to acquire by condemnation. The one supposes an agreement upon valuation, and a voluntary conveyance
of the property: the other implies a compulsory taking, and a
contestation as to the value. Beekman v. The Saratoga &
Seeneetady Railroad Co., 3 Paige, 75; Railroad Company v.
-Davis, 2 Dev. & Batt. 465; Willyard v. H1amilton, 7 Ham.
(Ohio), 453"; Livingston v. The Mayor of NZew -Forc,7 Wend.
85; .Koppikus v. State Capitol Commissioners, 16 Cal. 249.
For these reasons, I am compelled to dissent from the opinion
of the court.

ROME ET AM. v. CASANOVA.
Where, in a State court, both parties to a suit for the recovery of the possessiou
of lands claimed under a common grantor whose title under the United States
was admitted, and where the controversy extended only to the rights which
they had severally acquired under it, -Held, that, as no Federal question
arose, this court has no jurisdiction.

ERRtOR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.

This is an action of ejectment, commenced in the District
Court for the Third Judicial District of the State of California.
That court found as follows: "First, That on the seventeenth day of December, 1845, Felix

