THE "JUNIATA."

[Sup. Ct.

the District Court recovered only $500. From this decree the
claimant appealed. Barney did not appeal. The Circuit
Court reversed the decree of the District Court, and dismissed
the libel. From this decree of the Circuit Court Barney
appealed to this court.
IJr. Thomas Young for the appellee moved to dismiss the
appeal because the matter in dispute did not exceed $2,000
Mr. John M. Guiteau, contra.
MR. CBIEF JUSTICE WAITr
delivered the opinion of the
court.
Barney, having failed to appeal from the decree of the District Court, is concluded by the amount found there in his favor.
He appears upon the record as satisfied with what was done by
that court. In the Circuit Court, the matter in controversy was
his right to recover the sum which had been awarded him as
damages. If that court had decided against the claimant, he
could not have asked an increase of his damages. Stratton v.
Jarvis, 8 Pet. 9, 10; Iouseman v. Schooner North Carolina,
15 id. 40. As the matter in dispute here is that which was
in dispute in the Circuit Court, it follows that the amount in
controversy between the parties in the present state of the
proceedings is not sufficient to give us jurisdiction. Gordon v.
Ogden, 3 Pet. 34; Smith v. Honey, id. 469; Walker v. United
States, 4 Wall. 164.
The appeal is dismissed.

THE

" JUNIATA."

Depositions taken under a commission from a circuit court in an admiralty case,
after an appeal to this court, will not be made a part of the record, unless a
sufficient excuse be shown for not taking the evidence in the usual way before
the courts below.

APPI EAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The decree of the Circuit Court in this case was signed Feb.
13, 1874. An appeal was taken therefrom, and the record
filed here on the thirteenth day of the following October.

Oct. 187b.]

KOHL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

Hr. Thomas J. 1urantfiled a certified copy of the order of
the said Circuit Court, bearing date June 1, 1875, for a commission to take the deposition of certain witnesses to be used
here, and moved that the depositions taken thereunder be made
a part of the record.
IR. CBmim JUSTI=E WA.na delivered the opinion of the
court.
The depositions in question were taken since the appeal,
under a commission issued from the Circuit Court. Further
proof in the case has not been ordered by this court. No such
order would have been granted if application therefor had been
made, unless a sufficient excuse was shown for not taking the
evidence in the usual way before the courts below. This was
the rule established in the case of The .Mabey, 10 Wall. 419.
We cannot admit depositions taken under a commission from
the Circuit Court, except upon a similar showing. That has
not been made. Leave is granted to renew the motion if this
defect can be supplied.
Notion denied.

KOBL ET AL. v. UlNrTD STATES.
1. The right of eminent domain exists in the government of the United States,
and may be exercised by it within the States, so far as is necessary to the
enjoyment of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution.
2. Where Congress by one act authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase in the city of Cincinnati a suitable site for a building for the accofimodation of the United States courts and for other public purposes, and by
a subsequent act made an appropriation " for the purchase at private sale,
or by condemnation of such site," power was conferred upon him to acquire,
in his discretion, the requisite ground by the exercise of the national right
of eminent domain; and the proper Circuit Court of the United States had;
under the general grant of jurisdiction made by the act of 1789, jurisdiction
of the proceedings brought by the United States to secure the condemnation
of the ground.
8 Where proceedings for the condemnation of land are brought in the courts
of Ohio, the statute of that State treats all the owners of a parcel of ground
as one party, and gives to them collectively a trial separate from the trial
of the issues between the government and the owners of other parcels"
but each owner of an estate or interest in each parcel is not entitled to a
separate trial.

