Oct. 1875.]

ZELLER ET AL. V. SWITZER.

was expressly affrmed by the Supreme Court of Ohio, though
the result upon the facts was in favor of the creditors. The
facts of the case in hand are more favorable for the support of
the deed than those in Fan Wick v. Seward. Here the debtor
reserved property worth more than twice and a half the amount
of his debts. He expected and intended to pay all he owed.
He continued able to do so until he lost his means by the hazards of business. The creditor rested supine for a long time.
He did not take his judgment until more than eight years after
the second note matured, and more than six years after the
execution of the trust-deed. More than seven years had
elapsed when the levy was made. The validity of the deed
was then challenged for the first time. The creditor quietly
looked on until after misfortune had deprived the debtor of the
ample means of payment which he had reserved, and now seeks
to wrest from the wife the small remnant of property which
her husband acquired by means derived wholly from her estate,
and which, in part fulfilment of his promise repeatedly made
both before and after his marriage, he endeavored to secure to
her and her children.
The evidence, as it stands in the record, satisfies us of the
honesty of the transaction on his part. The non-payment and
the inability to pay are the results, not of fraud, but of accident and misfortune. When Fulton executed the deed, he did
what he then had the right to do, and was morally, though not
legally, bound to do.
The proofs would not warrant us in holding that the settlement does not rest upon a basis of good faith, or that it is not
free from the taint of any dishonest purpose.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

ZELLER ET A..

v. SWITZER.

Where tha Supreme Court of a State on appeal overruled an exception which
had been sustained in a lower court, and, on setting aside the judgment below,
that the
remanded the case to be proceeded with according to law, -ied,
judgment of such Supreme Court was not final, and that the writ of error
must be dismissed.

ZELLER ET AL. V.

SWITZER.

[Sup. ot.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

This action was brought upon a bond given to release the
steamboat " Frolic" from a provisional seizure. The defendants answered the petition Nov. 25, 1870, setting up several
defences, and, Dec. 5, 1870, filed a peremptory exception. The
court below, upon bearing, sustained this exception, and gave
judgment in favor of the defendants. The defences set up in
the answer were not passed upon.
From this judgment an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court, where a judgment was entered as follows:" On appeal from the Second Judicial Court, parish of Jefferson,
it is ordered and adjudged that the judgment of the lower court be
set aside ; that the exception be overruled; that the case be remanded to be proceeded with according to law; and that the appel.
lee pay costs of appeal."
To reverse this judgment the present -writ of error has been
prosecuted.
Mr.John A. Grow moved to dismiss the -writ of error for
want of jurisdiction, the judgment below not being final.
Mr.B. T. .fMerricc and Mr. G. W. Race, contra.

MR. C=F JusTICE WmitE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We think this motion must be granted. The judgment is
one of reversal only, and the case is remanded to be proceeded
with according to law. The Supreme Court decided that the
defence set forth in the peremptory exception was not good;
and that is all that court decided. The case was, therefore,
sent back for trial upon the defences set up in the answer, or
any other that might be properly presented. If the decision
below upon the exception had been correct, such a trial would
have been unnecessary. The Supreme Court having decided
that it was not correct, the inferior court must now proceed
further. This brings the case within our ruling at the present
term in Ex parte French, supra, p. 423.
Ihe writ is dismissed.

