BOLLING v. LERSNER.

[Sup. Ot.

necessary to protect those who invest their capital and their labor
in enterprises useful but hazardous, - that we should hold that
plaintiff has delayed too long.
.Decree affirmed.

BOLLING v. LERSNER.
This court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment or decree of a State
court, unless it appears from the record that a Federal question presented to
that court was in fact decided, or that the decision was necessarily involved
in the judgment or decree as rendered.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
Motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. 111r. James V.
Brook and Mr. John R. Tucker in support of the motion.
111r. Conway Robinson, contra.
MI.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Circuit Court of Fauquier County, Va., rendered a decree in this cause Sept. 13, 1867. From this decree Lersner
prayed an appeal to the District Court of Appeals, May 17,
1869. This was allowed by W. Willoughby, judge. Upon this
allowance the appeal was docketed in the Appellate Court, and
the parties appeared without objection or protest, and were
heard. Upon the hearing, the decree of the Circuit Court was
reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to proceed
as directed. When the case came to the Circuit Court upon
the mandate of the Appellate Court, Bolling appeared, and objected to the entry of the decree which had been ordered, for
the reason, among others, that Willoughby, the judge who
allowed the appeal, had been appointed to his office by the
commanding-general exercising military authority in Virginia
under the reconstruction acts of Congress, and that those acts
were unconstitutional and void. This objection was overruled,
and a decree entered according to the mandate. From this
decree Bolling took an appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals,
where the action of the Circuit Court was affirmed. To reverse

Oct 1875.]

BOLLING V. LFmsNEr.

this decree of affirmance the present writ of error has been
prosecuted.
We cannot re-examine the judgment or decree of a State
court simply because a Federal question was presented to that
court for determination. To give us jurisdiction, it must appear that such a question was in fact decided, or that its decision was necessarily involved in the judgment or decree as
rendered.
In this case, Bolling presented to the court for its determination the question of the constitutionality of the reconstruction acts. This was a Federal question; but the record does
not show that it was actually decided, or that its decision was
necessary to the determination of the cause. While it, perhaps,
sufficiently appears that the judge was appointed under the
authority of the acts in question, it also appears that he was
acting in the discharge of the duties of his office, and that he
had the reputation of being the officer he assumed to be. It
also appears, that, after the allowance of the appeal, the case
was docketed in the Appellate Court; that Bolling appeared
there; that he submitted himself to the jurisdiction of that
court without objection, and presented his case for adjudication;
that the case was heard and decided; and that the objection to
the qualification of the judge who allowed the appeal was made
for the first time in the Circuit Court, when the case came down
with the mandate.
From this it is clear that the case might have been disposed
of in the State court without deciding upon the constitutionality of the reconstruction acts. Thus, if it was held that
the objection to the authority of the judge came too late, or
that the allowance of an appeal by a judge de facto was sufficient for all the purposes of jurisdiction in the Appellate Court,
it would be quite unnecessary to determine whether the judge
held his office by a valid appointment. We might, therefore,
dismiss the case, because it does not appear from the record
that the Federal question was decided, or that its decision was
necessary.
But if we go farther, and look to the opinion of the court,
which, in this case, has been certified here as part of the record,
we find that the Federal question was not decided. All the

WVOORUFF ET AL. V. HOUGH ET AL.

[Sup. ot.

judges agreed that Willoughby was a judge de fado, and that
his acts were valid in respect to the public and third parties,
even though he might not be rightfully in office. In this the
court but followed its own well-considered holding, by all the
judges, in Griffin v. Cunningham, 20 Gratt. 31, approved in
Quinn v. Cunningham, id. 138, and Teel v. Young, 23 id. 691,
and the repeated decisions of this court. Texas v. White,
7 Wall. 733 ; Thorington v. Smith, 8 id. 8; Huntington v. Texas,
16 id. 412; Horn v. Lockhart, 17 id. 580.
Writ dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

WOODRUFF ET AL. V. HOUGH ET AL.
1. A., who had covenanted with the supervisors of a county to construct a jail
subject to the approval of a superintendent, who was authorized to stop the
work if it and the materials furnished did not conform to certain plans and
specifications, entered into a contract with B. to manufacture and erect in
its proper position all the wrought-iron work for the jail, according to such
plans and specifications.
Held, that B. was entitled to recover on his
contract the value of the work done and materials furnished by him, if he
substantially complied with the plans and specifications, or a strict compliance therewith had been waived by A., although the supervisors, in the
exercise of the power reserved in their contract with A., condemned B.'s
work, and required A. to replace a portion of it.
2. Where the charge of the court below covers the whole ground necessary to
enable the jury to apply the law to the matters in issue, and is not subject
to any just exception, so that, if there be any error in the proceedings, it
was committed solely by the jury, this court has no jurisdiction to retry
the cause as if it were both court and jury, but must affirm the judgment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
On the 5th of July, 1871, a contract was entered into between John Allen and the Board of Supervisors of Winnebago
County, Ill., for the erection of a county jail, according to certain plans and specifications; the work to be done under the
control of a building committee, which should have the right
to make changes in the materials or construction of the building upon giving reasonable notice thereof. The contract also
provided that all materials used and work done should be
subject to the approval of a superintendent appointed by the

