Oct. 1875.]

McL. moxE v. LouiswuA.

STATu

BANK.

27

are justified as an exercise of belligerent rights against a public
enemy, and are not, in their nature, a punishment for treason.
Consequently, confiscation being a proceeding distinct from,
and independent of, the treasonable guilt of the owner of the
property confiscated, pardon for treason will not restore rights
to property previously condemned and sold in the exercise of
belligerent rights, as against a purchaser in good faith and for
value. Mliller v. United States, 11 Wall. 267; Confiscation
Cas., 20 id. 92; Gay's Cold, 13 id. 351.
By the seizure of the property, the District Court acquired
jurisdiction to pass the decree of condemnation. All of the
proceedings prior to and in the sale of the land were regular;
and the assumption of power by the District Court, nearly
three years subsequently, to restore the land, was wholly unauthorized, and was clearly error. Nor did the opening of the
decree as to the two lots, not owned by the respondent, afford
any justification for the action of the court in restoring the residue of the property, as it is settled law that a judgment may be
good in part, and bad in part, - good to the extent it is authorized by law, and bad for the residue. Bigelow v. Forest,9 Wall.
339; Day v. Mieou, 18 id. 156; Ex parte Lange, 18 id. 163.
Much discussion of the special pardon is unnecessary, as it
contained the provision that the respondent should not, "by
virtue thereof," claim any property, or the proceeds of any
property, that had been sold by the order, judgment, or decree
of a court under the confiscation laws of the United States.
Authorities to show that a pardon may be special in its character, or subject to conditions and exceptions, are quite unnecessary, as they are very numerous, and are all one way.
.Decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

MCLimoBE v. LouisIA

STATE BANx.

Where, in time of war, a bank was, notwithstanding the protest of its officers,
put in liquidation by order of the commanding general of the United States
forces, and its effects transferred to commissioners appointed by him, who,
during their administration, sold for less than their face value choses in
action held by the bank as collateral security at the time of the transfer, hdd, that as the proceedings of the commanding general and the commia.

McLEmoRE v. LouIsIANi STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

sioners constituted "superior force," which no prudent administrator of the
affairs of a corporation could resist, the bank was neither responsible for
those proceedings, nor for a loss thereby occasioned.

ERROn to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr. Charles B. Singleton for the plaintiff in error. Messrs.
E. and A. C. Janin, contra.
MR. JUSTICE DAviS delivered the opinion of the court.

It is unnecessary to consider whether in all respects the
charge of the Circuit Court to the jury was correct, because
the record shows the case of the plaintiff to be so fatally
defective, that the judgment below would not be reversed for
instructions, however erroneous. Brobst v. Brock, 10 Wall.
519; Decatur Bank v. St. Louis Ban7, 21 id. 801. The case
is this: The plaintiff was the owner of certain promissory
notes and acceptances, in possession of the commercial firm
in New Orleans of which he was a member, which were pledged
by the firm, in 1861 and 1862, to the bank, as security for the
payment of their promissory notes discounted by the bank.
These notes were not met at maturity, and, with the collaterals
pledged for their payment, remained in possession of the
bank until June 11, 1863, when it was put in liquidation by
order of Major-General Banks, and its effects transferred to
military commissioners appointed to close it up. Its officers,
while submitting to this order because they had no power to
resist it, deemed it unjust and oppressive, and entered a protest
against it on their minutes. During the administration of
these commissioners, the pledged paper was sold for less than
its face. In January, 1866, the military liquidation ceased
by order of Major-General Canby, and the effects of the
bank which were unadministered were restored to it. The
plaintiff, on the ground that the securities were parted with
illegally, seeks to make the bank responsible for the proceedings of the commissioners; but this he cannot do. Certainly
no act was done, or omitted to be done, by it, inconsistent with
its duty; for it was only bound to take that care of the pledge
which a careful man bestows on his own property.

Oct 1875.]

FArn ns', ETC.

NAT. BANx

v.DEARING.

29

It is true, it was the duty of the bank to return the pledge, or
show a good reason why it could not be returned. This it has
done by proof, that without any fault on its part, and against
its protest, the pledge was taken from it by superior force.
Where this is the case, the common as well as the civil law
holds that the duty of the pledgee is discharged. 2 Kent,
579; Story on Bailments, sect. 339; Commercial Bank v.
31lartin, 1 Annual, 344. That the proceedings of General
Banks and the liquidators appointed by him constituted "sitperior force," which no prudent administrator of the affairs of
a corporation could either resist or prevent, is too plain for
controversy. It was in the midst of war that the order was
made, and with an army at hand to enforce it. There was
nothing left but submission under protest. Any other course
of action, under the circumstances, instead of benefiting, would
have injured, every one who had dealings with the bank. It has
turned out that the plaintiff has suffered injury, but not through
the fault of the officers of the bank; for they retained the notes
and bills long after the paper for which they were given as
security had matured, and until they were dispossessed of them
by military force. Under such circumstances, they have discharged every duty which they owed to the plaintiff; and, if
loss has been occasioned in consequence of the order in question, the bank is not responsible for it.
The judgment is affirmed.

FAa~nirs' A~m

MECHANCS' NATiobTAL

BANKx v. DraI=tG.

1. The only forfeiture declared by the thirtieth section of the act of June 3, 1864
(13 Stat. 99), is of the entire interest which the note, bill, or other evidence
of debt, carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon, when
the rate knowingly received, reserved, or charged by a national bank is in
excess of that allowed by that section; and no loss of the entire debt is incurred by such bank, as a penalty or otherwise, by reason of the provisions
of the usury law of a State.
2. National banks organized under the act are the instruments designed to be
used to aid the government in the administration of an important branch
of the public service; and Congress, which is the sole judge of the necessity
for their creation, having brought them into existence, the States can exercise no control over them, nor in any wise affect their operation, except so
far as it may see proper to permit.

