Oct. 1875.]

WEBsTER v. UoN, ASSmNEE.

WEBSTER ,.

UPTON,) ASSIG'EE.

1. The doctrine announced in Upton v. Tribilcock, supra, that the original holders of the stock of a corporation are liable for the unpaid balances at the
suit of its assignee in bankruptcy, without any express promise to pay,
reaffirmed.
2. The transferee of stock is liable for calls made after he has been accepted
by the company as a stockholder, and his name registered on the stock
books as a corporator; and, being thus liable, there is an implied promise
that he will pay calls made upon such stock while he continues its owner.
3. A purchase of stock is of itself authority to the vendor to make a legal transfer
thereof to the vendee on the books of the company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by .31r. B. -Van Buren for
the plaintiff in error, and 1r. L. H. Boutell for the defendant
in error.
JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The Great Western Insurance Company, of which the plaintiff
below is the assignee in bankruptcy, was incorporated under
the laws of Illinois in 1857, with general power to insure all
kinds of property against both fire and marine losses. Subsequently to its organization, its capital was increased to more
than k51,000,000, and it was authorized by law further to
increase its capital to $5,000,000. It does not appear, however, from the record, that, of the stock subscribed, more than
about $222,000 was ever paid in,-a sum equal to nearly
twenty per cent of the par value, - leaving over $965,000 of
subscribed capital unpaid. In this condition the company
went into bankruptcy in 1872, owing a very large sum,
equal to if not greater than its entire subscribed capital; and
Claik W. Upton, the plaintiff, became the assignee. The
District Court then directed a call to be made for the eighty
per cent remaining unpaid of the capital stock. A call was
accordingly made; and, payments having been neglected, the
assignee brought this suit against the defendant, averring that
he was the holder of one hundred shares, of the par value of
one hundred dollars each, and, as such, responsible for the
Af.

VOL. 1.

5

WEBSTER V. UPTON, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

eighty per cent unpaid. On the trial, evidence was given
tending to show that one Hale was the owner of a large
amount of the stock of the company, for which he held
the company's certificates; and that he had, through his
brother, sold one hundred shares to the defendant, on which
twenty per cent had been paid. The books of the company
had been destroyed in the great fire in Chicago in 1871; but
there was evidence tending to show that the defendant's name
was on the stock ledger, and that the defendant transferred, or
caused the stock bought from Hale to be transferred to himself
on the books of the company. The district judge submitted to
the jury to find whether the defendant actually thus became a
stockholder, recognized as such on the books of the company;
instructing them, that, if he did, he was liable for the eighty per
cent unpaid as if he had been an original subscriber. A verdict and judgment having been recovered by the plaintiff, the
case was removed by writ of error to the Circuit Court, where
the judgment was affirmed; and the judgment of affirmance we
are now called upon to review.
The leading assignment of error here is that the court below
erroneously ruled that an assignee of stock, or of a certificate
of stock, in an insurance company, is liable for future calls or
assessments without an agreement or promise to pay. This,
however, is not a fair statement of what the court did rule.
The court instructed the jury, in effect, that the transferee of
stock on the books of an insurance company, on which only
twenty per cent of its nominal value has been paid, is liable
for calls for the unpaid portion made during his ownership,
without proof of any express promise by him to pay such calls.
This instruction, we think, was entirely correct. The capital
stock of an insurance company, like that of any other business
corporation, is a trust fund for the protection of its creditors oi
those who deal with it. Neither the stockholders, nor their
agents the directors, can rightfully withhold any portion of
the stock from the reach of those who have lawful claims
against the company. And the stock thus held in trust is the
whole stock, not merely that percentage of it which has been
called in and paid. This has been decided so often, that it has
become a familiar doctrine. But what is it worth if there is

Oct. 1875.]

W~MSTM V. UPTON, AssIG E.

no legal liability resting on the stockholders to pay the unpaid
portion of their shares, unless they have expressly promised to
pay it? Stockholders become such in several ways, - either
by original subscription, or by assignment of prior holders, or
by direct purchase from the company. An express promise is
almost unknown, except in the case of an original subscription;
and oftener than otherwise it is not made in that. The subscriber merely agrees to take stock. He does not expressly
promise to pay for it. Practically, then, unless the ownership
of such stock carries with it the legal duty of paying all legitimate calls made during the continuance of the ownership, the
fund held in trust for creditors is only that portion of each
share which was paid prior to the organization of the company, in many cases, not more than five per cent; in the present, only
twenty. Then the company commences business and incurs
obligations, representing all the while to those who deal with
it that its capital is the amount of stock taken, when in truth
the fund which is held in trust for creditors is only that part
of the stock which has been actually paid in. This cannot be.
If it is, very many corporations make fraudulent representations
daily to those who give them credit. The Great Western Insurance Company reported to the auditor of public accounts,
as required by law, that the amount of its capital stock outstanding (par value of shares $100 each) was $1,188,000, that
the amount of paid-up capital stock was $222,881.42, and that
the amount of subscribed capital for which the subscribers or
holders were liable was $965,168.58. This report was made
on the 10th of January, 1871. Thus those who effected Minsurances with the company were assured that over one million of
dollars were held as a trust fund to secure the company's payment of their policies. But, if the subscribers and holders of
the shares are not liable for the more than eighty per cent unpaid, the representation was untrue. Persons assured have
less than one-fifth the security that was promised them. This
is not what the statutes authorizing the incorporation of the
company contemplated. The stock was required to be not less
than a given amount, though the company was authorized to
commence business when five per cent of that amount was paid
in Why fix a minimum amount of stock if all of it was not

WEBSTER V. UPTON, ASSIGNEE.

[Slip. Ct,

intended to be a security for those who obtained insurance?
There is no conceivable reason for such a requirement, unless
it be either to provide for the creditors a capital sufficient for
their security, or to secure the stockholders themselves against
the consequences of an inadequate capital. The plain object of
the statute, therefore, would be defeated if there is no liability
of the stockholder to pay the full prescribed amount of each
share of his stock. With this plain object of the legislature in
view, it must be assumed, after the verdict of the jury, the defendant voluntarily became a stockholder. Either he must
have designed to defeat the legislative intent, or he must have
consented to carry it out. The former is not to be presumed;
and if the latter was the fact, coming as he did into privity
with the company, there is a necessary implication that he
undertook to complete the payment of all that was unpaid of
the shares he held whenever it should be demanded. To constitute a promise binding in law, no form of words is necessary.
An implied promise is proved by circumstantial evidence; by
proof of circumstances that show the party intended to assume
an obligation. A party may assume an obligation by putting
himself into a position which requires the performance of
duties.
What we have said thus far is applicable to the case of an
original subscriber to the stock, and equally to a transferee of
the stock who has become such by transfer on the books of the
company. There are, it is true, decisions of highly respectable
courts to be found, in which it was held that even a subscriber
to the capital stock of an incorporated company is not personally liable for calls, unless he has expressly promised to pay
them, or unless the act of incorporation or some statilte declares
that he shall pay them. Such was the decision of a Supreme
Court of New York, in Te Port Edward and Fort MillerPlanc
Road Company v. Payne, 17 Barb. 567. A similar ruling was
made in The Kennebec and Portland-RailroadCompany v. Kendall, 31 Me. 470. A like ruling has also been made in Massachusetts. In most if not all of these cases, it appeared that the
law authorizing the incorporation of the companies had provided
a remedy for non-payment of calls or assessments of the unpaid
portions of the stock taken. The company was authorized to

Oct. 1875.]

WEBSTER v. UPToN, AssiGNEE.

declare forfeited or to sell the stock for default of the stockholder;
and, the law having given such a remedy, it was held to be exclusive of any other. Yet in them all it was conceded, that, if the
statute had declared the calls or assessments should be paid, an
action of assumpsit might be maintained against the original
stockholder on a promise to pay, implied only from the legislative intent. Surely the legislative intent that the full value of
the stock authorized and required to be subscribed, in other
words, the entire capital, shall be, in fact, paid in when required,
-- that it shall be real, and not merelynominal, -is plain enough
when the authority to exist as a corporation and to do business
is given on condition that the capital subscribed shall not be
less than a specified sum. A requisition that the subscribed
stock shall not be less than one million of dollars would be
idle if the subscribers need pay only a first instalment on their
subscriptions; for example, five per cent. Manifestly that would
not be what the law intended; and, if its intent was that the
whole capital might be called in, it is difficult to see why a subscriber, knowing that intent, and voluntarily becoming a subscriber, does not impliedly engage to pay in full for his shares
when payment is required. It is, however, unnecessary to discuss
this question further; for it is settled by the judgment of this
court. In Upton, Assignee, v. Tribilcock, supra,45, we ruled that
the original holders of the stock are liable for the unpaid balances
at the suit of the assignee in bankruptcy, and that without any
express promise to pay. The bankrupt corporation in that case
was the same as in this.
But, if the law implies a promise by the original holders or
subscribers to pay the full par value when it may be called, it
follows that an assignee of the stock, when he has come into
privity with the company by having stock transferred to him
o'i the company's books, is equally liable. The same reasons
exist for implying a promise by him as exist for raising up a
promise by his assignor. And such is the law as laid down by
the text-writers generally, and by many decisions of the courts.
Bond v. The Susquehanna Bridge, 6 lar. & J. 128; -Hall
v. United States Insurance Company, 5 Gill, 484; Railroad
Company v. Boorman, 12 Conn. 530; Haddersfield Canal Company v. Bucedey, 7 T. M. 86. There are a very few cases, it

WEBSTER V. UPTON, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

must be admitted, in which it has been held that the purchaser
of stock, partially paid, is not liable for calls made after his
purchase. Those to which we have been referred are Canal
Company v. Sansom, 1 Binn. 70, where the question seems
hardly to have been considered, the claim upon the transferee
having been abandoned; and Palmer v. The Ridge Hining
Company, 34 Penn. St. 288, which is rested upon Sansom's
Case, and upon the fact, that, by the charter, the company was
authorized to forfeit the stock for non-payment of calls. We
are also referred to Seymour v. Sturgess, 26 N. Y. 134, the
circumstances of which were very peculiar. In neither of
these cases was it brought to the attention of the court that
the stock was a trust fund held for the protection of creditors
in the first instance, a fund no part of which either the company or its stockholders was at liberty to withhold. They do
not, we think, assert the doctrine which is generally accepted.
In Angell and Ames on Corporations, sect. 534, it is said, "When an original subscriber to the stock of an incorporated
company, who is so bound to pay the instalments on his subscription from time to time as they are called in by the company, transfers his stock to another person, such other person is substituted
not only to the rights, but to the obligations, of the original subscriber, and he is bound to pay up the instalments called for after
the transfer to him. The liability to pay the instalments is shifted
from the outgoing to the incoming shareholder. A privity is created
between the two by the assignment of the one and the acceptance
of the other, and also between them and the corporation; for it
would be absurd to say, upon general reasoning, that, if the original
subscribers have the power of assigning their shares, they should,
after disposing of them, be liable to the burdens which are thrown
upon the owners of the stock."
So in Redfleld on Railways, 53, it is said the cases agree
that whenever the name of the vendee of shares is transferred
to the register of shareholders, the vendor is exonerated, and
the vendee becomes liable for calls. We think, therefore,
the transferee of stock in an incorporated company is liable for
calls made after he has been accepted by the company as a
stockholder, and his name has been registered on the stock books
as a corporator; and, being thus liable, there is an implid promise that he will pay calls made while he continues the owner.

Oct

1875.]

WEBSTM v. UPTON, AssIGmN.

A]1 the cases agree that creditors of a corporation may compel payment of the stock subscribed, so far as it is necessary
for the satisfaction of the debts due by the company. This
zesults from the fact that the whole subscribed capital is a
trust fund for the payment of creditors when the company
becomes insolvent. From this it is a legitimate deduction that
the stock cannot be released; that is, that the liabilities of the
stockholders cannot be discharged by the company to the injury
of creditors without payment. The fact, therefore, that in this
case the certificate of stock taken by the defendant below was
marked "non-assessable," is of no importance. The suit is
brought by the assignee in bankruptcy, who represents creditors; and, as against him, the company had no right to release
the holders of the stock from the payment of the eighty per
cent unpaid.
The second assignment of error and the third are, in substance, that the court should not have admitted in evidence the
order of the District Court, directing a call by the assignee of
the unpaid balance of the stock, and should not have ruled that
the call made under the order was effective to make the liability
of the defendant complete. That these assignments cannot be
sustained was decided in Sanger v. Upton, supra,p. 56, - a case
before us at this term. Nothing more need be said in reference
to them.
The last assignment of any thing that can be assigned for
error is, that the court charged the jury as follows: "The only
question is, was the defendant a stockholder of the company?
If the testimony satisfies you that the defendant purchased
of Hale one hundred shares of this stock, and that it was
transferred in the books of the company, either by Webster,
the defendant, or by Hale, who sold the stock, or by the direction, of either of them, then the defendant is liable the same as
if he had subscribed for the stock." The objection urged against
this is that a transfer on the books directed by Hale, after the
purchase by Webster, could not affect the latter's liability.
But, if Webster became the purchaser, it was his vendor's duty
to make the transfer to him, where only a legal transfer could
be made, - namely, on the books of the company; and the purchase was in itself authority to the vendor to make the transfer.

72

UNITED STATES V. UNION PAcIFIC

R.R. Co.

[Sup.

u.

Still further, it was Webster's duty to have the legal transfer
made to relieve the vendor from liability to future calls. A
court of equity will compel a transferee of stock to record the
transfer, and to pay all calls after the transfer. 8 De G. &
Sm. Ch. 310. If so, it is clear that the vendor may himself
request the transfer to be made; and that, when it is made at
his request, the buyer becomes responsible for subsequent calls.
This, however, does not interfere with the right of one who
appears to be a stockholder on the books of a company to show
that his name appears on the books without light and without
his authority.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RImuOAD COMPANY.
1. The solution of the question, whether the Union Pacific Railroad Company is
required to pay the interest before the maturity of the principal of the
bonds issued by the United States to the company, depends on the meaning
of the fifth and sixth sections of the original act of 1862 "to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri River to the
Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the government the use of the same for
postal, military, and other purposes," and of the fifth section of the amendatory act of 1864. Held, upon consideration of said sections, of the scheme
of said original act, and of the purposes contemplated by it, that it was not
the intention of Congress to require the company to pay the interest before
the maturity of the principal of the bonds.
2. As commonly understood, the word "maturity," in its application to bonds
and other similar instruments, applies to the time fixed for their payment,
which is the termination of the period they have to run.
3. A provision in the charter that the grants thereby made are upon the condition that the company "shall pay said bonds at maturity," while it implies
an obligation to pay both principal and interest when the bonds shall become due, does not imply an obligation to pay the interest as it semi-annually accrues.
In construing an act of Congress, the court may recur to the history of the
times when it was passed, in order to ascertain the reason for, as well as
the meaning of, particular provisions in it; but the views of individual
members in debate, or the motives which induced them to vote for or against
its passage, cannot be considered.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
Under the authority of the second section of the act of Con.

