Oct. 1875.]

MATTHEWS v. MCSTEA.

any more than specie. Under such circumstances, is not the
only true method of ascertaining its value the purchasing
capacity which it had? I hold that this is the true test, when,
as stated by the Legislature of North Carolina in its preamble to
the act, it is impossible to scale the value of Confederate money
accurately for all parts of the State under the varying circumstances that arose. Under such circumstances, the only fair
mode of ascertaining the purchasing value of the currency used
is to ascertain the true value of the consideration or thing purchased. This is not to set aside the contract of the parties,
but to carry out their contract. It is the proper method of
ascertaining what their contract really meant, and giving it full
force and effect.
Where a regular current ratio exists between a paper currency and specie or other lawful money, of course it ought to
be used as the rule to ascertain the true value of contracts.
But when no such regular marketable value does exist, then the
next best mode of getting at the value of the contract, or of
the currency mentioned therein, is to ascertain the true value
of the subject-matter about which the contract was made.
This is what the Legislature of North Carolina authorized to
be done, and what was done in this case.
I think the judgment should he affirmed.

21ATEws v. MoSTA.
1. It was not until the 16th of August, 1861, that all commercial intercourse
between the States designated as in rebellion and the inhabitants thereof,
with certain exceptions, and the citizens of other States and other parts of
the United States, became unlawful.
2 A partnership between a resident of New York and other parties, residents
of Louisiana, was not dissolved by the late civil war as early as April 23,
1861; and all the members of the firm are bound by its acceptance of a bill
of exchange hearing date and accepted on that day, and payable one year
thereafter.

E oR to the Court of Common Pleas for the City and
County of New York.
The original cause of action was (inter alia) an acceptance

MATTIEWS V. MCSTEA.

[Sup. Ct.

of a bill of exchange by the firm of Brander, Chambliss, & Co.,
of New Orleans, dated April 23, 1861, payable in one year to
the order of McStea, and accepted on the day of its date by
the firm, whereof Matthews, it was alleged, was then a member.
The principal defence, and the only one which presents a Federal question, was, that, at the time when the acceptance was
made, the defendant, Matthews, was a resident of the State of
New York; that the other members of the firm (also made defendants in the suit, but not served with process) were residents
of Louisiana; and that, before the acceptance, the copartnership
was dissolved by the war of the rebellion. This defence was
not sustained in the Common Pleas, and the judgment of that
court was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
Matthews sued out this writ of error.
iir.John Sherwood and 3fr. William ff. Bvarts for the plaintiff in error.
The war began in Louisiana, April 19, 1861.
The Protector, 12 Wall. 700. The proclamation of April 19, 1861,
declaring the blockade, was a notice of prohibition of commercial intercourse. The proclamations of April 17 and 19,
and the act of Congress of July 13, 1861, do not contain any
permission to trade, or any inference that such trade was permitted. Commercial intercourse during war being unlawful, it
cannot be implied from the proclamations of the Executive and
the acts of Congress. The Prize Cases, 2 Black, 635; United
States v. Lane, 8 Wall. 185; Cappell v. Hall, 7 id. 542.
The copartnership of Brander, Chambliss, & Co., was dissolved, even if a limited intercourse was permitted. The
courts of Louisiana were closed. The legality of commerce
and the mutual use of courts of justice must be inseparable.
Griswold v. Waddington, 16 Johns. 468.
.Mr. J. Hubley Ashton, contra.
There was no dissolution of partnership prior to the President's proclamation of Aug. 16, 1861, issued in pursuance of
the act of July 13, 1861.
No proclamation of the President, previous to the assembling
of Congress in 1861, professed to interfere with the commercial
intercourse between the inhabitants of the loyal and of the insurgent States, which did not involve a breach of the blockade

Oct. 1875.]

MATTHEWS V. M STEA.

of the ports within certain States; and such intercourse continued long after April 23, 1861.
The fifth section of the act of July 13, 1861, shows that, in
the opinion of Congress, positive legislation was necessary in
order to render unlawful all commercial intercourse between
the insurgent and the loyal States.
MR.JUSTICE STROxG delivered the opinion of the court

The single question which this record presents for our consideration is, whether a partnership, where one member of the
filn resided in New York and the others in Louisiana, was
dissolved by the war of the rebellion prior to April 23, 1861.
That the civil war had an existence commencing before that
date must be accepted as an established fact. This was fully
determined in The Prize Cases, 2 Black, 635 ; and it is no
longer open to denial. The President's proclamation of April
19, 1861, declaring that he had deemed it advisable to set on
foot a blockade of the ports within the States of South Carolina,
Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mlississippi, Louisiana, and Texas,
was a recognition of a war waged, and conclusive evidence
that a state of war existed between the people inhabiting those
States and the United States.
It must also be conceded, as a general rule, to be one of the
immediate consequences of a declaration of war and the effect
of a state of war, even when not declared, that all commercial
intercourse and dealing between the subjects or adherents of the
contending powers is unlawful, and is interdicted. The reasons
for this rule are obvious. They are, that, in a state of war, all
the members of each belligerent are respectively enemies of all
the members of the other belligerent; and, were commercial
intercourse allowed, it would tend to strengthen the enemy, and
afford facilities for conveying intelligence, and even for traitorous correspondence. Hence it has become an established doctrine, that war puts an end to all commercial dealing between
the citizens or subjects of the nations or powers at war, and
"places every individual of the respective governments, as well
as the governments themselves, in a state of hostility:" and
it dissolves commercial partnerships existing between the subjects or citizens of the two contending parties prior to the war;

MATTHEWS V.

MCSTEA.

[Sup. at

for their continued existence would involve community of interest and mutual dealing between enemies.
Still further, it is undeniable that civil war brings with it all
the consequences in this regard which attend upon and follow
a state of foreign war. Certainly this is so when civil war is
sectional. Equally with foreign war, it renders commercial
intercourse unlawful between the contending parties, and it
dissolves commercial partnerships.
But, while all this is true as a general rule, it is not without
exceptions. A state of war may exist, and yet commercial intercourse be lawful. They are not necessarily inconsistent with
each other. Trading with a public enemy may be authorized
by the sovereign, and even, to a limited extent, by a military
commander. Such permissions or licenses are partial suspensions of the laws of war, but not of the war itself. In modern
times, they are very common. Bynkershoek, in his Quost. Jur.
Pub., lib. 1, c. 8, while asserting as a universal principle of law
that an immediate consequence of the commencement of war is
the interdiction of all commercial intercourse between the subjects of the States at wai', remarks, "The utility, however, of
merchants, and the mutual wants of nations, have almost got
the better of the laws of war as to commerce. Hence it is
alternatively permitted and forbidden in time of war, as princes
think it most for the interests of their subjects. A commercial
nation is anxious to trade, and accommodates the laws of war
to the greater or lesser want that it may be in of the goods
of others. Thus sometimes a mutual commerce is permitted
generally; sometimes as to certain merchandise only, while
others are prohibited; and sometimes it is prohibited altogether." Halleck, in his "Treatise on the Laws of War,"
p. 676 et seq., discusses this subject at considerable length, and
remarks, "That branch of the government to which, from the
form of its constitution, the power of declaring or making war
is intrusted, has an undoubted right to regulate and modify,
in its discretion, the hostilities which it sanctions. . . . In
England, licenses are granted directly by the crown, or by
some subordinate officer to whom the authority of the crown
has been delegated, either by special instructions, or under an
act of Parliament. In the United States, as a general rule,

Oct. 1875.]

5MATTHEWS V. MCSTEA.

licenses are issued under the authority of an act of Congress;
but in special cases, and for purposes immediately connected
with the prosecution of the war, they may be granted by the
authority of the President, as commander-in-chief of the military and naval forces of the United States."
It being, then, settled that a war may exist, and yet that trad.
ing with the enemy, or commercial intercourse, may be allow.
able, we are brought to inquire whether such intercourse was
allowed between the loyal citizens of the United States and the
citizens of Louisiana until the 23d of April, 1861, when the
acceptance was made upon which this suit was brought. And,
in determining this, the character of the war and the manner
in which it was commenced ought not to be overlooked. No
declaration of war was ever made. The President recognized
its existence by proclaiming a blockade on the 19th of April;
and it then became his duty as well as his right to direct how
it should be carried on. In the exercise of this right, he was
at liberty to allow or license intercourse; and his proclamations, if they did not license it expressly, did, in our opinion,
license it by very cogent implications. It is impossible to read
them without a conviction that no interdiction of commercial
intercourse, except through the ports of the designated States,
was intended. The first was that of April 15, 1861. The forts
and property of the United States had, prior to that day, been
forcibly seized by armed forces. Hostilities had commenced;
and, in the light of subsequent events, it must be considered
that a state of war then existed. Yet the proclamation, while
calling for the militia of the several States, and stating what

would probably be the first service assigned to them, expressly
declared, that, "in every event, the utmost care would be observed, consistently with the repossession of the forts, places,
and property which had been seized from the Union, to avoid
any devastation, destruction of or interference with property,
or any disturbance of peaceful citizens in any part of the
country." Manifestly, this declaration was not a mere military
order. It did not contemplate the treatment of the inhabitants of the States in which the unlawful combinations menIt
tioned in the proclamation existed as public enemies.
announced a different mode of treatment,- the treatment due

MATTHEWS V. MCSTEA.

[Sup. Ct.

to friends. It is to be observed that the proclamation of April
15, 1861, was not a distinct recognition of an existing state of
wax. The President had power to recognize it, The Prize Cases,
supra; but he did not prior to his second proclamation, that of
April 19, in which he announced the blockade. Even then, the
war was only inferentially recognized; and the measures proposed were avowed to be "with a view to . . . the protection
of the public peace and the lives and property of quiet and
orderly citizens pursuing their lawful occupations, until Congress shall have assembled." The reference here was plainly
to citizens of the insurrectionary States; and the purpose avowed
appears to be inconsistent with their being regarded as public
enemies, and consequently debarred from intercourse with the
inhabitants of States not in insurrection. The only interference with the business relations of citizens in all parts of the
country, contemplated by the proclamation, seems to have been
such as the blockade might cause. And that it was understood
to be an assent by the Executive to continued business intercourse may be inferred from the subsequent action of the
government (of which we may take judicial notice) in continuing the mail service in Louisiana and the other insurrectionary States long after the blockade was declared. If it was
not such an assent or permission, it was well fitted to deceive
the public. But in a civil more than in a foreign war, or'a
war declared, it is important that unequivocal notice should
be given of the illegality of traffic or commercial intercourse;
for, in a civil war, only the government can know when the insurrection has assumed the character of war.
If, however, the proclamations, considered by themselves,
leave it doubtful whether they were intended to be permissive
of commercial intercourse with the inhabitants of the insurrectionary States, so far as such intercourse did not interfere with
the blockade, the subsequent act of Congress passed on the thirteenth day of July, 1861, ought to put doubt at rest.
The act was manifestly passed in view of the state of the
country then existing, and in view of the proclamation the
President had issued. It enacts, that in a case therein described, a case that then existed, "it may and shall be lawful
for the President, by proclamation, to declare that the inhab.

Oct. 1875.]

DAINESE

v. HALB.

itants of such State, or any section or part thereof where such
insurrection exists, are in a state of insurrection against the
United States; and tlzereupon all commercial intercourse by
and between the same and the citizens thereof, and the citizens
of the rest of the United States, shall cease and be unlawful
so long as such condition of hostility shall continue." Under
authority of this act, the President did issue such a proclamation on the 16th of August, 1861; and it stated that all
commercial intercourse between the States designated as in
insurrection and the inhabitants thereof, with certain exceptions, and the citizens of other States and other parts of the
United States, was unlawful. Both the act and the proclamation exhibit a clear implication, that before the first was enacted, and the second was issued, commercial intercourse was
not unlawful; that it had been permitted. What need of declaring it should cease, if it had ceased, or had been unlawful
before? The enactment that it should not be permitted after
a day then in the future must be considered an implied affirmation that up to that day it was lawful; and certainly Congress
had the power to relax any of the ordinary rules of war.
We think, therefore, the Court of Appeals was right in holding that the partnership of Brander, Chambliss, & Co., had not
been dissolved by the war when the acceptance upon which the
plaintiff in error is sued was made.
The judgment is affirmed.

DAnEsE v. RATE.
1. Judicial powers are not necessarily incident to the office of consul, although
usually conferred upon consuls of Christian nations in Pagan and Mahometan countries, for the decision of controversies between their fellow-citizens
or subjects residing or commorant there, and for the punishment of crimes
committed by them.
2. The existence and extent of such powers depend on the treaty stipulations
and positive laws of the nations concerned.
3.The treaty between the United States and the Ottoman Empire, concluded
June 5, 1862 (if not that made in 1830), has the effect of conceding to the
United States the same privilege, in respect to consular courts and the civil
and criminal jurisdiction thereof, which are enjoyed by other Christian
nations; and the act of Congress of June 22,1860, established the necessary
regulations for the exercise of such jurisdiction.

