MAYMR ET AL.

v.

HELLMAIT.

[Sup. Ct.

streets are wont to be frequented, and suffered such wire to remain stretched
across said street, and elevated such distance above the ground as to obstruct or
entangle the feet of a horse passing upon said street for the space of one half
minute to a longer period; and if, unless such wire was of such size and character
as to be easily seen by persons approaching at a moderate speed, defendant's
agents omitted to station flag-sentinels or other sufficient means of warning to
warn or notify passers-by of the place where such wire was stretched; or if de.
fendant's agents did station such sentinels, and they failed to give warning to
plaintiff, - then the defendant was guilty of negligence; and if from such negligence the injury complained of occurred, without culpable negligence on the palrt
of plaintiff contributing thereto, then the jury ought to find for the plaintiff, and,
in fixing the plaintiff's damages, should compensate the plaintiff not alone for
his actual loss in the loss of time during his confinement or disability, if any,
resulting from the alleged accident, but may award exemplary damages proportioned to the nature and extent or character of the injury and all circumstances
of aggravation or extenuation attending the alleged negligence of defendant:
and the extent of such damages is to be measured by the sound discretion of the
jury in view of all the circumstances; but such damages are not to exceed the
damages laid in the declaration,- ten thousand dollars ($10,000)."
1r. J. Hubley Ashton for the plaintiff in error. Mr. J. 17. Denver, contra.
MR.JUSTIcE DAVIs, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked that the
decision rendered-in Ofilwaukee &-St. Pard Railway Company v. Arms et al., siupra,
controlled this case. In no view of the evidence was the court below justified
in instructing the jury that exemplary damages could be recovered. The omission to station flag-sentinels, or to give some other proper warning, while the
men were engaged in putting up the wire, was an act of negligence, entitling the
plaintiff to compensatory damages. But there was nothing to authorize the
jury to consider this omission as wilful: on the contrary, the evidence rebuts
every presumption that there was any intentional wrong.
Judgment reversed.

MAYER ET AL. v. HELLMAN.
An assignment by an insolvent debtor of his property to trustees for the equal
and common benefit of all his creditors is not fraudulent, and, when executed
six months before proceedings in bankruptcy are taken against the debtor, is
not assailable by the assignee in bankruptcy subsequently appointed.: and
the assignee is not entitled to the possession of the property from the trustees.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Southern District of Ohio.
The plaintiff in the court below is assignee in bankruptcy of
Bogen and others, appointed in proceedings instituted against
them in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio; the defendants are assignees of the same

Oct. 1875.]

lX&YER _W AL. T. HEM4A.

497

parties, under the assignment law of the State of Ohio; an
the present suit is brought to obtain possession of property
-which passed to the latter under the assignment to them. The
facts as disclosed by the record, so far as they are material for
the disposition of the case, are briefly these: On the d of
December, 1873, at Cincinnati, Ohio, George Bogen and Jacob
Bogen, composing the firm of G. & J. Bogen, and the same
parties with Henry Mltiller, composing the firm of Bogen &
Son, by deed executed of that date, individually and as partners, assigned certain property held by them, including that in
controversy, to three trustees, in trust for the equal and common benefit of all their creditors. The deed was delivered
upon its execution, and the property taken possession of by
the assignees.
By the law of Ohio, in force at the time, when an assignment of property is made to trustees for the benefit of creditors,
.it is the duty of the trustees, within ten days after the delivery
of the assignment to them, and before disposing of any of the
property, to appear before the probate judge of the county in
which the assignors reside, produce the original assignment, or
a copy thereof, and file the same in the Probate Court, and
enter into an undertaking payable to the State, in such sum
and with such sureties as may be approved by the judge, conditioned for the faithful performance of their duties.
In conformity with this law, the trustees, on the 13th of De.cember, 1873, within the prescribed ten days, appeared before
the probate judge of the proper county in Ohio, produced the
.original assignment, and filed the same in the Probate Court.
One of the trustees having declined to act, another one was
named in his place by the creditors, and appointed by the court.
Subsequently the three gave an undertaking with sureties
approved by the judge, in the sum of $500,000, for the performance of their duties, and -then proceeded with the administration of the trust under the direction of the court.
On the 22d of June of the following year, more than six
months after the execution of the assignment, the petition in
bankruptcy against the insolvents was filed in the District
Court of the United States, initiating the proceedings in which
the plaintiff was appointed their assignee in bankruptcy. As
VOL. 1.

82

MAYER ET AL. V. HELLM AN.

[Sup. Ct.

such officer, he claims a right to the possession of the property
in the hands of the defendants under the assignment to them.
Judgment having been rendered against them, they sued out
this writ of error.
iJfr. W. T. Forrestfor the plaintiffs in error.
Deeds of trust or assignments made in good faith, and for the
common benefit of all the creditors of a debtor, are in aid of the
provisions of the Bankrupt Law, and not contrary to its spirit.
They have been said "to carry out the equitable provisions of
a bankrupt law through the medium of a private contract,"
and are a cheap, expeditious, and convenient mode of arriving
at the objects intended by that law. Sedgwick v. Place, 1 Nat.
Bank. Reg. 204; Tiffany v. Latcas, 15 Wall. 410; Olark v. Iselin,
21 id. 360; iliehael v. Post, id. 398; Langley v. Perry, 2 Nat.
Bank. Reg. 180. The statute of Ohio, entitled "An Act regulating the mode of administering assignments in trust for the
benefit of creditors," has none of the distinctive features of an
insolvent or a bankrupt law. It does not purport or attempt to
discharge the debtor either from arrest or imprisonment, or to
free him from future liability. His after-acquired property is
liable to his creditors to the same extent in every particular as
if be had not made an assignment in trust for his creditors.
Deeds of trust are not the creatures of that law. They existed
in Ohio, and were constantly recognized and used for fifty years
before it was passed. They derive their force and effect from
the common law, and not from the statute. The statute does
not give such deeds any power or validity. All it does is to
prescribe a mode of enforcing the trust. It found them already
established, and simply provided for the better security of the
creditors by requiring that the trustees should give bond for
the faithful discharge of their trusts, and should file statements
showing what had been done, and provided a simple and speedy
means of enforcing and regulating the trust, which, before that
act was passed, had to be sought through a court of chancery.
Cook et al v. Bogers, Am. Law Reg. July, 1875, 453; In re
Hawkins, 2 Nat. Bank. Reg. 122.
11r. Adam A. Kramer, contra.
The main question involved in this case is, whether the
adjudication in bankruptcy had the effect of suspending the

Oct. 1875.]

Oct.A.Y

Mh] AL.
~ V. HELLMAN.

further operation of the State assignment laws. The jurisdiction of the United States courts under the Bankrupt Act cannot
be concurrent witl that of the State courts under the assignment laws of the State. It must be exclusive in that court,
which only can and should administer the estate and adjust
the affairs of a bankrupt. Sturges v. Crowningshield,4 Wheat.
122; Ogden v. Sanders, 12 id. 213, 214; Griswold v. Pratt,
9 Met.; Larrabeev. Talbot, 5 Gill, 426; E-x parte Lucius -Eames,
2 Story, 0. 0. 822; In re Reynolds, 9 Nat. Bank. Reg. 50;
Allen J- Co. v. Montgomery, 10 id. 503. The Bankrupt Act
was intended, and must be presumed, to afford the best mode
of administering the estates of insolvents. It will not tolerate
an attempt to carry into effect any other plan inconsistent
therewith. Cookingham v. Horgan, 5 B. R. 16; 7 Blatch. 480.
It is not claimed, that, although the assignment was a valid,
legal, and fair one for the benefit of all the creditors, the subsequent adjudication in bankruptcy rendered it invalid, illegal,
and unfair, but that it had the effect of suspending its further
operation.
The Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867, as soon as it went into
operation, ipso facto suspended all action arising under State
laws. Commonwealth v. O'.Hara, 1 Nat. Bank. Reg. 19; In re
Arogman, 5 id. 116.
It is immaterial whether the statute of Ohio, under which
the assignment was made, is properly an insolvent law. It,
however, certainly purports and contemplates the control and
disposition of the estate of persons who are unable to pay their
debts, and are therefore insolvent. It is an insolvent act, because
it presumes the debtor to be unable to pay his debts; but it is
not a bankrupt act in the strict sense, for it does not purport to
discharge the debtor from paying them.
The most important authority on this question, the one containing the clearest reasoning, is the opinion of the court, per
Blodgett, J., In re M~erchants' Insurance Company, 6 Nat. Bank.
Reg. 43: "lt seems clear to us, that in so far as a State law attempts to
administer on the effects of an insolvent debtor, and distribute them
among his creditors, it is to all intents and purposes an insolvent
law, although it may not authorize a discharge of a debtor from

MAYER "ET AL. v. HELLbAN.

-[Sup. Ct.

further liability" ... and, when insolvency exists so as to make the
debtor a proper subject for the operation of the Bankrupt Act, the
exclusive jurisdiction of the Bankrupt Court attaches, and the State
court and those acting under its mandate must surrender the control of its assets."
By insolvency, as used in the provisions of the Bankrupt Act
when applied to traders and merchants, is meant their inability
to pay their debts as they become due in the ordinary course of
their business.
This is the legal definition of the term, and such has been the
universal construction of it by the Federal courts. In re Goldschmidt, 8 B. R. 165 ; In re Freeman, 4 B. R. 64; In re Liutgens,
7 Pac. L. R. 89; In re Alonzo Pearce, 21 Vt. 611; In re Brodhead, 2 B. R. 278 ; Smith v. ly, 1 N. Y. Leg. Obs. 348 ; Sawyer
v. Turpin, 5 B. R. 889 ; In re Walton et al., Deady, 442; s. c.,
Wall. 584.
FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The validity of the claim of the assignee in bankruptcy depends, as a matter of course, upon the legality of the assignment
made under the laws of Ohio. Independently of the Bankrupt
Act, there could be no serious question raised as to its legality.
The power which every one possesses over his own property
would justify any such disposition as did not interfere with the
ex-isting rights of others; and an equal distribution by a debtor
of his property among his creditors, when unable to meet the
demands of all in full, would be deemed not only a legal proceeding, but one entitled to commendation. Creditors have a
right to call for the application of the property of their debtor
to the satisfaction of their just demands; but, unless there are
special circumstances giving priority of right to the demands
of one creditor over another, the rule of equity would require
the equal and ratable distribution of the debtor's property for
the benefit of all of them. And so, whenever such a disposition
has been voluntarily made by the debtor, the courts in this
country have uniformly expressed their approbation of the proceeding. The hinderance and delay to particular creditors, in
their efforts to reach before others the property of the debtor,
that may follow such a conveyance, are regarded as unavoidable
M{R. JUSTIC,

Oct. 1875.]

Oct. ATFA
1875.] ] T AL., VP.

ELb

incidents to a just and lawful apt, which in no respect impair
the validity of the #ansacion.
The great, objecit of the BI~apkpt; Act, sto fat A creditors ar
concerned, is to securM equality of distibution -among tlhem of
the property of the bankrupt, ]For that purppse, it se ts aside
all transactions had within a prescribed, period pre-vious t the
petition in bankruptcy, defeating, or tending to defeat, such
distribution. It reaches. to proceedings of eyery form and kind
undertaken or executed within that period by which a prefeience can be secured to, one creditor over another, or the.purposea of the act evaded. That period is four month for some
transactions, and six months for others. Those periods constitute the limitation within which the transactions will be examined and annulled, if conflicting, with the provisions o the
Bankrupt Act.
Transactions anterior to these perjods are presunled to, have
been acquiesced in by the creditors. There is, sound policy in,
prescribing a limitation of this kind. It would be in the highest degree injurious to the community to, have the validity of
business transactions with debtors, in which it. is interested,
subject to the contingency of being assailed by subsequent proceedings in bankruptcy. Unless, therefore, a transaction is void
against creditors independently of the provisions of the Bank
rupt Act, its validity is not open to contestation by the assignee, where it took place at the period prescribed by the
statute anterior to the proceedings in bankruptcy. The assignment in this case was not a proceeaing, as already said, in
hostility to the creditors, but for their benefit. It was not,
therefore, void as against them, or even voidable. Executed
six months before the petition in bankruptcy was filed, it is,
to the assignee in bankruptcy, a closed proceeding.
The counsel of the plaintiffs in error have filed an elaborate
argument to show that assignments for the benefit qf

aredators

generally are not opposed to the Bankrupt Act, though made
within six months previous to the filing of the petition. Their
argument is, that such an assignment is only a voluntary execution of what the Bankrupt Court would compel; and as it is not
a proceeding in itself fraudulent as against creditors, and does
not give a preference to one creditor over another, it ponflicts

MAYER ET AL. V. HELLmAN.

[Sup. Ct.

with no positive inhibition of the statute. There is much force
in the position of counsel, and it has the support of a decision
of the late Mr. Justice Nelson, in the Circuit Court of New
York, in Sedgwiclc v. Place, First Nat. Bank. Reg. 204, and of
Mr. Justice Swayne in the Circuit Court of Ohio. in Langley
v. Perry, 2 Nat. Bank. Reg. 180. Certain it is that such an
assignment is not absolutely void; and, if voidable, it must be
because it may be deemed, perhaps, necessary for the efficiency
of the Bankrupt Act that the administration of an insolvent's
estate shall be intrusted to the direction of the District Court,
and not left under the control of the appointee of the insolvent. It is unnecessary, however, to express any decided
opinion upon this head; for the decision of the question is not
required for the disposition of the case.
In the argument of the counsel of the defendant in error, the
position is taken that the Bankrupt Act suspends the operation
of the act of Ohio regulating the mode of administering assignments for the benefit of creditors, treating the latter as an insolvent law of the State. The answer is, that that statute of Ohio
is not an insolvent law in any proper sense of the term. It does
not compel, or in terms even authorize, assignments: it assumes
that such instruments were conveyances previously known, and
only prescribes a mode by which the trust created shall be enforced. It provides for the security of the creditors by exacting a bond from the trustees for the discharge of their duties;
it requires them to file statements showing what they have done
with the property; and affords in various ways the means of
compelling them to carry out the purposes of the conveyance.
There is nothing in the act resembling an insolvent law. It
does not discharge the insolvent from arrest or imprisonment:
it leaves his after-acquired property liable to his creditors precisely as though no assignment had been made. The provisions
for enforcing the trust are substantially such as a court of
chancery would apply in the absence of any statutory provision.
The assignment in this case must, therefore, be regarded as
though the statute of Ohio, to which reference is made, had no
existence. There is an insolvent law in that State; but the
assignment in question was not made in pursuance of any of
its provisions. The position, therefore, of counsel, that the

Oct. 1875.]

EARLE BT AL. V. "MOVEIGH.

Bankrupt Law of Congress suspends all proceedings under the
Insolvent Law of the State, has no application.
The assignment in this case being in our judgment valid and
binding, there was no property in the hands of the plaintiffs in
error which the assignee in bankruptcy could claim. The assignment to them divested the insolvents of all proprietary rights
they held in the property described in the conveyance. They
could not have maintained any action either for the personalty
or realty. There did, indeed, remain to them an equitable
right to have paid over to them any remainder after the claims
of all the creditors were satisfied. If a contingency should
ever arise for the assertion of this right, the assignee in bankruptcy may perhaps have a claim for such remainder, to be
applied to the payment of creditors not protected by the assignment, and whose demands have been created subsequent to
that instrument. Of this possibility we have no occasion to
speak now.
Our conclusion is, that the court below erred in sustaining the
demurrer to the defendant's answer; and the judgment of
the court must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings.

EAILE ET AL. v. MOVEIGH.
Where the statute of a State provided, that, during the absence of a party and al
the members of his family, notice of a suit might be posted upon the front
,door of his "usual place of abode,"- Held, that a notice posted upon a house
seven months after it had been vacated by the defendant and his family, and
while they were residing within the Confederate lines, was not posted upon his
"usual place of abode," and that a judgment founded on such defective notice
was absolutely void.

APPEAL from the Circult Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
.ir. S. . Beach for the appellants.
I. P. Phillips, contra.
M . JuSTICE CLIFTORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Due notice to the defendant is essential to the jurisdiction

