SAWYER ET AL.

v. TuRPiN

E

AL.

[Sup. Ct.

the obligors for a breach of the condition," and that the court
had no jurisdiction of the case on that ground. Again: the
same question was presented and elaborately argued in Henderson v. Tennessee, 10 How. 311, decided in 1850. That also was
an action of ejectment in a State court, in which the defendant
set up an outstanding title in a third person, under an Indian
treaty; and there, too, the writ was dismissed. In delivering
the opinion of the court, Chief Justice Taney said, "It is true,
the title set up in this case was claimed under a treaty; but,
to give jurisdiction to this court, the party must claim the right
for himself, and not for a third person in whose title he has no
interest. .

.

. The heirs of Miller appear to have no interest in

this suit, nor can their rights be affected by the decision. The
judgment in this case is no obstacle to their assertion of their
title in another suit brought by themselves or any person
claiming a legal title under them." To the same effect are Hale
v. Gaines, 22 How. 149, 160, and erden v. Coleman, 1 Black,
472. This must be considered as settling the law in this class
of cases; and it seems to be decisive of this case. The plaintiffs in error claim no title, right, privilege, or immunity under
the Bankrupt Law. Their obligation to account for the coupons
in their hands is not discharged by the law. The title of the
assignees cannot be affected by the decree, except through their
consent. It follows, therefore, that this case must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.
NOTE. -Parwell v. Converse et al., in error to the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, differs from the preceding case in this, that the decree against
Farwell was for the delivery of the coupons which still remained in his hands,
and not for the money collected upon them. The writ in this case was, therefore, dismissed for the reasons appearing in the opinion given in that case.

SAWYER ET AL. v. TURpIm ET AL.
As the exchange of a valid security for one of equal value within four months
prior to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy, even when the creditor and
debtor know of the insolvency of the latter, takes nothing away from the
other creditors, and is, therefore, not in conflict with the thirty-fifth section
of the Bankrupt Act,- Held, that a chattel mortgage, taken within that
period of time by a creditor in exchange for a prior valid bill of sale of the
same property, and recorded pursuant to the laws of the State where the
transaction took place before any rights of the assignees in bankruptcy
accrued, cannot be impeached by them as a fraudulent preference within
the meaning of that act.

