Oct. 1875.]

PoUARD v. LYON.
POLLARD v.

LxoN.

1. Spoken words charging a woman with fornication in thd District of Colum.
bia are not actionable per se, as the misconduct -they impute, although
involving moral turpitude, is not an indictable offence.
2. In an action for such words, inasmuch as the right to recover depends solely
upon the special loss or injury which the plaintiff has sustained, it is not
sufficient to allege that she "has been damaged and injured in her name and
fame:" but such special loss or injury mustbeparticularly set forth; and,
if it is not, the declaration is bad in substance.

EmOm to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
11r. Joseph ..Bradley and 31r. A. C. Biddle for the plaintiff in error, and .1r. Walter S. Cox for the defendant in error.
MR.luSTIon CY. ORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Words both false and slanderous, it is alleged, were spoken
by the defendant of the plaintiff; and she sues in an action on
the case for slander to recover damages for the injury to her
name and fame.
Controversies of the kind, in their legal aspect, require pretty
careful examination; and, in view of that consideration, it is
deemed proper to give the entire declaration exhibited in the
transcript, which is as follows :"That the defendant, on a day named, speaking of the plaintiff,
falsely and maliciously said, spoke, and published of the plaintiff
the words following, II saw her in bed with Captain Denty? That
at another time, to -wit, on the same day, the defendant falsely and
maliciously spoke and published of the plaintiff the words following,
'I looked over the transom-light and saw Mrs. Pollard,' meaning
the plaintiff, ' in bed with Captain Denty;' whereby the plaintiff has
been damaged and injured in her name and fame, and she claims
damages therefor in the sum of ten thousand dollars."
Whether the plainti f and defendant are married or single
persons does not appear ; nor is it alleged that they are not husband and wife, nor in what respect the plaintiff has suffered
loss beyond what may be inferred from the general averment
that she had been damaged amd injured in her name and fame.
Service was made, and the defendant appeared and pleaded
VOL. I.

15

POLLARD V. LYON.

[Sup. Otk

the general issue; which being joined, the parties went to trial;
and the jury, under the instructions of the court, found a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the whole amount claimed in
the declaration. None of the other proceedings in the case, at
the special term, require any notice, except to say that the defendant filed a motion in arrest of judgment, on the ground that
the words set forth in the declaration are not actionable, and
because the declaration does not state a cause of action which
entitles the plaintiff to recover; and the record shows that the
court ordered that the motion be heard at general term in the
first instance. Both parties appeared at the general term, and
were fully heard; and the court sustained the motion in arrest
of judgment, and decided that the declaration was bad in substance. Judgment was subsequently rendered for the defendant,
and the plaintiff sued out the present writ of error.
Definitions of slander will afford very little aid in disposing
of any question involved in this record, or in any other, ordinarily arising in such a controversy, unless where it becomes
necessary to define the difference between oral and written defamation, or to prescribe a criterion to determine, in cases
where special damage is claimed, whether the pecuniary injury
alleged naturally flows from the speaking of the words set
forth in the declaration. Different definitions of slander are
given by different commentators upon the subject; but it will
be sufficient to say that oral slander, as a cause of action, may
be divided into five classes, as follows: (1.) Words falsely
spoken of a person which impute to the party the commission
of some criminal offence involving moral turpitude, for which
the party, if the charge is true, may be indicted and punished.
(2.) Words falsely spoken of a person which impute that the
party is infected with some contagious disease, where, if the
charge is true, it would exclude the party from society; or (3.)
Defamatory words falsely spoken of a person, which impute to
the party unfitness to perform the duties of an office or employment of profit, or the want of integrity in the discharge of the
duties of such an office or employment.
(4.) Defamatory
words falsely spoken of a party which prejudice such party in
his or her profession or trade. (5.) Defamatory words falsely
spoken of a person, which, though not in themselves actionable,
occasion the party special damage.

Oct. 1875.]

POLLARD V. LYON.

Two propositions are submitted by the plaintiff to show that
the court below erred in sustaining the motion in arrest of
judgment, and in deciding that the declaration is bad in substance: (1.) That the words set forth in the declaration are in
themselves actionable, and consequently that the plaintiff is entitled to rccover, without averring or proving special damage.
(2.) That if the words set forth are not actionable per se, still
the plaintiff is entitled to recover under the second paragraph
of the declaration, which, as she insists, contains a sufficient
allegation that the words spoken of her by the defendant were,
in a pecuniary sense, injurious to her, and that they did operate
to her special damage.
Certain words, all admit, are in themselves actionable, because
the natural consequence of what they impute to the party is
damage, as if they import a charge that the party has been
guilty of a criminal offence involving moral turpitude, or that
the party is infected with a contagious distemper, or if they
are prejudicial in a pecuniary sense to a person in office or to a
person engaged as a livelihood in a profession or trade; but in
all other cases the party who brings an action for words must
show the damage he or she has suffered by the false speaking
of the other party.
Where the words are intrinsically actionable, the inference or
presumption of law is that the false speaking occasions loss to
the plaintiff; and it is not necessary for the plaintiff to aver
that the words alleged amount to the charging of the described
offence, for their actionable quality is a question of law, and
not of fact, and will be collected by the court from the words
alleged and proved, if they warrant such a conclusion.
Unless the words alleged impute the offence of adultery, it
can hardly be contended that they impute any criminal offence
for which the party may be indicted and punished in this district; and the court is of the opinion that the words do not
impute such an offence, for the reason that the declaration does
not allege that either the plaintiff or the defendant was married
at the time the words were spoken. Support to that view is
derived from what was shown at the argument, that fornication
as well as adultery was defined as an offence by the provincial
statute of the 3d of June, 1715, by which it was enacted that

PLLARD V. LYON.

[Sup. Ct.

persons guilty of those offences, if convicted, should be fined
and punished as therein provided. Kilty's Laws, ch. xxvii.,
sects. 2, 3.
Beyond all doubt, offences of the kind involve moral turpitude; but the second section of the act which defined the offence
of fornication was, on the 8th of March, 1785, repealed by the
legislature of the State. 2 Kilty, ch. xlvii., sect. 4.
Sufficient is remarked to show that the old law of the province defining such an offence was repealed by the law of the
State years before the Territory, included within the limits of
the city, was ceded by the State to the United States; and
inasmuch as the court is not referred to any later law passed
by the State, defining such an offence, nor to any act of Congress to that effect passed since the cession, our conclusion is
that the plaintiff fails to show that the words alleged impute
any criminal offence to the plaintiff for which she can be
indicted and punished.
Suppose that is so: still the plaintiff contends that the words
alleged, even though they do not impute any criminal offence
to the plaintiff, are nevertheless actionable in themselves,
because the misconduct which they do impute is derogatory to
her character, and highly injurious to her social standing.
Actionable words are doubtless such as naturally imply damage to the party; but it must be borne in mind that there is a
marked distinction between slander and libel, and that many
things are actionable when written or printed and published
which would not be actionable if merely spoken, without averring and proving special damage. Clement v. 6Mivis, 9 Barn.
& Cress. 174; 3IIcClurg v. Ross, 5 Binn. 219.
Unwritten words, by all, or nearly all, the modern authorities, even if they impute immoral conduct to the party, are
not actionable in themselves, unless the misconduct imputed
amounts to a criminal offence, for which the party may be
indicted and punished. Judges as well as commentators, in
early times, experienced much difficulty in extr-acting any
uniform definite rule from the old decisions in the courts of
the parent country to guide the inquirer in such an investigation; nor is it strange that such attempts have been attended
with so little success, as it is manifest that the incongruities

Oet. 1875.]

POLLARD v. LYON.

are quite material, and, in some respects, irreconcilable. Nor
are the decisions of the courts, of that Qountry, even of a, later
period, entirely free from that difficulty.
in the re
Examples both numerous and strikmg ar fou
ported decisions of the period last referred to, of which only
a few will be mentioned. Words which of themselves are
actionable, said Lord Holt, must either endanger the party's
l-fe, or subject him to infamous punishment; that it is not
enough that the party may be fined and imprisgned, for a party
may be fined and imprisoned for a common, trespass, and none
il hold that to say one has conmitied a trespass will bear. an
action; and he added that at least the thinpg charged nust "in
itself be scandalous." Ogden v. Turner, 6 Mod. 104.
Viewed in any proper light, it is plain that the judge, who
gave the opinion in that case meant to decide that words, in
order that they may be actionable in themselves, must impute
to the party a criminal offence affectipg the social standing of
the party, for which the party may be indicted and punished.
Somewhat different phraseology is employed by the court in;
the next case to which reference will be made. Onslow v. Horne,
8 Wil. 186. In that case, De Grey, 0. J., said the first rule to
determine whether words spoken are actionable is, that the
words must contain an express imputation of some crime liable
to punishment, some capital offence or other infamous crime
or misdemeanor, and that the charge must be precise. Either
the words themselves, said Lord Kenyon, must be such as can
only be understood in a criminal sense, or it must be shown by
q colloquium in the introductory part that they have that
meaning; otherwise they are not actionable. Holt v. Seholefield, 6 Term, 694.
Separate. opiniois pvre givep by the members of the cou,
in that case; and Afr. Justice Lawrence said that the words
must contain an express imputation of some crime liable to
punishment, some eapital offence or other infamous crime or
misdemeanor; and he denied that the meaning of words,
not actionable in themselves can be extended by an innuendo.
4 Co. 17 b.
Prior to that, Lord Mansfield and his associates held that
wordls inputng a crime are actionable, althoigh the words de-

POLLARD V. LYON.

[Sup. ak

scribe the crime in vulgar language, and not in technical terms;
but the case does not contain an intimation that words which
do not impute a crime, however expressed, can ever be made
actionable by a colloquium or innuendo. Colman v. Godwin,
3 Doug. 90; 17oolnoth v. 11eadows, 5 East, 463.
Incongruities, at least in the forms of expression, are observable in the cases referred to, when compared with each other;
and when those cases, with others not cited, came to be discussed and applied in the courts of the States, the uncertainty
as to the correct rule of decision was greatly augmented. Suffice it to say, that it was during the period of such uncertainty
as to the rule of decision when a controversy bearing a strong
analogy to the case before the court was presented for decision
to the Supreme Court of the State of New York, composed, at
that period, of some of the ablest jurists who ever adorned that
bench.
Allusion is made, in the opinion given by Judge Spencer, to
the great "uncertainty in the law upon the subject;" and, having
also adverted to the necessity that a rule should be adopted to
remove that difficulty, he proceeds, in the name of the court,
to say, "In case the charge, if true, will subject the party
charged to an indictment for a crime involving moral turpitude, or subject the party to an infamous punishment, then the
words will be in themselves actionable;" and that rule has
ever since been followed in that State, and has been very extensively adopted in the courts of other States. Brooker v. Coffin,
5 Johns. 190; 1 Am. Lead. Cas. (5th ed.) 98.
When he delivered the judgment in that case, he was an associate justice of the court; Chancellor Kent being the chief
justice, and participating in the decision. Fourteen years later,
after he became chief justice of the court, he had occasion to
give his reasons somewhat more fully for the conclusion then
expressed. Van INess v. Hamilton, 19 Johns. 367.
On that occasion he remarked, in the outset, that there exists a decided distinction between words spoken and written
slander; and proceeded to say, in respect to words spoken, that
the words must either have produced a temporal loss to the
plaintiff by reason of special damage sustained from their being
spoken, or they must convey a charge of some act criminal in

Oct. 1875.J

POLLARD V. LYON.

itself and indictable as such, and subjecting the party to an
infamous punishment, or they must impute some indictable
offence involving moral turpitude; and, in our judgment, the
rule applicable in such a case is there stated -with sufficient
fulness, and -with great clearness and entire accuracy.
Controverted cases involving the same question, in great
numbers, besides the one last cited, have been determined in
that State by applying the same rule, which, upon the fullest
consideration, was adopted in the leading case, -that in case the
charge, if true, will subject the party charged to an indictment
for a crime involving moral turpitude, or subject the party to
an infamous punishment, then the words will be in themselves
actionable.
Attempt was made by counsel in the case of Widrig v. Oyer,
13 Johns. 124, to induce the court to modify the rule by changing the word "or" into "and;" but the court refused to adopt
the suggestion, and repeated and followed the rule in another
case reported in the same volume. Martinv. Stillwell, 13 id.
275. See also Gibbs v. Dewey, 5 Cowen, 503; Alexander v.
.Dewey, 9 Wend. 141; Young v. Miller, 8 Hill, 22; in all of
which the same rule is applied.
Other cases equally in point are also to be found in the reported decisions of the courts of that State, of which one or
two more only will be referred to. Bissell v. Cornell,24 Wend.
354. In that case, the words charged were fully proved; and
the defendant moved for a nonsuit, upon the ground that the
words were not in themselves actionable; but the circuit judge
overruled the motion, and the defendant excepted. Both parties were subsequently heard in the Supreme Court of the
State, Nelson, C. J., giving the opinion of the court, in which
it was held that the words were actionable; and the reason assigned for the conclusion is, that the words impute an indictable
offence involving moral turpitude.
Defamatory words to be actionable per se, say that court, must
impute a crime involving moral turpitude punishable by indictuent. It is not enough that they impute immorality or moral
dereliction merely, but the offence charged must be also indictable. At one time, said the judge delivering the opinion, it was
supposed that the charge should be such, as, if true, would

POLLARD v. LYON.

[Sup. Ct.

subject the party charged to an infamous punishment; but the
Supreme Court of the State refused so to hold. Tidrig v.
Oyer, 13 Johns. 124; Wright v. Page, 3 Keyes, 582.
Subject to a few excepti6ns, it may be stated that the courts
of other States have adopted substantially the same rule, and
that most of the exceptional decisions are founded upon local
statutes defining fornication as a clime, or providing that words
imputing incontinence to an unmarried female shall be construed to impute to the party actionable misconduct.
Without the averment and proof of special damage, says
Shaw, C. J., the plaintiff, in an action on the case for slander,
must prove that the defendant uttered language the effect of
which was to charge the plaintiff with some crime or offence
punishable by law. .Dunnell v. Fiske, 11 Met. 552.
Speaking of actions of the kind, Parker, C. J., said that
words imputing crime to the party against whom they are
spoken, which, if true, would expose him to disgraceful punishment, or imputing to him some foul and loathsome disease
which would expose him to the loss of his social pleasures, are
actionable, without any special damage; while words perhaps
equally offensive to the individual of whom they are spoken,
but which impute only some defect of moral character, are not
actionable, unless a special damage is averred, or unless they are
referred, by what is called a colloquium, to some office, business, or trust which would probably be injuriously affected by
the truth of such imputations. Chaddock v. Briggs, 13 Mass. 252.
Special reference is made to the case of Ailler v. Parish,
8 Pick. 385, as authority to support the views of the plaintiff;
but the court here is of the opinion that it has no such tendency. What the court in that case decided is, that whenever
an offence is imputed, which, if proved, may subject the party to
punishment, though not ignominious, but which brings disgrace
upon the party falsely accused, such an accusation is actionable;
which is not different in principle from the rule laid down in
the leading case,- that if the charge be such, that, if true, it
will subject the party falsely accused to an indictment for a
crime involving moral turpitude, then the words will be in
themselves actionable.
Early in her history, the legislature of Massachusetts defined

Oct. 1875.]

PouLAn

v. LYoN.

the act of fornication as a criminal offence, punishable by a fine,
and which may be prosecuted by indictment; and, if the person
convicted does not pay the fine, he or she may be committed to
the common jail or to the house of correction. None of the counts
in that case contained an averment of special damage; but the
court held, that, inasmuch as the words alleged imputed a crininal offence which subjected the party to punishment involving
disgrace, the words were actionable; and it is not doubted that
the decision is correct. Exactly the same question was decided
by the same court in the same way twenty-five years later.
Kenney v. LaugMdin, 3 Gray, 5; 1 Stat. Mass. 1786, 293.
Other State courts, where the act of fornication is defined by
statute as an indictable offence, have made similar decisions,
but such decisions do not affect any question involved in this
investigation. TFanderip v. Roe, 2a Penn. St. 182; 1 An. Lead.
Cas. (5th ed.) 103; Simons v. Carter, 32 N. H. 459; Sess.
Laws (Penn. 1860), 382; Purdon's Dig. 1824, 313.
That the words uttered import the commission of an offence,
say the court, cannot be doubted. It is the charge of a crime
punishable by law, and of a character to degrade and disgrace
the plaintiff, and exclude her from society. Though the imputation of crime, said Bigelow, J., is a test, whether the words
spoken do amount to legal slander, yet it does not take away
their actionable quality if they are so used as to indicate that
the party has suffered the penalty of the law, and is na longer
exposed to the danger of punishment. Krebs v. Oliver, 12 Gray,
242; .Fowler v. -)owdzey, 2 M. & Rob. 119.
Courts affix to words alleged as slanderous their ordinary
meaning: consequently, says Shaw, C. J., when words are set
forth as having been spoken by the defendant of the plaintiff,
the first question is, whether they impute a charge of felony or
any other infamous crime punishable by law. If they do, an
innuendo, undertaking to state the same in other words, is useless and superfluous; and, if they do not, an innuendo cannot
aid the averment, as it is a clear rule of law that an innuendo
cannot introduce a meaning to the words broader than that
which the words naturally bear, unless connected with proper
introductory averments. Alexander v. Angle, 1 Crompt. & Jer.
143; Goldstein v. Foss, 2 Younge & Jer. 146; Carter v, Andrews, 16 Pick. 5; Beardsley v. Tap an, 2 Blatch. 588.

POLLARD v. LYON.

[Sup. Gt.

Much discussion of the cases decided in the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania is quite unnecessary, as we have the authority
of that court for saying that the leading cases establish the
principle, that words spoken of a private person are only actionable when they contain a plain imputation, not merely of
some indictable offence, but one of an infamous character, or
subject to an infamous or disgraceful punishment; and that an
innuendo cannot alter, enlarge, or extend their natural and
obvious meaning, but only explain something already sufficiently averred, or make a more explicit application of that
which might otherwise be considered ambiguous to the material
subject-matter properly on the record, by the way of averment
or colloquium. Gosling v. 3Morgan, 32 Penn. St. 275; Shafter
v. Iinster, 1 Binn. 537; XlieClurg v. Boss, 5 id. 218; Andres v.
Kyoppenteafer, 3 S. & R. 255.
State courts have in many instances decided that words are
in themselves actionable whenever a criminal offence is charged,
which, if proved, may subject the party to punishment, though
not ignominious, and which brings disgrace upon the complaining party; but most courts agree that no words are actionable
per se unless they impute to the party some criminal offence
which may be visited by punishment either of an infamous
character, or which is calculated to affect the party injuriously
in his or her social standing. Buck v. Hersey, 31 Me. 558;
Mills v. Wimp, 10 B. Monr. 417; Perdue v. Burnett, Minor,
138; Dernarest v. Haring, 6 Cow. 76; Townsend on Slander,
sect. 154; 1 Wendell's Stark. on Slander, 43; Bedway v. Gray
1,
31 Vt. 297.
Formulas differing in phraseology have been prescribed by
different courts: but the annotators of the American Leading
Cases say that the Supreme Court of the State of New York,
in the case of Broocer v. Coffin, appear "to have reached the
true principle applicable to the subject;" and we are inclined
to concur in that conclusion, it being understood that words
falsely spoken of another may be actionable per se when they
impute to the party a criminal offence for which the party may
be indicted and punished, even though the offence is not technically denominated infamous, if the charge involves moral turpitude, and is such as will affect injuriously the social standing
of the party. 1 Am. Lead. Cas. (5th ed.) 98.

Oct. 1875.]

POLLA5D v. LYON.

Decided support to that conclusion is derived from the English decisions upon the same subject, especially from those of
moderm date, many of which have been very satisfactorily collated by a very able text-writer. Addison on Torts (3d ed.),
765. Slander, in writing or in print, says the commentator,
has always been considered in our law a graver and more serious wrong and injury than slander by word of the mouth, inasmuch as it is accompanied by greater coolness and deliberation,
indicates greater malice, and is in general propagated wider and
farther than oral slander. Written slander is punishable in
certain cases, both criminally and by action, when the mere
speaking of the words would not be punishable in either way.
Villiers v. .ousely, 2 Wils. 403; Saville v. Jardine, 2 I. Bl.
532; Bac. Abr. Slander, B; Keiler v. Sessford, 2 Cr. C. 0.190.
Examples of the kind are given by the learned commentator;
and he states that verbal reflections upon the chastity of an unmarried female are not actionable, unless they have prevented
her from marrying, or have been accompanied by special damage; but, if they are published in a newspaper, they are at once
actionable, and substantial damages are recoverable.' 2 Bl. Com.
125, n. 6; Janson v. Stuart, 1 Term, 784.
Comments are made in respect to verbal slander under several heads, one of which is entitled defamatory words not actionable without special damage; and the commentator proceeds to
remark that mere vituperation and abuse by word of mouth,
however gross, is not actionable unless it is spoken of a professional man or tradesman in the conduct of his profession or
business. Instances of a very striking character are given,
every one of which is supported by the authority of an adjudged
case. Lumby v. Allda y, 1 Crompt. & Jer. 301; Barnet v. Allen, 3 H. & N. 376.
Even the judges holding the highest judicial stations in that
country have felt constrained to decide, that to say of a married
female that she was a liar, an infamous wretch, and that she
had been all but seduced by a notorious libertine, was not
actionable withdut averring and proving special damage. Ljnch
v. niglt, 9 H. of L. Cas. 594.
Finally, the same commentator states that words imputing to
a single woman that she gets her living by imposture and prosti-

POLLARD v2. LYON.

[Sup. ot.

tution, and that she is a swindler, are not actionable, even when
special damage is alleged, unless it is proved, and the proposition
is fully sustained by the cases cited in its support. TJelby v.
-Elston, 8 M. G. & S. 142; Addison on Torts (3d ed.), 788;
Townsend on Slander, sects. 172 and note, 516-518.
Words actionable in themselves, without proof of special
damage, are next considered by the same commentator. His
principal proposition under that head is that words imputing
an indictable offence are actionable per se without proof of any
special damage, giving as a reason for the rule that they render
the accused person liable to the pains and penalties of the criminal law. Beyond question, the authorities cited by the author
support the proposition, and show that such is the rule of decision in all the courts of that country having jurisdiction in such
cases. -Hemingv. Power, 10 Mees. & Wels. 570; Alfred v. Farlow, 8 Q. B. 854; BRdsall v. Russell, 5 Scott, N. R. 801; Brayne
v. Cooper, 5 Mees. & Wels. 250; Barnet v. Allen, 3 H. & N.
378; Davies v. Solomon, 41 Law Jour. Q. B. 11; Roberts v.
Roberts, 5 B. & S. 389; Perkins v. Scott, 1 Hurlst. & Colt.
158.
Examined in the light of these suggestions and the authorities cited in their support, it is clear that the proposition of the
plaintiff, that the words alleged are in themselves actionable,
cannot be sustained.
Concede all that, and still the plaintiff suggests that she alleges in the second paragraph of her declaration that she "has
been damaged and injured in her name and fame;" and she contends that that averment is sufficient, in connection with the
words charged, to entitle her to recover as in an action of slander
for defamatory words with averment of special damage.
Special damage is a term which denotes a claim for the natural and proximate consequences of a wrongful act; and it is
undoubtedly true that the plaintiff in such a case may recover
for defamatory words spoken of him or her by the defendant,
even though the words are not in themselves actionable, if the
declaration sets foxth such a claim in due form, and the
allegation is sustained by sufficient evidence; but the claim
must be specifically set forth, in order that the defendant
may be duly notified of its nature, and that the court may have

Oct. 1875.]

PoLLARD vP.LYON.

the means to determine whether the alleged special damage is
the natural and proximate consequence of the defamatory
words alleged to have been spoken by the defendant. ifaddan
v. Seott, 15 0. B. 429.
Whenever proof of special damage is necessary to maintain
an action of slander, the claim for the same must be set forth in
the declaration, and it must appear that the special damage is
the natural and proximate consequence of the words spoken,
else the allegation will not entitle the plaintilf to recover.
Ticars v. Wileox, 8 East, 3; Knight v. Gibbs, 1 Ad. & Ell. 46;
Ayre v. Craven, 2 id. 8; Boberts v. Boberts, 5 B. & S. 389.
When special damage is claimed, the nature of the special
loss or injury must be particularly set forth, to support such an
action for words not in themselves actionable; and, if it is not,
the defendant may demur. He did demur in the case last
cited; and Cockburn, 0. J., remarked that such an action is not
maintainable, unless it be shown that the loss of some substantial or material advantage has resulted from the speaking of
the words. Addison on Torts (3d ed.), 805; Tlby v. Biston,
8 0. B. 148.
Where the words are not in themselves actionable, because
the offence imputed involves neither moral turpitude nor subjects the offender to an infamous punishment, special damage
must be alleged and proved in order to maintain the action.
Hoag v. Hatc , 23 Conn. 590; Andres v. Koppenheafer, 3 S. &
R. 256; Buys v. Gillespie, 2 Johns. 117.
In such a case, it is necessary that the declaration should set
forth precisely in what way the special damage resulted from
the speaking of the words. It is not sufficient to allege generally that the plaintiff has suffered special damages, or that the
party has been put to great costs and expenses. Cook v. Cook,
100 Mass. 194.
By special damage in such a case is meant pecuniary loss;
but it is well settled that the term may also include the loss of
substantial hospitality of friends. Moore v. Meagher, 1 Taunt.
42; Wlliams v. Hill, 19 Wend. 306.
Illustrative examples are given by the text-writers in great
numbers, among which are loss of marriage, loss of profitable
'employment, or -of emoluments, profits, or-customers ; and it was

238

MUTUAL BENEFIT LIFE INS. Co. v. TISDALE.

[Sup. Ct.

very early settled that a charge of incontinence against an
unmarried female, whereby she lost her marriage, was actionable
by reason of the special damage alleged and proved. Davis v.
Gardiner,4 Co. 16 b, pl. 11; Reston v. Pomfreicht, Cro. Eliz.
639.
Doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained: but the
special damage must be alleged in the declaration, and proved;
and it is not sufficient to allege that the plaintiff "has been
damaged and injured in her name and fame," which is all that is
alleged in that regard in the case before the court. Hartley v.
Herring, 8 Term, 133; Addison on Torts, 805; Hilliard on
Remedies (2d ed.), 622; Beach v. Ranney, 2 Hill, 309.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that the decision
of the court below, that the declaration is bad in substance, is
correct.
Judgment affirmed.

MUTUAL BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE Co-uPANT v. TIsDA.
In a suit brought by the plaintiff in his individual character, and not as administrator, to recover a debt upon a contract between him and the defendant,
where the right of action depends upon the death of a third person, letters of
administration upon the estate of such person granted by the proper Probate
Court, in a proceeding to which the defendant was a stranger, afford no legal
evidence of such death.

E RRO to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
This action was brought, in December, 1867, by Mrs. Tisdale, upon a policy of insurance, bearing date March 1, 1866,
issued to her upon the life of Edgar Tisdale, her husband.
Evidence was given tending to show his death on the 24th of
September, 1866. This evidence consisted chiefly in his sudden and mysterious disappearance under circumstances making
probable his death by violence. It seems from the charge of
the court that evidence was given by the defendant tending to
show that he had been seen alive some months after the date
of his supposed death. To sustain her case, the plaintiff offered
in evidence letters of administration upon his estate, issued to
her by the County Court of Dubuque County, Iowa. The

