LATHROP, ASSIGNEE, v. DRAKE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

among which was "rupture," and to which he answered "None,"
that such answer was untrue.
We decided, in the case of Jeffries v. Life Ins. Co., &upra,
that the question of the materiality of the answer did not
arise; that the parties had determined and agreed that it
was material; that their agreement was conclusive on that
point; and that the only questions for the jury were, first, Was
the representation made? second, Was it false? This principle
was precisely embraced within the requests 6 and 7 made in
this case, and the judge erred in not charging as therein requested.
New trial granted.

LATHIOP, AssIGNEn,

v.

DRA.A

ET AL.

Under the Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 517), an assignee in bankruptcy, without regard to the citizenship of the parties, could maintain a suit
for the recovery of assets in a circuit court of the United States in a district
other than that in which the decree of bankruptcy was made.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Mr. David C. Harrington and AIr. F. Carroll Brewster for
the appellant.
M~r. William ff. Armstrong, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The question in this case is, whether, under the Bankrupt
Act as passed in 1867, an assignee in bankruptcy, without regard to the citizenship of the parties, could maintain a suit for
the recovery of assets in a circuit court of the United States
in any district other than that in which the decree of bankruptcy was made; if not, whether the amendatory act of 1874
(18 Stat. 178, sect. 3) validated such a suit already commenced.
The jurisdiction of the circuit courts in cases of bankruptcy,
as conferred by the act of 1867, was twofold, -original
and
appellate; the latter being exercised in two different modes, by petition of review, and by appeal or writ of error. But the
enacting clauses which tonfer this jurisdiction make such direct

Oct. 1875.]

LATHROP, AssiGNEE, v. DRAKE ET AL.

reference to the jurisdiction of the District Court, that it is
necessary first to examine the latter jurisdiction. Of this there
are two distinct classes: first, jurisdiction as a court of bank.
ruptcy over the proceedings in bankruptcy initiated by the
petition, and ending in the distribution of assets amongst
the creditors, and the discharge or refusal of a discharge of the
bankrupt; secondly, jurisdiction, as an ordinary court, of suits
at law or in equity brought by or against the assignee in reference to alleged property of the bankrupt, or to claims alleged
to be due from or to him. The language conferring this jurisdiction of the district courts is very broad and general. It is,
that they shall have original jurisdiction in their respective
districts in all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy. The
various branches of this jurisdiction are afterwards specified;
resulting, however, in the two general classes before mentioned.
Were it not for the words, "in their respective districts," the
jurisdiction would extend to matters of bankruptcy arising anywhere, without regard to locality. It is contended that these
words confine it to cases arising in the district. But such is
not the language. Their jurisdiction is confined to their respective districts, it is true; but it extends to all matters and
proceedings in bankruptcy without limit. When the act says
that they shall have jurisdiction in their respective districts, it
means that the jurisdiction is to be exercised in their respective
districts. Each court within its own district may exercise the
powers conferred; but those powers extend to all matters of
bankruptcy, without limitation. There are, it is true, limitations elsewhere in the act; but they affect only the matters to
which they relate. Thus, by sect. 11, the petition in bankruptcy, and by consequence the proceedings thereon, must be
addressed to the judge of the judicial district in which the
debtor has resided, or carried on business, for the six months
next preceding; and the District Court of that district, being
entitled to and having acquired jurisdiction of the particular
case, necessarily has such jurisdiction exclusive of all other
distiet courts, so far as the proceedings in bankruptcy are concerned. But the exclusion of other district courts from juris.
diction over these proceedings does not prevent them from
exercising jurisdiction in matters growing out of or connected

LATHROP, ASSIGNEE, V. DRAKE

T AL.

[Sup. Ct.

with that identical bankruptcy, so far as it does not trench
upon or conflict with the jurisdiction of the court in which the
case is pending. Proceedings ancillary to and in aid of the
proceedings in bankruptcy may be necessary in other districts
where the principal court cannot exercise jurisdiction; and it
may be necessary for the assignee to institute suits in other
districts for the recovery of assets of the bankrupt. That
the courts of such other districts may exercise jurisdiction
in such cases would seem to be the necessary result of the
general jurisdiction conferred upon them, and is in harmony
with the scope and design of the act. The State courts may
undoubtedly be resorted to in cases pf ordinary suits for the
possession of property or the collection of debts; and it is not
to be presumed that embarrassments would be encountered in
those courts in the way of a prompt and fair administration of
justice. But a uniform system of bankruptcy, iqational in its
character, ought to be capable of execution in the national tribunals, without dependence upon those of the States in which
it is possible that embarrassments might arise. The question
has been quite fully and satisfactorily discussed by a member
of this court in the first circuit, in the case of Shearman
v. Bingham, 7 Bank. Reg. 490; and we concur in the opinion
there expressed, that the several district courts have jurisdiction of suits brought by assignees appointed by other
district courts in cases of bankruptcy.
Turning now to the jurisdiction of the circuit courts, we find
it enacted in sect. 2 of the act of 1867, first, that the circuit
courts, within and for the districts where the proceedings in
bankruptcy are pending, shall have a general superintendence
and jurisdiction of all cases and questions arising under the
act. This is the revisory jurisdiction before referred to, exercised upon petition, or bill of review. Secondly, "said circuit
courts shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with the district
courts of the same district of all suits at law or in equity . . .
brought by the assignee in bankruptcy against any person
claiming an adverse interest, or by such person against such
assignee, touching any property, or rights of property, of said
bankrupt, transferable to or vested in such assignee." The act
of 1874 changes the words "the same district" to "any dis-

Oct. 1875.]

LA.THROP, AssIGNEE, v. DRiuE ET AL.

519

trict," and adds to "person claiming an adverse interest" the
words, "or owing any debt to such bankrupt." These changes
make the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the future clear
and undoubted in cases like the present. But we are endeavoring to ascertain what jurisdiction was conferred by the act as
originally passed. Reverting to the language used in the
second clause above cited, it seems to be express and unqualified, that the Circuit Court shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the district courts of the same district. If,
therefore, the District Court has jurisdiction of suits brought
by an assignee appointed in another district, the Circuit Court
of the same district has concurrent jurisdiction therewith.
There is no escape from this conclusion, unless the phrase
"the sam 9 district" is made to refer back to the beginning
of the section, where mention is made of circuit courts within
and for the districts -where the proceedings in bankruptcy are
pending. But the words, "the same district," used in the second clause, refer more naturally to the district in and for which
the Circuit Court is held. The phrase, "the circuit courts
shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the district courts of
the same district," is, by itself, so clear and unambiguous, that
a doubt could not have been raised as to its meaning, had it
not been embraced in the same section with the other clause;
and it is in accord with the general intent of the act to invest
the Circuit Court with jurisdiction co-extensive with that of
the District Court, except that it is only revisory in reference
to the proceedings in bankruptcy.
If jurisdiction was conferred (as we have seen it was) on the
various district courts to entertain suits brought by assignees
appointed in other districts, there seems to be no reason why
the same jurisdiction should not have been conferred on the
various circuit courts, but, on the contrary, very cogent reasons why it should have been. Important cases would be very
likely to arise, both in amount and in the questions involved,
which it would be desirable to bring directly before the Circuit
Court, in order, if necessary, that an early adjudication might
be had in the court of last resort.
As, therefore, the reason for such a provision, the general
intent of the act, and the words themselves, all coincide, we do

LATHROP, ASSIGNEE,

v.

DRAKE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

not hesitate to say that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of
suits at law and in equity under the original act, co-extensive
with the district courts, unless the qualifying words at the end
of the clause, confining the jurisdiction to cases "touching any
property, or rights of property, of said bankrupt, transferable to
or vested in such assignee," may be deemed a restriction. In
this case, however, the suit does concern and have reference to
property transferable to the assignee. It is brought to compel
the defendants to restore to the bankrupt's estate the value of
property sold by them under a judgment alleged to have been
confessed in fraud of the Bankrupt Act, and within four months
of the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy.
The amendatory act of 1874 has but little bearing upon the
construction of the original act in the particular involved in
this case. Different views had been expressed in relation to
its meaning, and the jurisdiction of the courts upder it. The
amendatory act removed any ambiguity that may have existed,
but did not thereby impress a more restricted meaning upon the
language of the original act than was due to it by a fair judicial
construction.
As to the merits of the case, it is almost too plain for argument. The general denial of fraud in the answer of the defendants is equivalent to nothing more than a denial of a
conclusion of law. The allegation that they were led to
believe, by the letters and representations of the bankrupt,
that he was solvent at the time of the confession of judgment,
and was worth $7,000 over and above his indebtedness, has
but little force. If this were true, why did they immediately
levy on and sell his whole stock of goods? That sale produced
but little more than half the amount of their judgment. These
unquestioned facts are sufficiently significant, and the evidence
of the bankrupt makes the case a very strong one for the complainant. He had executions against him, and wrote to the
defendants that he was in trouble, and requested them to come
to his aid. They refused to do any thing unless he would confess judgment for the amount due them, including the amount
of the prior judgments. They then immediately levied on all
his goods, and sold him out. It was a clear case of preference
by a debtor in insolvent circumstances, and known to be such
by the judgment creditor.

Oct. 1875.]

OYSTER v. GAF

ET AL.

The prior executions - one in favor of A. Coran & Co. for
about $600, and the other in favor of Henry Bloss for about
$900 -were probably valid. If the appellees satisfied those
executions, or advanced the money for that purpose, the amount
being embraced in their judgment, their own execution was
good to that extent, and they should have credit therefor. As
to the rest, they were answerable for the value of the goods
levied on and sold.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the record
remitted, with directions to enter a decree in favor of the
complainant below for the value of the goods of the bankrupt
sold on the defendants' execution, with interestfrom the time
that the same was demanded of them by the assignee, less the
amount to which they may be justly entitled for advances to
satisfy the said executions of A. Coran & Co. and H7enry
Bloss.

EyST

v. GAFF ET AL.

1. Where the assignee in bankruptcy of a mortgagor is appointed during the
pendency of proceedings for the foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged
premises, he stands as any other purchaser would stand on whom the title
has fallen after the commencement of the suit. If there be any reason for
interposing, the assignee should have himself substituted for the bankrupt,
or be made a defendant on petition.
2. A court cannot take judicial notice of the proceedings in bankruptcy in an.
other court; and it is its duty to proceed as between the parties before it,
until, by some proper pleadings in the case, it is informed of the changed
relations of any of such parties to the subject-matter of the suit.
8. The jurisdiction conferred upon the Federal courts for the benefit of an assignee in bankruptcy is concurrent with and does not divest that of the State
courts in suits of which they had full cognizance.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.

3r. John A. Wills for the plaintiff in error.
The court declined to hear Hr. S. Shellabargerfor the defendant in error.

MR. JusTICE MI.LER delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was an action of ejectment brought originally by
Thomas and James Gaff against plaintiff in error in the District

