Oct. 1875.]

ROnE
]
ET AL. V. CASANOVA.

exercise of their right of eminent domain, is often had before
commissioners of assessment or special boards appointed for
that purpose. It can hardly be doubted that Congress might
provide for inquisition as to the value of property to be taken
by similar instrumentalities; and yet, if the proceeding be a
suit at common law, the intervention of a jury would be required by the seventh amendment to the Constitution.
I think that the decision of the majority of the court in including the proceeding in this case under the general designation of a suit at common law, with which the circuit courts
of the United States are invested by the eleventh section of the
Judiciary Act, goes beyond previous adjudications, and is in
conflict with them.
Nor am I able to agree with the majority in their opinion,
or at least intimation, that the authority to purchase carries
with it authority to acquire by condemnation. The one supposes an agreement upon valuation, and a voluntary conveyance
of the property: the other implies a compulsory taking, and a
contestation as to the value. Beekman v. The Saratoga &
Seeneetady Railroad Co., 3 Paige, 75; Railroad Company v.
-Davis, 2 Dev. & Batt. 465; Willyard v. H1amilton, 7 Ham.
(Ohio), 453"; Livingston v. The Mayor of NZew -Forc,7 Wend.
85; .Koppikus v. State Capitol Commissioners, 16 Cal. 249.
For these reasons, I am compelled to dissent from the opinion
of the court.

ROME ET AM. v. CASANOVA.
Where, in a State court, both parties to a suit for the recovery of the possessiou
of lands claimed under a common grantor whose title under the United States
was admitted, and where the controversy extended only to the rights which
they had severally acquired under it, -Held, that, as no Federal question
arose, this court has no jurisdiction.

ERRtOR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.

This is an action of ejectment, commenced in the District
Court for the Third Judicial District of the State of California.
That court found as follows: "First, That on the seventeenth day of December, 1845, Felix

1OMIE ET AL. V.

CASANOVA.

[Su ) C .

Buelna was alcalde of the pueblo de San Jos, and, as such, granted
and conveyed in fee to Bicenta Padia a lot of land in said pueblo,
fifty varas in front and one hundred varas in depth, and on that
day measured the same, and delivered to said Padia the possession
thereof ; and that said Padia shortly afterwards and within one year
thereafter enclosed said lot with a fence, and lived upon and cultivated the same.
"1Second,That afterwards, and before the commencement of
this action, said Bicenta Padia sold and conveyed said lot of land
to defendant, Teresa Casanova; and that she is now, and was at the
time of the commencement of this action, and ever since has been,
the owner in fee thereof.
" Third, That said lot so granted and conveyed to said Padia is
situated in the city of San Jos6, within the boundaries named in
the complaint herein, immediately south of the lot known as the
Cesefia lot, and formerly known as the Buelna lot, and latterly
occupied by Meserve, fronting on the old Monterey road fifty
varas, and extending back one hundred varas westerly.
".Fourth, That, at the time of the commencement of this action,
defendant, Teresa Casanova, with her husband, Francisco Casanova
(now deceased), was in possession of said lot of land granted and
delivered to said Padia, but not of any other part of the premises
described in the complaint of plaintiff.
" .ifth,That the present city of San Jos6 is the former pueblo
de San Jos6; that the title of said city to the lands within her
boundaries, claimed under grant from the Spanish government, has
been finally confirmed to said city by the courts and authorities of
the United States.
"1Sixth,That defendant, Teresa Casanova, is now, and was at the
commencement of this action, the owner in fee of the said lot of
land granted to Padia, and located as aforesaid; and that the plaintiffs are not and never were the owners, nor was any one of them
the owner thereof or any part thereof."
The court found, as conclusions of law, that plaintiffs were
not entitled to judgment against defendant, Teresa Casanova,
for the premises sued for, or any part thereof, and that said defendant, Teresa Casanova, was entitled to judgment against
plaintiffs for her costs, and that she is the owner of said premises occupied by her as above described; and gave judgment
accordingly.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State of California,

Oct. 1875.]

THE " DOvE."

the judgment of the District Court was affirmed: whereupon
the plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
Submitted on printed arguments by Hr. S. 0. Hfoughton and
Mtlr. John Reynolds for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr.John
A. Grow, contra.
MR.CIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
No Federal question is presented by the record in this case.
The action was brought to recover the possession of certain
lands. Both parties claimed title from the city of San Jos6;
and the question to be determined was, which of the two had
actually obtained a grant of the particular premises in controversy. The title of the city was not drawn in question. Even
if it depended upon the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo and the
several acts of Congress to ascertain and setle private land
claims in California, the case would not be different. Both
parties admit that titie, and their litigation extends only to
the determination of the rights vhich they have severally acThe writ is dismissed.
quired under it.

THEi

"DovE."

1. The decree of a district court, dismissing a cross-libel for want of merit, from
which no appeal was taken, determines the questions raised by such crosslibel, but does not dispose of the issues of law or of fact involved in the
original suit.
2. By such dismissal, without appeal, both parties to the cross-libel are remitted
to the pleadings in the original suit; and every issue therein is open on
appeal as fully as if no cross-libel had ever been filed.

APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M-r. . P. Canfield and Mr.1. B. Duffield for the appellant.
Mr. Asdey Pond and Hr. W. A. Moore, contra.
C=nORD delivered the opinion of the court.
of a persistent character, are made in consometimes
Efforts,
troversies of the kind, to establish a theory, which, if true, would
MR.JusTIc=

