Oct. 1875.]

BALT.

& POT. R.R. Co. v. TRUSTEES, ETC.

127

MIR. JUSTICE DAvIS dissenting.
I agree to the legal propositions advanced by the court; but,
in my opinion, the evidence in this case does not warrant the
application that has been made of them.
It would serve no useful purpose to discuss the evidence, in
order to show that it is so; and I shall, therefore, content myself with saying, that it justified the conclusion reached by the
court below, that the property should be divided between tho
parties. As the appeal only brought up the question of property rights, I am not at liberty to consider the merits of the

decree for divorce.

BALTIMORE AND POTOMAC RAJL-IOAD COMPANY v. TRUSTEES OF SIxTH PRESBYTERIANT CHURCH.
Affidavits, depositions, and matters of parol evidence, though appearing in
the transcript of the proceedings of a common-law court, do not form part
of the record unless they are made so by an agreed statement of facts, a

bill of exceptions, a special verdict, or a demurrer to the evidence.

EnRor. to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. -Daniel Clarke and 11fr. Mayne Kaeeagh for the plain-

tiff in error.
The court declined hearing Mr. James A. Garfield and Mr.
.ussey
H.
for the defendant in error.

.

Mr. JUSTICE CLI:FFOPI o

delivered the opinion of the court.

Compensation was claimed in this case by the Trustees of
the Sixth Presbyterian Church of this District for injuries occasioned to their real property by the railroad company; and
they made application to a justice of the peace in and for the
District, representing that the railroad company "have laid
their tracks and are now running their trains along Sixth Street
and in front of the property of said church, and have built and
now occupy and use a d6p~t building upon said Sixth Street
and in the near vicinity of said church, to the great damage of
the sane."
Pursuant to that application the magistrate to whom it was

128

BALT. & POT. R.R. Co. v. TRusTEs, ETm.

[Sup. Ct.

addressed issued a warrant to the marshal of the District, commanding him to summon a jury of twenty citizens of the District, possessing the qualifications therein described, to meet at
said church building on the day therein named, to proceed to
value, in accordance with law, the damages which the said
church organization has sustained in consequence of the things
done as aforesaid by said company.
Two objections to the warrant were filed with the marshal
by the railroad company: (1.) That the warrant requires the
jury to value damages for causes which are not authorized by
law. (2.) That the form of the oath administered to the jury
is not correct.
Enough appears to show that the objections did not prevail,
and that the inquisition was taken; the jurors being first sworn
by the marshal that they would truly and impartially assess
the damages, if any, the applicants may sustain by the laying
of the track along Sixth Street by the railroad company; and
that the jury assessed the damages sustained by the applicants,
by reason of the railroad company laying their track along
Sixth Street, at the sum of eleven thousand five hundred dollars. Due return of the proceedings was made by the marshal,
in which it also appears that both parties met at the time and
place appointed, and that the marshal duly certified the warrant
an , inquisition to the Supreme Court of the District, as required
by lxw.
Two days later, the railroad company moved the court to
quash the warrant and set aside the inquisition for the reasons
following: (1.) Because the warrant required the marshal to
summon a jury to assess damages not authorized by law.
(2.) Because the warrant required the marshal to summon a
jury to assess damages for the running of the company's trains
along Sixth Street and in front of the property of the church,
and for having built and now occupying and using a d6p~t
building in the near vicinity of the church. (3.) Because the
return of the marshal shows that he did not administer to the
jurors the oath required by law. (4.) Because the marshal
periitted evidence to go to the jury to show that the property
had been damaged by the use and occupation of the track by
the -- ilroad company, and by the smoke and noise arising from

Oct. 1875.]

BALT. & POT. R.R. Co.

v. TRUSTEES,

EC.

129

such occupation. (5.) Because the jury, in assessing the damages, did not confine their inquiries to the question of appreciation and depreciation of the value of the property by reason of
the laying of the track along Sixth Street.
Pending that motion, the plaintiffs suggested to the court
that the law required that the inquisition should be confirmed
at the session of the court held next after the same was filed,
and moved the court that the cause be placed upon the calendar, and stand for hearing; and the court granted the motion,
and placed the case on the trial-calendar. Four days afterwards,
the plaintiffs moved the court to confirm the award of the jury;
and on the same day the defendants moved the court to strike
the cause from the calendar for the want of jurisdiction to try
the same, except on appeal.
Affidavits of their counsel were offered by the defendants to
prove that the plaintiffs were permitted to give evidence to the
inquisition against the objections of the company, that the
church was greatly annoyed and injured by the location of
the engine d6pft, in consequence of the smoke arising from
the engines being wafted by the wind into the church building,
and also from the noise of the engines and the passing trains
and the ringing of the engine-bells. Two jurors also gave affidavits, which were also offered in evidence, to show, that, in
arriving at the conclusion, they took into consideration all the
surrounding circumstances, such as the passing of trains in front
of the church, the danger in passing to and from the church,
the expense of removing to another location, and the smoke
and noise arising from the passing engines.
Seasonable objection was made by the plaintiffs to the admissibility of those affidavits; but the court overruled the objections, and the affidavits -were introduced, and allowed to be read.
Hearing was had on the motion of the plaintiffs and on the
motions of the defendants to strike the case from the calendar,
and to set the inquisition aside. Both motions of the defendants
were overruled; and the court, finding no error in the record,
confirmed the inquisition and finding of the jury, and gave judg-.
ment in favor of the plaintiffs for the amount awarded. Neither
party tendered any bill of exceptions; but the defendants sued
out a writ of error, and removed the cause into this court.
VOL. i.

9

130

BALT. & POT. R.R. Co. v. TRUSTEES, ET.

[Sup. Ct.

Neither depositions nor affidavits, though appearing in the
transcript of a common-law court of errors, can ever be regarded as a part of the record, unless the same are embodied
in an agreed statement of facts, or are made so by a demurrer
to the, evidence, or are exhibited in a bill of exceptions. Matters of parol evidence in such a case can never be made a part
of the record so as to become re-examinable in a court of errors,
unless it be in one of four ways: (1.) By an agreed statement
of facts. (2.) By a bill of exceptions. (3.) By a special verdict. (4.) By a demurrer to the evidence; which latter mode
is seldom or never adopted in modern practice.
Exceptions may be taken by the opposite party to the introduction of depositions or affidavits; and the party introducing
such evidence in a subordinate court may insist that the court
shall give due effect to the evidence, and, in case of refusal to
comply with such a request, may except to the ruling of the
court, if it be one prejudicial to his rights. Where neither
party excepts to the ruling of the court, either in respect to
its admissibility or legal effect, the fact that such a deposition
or affidavit is exhibited in the transcript is not of the slightest
importance in the Appellate Court, as nothing of the kind can
ever constitute the proper foundation for an assignment of error.
Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How. 433.
Errors apparent in the record, it is true, are open to revision,
whether the error be made to appear by bill of exceptions, or
in any other legal manner. Slaeum v. Pornery, 6 Cr. 221;
Bennet v. Butterworth, 11 How. 669; Garlandv. Davis, 4 id.
131.
When a party is dissatisfied with the decision of his cause in
an inferior court, and intends to seek a revision of the law applied to the case in a superior jurisdiction, he must take care
to raise the question of law to be revised, and put the facts on
the record for the information of the appellate tribunal; and, if
he omits to do so in any of the methods known in the practice
of courts of errors, he must be content to abide the consequences of his own neglect.
Evidence, whether written or oral, and whether given to the
court or the jury, does not become a part of the record unless
made so by some regular proceeding at the time of the trial,

Oct. 1875.]

BALT. & POT. R.R.

Co. v. TRUSTEES, mc.

131

arid before the rendition of the judgment. Whatever the errof
may be, and in whatever stage of the cause it may have occurred, it must appear in the record, else it cannot be revised
in a court of error exercising jurisdiction according to the course
of the common law.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that it
will not be necessary to give a separate examination to all the
alleged errors of the court below in confirming the inquisition,
and in rendering judgment for the plaintiffs. Sufficient has
already been remarked to show that the affidavits constituting
the whole basis of the theory of fact involved in the errors assigned, affecting the merits of the controversy, are no part of
the record; and consequently the errors assigned are utterly
destitute of any legal foundation.
Attempt is made to overcome that difficulty by the suggestion that the writ of error is addressed to the judgment, and
that the office of the writ of error is to remove the judgment
of the subordinate court into this court for re-examination,
which is undoubtedly correct; but it is equally true, that, if the
transcript does not show that any error exists in the record, the
judgment must in all cases be affirmed, except where it appears
that there has been a mis-trial. Minor v. Tillotson, 1 How. 287;
Taylor v. Morton, 2 Black, 484; Barnes v. Williams, 11 Wheat.
415; Clarringtonv. Pratt,18 How. 63.

Inquisitions like the present one bear a strong analogy in
many respects to the report or award of referees appointed
under a rule of court, to whom is referred a pending action.
Referees in such cases make their report to the court; and in
such a case the report, unlike an award at common law, must
be confirmed before the prevailing party is entitled to the benefit
of the finding of the referees. When the report is filed in court,
the losing party may file objections in writing to the confirnation of the report, and may introduce evidence in support of
the objections; and it is well-settled law, that the ruling of the
court in overruling such objections is the proper subject of a
bill of exceptions. Railroadv. .Myers, 18 How. 250.
Doubts were expressed at one time whether a bill of exceptions could be claimed in such case; but the decision referred
to removed every doubt upon the subject. Strothers v. Hutch-

132

BALT. & POT. R.R. Co. v. TRUSTEES, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

inson, 4 Bing. N. C. 83; Ford v. Potts, 1 Halst. 388; Nesbitt
v. -Dallam,7 Gill & J. 507; Tornson v. IlMoore, 9 Port. 137.
Evidence in support of the objections to the award was received in that case; and the judge overruled the objections, and
embodied the testimony and his ruling in a bill of exceptions,
reserving his opinion as to the regularity of the proceeding, and
whether the judgment could be revised. Pursuant to the arrangement, the losing party in the court below sued out a writ
of error; and this court sustained the writ of error, and decided
that the equity of the statute allowing a bill of exceptions in
courts of common law of original jurisdiction embraces all such
judgments or opinions of the court that arise in the course of a
cause which are the subjects of revision by an appellate court,
and which do not otherwise appear on the record. 18 id. 251;
Canal Co. v. Archer, 9 G. & J. 481; Walker v. Railroad,
3 Cush. 8.
Doubtless other modes may be devised of accomplishing a
revision of the legal questions in a case like the present; but
the court does not find it necessary to pursue the inquiry, as
all the court intends to decide is, that the affidavits in the
transcript are not a part of the record, and that in such a case
an assignment of errors, such as the one exhibited in this case,
so far as the same depends upon the affidavits, presents no question for re-examination by this court.
Three other questions of a formal character must receive a
brief consideration. They arise from certain preliminary objections made by the defendants, as follows: (1.) That the
warrant directed the marshal to summon a jury to assess damages not authorized by law. (2.) Because the marshal did not
administer to the jury the oath required by law. (3.) They
also denied the jurisdiction of the court below, because the
case was not removed into that court by appeal from the special
term.
By the warrant, it appears that the applicants represented to
the magistrate that the railroad company had laid their tracks
and are now running their trains along Sixth Street and in front
of the property of the applicants, and have built and now occupy
and use a dgp6t building on said street in the near vicinity of
the church; and the command to the marshal is, that he should

Oct. 1875.]

BALT. & POT. R.R. Co. v. TRUsTEEs, E0c.

183

summon a jury of the number and described qualifications "to
proceed to value, in accordance with law, the damages which the
said church organization has sustained in consequence of the
things done by said company as aforesaid."
Properly construed, it is by no means certain that the warrant
professes tc confer any greater power than that conferred by the
statute; as the express direction of the warrant is, that the jury
shall proceed to value the damages in accordance with law;
which phrase may well be regarded as a limitation upon the
phrase, "in consequence of the things done by said company."
Suppose, however, the terms of the warrant are more comprehensive than the words of the statute: still the court is of the
opinion that it furnishes no sufficient cause to reverse the judgment, for the reason that the transcript furnishes no legal evi
dence that the excess of power conferred, if any, was ever
exercised by the jury to the prejudice of the rights of the
defendants. Nothing appears in the transcript upon the subject, except what is contained in the affidavits; and it has
already been determined that the affidavits are not properly
to be regarded as a part of the record. -Pomeroyv. Bank,
1 Wall. 600; Young v. Martin, 8 id. 856; Coddington v. Bichardson, 10 id. 518.

Enough appears in the record to show that the jurors were
duly sworn that they would truly and impartially assess the
damages sustained by the applicants by the laying of the railroad-tracks, taking into consideration the appreciation and
depreciation of the property belonging to the church. Seasonable objection was made to the form of the oath; but the objecting party did not point out in what respect it was erroneous
to their prejudice, nor have they done so in the assignment of
errors; which is all that need be said upon the subject.
Argument is hardly necessary to show that the third objection is without merit, as the course pursued is fully justified by
the act of Congress. 12 Stat. 763.
Parties aggrieved by any order, judgment, or decree made or
pronounced at a special term, may, if the same involve the
merits of the action or proceeding, appeal therefrom to the
general term; but the same section provides that the justice
holding the special term may, in his discretion, order any

BEAUREGARD

V. CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

motion or suit to be heard in the first instance at a general
term. Unquestioned power being shown to warrant the proceeding, the action of the court must be presumed to be correct
until the contrary is shown by evidence embodied in the record.
1Tompson v. Biggs, 5 Wall. 676.
Judgment affirmed.
Mn. JUSTiCE BR.ADLEY did not sit on the argument of this
cause, and took no part in the decision.

BEAuREGARD v.

CASE.

1. An agreement provided that the party of the first part should obtain in his
own name, but for the joint account of himself and the parties of the second
part, a lease of a railroad, and manage the same at a designated salary, for
their mutual benefit; and that the parties of the second part should furnish
the money necessary to carry out the enterprise, to be reimbursed, with
interest, out of its annual profits; and then declared, that, after the payment of the capital thus invested and interest, the annual profits should be
equally divided between all the parties, and that all losses should be equally
borne between them. Held, that the agreement constituted a partnership.
2. According to the law of Louisiana, the partnership in this case being an ordinary one, as distinguished from those which are commercial, each partner
is only bound individually for his share of the partnership debts; but to
that extent a debt contracted by one partner, even without authority of the
others, binds them, if it be proved that the partnership was benefited by the
transaction.
3. By operation of law, a partnership debt is not extinguished or compensated
by the indebtedness of the creditor to one of the partners; although such
partner may, by way of defence or by exception, as it is termed in the practice of Louisiana, offset or oppose the compensation of his demand to that
of the creditor.
4. Where the petition prayed for a judgment against all the defendants in solido
for the whole amount of the partnership debt, but the facts alleged by the
pleadings and disclosed by the proofs showed that the partnership was not
a commercial but an ordinary one within the law of Louisiana, - held, that
a verdict against each defendant for his proportionate share of such debt
and the judgment rendered thereon were not vitiated by such a departure
from the issues.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Case, as receiver of the First National Bank of New Orleans,
brought an action against Beauregard, lay, and Graham, to

