206

MITCHELL V. COINxSSIONERS, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

should have been apparent; and we think there was no reason
for apprehension until the ship light was seen closing in upon
her. It is not the law that a steamer must change her course
or must slacken her speed the instant she comes in sight of
another vessel, no matter in what direction it may be. The
Earl of gElyin, L. R. 4 P. C. L.; Te Potomac, 8 Wall. 590;
Williamson v. Barrett, 13 How. 101.
The decree of the Circuit Court was right, and must be
affirmed.

MITCHELL V. BOARD OF Co

inssiO NERs OF LEAVE-WWORTH

COUNTY, KANSAS.
Where, for the purpose of evading the payment of a tax on his money on deposit, which the law of a State required to be listed for taxation March 1 in
each year, a party withdrew it Feb. 28 from a bank where it was subject
to his check, converted it into notes of the United States, and deposited them
to his general credit March 3, and the State court passed a decree dismissing
the bill in equity by him filed to restrain the collection of the tax thereon,Held, that the decree was correct; and that, although such notes were exempt
from taxation by or under state or municipal authority, a court of equity
would not use its extraordinary powers to promote such a scheme devised
for the purpose of enabling a party to escape his proportionate share of
the burdens of taxation.

EnROI to the Supreme Court of Kansas.

THIs case presents the following facts: Mitchell, the plaintiff, kept his account with a banking firm in Leavenworth.
On the 28th February, 1870, he had a balance to his credit of
$19,350 in current funds, for which he that day gave his check,
payable to himself in United States notes. They were paid to
him. He immediately enclosed them in a sealed package, and
placed them for safe keeping in the vault of the bank. On
the 3d March he withdrew his package, and deposited the notes
to his credit. This was done for the sole purpose of escaping
taxation upon his money on deposit.
Personal property in Kansas, which includes money on deposit, is listed for taxation as of March 1 in each year. Mitchell did not list any money on deposit. The taxing officers, in
due time, on discovery of the facts, added $9,000 to his assessment on account of his money in bank. He asked the

Oct. 1875.]

MITCHELL v. CO~musSIONERs, ETC.

proper authorities to strike off this added assessment. This
was refused. A tax was thereupon in due form levied, and its
collection threatened.
He then filed his bill in equity against the defendants, who
are the proper authorities, to restrain the collection of this tax,
alleging for cause, in substance, that as his bank balance had
been converted into United States notes, and was held in that
form on the day his property was to be listed, he could not be
taxed on that account. The Supreme Court of Kansas, on appeal, dismissed the bill, for the reason, as appears by the opinion,- which in this case is sent here as part of the record,that " a court of justice, sitting as a court of equity, will not lend
its aid for the accomplishment of any such purpose." Mitchell
sued out a writ of error.
Atessrs. B. 31L Quinton Corwine and 3r. J T. Fnglishfor
the plaintiff in error.
The statute of Kansas imposing a tax on personal property
provides that all property shall be listed as on the first day of
March in each year. Its intent is to assess such property as is
then liable to taxation. If there is none on that day, there is
no rig7it of taxation.
The object of all taxation is to compel lawfully taxable
property of every kind to contribute its just proportion of
taxes. It must, however, on the proper day of assessment,
have an actual bonafide existence as such, in order that the law
of the State may reach it.
The right of the plaintiff in error to withdraw his deposit
and convert it into legal-tender notes is unquestionable. The
money was his own, and he could invest it in United States
bonds, legal-tender notes, mortgage-paper, or whatever securities he might elect.
The question here is, not what was his motive in making the
investment, but what was the character of that investment on
the day of his tax return with respect to its liability or nonliability to pay taxes to the State.
The facts show, that, on the day fixed by the statute for
the assessment of the tax, the property of Mitchell consisted
of notes of the United States. It was, therefore, exempt from
taxation.

THE " SUNNYSIDE."

[SLIP. C

.

The presumption is, that the bank listed its taxable property,
including this money exchanged by Mitchell. If so, the same
money has been twice assessed. Even upon the theory of the
Supreme Court of Kansas, this assessment is manifestly unjust.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. CH]n

JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
We think the decision in this case was correct. United States
notes are exempt from taxation by or under state or municipal
authority; but a court of equity will not knowingly use its extraordinary powers to promote any such scheme as this plaintiff
devised to escape his proportionate share of the burdens of taxation. His remedy, if he has any, is in a court of law.
The decree is affirmed.

THE " SivxYsIE."
1. If a sailing vessel, when approaching a steamer, fails to adopt all reasonable
precautions to prevent a collision, she will not be excused, even though she
displays her proper signal-lights; and is entitled, in the absence of exceptional circumstances or special danger, to keep her course.
2. A collision occurred on Lake Huron, about three miles from the shore, near
the head of St. Clair River, between a steam-tug and a sailing vessel. The
former, heading east by north half north, waiting for a tow in conformity
with a well-known usage in those waters, with her machinery stopped, but
with her signal-lights burning as the law requires of a steamer under way,
was drifting at the rate of a mile and a half per hour. The sailing vessel,
with all her sails set and displaying her proper signal-lights, was heading
north half west at a speed of nine miles per hour. Held, that it was til
duty of the sailing vessel, in view of the special circumstances, to put up
her helm and go to the right, or to put it down and suffer the steam-tug to
drift past in safety; and, both vessels being at fault, the damages were
equally apportioned between them.
3. The doctrine announced in The Continental, 14 Wall. 345, reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. W. A. JIoore and ALIr. Ashley Pond for the appellants,

