Oct. 1875.]

BROwN ET AL. V. PIPER.

The plaintiff below was entitled to recover the principal of
the note sued upon, less the amount of the interest unlawfully
reserved. Whether he was entitled to recover interest upon
the amount of the principal so reduced, after the maturity of
the note, is a point which has not been argued, and upon which
we express no opinion.
Ve judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case
will be remanded with directions to proceed in conformity
with this opinion.

BRowx ET AL. v. PipER.
1. The application by the patentee of an old process to a new subject, without
any exercise of* the inventive faculty, and without the development of any
idea which can be deemed new or original in the sense of the patent laws,
is not the subject of a patent.
2. Evidence of what is old and in general use at the time of an alleged invention is admissible in actions at law under the general issue, and in equity
cases, without any averment in the answer touching the same.
8. The court can take judicial notice of a thing in the common knowledge and
use of the people throughout the country.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
Piper filed a bill to enjoin Brown and Seavey from infringing two patents, one of which, not being insisted on at the
hearing, need not be considered. The other -No. 732, dated
Mlarch 19, 1861- makes claim as follows "Preserving fish and other articles in a close chamber by means
of a freezing mixture, having no contact with the atmosphere of the
preserving chamber."
The defendants by their answer, among other objections not
necessary to be mentioned, denied the novelty of the alleged
invention.
The court below rendered a decree sustaining the validity of
the patent, and perpetually enjoined the defendants from using
or employing the invention therein described. They bring this
appeal.

BRowIN ET AL. V. PIPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Hr. George G-ifford and Hr. -EdwardAvery for appellants.
Mr. Causten Browne for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SwAy.TE delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill is founded upon two patents granted by the United
States to the appellee, - one numbered 732, of the 19th of
March, 1861; the other numbered 36,107, and dated Aug. 5,
1862. The second and later patent was not relied upon in the
argument here, and may, therefore, be laid out of view. Oar
attention will be confined to the prior one. It is declared in the
specification to be "for a new and improved method of preserving
fish and meats." The invention is alleged to consist "in a method
of preserving fish and other articles in a chamber, and cooling
the latter by means of a freezing mixture, so applied that no
communication shall exist between the interior of the preserving
chamber and that of the vessels in which the freezing mixture is
placed." The specification continues: "I do not profess to have
invented the means of artificial congelation, nor to have discovered the fact that no decay takes place in animal substances so
long as they are kept a few degrees below the freezing-point of
water; but the practical application of them to the art of preserving fish and meats, as above described, is a new and very
valuable improvement. The apparatus for freezing fish and
keeping them in a frozen state may be constructed in various
ways and of different shapes. The apparatus shown in the
drawing, however, will suffice to illustrate the principle and
mode of operation."
The process and apparatus are then described as follows: A
box of wood or other suitable material, surrounded by a packing of charcoal or other non-conducting substance, is to be provided, and the fish in small quantities laid in it on a rack.
Metallic pans filled with a freezing mixture, such as salt and
ice, are then to be set over them, and a cover shut over the
pans. "In about twenty-four hours, the freezing mixture having been changed once in twelve hours, the fish will be frozen
completely through."
After being frozen, the fish or meat may, if desired, be covered
with a thin coating of ice; and this coating may be preserved
by applying the substances named, which will exclude the air,

Oct. 1875.]

BROWN ET AL. V. PIPER.

and prevent the juices from escaping by evaporation. "The
fish are then to be packed closely in a large preserving box,
which is enclosed in a still larger box; the space between the
boxes being filled with charcoal or other non-conducting material, to exclude the heat." Other minor details are described,
which it is not deemed material to repeat, The patentee then
declares: "I do not desire to be understood as confining myself
to the specific apparatus above described, nor to the use of either
or both the preliminary processes of freezing and cooling; but
I have described the mode of operation, which, by experience,
I have found best for preserving the most delicate varieties of
fish." The summation and claim are: "Having described my
invention, what I claim as new, and desire to secure by letterspatent, is, preserving fish or other articles in a close chamber by
means of a freezing miture, having no contact with the atmosphere of the preserving chamber, substantially as set forth."
The patent is not for the principle long and well known to
physicists, that a low degree of cold, like a high degree of heat,
prevents the decay of animal matter; nor is it for the freezing
of the articles to be preserved before or after they are placed
in the preserving chamber; nor is it for applying, by means of
an apparatus with any particular details of construction, cold to
the articles to be preserved; nor is it for the frigorific effect of
the freezing mixture upon the atmosphere of the inner chamber;
but it is for the application to such articles of the degree of cold
necessary to preserve them, by means of "a close chamber,"
in which they are to be placed, and "a freezing mixture, having
no communication with the atmosphere of the preserving
chamber."
If this result be reached by the means designated in any way
substantially the same with that described, having the feature
of the non-contact of the freezing mixture with the air of the
preserving chamber, there is a clear invasion of the territory
which the patentee has marked out and seeks to appropriate to
himself.
It was earnestly maintained by the learned counsel for the
appellee that the essence of the invention is the creation of
"a freezing atmosphere" in the preserving chamber.
To this there are several answers. There is nothing i a the

BROWN ET AL. V. PIPER.

[Sup. Ot.

specification or claim to warrant the proposition. The direction
is, that "the fish are to be packed closely." This implies clearly
that as many fish are to be put into the preserving chamber as
it can be made to contain.
Atmospheric air is itself an agent of decay; and in all such
cases it is important to preclude as far as possible its presence
and contact. "If air be absolutely excluded, putrefaction
ceases; and the result is the preservation of the substance in
some circumstances, perhaps in all." 3 Ure's Diet. of Arts,
548. "On this principle is founded Appert's process, by which
easily decomposable articles of food and drink, such as meat,
fish, vegetables, milk, &c., are preserved for years; viz., by
packing them in air-tight bottles or soldered tin cans, heating
the vessels for several hours in boiling water, and keeping them
carefully closed." 2 Watts's Dict. of Chem. 625. The patentee
is to be presumed to have known this property of air.
The patent is for "a new and useful improvement" in the
art to which it relates. It was issued under the act of July 4,
1836. The rights of the parties are to be considered in the
light of that act. The defence relied upon in the answer is
the want of novelty; and several instances of prior use and
knowledge, with the requisite circumstances of time, place, and
persons, are alleged.
We deem it sufficient to consider one of them. On the 17th
of August, 1842, a patent was issued to John Good "for a
corpse preserver." The apparatus, as described, was an outer
case with a close-fitting lid. The case was made double; there
being a partition to within four or five inches, more or less, of
the top of the outer one, leaving a space between the two of
several inches, which was to be filled with ice. There was a
false bottom with holes in it in the inner compartment. It
rested upon ledges, which kept it four or five inches above the
bottom. The intervening space was a receptacle for ice. The
corpse was deposited upon the false bottom. A tray was placed
over it, and under the lid. The tray was four or five inches deep,
used to contain the freezing mixture, and had a flange to prevent the mixture from escaping. Proper outlets were provided
for the passage of the water from the melting ice. There was
L) communication between the tray containing the freezing

Oct. 1875.]

BROWN E

AL. V. PIPER.

mixture and the inner compartment containing the body.
Swartz, an intelligent and unimpeached witness, was examined
on the 15th of October, 1869. He testified that he was an
undertaker, and had used the apparatus for about twenty years,
sometimes with ice under the false bottom, and sometimes
without it. In either case, he applied a sufficient degree of
cold to prevent putrefaction before interment. He thought
the bodies were sometimes frozen, but was not certain. The
material point in his business was the prevention of decay for
the time being; and that was always accomplished.
Here was the application of the requisite degree of cold
exactly in the manner called for in the specification of the
appellee.
This is hardly denied; but it is insisted that the process was
never applied by the witness to the preservation of fish and
meats.
The answer is, that this was simply the application by the
patentee of an old process to a new subject, without any exercise of the inventive faculty, and without the development of
any idea which can be deemed new or original in the sense of
the patent law. The thing was within the circle of what was
well known before, and belonged to the public. No one could
lawfully appropriate it to himself, and exclude others from using
it in any usual way for any purpose to which it may be desired
to apply it.
This is fatal to the patent. Ames v. Howard,1 Sumner, 487;
Howe v. Abbot, 2 Story, 194; Bean v. Smalwood, id. 411;
Winans v. B. & P. B. B., id. 412; Hotchkiss et al. v. @reenwood et al., 11 How. 248.
There is another view of the case that may properly be
taken.
Evidence of the state of the art is admissible in actions at
law under the general issue without a special notice, and in
equity cases without any averment in the answer touching the
subject. It consists of proof of what was old and in general
use at the time of the alleged invention. It is received for
three purposes, and none other, - to show what was then old,
to distinguish what was new, and to aid the court in the construction of the patent.

BRowN ET AL. v. PiPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Of private and special facts, in trials in equity and at law,
the court or jury, as the case may be, is bound carefully to
exclude the influence of all previous knowledge. But there
are many things of which judicial cognizance may be taken.
"To require proof of every fact, as that Calais is beyond the
jurisdiction of the court, would be utterly and absolutely
absurd." Gresley's Ev. in Eq. 294. Facts of universal notoriety
need not be proved. See Taylor's Ev., ยง 4, note 2. Among
the things of which judicial notice is taken are the law of
nations; the general customs and usages of merchants; the
notary's seal; things which must happen according to the laws
of nature; the coincidences of the days of the week with those
of the month; the meaning of words in the vernacular language;
the customary abbreviations of Christian names; the accession
of the Chief Magistrate to office, and his leaving it. In this
country, such notice is taken of the appointment of members
of the cabinet, the election and resignations of senators, and of
the appointment of marshals and sheriffs, but not of their deputies. The courts of the United States take judicial notice of
the ports and waters of the United States where the tide ebbs
and flows, of the boundaries of the several States and judicial
districts, and of the laws and jurisprudence of the several States
in which they exercise jurisdiction. Courts will take notice
of whatever is generally known within the limits of their
jurisdiction; and, if the judge's memory is at fault, he may
refresh it by resorting to any means for that purpose which he
may deem safe and proper. This extends to such matters of
science as are involved in the cases brought before him. See
1 Greenleaf's Ev. 11; Gresley's Ev., supra; and Taylor's Ev.,
ยง 4, and post.
In the Ohio L. J T. Co. v. -Debolt,16 How. 435, it was said
to be "a matter of public history, which this court cannot
refuse to notice, that almost every bill for the incorporation of
companies" of the classes named is prepared and passed under
the circumstances stated. In Hloare v. Silverlock, 12 Ad. &
Ell. i. s. 624, it was held that where a libel charged that the
friends of the plaintiff had "realized the fable of the frozen
snake," the court would take notice that the knowledge of that
fable existed generally in society. This power is to be exer-

Ot. 1875.]

BRowN

ET AL. V. PIPER.

cised by courts with caution. Care must be taken that the
requisite notoriety exists. Every reasonable doubt upon the
subject should be resolved promptly in the negative.
The pleadings and proofs in the case under consideration
are silent as to the ice-cream freezer. But it is a thing in
the common knowledge and use of the people throughout the
country. Notice and proof were, therefore, unnecessary. The
statute requiring notice was not intended to apply in such cases.
The court can take judicial notice of it, and give it the same
effect as if it had been set up as a defence in the answer and
the proof were plenary. See I. J A. Glue Co. v. Upton,
6 Patent Office Gazette, 843, and Needham v. WVashburn, 7 id.
651,- both decided by Mr. Justice Clifford upon the circuit.
We can see no substantial diversity between that apparatus
and the alleged invention of the appellee. In the former, as in
the apparatus of the appellee, "the freezing mixture" has
"no contact with the atmosphere" of the chamber where the
work is to be done. If the freezer be full, and the preserving
chamber be full, there would be room for but little air in either.
If either were only partially full, the vacuum would be filled
with that substance. The cold is generated by the same materials, and applied under the same circumstances. If the cream
were taken out of the freezer, and fish put in, there would be,
in all substantial respects, the same apparatus, process, and
result. If the preserving chamber were as tight as the freezer,
either might be convertibly used for the purpose of the other.
"The preservative effect of cold, and especially of dry cold, is
well known and exemplified in the keeping of meat and fruit in
ice-houses. Animals have been found undecomposed in the ice of
Siberia which belong to extinct species, and which must have been
embalmed in ice for ages." Tit. "Antiseptic," 1 Amer. Encyclo.
570.
Artificial freezing is usually applied to water, and articles of
food.
"There are two general methods of effecting it; viz., by liquefication and by vaporization and expansion. The method by liquefication is performed by freezing mixtures, which are formed by
mixing together two or more bodies, one or all of which may be
solid. They are used together in vessels having three or more

PIPER V. MOON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct,

concentric apartments, - an inner one, containing the article to be
frozen ; one eccentric to this, containing the freezing mixture, pro
vided with some contrivance for agitation ; one, again, outside of
this, filled with a non-conductor of heat, as powdered charcoal,
gypsum, or cotton wool; and sometimes one between them for
holding water." Tit. "Freezing," 7 Amer. Encyclo. 474.
Here the principle and substance of the appellee's claim are
set forth as belonging to the general domain of knowledge and
science. It is known that Lord Bacon applied snow to poultry
to preserve it. He said the process succeeded "excellently
well." The experiment was made in his old age, imprudently,
and brought on his last illness.
Examined by the light of these considerations, we think this
patent was void on its face, and that the court might have
stopped short at that instrument, and without looking beyond
it into the answers and testimony, sua sponte, if the objection
were not taken by counsel, well have adjudged in favor of the
defendant.
These views render it unnecessary to consider the exceptions
to the master's report.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed; and the cause will
be remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill.

P=RE

v. MooN ET AL.

MR. JUSTIoE SwA=u delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant's bill in this case is founded upon the same
patent as the bill of the appellee in Brown et al. v. Piper,
above reported.
In this case the court below dismissed the bill, and the complainant appealed to this court. What was said in the case
referred to disposes of this.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

