Oct. 1875.]
UiNTM

U. STATES V. CORISS STEAI-ENG.
STATES V. CoRMss STFIAX-E G

Co.
CompaM

821
Y.

1. Where the Secretary of the Navy possesses the power, under the legislation
of Congress and the orders of the President, to enter into contracts for
work connected with the construction, armament, or equipment of vessels
of war, he can suspend the work contracted for when from any cause the
public interest may so require; and, where such suspension is ordered, he is
authorized to settle with the contractor upon the compensation to be paid
for the partial performance of the contracts.
2 When a settlement in such a case is made upon a full knowledge of all the
facts, without concealment, misrepresentation, or fraud, it is equally binding upon the government and the contractor.

THE facts upon which the decision of the court rests are set
forth in its opinion.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Solicitor-General
-Phillipsfor the United States, and Mr. JoseT Casey for the

appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on appeal from the Court of Claims,
and involves a consideration of the validity and binding character of a settlement, made between the Secretary of the Navy
and the claimant, for work performed by the latter upon contracts with the Navy Department. There is no dispute about
the facts of the case (they are fully and clearly stated in the
findings of the Court of Claims); and it would seem that there
ought not to be any dispute as to the law applicable to them.
The validity of the contracts is not questioned. The work upon
them was done under the supervision of an inspector of the
Navy Department, and no complaint is made of the manner in
which it was done. When, in 1869, the department, upon the
recommendation of a board of officers of the navy appointed by
it, suspended the further progress of the work under the contracts, the claimant made a written proposition, in the alternative, either to take all the machinery and receive $150,000, or
to deliver it in its then incomplet6 condition at the Navy Yard
at Charlestown for $259,068, payable on delivery there. The
department accepted the latter proposition, recognizing the
amount specified as the balance due on settlement of the con.
tracts ; stating, however, that, in consequence of the very limited
Mr,. JUsTIcE FE

VOL. I.

21

322

U.

STATES V.

CORLISS STEAmI-ENG.

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

appropriations, only a partial payment would be made on delivery of the machinery at the Charlestown Navy Yard, and that
the balance could not be paid until Congress should make a
further appropriation, but that a certificate for the amount due
would be given to the claimant.
The machinery was accordingly delivered at the Navy Yard,
with the exception of a few articles, for which a deduction from
the amount of the settlement was allowed, and the certificate
stipulated was given to the claimant. Previous to this, however,
the chief engineer of the navy, under direction of the department, examined the machinery, and made a detailed report, by
which the department was fully informed of its condition, the
progress made in its construction, and what remained to be
done for its completion under the contracts. There is no allegation or suggestion that the claimant was guilty of any fraud,
concealment, or misrepresentation, on the subject; but on the
contrary, it is clear that every fact was known to both parties,
and that the whole transaction, as stated by the court below,
was unaffected by any taint or infirmity. If such a settlement,
as the Chief Justice of the Court of Claims very justly observes,
accompanied by the giving-up by one, and the taking possession
by the other, of the property involved, cannot be judicially
maintained, it would seem that no settlement by any contractor
with the government could be considered a finality against the
government.
The duty of the Secretary of the Navy, by the act of April
30, 1798, creating the Navy Department, extends, under the
orders of the President, to "the procurement of naval stores
and materials, and the construction, armament, equipment, and
employment of vessels of war, as well as all other matters connected with the naval establishment of the United States."
1 Stat. 553. The power of the President in such cases is, of
course, limited by the legislation of Congress. That legislation
existing, the discharge of the duty devolving upon the secretary
necessarily requires him to enter into numerous contracts for
the public service; and the power to suspend work contracted
for, whether in the construction, armament, or equipment of
vessels of war, when from any cause the public interest requires
such suspension, must necessarily rest with him. As, in mak-

Oct. 1875.]

U. STATEs v. CoIUSS STEAM-ENG. CO.

823

ing the original contracts, he must agree upon the compensation to be made for their entire performance, it would seem, that,
when those contracts are suspended by him, he must be equally
authorized to agree upon the compensation for their partial
performance. Contracts for the armament and equipment of
vessels of war may, and generally do, require numerous modifications in the progress of the work, where that work requires
years for its completion. With the improvements constantly
made in ship-building and steam-machinery and in arms, some
parts originally contracted for may have to be abandoned, and
other parts substituted; and it would be of serious detriment to
the public service if the power of the head of the Navy Department did not extend to providing for all such possible contingencies by modification or suspension of the contracts, and
settlement with the contractors.
When a settlement in such a case is made upon a full knowledge of all the facts, without concealment, misrepresentation,
or fraud, it must be equally binding upon the government as
upon the contractor; at least, such a settlement cannot be disregarded by the government without restoring to the contractor
the property surrendered as a condition of its execution.
But aside from this general authority of the Secretary of the
Navy, under the orders of the President, he was, during the
rebellion, specially authorized and required by acts of Congress,
either in direct terms or by specific appropriations for that purpose, to construct, arm, equip, and employ such vessels of war
as might be needed for the efficient prosecution of the war.
In the discharge of this duty, he made the original contracts
with the claimant. The completion of the machinery contracted for having become unnecessary from the termination of
the war, the secretary, in the exercise of his judgment, under
the advice of a board of naval officers, suspended the work.
Under these circumstances, we are of opinion that he was
authorized to agree with the claimant upon the compensation
for the partial performance, and that the settlement thus made
is binding upon the government.
Decree affirmed.

