WVOORUFF ET AL. V. HOUGH ET AL.

[Sup. ot.

judges agreed that Willoughby was a judge de fado, and that
his acts were valid in respect to the public and third parties,
even though he might not be rightfully in office. In this the
court but followed its own well-considered holding, by all the
judges, in Griffin v. Cunningham, 20 Gratt. 31, approved in
Quinn v. Cunningham, id. 138, and Teel v. Young, 23 id. 691,
and the repeated decisions of this court. Texas v. White,
7 Wall. 733 ; Thorington v. Smith, 8 id. 8; Huntington v. Texas,
16 id. 412; Horn v. Lockhart, 17 id. 580.
Writ dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

WOODRUFF ET AL. V. HOUGH ET AL.
1. A., who had covenanted with the supervisors of a county to construct a jail
subject to the approval of a superintendent, who was authorized to stop the
work if it and the materials furnished did not conform to certain plans and
specifications, entered into a contract with B. to manufacture and erect in
its proper position all the wrought-iron work for the jail, according to such
plans and specifications.
Held, that B. was entitled to recover on his
contract the value of the work done and materials furnished by him, if he
substantially complied with the plans and specifications, or a strict compliance therewith had been waived by A., although the supervisors, in the
exercise of the power reserved in their contract with A., condemned B.'s
work, and required A. to replace a portion of it.
2. Where the charge of the court below covers the whole ground necessary to
enable the jury to apply the law to the matters in issue, and is not subject
to any just exception, so that, if there be any error in the proceedings, it
was committed solely by the jury, this court has no jurisdiction to retry
the cause as if it were both court and jury, but must affirm the judgment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
On the 5th of July, 1871, a contract was entered into between John Allen and the Board of Supervisors of Winnebago
County, Ill., for the erection of a county jail, according to certain plans and specifications; the work to be done under the
control of a building committee, which should have the right
to make changes in the materials or construction of the building upon giving reasonable notice thereof. The contract also
provided that all materials used and work done should be
subject to the approval of a superintendent appointed by the

Oct. 1875.]

WOODRUFF ET AL.

v.

ROUGH

r

AL.

supervisors; and if at any time, in his judgment, the work or
materials were not in accordance with the requirements of the
contract, he should have power to stop the work until the difference should be adjusted by arbitration.
On the 18th of the same month, Allen made a contract
with the defendants in error, who were the plaintiffs below,
whereby they agreed to "furnish the material, manufacture,
deliver, and erect in its proper position, all the wrought-iron
work" for the jail, according to certain plans and specifications mentioned in his contract with the supervisors. It set
forth the terms of payment by him, and a provision for an increase or decrease in cost occasioned by any changes in the
materials or in the construction of the iron-work which might
be made by the building committee.
The plaintiffs in error entered into a written guaranty with
the defendants in trror for the faithful performance by Allen
of his agreement.
During the progress of the work, differences arose between
Allen and his sub-contractors, growing out of the refusal of the
supervisors to accept the work furnished by the latter, on the
ground that it was not in compliance with the specifications of
his contract with the supervisors and with defeiidants in error.
A.fter much of the work was done and put in place, it was condemned, and the work abandoned by defendants in error, who
brought this suit against Allen's sureties for his failure to pay
as they had guarantied he would.
The defendants below asked the court to instruct the jury,
that if it appeared from the evidence that the plaintiffs had
abandoned their contract with Allen before its entire completion, and after only a partial performance, they could not recover in an action on the special conitract.
That even if it appeared from the evidence that the plaintiffs, after commencing work under their said contract, had
been improperly obstructed in or prevented from the performance of the same, they could not maintain an action on the
special contract sued on! without proving a tender to Allen of
the balance of the work required to be done by them by their
said contract with him.
That if it appeared from the evidence that the payments

WOODRUFF ET AL. V. HOUGH ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

actually made to the plaintiffs by Allen, added to the amounts
required to be paid by him, under a subsequent contract with
a third party for a completion of the wrought-iron work (if
such contract was the most economical one that he, under the
circumstances, could make for the completion of said work
after the same was abandoned by the plaintiffs), equalled or
exceeded the whole price at which the work was to be done by
the plaintiffs, then there could be no recovery.
That the defendants, being mere sureties upon a special written contract, were not necessarily liable, even though an action
might be sustained against Allen.
That, under the facts as disclosed by the evidence, no action
was sustainable upon the written contracts mentioned in the
declaration, but that the plaintiffs' remedy was limited to an
action upon an implied contract on the part of Allen to pay
for the value of such work as had been retained by him, after
it was furnished by the plaintiffs in alleged partial performance
of their contract.
That the defendants were not liable upon their guaranty, if
the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover upon their written
contract with Allen.
But the court refused to so charge the jury, and thereupon
gave its charge substantially as follows: To fully understand the obligations and liabilities of the parties, it is necessary to ascertain definitely the duties and obligations which plaintiffs and Allen had respectively assumed
under their contract of July 18. The contract recites in substance that Allen had entered into a contract with Winnebago
County to build and complete a jail at Rockford, according to
certain plans and specifications.
The plaintiffs agreed to furnish the material for, manufacture
and deliver, and erect in its proper position, all the wroughtiron work for said jail mentioned, and provided for in said
plans and specifications under the caption of "Specifications
for wrought-iron work."
These specifications, it will thus be seen, are an important
element in the contract between Allen and plaintiffs; and it is
only by reference to them that we are able to ascertain definitely what plaintiffs agreed to do.

Oct. 1875.]

WOODRUFF Er AL. v. HOUGH LT AL.

The first requisite as to the character of the wrought-iron work
is, that it is all to be made of the best quality Lake Superior
iron, unless otherwise ordered in writing by the superintendent.
The plaintiffs claim that they proceeded, according to the
terms of their agreement, to provide the materials and manufacture the iron-work required substantially in the manner
called for, and had proceeded to put the iron lining and five of
the window-frames in place, and were ready to proceed to put
the open-work partition, and cell-doors, and other parts of the
work, in place, when they were stopped by Allen and the building committee.
The defendants, besides interposing several technical, or
rather legal defences, arising out of what they claim to be the
law of the case on the admitted facts, insist that the work
brought upon the ground and offered to be put in place did not
conform to the plans and specifications, and that the same was
therefore rightfully rejected.
It is admitted that the lining furnished by plaintiffs has been
built into the wall since they were stopped in the performance
of their contract, and has become apparently a part of the
structure, without objections from the superintendent or building committee.
It is conceded on the part of the plaintiffs, that, in several
important particulars, this work is not in accordance with the
specifications; but it is also insisted that a literal compliance
with the specifications and plans in those respects is practically
impossible; and they are, therefore, excused in the premises.
For want of conformity to the specifications, and by reason
of the imperfection in workmanship, Allen claimed the right
to reject the work tendered by plaintiffs; and it becomes your
duty to determine, under the law and the evidence, how far he
was right in so doing.
As to the provision requiring all the iron-work to be made
"of best quality Lake Superior iron," it is for you to say, as a
matter of fact, from the evidence, whether it was possible for
the plaintiff to have literally complied with this condition, or
whether, by using iron made partly from Lake Superior ores,
this condition has been substantially complied with. Conditions
of this nature in contracts or .specifications must be construed

WOODRUFF ET AL. V. HOUGH ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

in the light of practical affairs; and if you find from the evidence that there was no such distinctive article as "Lake
Superior iron" known to persons engaged in the iron trade,
then you will be justified in assuming that the parties in using
the term really meant and intended to describe iron manufactured partly from Lake Superior ores; and, if the plaintiffs used
such iron, they have so far complied with their contract.
In connection with this branch of the case, and as throwing
some light upon the construction the parties intended to put
upon the term used to describe the material, I call your attention to the fact, that there is no proof that any objection was
made to the material or kind of iron employed, with the exception of the lining-plates.
As for failure to use the kind of plates and T iron bars in
the iron lining called for by the specifications, the plaintiffs
mainly depend upon the consent of Allen and the building
committee to accept the building as made, rather than upon
their right to insist that they have complied in that regard with
the specifications.
If you find from the evidence that they did so agree, then
the work as made should be deemed by you to have been substituted by agreement of parties for that described in the
specifications; the jury taking into consideration, in fixing the
value of the work as made, any imperfections in the workmanship, and the work yet remaining to be done at the time it was
abandoned by plaintiffs.
In other words, the jury are to determine from the evidence
the value of the lining to Allen for the purpose of completing
his contract as plaintiffs left it.
Having heard the testimony in relation to the open-work
partition, and had the plans shown and explained to you,
it is for you to say, under the proof, whether this part of the
work complied with the contract. If it did not, then Allen
was not bound to accept it, and had the right to forbid plaintiffs from putting it up.
A word here in regard to the degree of perfection to which
work of this character must be carried to comply with the
drawings and plans. There should always be a substantial
compliance with the model. In all essential particulars, the

Oct. 1875.]

WOODRUFF ET AL.

v.

HOUGH ET AL.

thing represented must be produced and come as near to the
standard as the state of the art will allow. The plaintiffs' contract binds them to this, and they should not have undertaken
the task if they had not the skill or means to accomplish it.
So in regard to the cell-doors, window-frames, and gratings.
If the testimony satisfies you that these portions of the work
were made substantially as required in the drawings, and that,
if the doors are too large for the openings left to receive them,
it is due either to the mistake of the mason or to a mistake in
the scale on which the drawings were made, then plaintiffs
ought not to suffer, and should recover for the value of the
window-frames put in place, and also for the value of that ready
to be put in place, if it was made in conformity with the drawings, but subject to this reservation.
The contract was an entirety; and the plaintiffs had no right
to put in the window-frames, cell-doors, &c., even if they complied in all respects with the drawings and specifications, if
they at the same time insisted on putting in the partition also,
which did not conform to the plans.
If you believe from the evidence that the plaintiffs insisted
on putting in a partition which was not made according to the
plans, then they cannot recover for the doors and windowframes not put up and used, even though they may be properly
constructed.
If you find from the evidence that the contract has been partially performed by the plaintiffs, and that they have been prevented from performing the remainder of the work by Allen,
and that he has adopted or used a portion of the work, then it
will be your duty to ascertain from the evidence the value of
the work thus done and appropriated, and the plaintiffs will be
entitled to recover the value so found as damages: but you
should also deduct from the amount thus found any sums due
from plaintiffs to Allen for advances made by him on their account; also any damages which Allen has sustained by reason
of the non-performance of said contract between plaintiffs and
himself, provided you believe there was any breach of contract
which entitles Allen to damages; and, in estimating Allen's
damages, you must be governed by the evidence in the case,
applying it in the same manner as you would do if Allen had
not a suit for damages on said contract.

WOODRUFF ET AL. V.

HOUGH ET AL.

[Sup. Gt.

Thereupon the jury gave their verdict in favor of the plaintiffs for $5,000 damages, and judgment was rendered therefor.
The defendants having excepted to the refusal of the court to
charge the jury as requested, and also to the charge as given,
sued out this writ of error.
IVr. H. K. Whiton for the plaintiffs in error, and 111r. John
V Jewett for the defendants in error.
M . JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The errors assigned relate to the charge of the court, and the
refusal to charge as requested by plaintiffs in error.
The main ground of error seems to be, that the court did not
treat Hough & Butler, the sub-contractors under Allen, as
bound by all Allen's contract with the supervisors. But, while
they accepted the specifications for the wrought-iron work
which were in Allen's contract with the supervisors, they did
not agree to be bound by the supervisors' acts in accepting or
rejecting the work as coming up to these specifications.
This Allen did in his contract with them; and no doubt this
has led to the present controversy. The supervisors reserved
the right to decide as between them and Allen whether the
work conformed to the specifications. Allen reserved no such
power in his contract with defendants. These latter had a
right, in the event of a difference on that subject, to have the
difference settled by a court of law; and Allen ran that risk if
he rejected any of their work. But the supervisors could reject work without such hazard, because Allen had agreed to
submit to their judgment in case of such a difference.
The plaintiffs desired to have the court give the jury a more
specific construction of the contract than it did as to the kind
of work required, and also as to the failure of defendants in
error to perform the work as so construed.
The court repeated the details of the contract on the points
where the failure was alleged, and then told the jury, that unless
the contractors had complied substantially with these specifications, or a strict compliance therewith had been waived, they
ecould not recover. The charge was very full, and covered the
whole ground necessary to enable the jury to apply the law to
the matters in issue. We do not find in it any error.

Oct. 1875.]

GmNi

ET

AL. v. IL. & Miss. TEL. Co.

608

The fact that Allen will, under the judgment recovered -by
defendants in error, taken in connection with the amount he
has had to pay to others to complete the wrought-iron work, be
a loser to the amount of several thousand dollars, does not
prove the instructions of the court to be wrong. If there was
any error, it was committed by the jury, and not by the court.
It is only another one of those cases, so common from that
circuit, in which, with the whole charge of the court and much
of the testimony in the bill of exceptions, this court is expected
to retry the case as if it were both court and jury. Our repeated refusal to do this will be adhered to, however counsel
may continue to press on our attention the mistakes of juries.
Judgment affirmed.
They are beyond our jurisdiction.

Girw"

ET AL. v. ILL Nois AND Mississippi TLEG AP3Er

Co p iq.
CoYK=NALL, GARNisss,

v. IDF_.

1. Where a trial by the court below was not had under the act of March 3, 1865
(13 Stat. 501), the rulings excepted to in the progress of such trial cannot
be reviewed here.
2. Where it is clearly implied by the terms of a mortgage executed bya railroad
company that the latter was to hold possession and receive the earnings of
the road until the mortgagees should take it or the proper judicial authority
intervene, such possession gives the right to the whole fund derived therefrom, and renders it, therefore, liable to the creditors of the company as if
no mortgage existed.
3. A decree, silent as to the profits and *possession of the mortgaged premises
from its date until the sale thereby ordered, does not affect the right to
such profits and possession during that period.

THESE cases come here from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa, -the former by appeal, and
the latter by writ of error.
In 1857, the Des Moines Valley Railroad Company, by its
then corporate name, in order to secure the payment of its
bonds, executed to certain trustees a mortgage of its road,
property, and franchises, "together with the tolls, rents, and
profits to be had, gained, or levied therefrom."

