ARTHUR V. CUIIING ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

The court below was clearly in error in sustaining the ex
ception to the auditor's report, and in giving priority of payment to the judgments over the amount secured by the last
deed of trust.
TIe decree is, therefore, reversed; and the cause will be remanded with directions to overrule the exception to the auditor's report, and to enter a decree in conformity with this
opinion.

ARTHUR v. CU3DIXaG ET AL.
1. The term "burlaps," used in the revenue statutes, does not in commercial
usage, by which descriptive terms applied to articles of commerce must be
construed, mean "oil-cloth foundations," or "floor-cloth canvas."
2. "Oil-cloth foundations" and "floor-cloth canvas" are in commerce convertible terms for designating the same article; and it is clear that Congress intended that they should be so understood.
3. While the act of June 6, 1872 (17 Stat. 232), provides that an import duty of
thirty per cent ad valorem shall be levied "on all burlaps and like manufactures of flax, jute, or hemp, or of which flax, jute, or hemp shall be the
component material of chief value, except such as may be suitable for bagging for cotton," the fact that such burlaps are suitable, and can be and are
used for oil-cloth foundations, or for any other purpose except bagging for
cotton, is entirely immaterial, and does not subject them to an ad valorem
duty of forty per cent.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General -Edwin B. Smith for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. George S. Sedgwick and ITfr. Stephen G. Clarke, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwAm-E delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants in error were the plaintiffs in the court below.
'They claim that they were the importers of certain burlaps,
upon which the duty chargeable by law was thirty per cent
ad valorem; that the collector insisted the goods were "oilcloth foundations," upon which the duty is forty per cent ad
valorem, and compelled them to pay accordingly. They paid
under protest, and brought this suit to recover back the alleged
excess of ten per cent. Under the instructions of the court, a

Oct. 1875.]

ARTHUR V. CImImING ET AL,

verdict and judgment were given in their favor. The collector
thereupon sued out this writ of error.
The case arises under the fourth section of the act of June 6,
1872 (17 Stat. 232), and turns upon the construction to be
given to that section with respect to the particulars here in
controversy.
That section declares, that after the Ist of August, 1872, in
lieu of the duties theretofore levied upon the articles mentioned
in the section, there should be paid upon those articles imported
from foreign countries the following duties ; to wit: "On all burlaps and like manufactures of flax, jute, or hemp, or
of which flax, jute, or hemp shall be the component material of
chief value, except such as may be suitable for bagging for cotton,
thirty per centum ad valorem. On all oil-clothfoundations orfloorcloth canvas, made of flax, hemp, or jute, or of which flax, hemp,
or jute shall be the component material of chief value, forty per
centum ad valorem. On all bags, cotton-bags, and bagging, and all
other like manufactures not herein provided for, except bagging for
cotton, composed wholly or in part of flax, hemp, jute, gunny-cloth,
Igunny-bags, or other material, forty per centum
ad valorem."
All the testimony produced upon the trial is embodied in the
bill of exceptions. It was introduced by the plaintiffi. The
United States adduced none.
The rule to be followed in the construction of revenue statutes in cases like this is well settled in this court. It is, that
the descriptive terms applied to articles of commerce shall be
understood according to the acceptation given to them by commercial men in our own ports at the time of the passage of the
act in which they are found. United States v. Two Hundred
Chests of Tea, 9 Wheat. 230 ; Elliot v. Swartout, 10 Pet. 151;
Curtis v. M£artin, 3 How. 106.
The statute here in question declares that "on all burlaps
and like manufactures of flax, jute, or hemp, . . .except such
as may be suitable for bagging for cotton, a duty of thirty per
centum ad valorem shall be paid."
The mercantile testimony in the record shows that the articles in question were "burlaps," that they were a "manufacture of jute," and that they were not suitable for bagging
for cotton. The exception may, therefore, be laid out of view.

ARTHUR v.

CUMIING

ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

The language of the statute is clear and explicit. It is, "all
burlaps" made of jute, &c. The mercantile proof brings the
case exactly within this category. The fact that the burlaps
were suitable, and could be and were used for oil-cloth foundations, or for any other purpose except bagging for cotton, is
entirely immaterial. The maxim, BExpressio unius, exclusio
altrius, applies with cogent effect.
This view is conclusive, unless it is overcome by something
else found in the statute.
The counsel for the United States insists that it is answered
by the next category defined in the section; which is, that "on
all oil-cloth foundations or floor-cloth canvas made of flax, jute,
or hemp," a duty shall be levied "of forty per cent ad valorern."
Here, again, we must look to the mercantile testimony in the
record. It is there stated that "floor-cloth canvas" is used exclusively for the manufacture of floor oil-cloth. "It has a harder
twist, is heavier, is a more expensive article than burlaps, and
is not calendered as burlaps are. . . . Floor-cloth canvas is a
commercial term implying a well-known article of merchandise
thus described; and a merchant, in speaking of foundations
for oil-cloths, would be considered to refer to 'floor-cloth canvas.'
Floor-cloth canvas is not called burlaps, nor is burlaps called
floor-cloth canvas."
This testimony establishes two things: first, that the terms
oil-clothfoundations and floor-cloth canvas, as used in the statute,
mean in commerce the same thing; and, second, that the thing
so understood is not burlaps, but a thing entirely distinct and
different from that article.
The second clause of the statute in no wise affects the first
one. There is, therefore, no just ground for maintaining that
the goods imported by the plaintiffs below were dutiable as oilcloth foundations, not as burlaps.
The researches of the counsel for the defendants in error
have brought to our attention many instances in which two
phrases with the like conjunction between them have been
used to designate the same thing. In those cases it was obviously done to make clear and certain the meaning of the legislature, and to leave no room for doubt upon the subject. Such

Oct. 1875.]

THE

"D. R.

MARTIN."

in this section seems to have been the purpose of Congress.
The phrase oil-cloth foundations would not necessarily import
the article known in commerce as floor-cloth canvas; nor would
the phrase floor-cloth canvas necessarily import an article to be
used for "oil-cloth foundations."
Considering the juxtaposition and connection in which the
two phrases are found, and letting in upon them the light of
the mercantile evidence, the inference is clear that Congress
used them, and intended that they should be understood, as
convertible terms. This gives all the certainty and freedom
from doubt which could be effected by the largest circumlocution.
It evinces unmistakably the purpose that the floor-cloth canvas
which is known in commerce as the article used for oil-cloth
foundations should pay a duty of forty per cent ad valorem.
The two designations have no effect beyond this result.
This examination of the statute and the record leaves no
doubt in our minds upon the questions presented for our consideration.
As the case stood before the jury, the plaintiffs were clearly
entitled to a verdict. The court, therefore, properly directed
the jury to find accordingly. Shugart v. Allens, 1 Wall. 359.
It would have been error to refuse so to instruct them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

nn.
Tnn "D. R. MAR=
Where the libellant recovered in the District Court a decree for $500, which,
upon appeal by the adverse party, was reversed by the Circuit Court and the
libel dismissed, and the libellant thereupon appealed to this court, - Held,
that, the amount in controversy in the Circuit Court and here being but$500,
the appeal must be dismissed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
This suit was brought by Barney, the libellant, to recover
damages for his wrongful eviction from the steamboat "D. R.
Martin." He demanded in his libel $25,000 damages, but in

