Oct. 1875.]

HAu

ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

HALL ET AL. V. UITED STATES.
1. The twenty-fifth section of the act of June 80, 1864 (13 Stat. 231), authorizes
the Secretary of the Treasury to make, in his discretion, just and reasonable allowances to collectors of internal revenue, in addition to their salaries, commissions, and certain necessary charges. A claim for such
allowances, unless it be sanctioned by him, cannot be admitted by the ac.counting officers of the treasury.
2. In a suit on the official bond of a collector of internal revenue to recover a
balance found to be due from him to the United States on a settlement of
his accounts by the accounting officers, items of set-off for his extra services and expenses were properly excluded.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
Argued by rl. Assistant Attorney-General .Edwin B. Smith
for defendants, and submitted on printed arguments by . J.
Hforn for plaintiffs.
MAR. JUSTICE CLiFrORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Fifteen hundred dollars per annum are allowed to collectors
of internal revenue as salary for their services and that of their
deputies, to be paid quarterly. Commissions, in addition to
salary, are also allowed to such officers, to be computed upon
the amounts by them respectively collected, paid over, and accounted for, under the instructions of the Treasury Department, as follows: Three per cent upon the first $100,000; one
per centum upon all sums above $100,000, and not exceeding
$400,000; and one-half of one per centum on all sums above
$400,000. Such an officer may also keep and render to the
proper officers of the treasury an account of his necessary and
reasonable charges for stationery and blank-books used in the
performance of his official duties, and for postage actually paid
on letters and documents received or sent, and exclusively relating to official business; and, if the account is approved by
the proper accounting officers, the collector is entitled to be
paid for the same: but the provision is that no such account
shall be approved, unless it shall state the date and the particular items of every such expenditure, and shall be verified by
the oath or affirmation of the collector.
Two provisos are annexed to those enactments: (1.) That the

HALL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

salary and commissions of no collector, exclusive of stationery,
blank-books, and postage, shall exceed $10,000 in the aggregate,
nor more than $5,000, exclusive of the expenses for rent, stationery, blank-books, and postage, and pay of deputies and
clerks, to which such collector is actually and necessarily subjected in the administration of his office. (2.) That the Secretary of the Treasury be authorized to make such further
allowances from time to time, as may be reasonable, in cases in
which, from the territorial extent of the district, or from the
amount of internal duties collected, or from other circumstances,
it may seem just to make such allowances. 13 Stat. 231.
Sufficient appears to show that the principal defendant was
duly appointed a collector of internal revenue under the act of
Congress in that case made and provided, and that the foundation of the suit is the official bond given by the appointee for
the faithful discharge of the duties of the office. Breaches of the
conditions of the bond having been committed, as alleged, the
United States commenced an action of debt in the District
Court against the principal and his sureties, claiming the penalties of the bond. Service was made; and the defendants appeared, and pleaded (1.) non est factum; (2.) performance;
(3.) set-off in the sum of $8,203.06 for money before that time
advanced, paid, laid out, and expended by the defendant to and
for the use of the plaintiffs, and at their instance, for the work
and labor of the defendant and his servants and deputies, done
and performed by him, as such collector, for the plaintiffs, and
at their instance and request.
Claim is also made for the same sum in the same plea, upon
the ground that it was due and owing to the defendant from
the plaintiffs for commissions, expenses, and charges for extra
services of himself and his servants, done and performed at
the special instance and request of the plaintiffs.
Issue was joined by the plaintiffs upon the first plea; and
to the second the plaintiffs reply, and deny that the defendant
has well and truly performed the conditions of the writing
obligatory, and assign the following breaches: (1.) That he
has not accounted for and paid over to the United States all
the public moneys which came into his hands, in compliance
with the orders and regulations of the Secretary of the Treas-

Oct. 1875.]

HALL PT AL. V. UNITED STATES.

ury. (2.) That he did not faithfully execute and perform all
the duties of his office, as more fully set forth in the replication.
Both parties, having waived a trial by jury, went to trial
before the court without a jury; and the finding and judgment
were for the plaintiffs, in the sum of $11,517.63. Exceptions
were filed by the defendants; and they sued out a writ of error,
and removed the case into the Circuit Court.
Due settlement of the collector's accounts had been made by
the accounting officers of the treasury; and the plaintiffs, to
support the issues on their part, introduced the certified transcript of the same, to which the defendants objected: but the
court overruled the objection, and admitted the evidence; and
the defendants excepted. Said transcript included the statement of differences, and showed that the sum of $20,120 was
the balance due from the collector.
Collections, it seems, had been made by the officer, for the
preceding year, amounting to $77,702.08; and it did not appeax
that he had been paid during that period any extra allowance
above his salary and commissions, nor that any of the charges
claimed as set-off had been credited in the settlement of his
accounts. Apart from that, it was admitted by the plaintiffs
that the defendants had paid into court the sum of $11,435.17,
wvhich is to be deducted from the balance found due from the
defendants by the accounting officers of the treasury.
Set-offs were claimed by the defendants, as follows: (1.)
$5,010 paid by the collector, during the summer and fall of
1866, to sixteen deputy-collectors employed by him during
that period in his district. (2.) $648 paid for the hire of
clerks in his office during the quarter ending Sept. 30 of the
same year. (3.) $1,100 paid for hire of clerks in making
out his accounts and returns during that and the succeeding
year.
Nothing being alleged to the contrary, it will be assumed
that those several claims had been duly presented to the proper
officers of the treasury, and that they had been finally disallowed. They were separately offered in evidence at the trial;
and the ruling of the court in each instance was, that the same
was properly rejected by the accounting officers of the treasury.
Seasonable exception to the ruling of the court was taken by
voL I.

86

HIALL ET AL. v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. 0 '.

the defendants. Appearance was entered by each party in the
Circuit Court, and they were both there heard; and the Circuit
Court affirmed the judgment of the District Court, and the defendants sued out the present writ of error..
Errors have not been assigned, as required by the rules of
the court; but the course of the argument, as exhibited in the
printed brief, warrants the conclusion that the only errors relied on are the rulings of the District Court, that the accounts
filed in set-off were properly rejected by'the accounting officers
of the treasury. Defendant litigants had no right to file accounts in set-off at common law; nor did they ever have that
right until the passage of the statute of 2 Geo. II., ch. 24, sect. 4,
which enacted, in substance and effect, that, where there were
mutual debts between the plaintiff and the defendant, one debt
may be set against the other, and that such matter may be
given in evidence under the general issue, or may be pleaded
in bar, so that notice shall be given of the sum or debt intended
to be offered in evidence. Chit. on Contr. 948.
Questions of the kind, where the United States are plaintiffs,
must be determined wholly by the acts of Congress, as the local
laws have no application in such cases. United States v. _Eckford, 6 Wall. 490; United States v. Robeson, 9 Pet. 324; Conklin, Treat. 127.
Judgment in such suits is required to be rendered at the return term, unless the defendant shall, in open court, make oath
or affirmation that he is equitably entitled to credits which had
not been, previous to the commencement of the suit, submitted
to the consideration of the accounting officers of the treasury
and rejected, and specifying each particular claim so rejected
in the affidavit. 1 Stat. 515; United States v. Giles, 9 Cranch,
236; 5 Stat. 83.
Sect. 4 of the same act provides, that, in suits between the
United States and individuals, no claim for a credit shall be
admitted at the trial, except such as shall appear to have been
.ubmitted to the accounting officers of the treasury for their
examination, and to have been by them disallowed, unless it
shall appear that the defendant, at the time of the trial, is in
possession of vouchers not before in his power to procure, and
that he was prevented from exhibiting a claim for such credit

Oct. 1875.]

HALL ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

at the treasury by absence from the United States, or some
unavoidable accident.
Claims for credit in suits against persons indebted to the
United States, if it appears that the claim had previously been
presented to the accounting officers of the treasury for their
examination, and had been by them disallowed in whole or in
part, may be admitted upon the trial of the suit; but it can
only be admitted as a claim for credit, and must be proved to
be just and legal before it can be allowed. Equitable claims
for credit, if falling within the latter clause of the fourth section of that act, may be admitted at the trial of such a suit,
though never presented to and disallowed at the treasury;
but the presentation of such a claim will amount to nothing,
unless it is proved that the same is justly due to the claimant.
Due returns, it seems, were made by the collector. It is
not questioned that his accounts were regularly settled by the
accounting officers of the treasury; nor is it suggested that due
credit was not given to him for every thing which he could
properly claim, except for the extra services and expenses
charged in the accounts filed in set-off; and it appears that
those accounts were duly presented to the accounting officers
of the treasury, and were by them rejected before the suit was
instituted. When the claims were offered, the court admitted
the evidence; and the only complaint is, that the court ruled
that the claims were properly rejected by the accounting officers of the treasury, which is the only question presented for
decision.
Independent of the second proviso to the section defining the
compensation to be allowed to such collectors, it would be clear
beyond every doubt that no claim of the kind could be allowed
by any court, as appears from the acts of Congress upon the
subject and the decisions of this court. Legislation upon the
subject commenced with respect to collectors of the customs,
but was ultimately extended to all executive officers with fixed
salaries, or whose compensation was prescribed by law. Sect.
18 of the act of the 7th of May, 1822, provided that no collector, surveyor, or naval officer shall ever receive more than
8400 annually, exclusive of his compensation as such officer,
and the fines and forfeitures allowed by law for any service he
may render in any other office or capacity. 3 Stat. 696.

HALL ET AL. V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. at.

Prior to that, the settled practice and usage were to require
collectors to superintend lights and light-houses in their districts, and to disburse money for the revenue-cutter service.
Services of the kind were charged as extra services, and extra
compensation was in many cases allowed for such service, until
Congress interfered, and by that act gave such officers a fixed
compensation, subject to the provision that they should never
receive more than $400, exclusive of the fixed compensation,
and their due proportion of fines, penalties, and forfeitures.
Officers not named in that act also received fixed salaries; and
they, whenever they performed extra service under the direction of the head of a department, claimed extra compensation.
Claims of the kind were in some instances disallowed; and in
certain cases, where litigation ensued, it was decided by this
court that such claims were a proper set-off to the money demands of the United States. i3liner v. United States, 15 Pet.
423; Gratiotv. United States, id. 336; United States v. -ipley,
7 id. 18.
Litigations of the kind became frequent; and Congress again
interfered, and provided that no officer in any branch of the
public service, or any other person whose salary or whose pay
or emoluments is or are fixed by law and regulations, shall receive any extra allowance or compensation, in any form whatever, for the disbursement of public money or the performance
of any other service, unless the said extra allowance or compensation be authorized by law. 5 Stat. 349.
Since then many other acts of Congress have been passed
upon the subject, of which one more only will be reproduced.
Like the preceding act, it provides that no officer in any branch
of the public service, or any other person whose salary, pay, or
emoluments is or are fixed by law or regulations, shall receive
any additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation, in any
form whatever, for the disbursement of public money, or for
any other service or duty whatever, unless the same shall be
authorized by law; and the appropriation therefor is explicitly
set forth that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance, or
compensation. 5 Stat. 510; 9 id. 297, 365, 367, 504, 542, 543,
629; 10 id. 97-100, 119, 120.
Compensation for extra services, where no certain sum is

00. 1875.]

HALL ET AL. v. Uinm

STATES.

fixed by law, cannot be allowed by the head of a department to
any officer who has by law a fixed or certain compensation for
his services in the office he holds, unless such head of a department is thereto authorized by an act of Congress; nor can any
compensation for extra services be allowed by the court or jury
as a set-off, in a suit brought by the United States against any
officer for public money in his hands, unless it appears that the
head of the department was authorized by an act of Congress to
appoint an agent to perform the extra service, that the compenoation to be paid for the service was fixed by law, that the service to be performed had respect to matters wholly outside of
the duties appertaining to the office held by the agent, and that
the money to pay for the extra services had been appropriated
by Congress. Converse v. United States, 21 How. 470.
None of the conditions precedent suggested existed in the
case before the court; and it follows that no such allowance
could have been made by the accounting officers of the treasury
in settling the accounts of the principal defendant, unless the
same had been previously approved by the Secretary of the
Treasury, under the second proviso in the twenty-fifth section
of the act prescribing the compensation to be allowed to the
collectors of internal revenue. 13 Stat. 232.
Authority is there given to the Secretary of the Treasury to
make such further allowances to such collectors, from time to
time, as may be reasonable; but the power io be exercised in
that behalf is one vested in his discretion, both as to time and
amount. He may make an allowance one year, and refuse it
the next, or he may never make it at all, as to him may seem
just and reasonable. No appeal lies from his decision in that
regard, either to the accounting officers of the treasury or to the
courts. Instead of that his decision is final, unless reversed by
Congress.
Jdgment afflrmed.

UNITED STATES

v.

NORTON.

[Sup. ot.

HALL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.

ERIROI to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
M

. JUSTICE CLIXFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Suffice it to say, that the suit in this case is in all material
respects exactly similar to the foregoing case, and that the
pleadings filed by the defendants are precisely similar. It was
commenced in the District Court; and the parties waived a jury,
and the finding and judgment were for the plaintiffs. Exceptions were filed by the defendants, and they removed the cause
into the Circuit Court. All the questions in the Circuit Court
were the same as in the preceding case; and the Circuit Coiu't,
having heard the parties, affirmed the judgment of the District
Court: whereupon the defendants sued out the present writ of
error. Due examination has since been given to the case, and
we find no error in the record. Our reasons for the conclusion
Judgment affirmed.
are given in the other case.

UNITED STATES V. NOITON.
1. The act entitled "An Act to establish a postal money-order system," approved
May 17, 1864 (13 Stat. 76), is not a revenue law within the meaning of the
act entitled " An Act in addition to the act entitled 'An Act for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States,'" approved March 26,
1804 (2 Stat. 290).
2. A person cannot be prosecuted, tried, or punished for the embezzlement of
money belonging to tie postal money-order office, unless the indictment
shall have been found within two years from the time of committing the
offence.

ON a certificate of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
The case was argued by Assistant Attorney- General Edwin B.
Smith for plaintiff, and by Xr. Abram Wakeman for defendant.
M. JUSTICE SWATNE delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears by the record that Norton was indicted for the
embezzlement at different times of money belonging to the

