OSBORN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

apply to property located within the limits of the railroad, nor
to personal property temporarily on hand." This view of the
statute, as we have already remarked, is not, in our judgment,
correct as a general proposition, and certainly not in its application to a case where property is placed within the lines of
a railway, by the consent of a railway company, for the con- enience in part of its traffic.
It remains only to add, that we see no just ground of complaint of the affirmative instruction given to the jury. It was
in accordance with the rule prescribed by the statute; and
there seems to have been no controversy in the Circuit Court
respecting the question, whether, if the fire was communicated
to the bridge by a locomotive, it caused the injury to the
plaintiffs.
The judgment is, therefore, affirmed.

OSBORN v.

UNITED STATES.

1. Subject to exceptions therein prescribed, a pardon by the President restores to
its recipient all rights of property lost by the offence pardoned, unless the
property has by judicial process become vested in other persons.
2. A condition annexed to a pardon, that the recipient shall not by virtue of it
claim any property, or the proceeds of any property, sold by the order, judgment, or decree of a court, under the confiscation laws of the United States,
does not preclude him from applying to the court for the proceeds of a confiscated money-bond secured by mortgage, which were collected by the officers of the court in part by voluntary payment by the obligors, and in part
by sale of the lands mortgaged. The condition is only intended to protect purchasers at judicial sale, decreed under the confiscation laws, from any claim
of the original owner for the property sold or the purchase-money.
S. The proceeds of property confiscated, paid into court, are under its control
until an order for their distribution is made, or they are paid into the hands
of the informer entitled to them, or into the treasury of the United States.
4 Where moneys belonging to the registry of the court are withdrawn from it
without authority of law, the court can, by summary proceedings, compel
their restitution; and any one entitled to the moneys may apply to the court
by petition for a delivery of them to him.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
Submitted on printed arguments by illessrs. R. 2I. Corwine,
Q. Corwine, J W. English, Henry Beard, and G.i. Armes, for

Oct. 1875.]

OSBORN V. UNITED STATES.

the plaintiff in error, and by 21r. -E.S. Brown for the defend.
ant in error.
MI. JUSTICE FILrD delivered the opinion of the court.
The material questions presented in this case for our determination relate, first, to the effect of the President's pardon
upon the rights of the petitioner to the proceeds of his property
confiscated by the decree of the District Court; and, second,
to the power of the court to compel restitution to its registry
of moneys illegally received by its former officers.
In May, 1868, the District Court of Kansas decreed the condemnation and forfeiture to the United States of the several
bonds and mortgages described in the information filed by the
government. In June following, it ordered that the several
debtors on these bonds should, within five months thereafter,
pay into court the money due by them respectively; and that,
in default of such payment, the clerk should issue to the marshal orders for the sale of the mortgaged property, upon which
he should proceed as on execution under the laws of Kansas.
Some of the debtors paid the amounts due by them into court;
but the majority of them failed in this respect, and. orders for
the sale of the property mortgaged were issued to the marshal.
To him the greater number paid without sale; but, in some instances, sales were made. Over $20,000 in this way came into
the possession of officers of the court.
There were at the time numerous other confiscation cases
pending in the court, and the moneys received from them were
indiscriminately mixed with the moneys received in the cases
against the property of the petitioner. None of the moneys
received in any of the cases was paid into the treasury of the
United States, and no order was made by the court for any
such payment. Some of them were deposited in a bankinghouse at Leavenworth, designated as the place of deposit of
moneys paid into court, aafd afterwards drawn out; some
were obtained by officers of the court, and to an extent greatly
in excess of their legal charges; and some of them were paid
to the judge. The moneys from the different confiscation cases,
being indiscriminately mixed, would seem to have been taken
by the officers of the court whenever funds were needed by

0SBORN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

them, without regard to the sources from which they were
derived, or the propriety of their application to the purposes
for which they were used.
In April, 1866, the petitioner applied to the court for leave
to file a petition for the restoration to him of the proceeds of
his property, after deducting the costs of the legal proceedings,
alleging that he had been pardoned by the President of the
United States, and setting forth a copy of the pardon. The
pardon was issued in September, 1865, and was in terms a full
pardon and amnesty for all offences committed by the petitioner,
arising from participation, direct or indirect, in the rebellion,
subject to certain conditions. One of these conditions provided
that the petitioner should pay all costs which may have accrued
in proceedings instituted or pending against his person or property before the acceptance of the pardon. Another condition
was, that the petitioner should not by virtue of the pardon
claim any property, or the proceeds of any property, which had
been sold by the order, judgment, or decree of a court under
the confiscation laws of the United States.
The District Court refused the application; but the Circuit
Court, on appeal, reversed its order, and allowed the petition to
be filed. The District Court held, it would seem, that the
conditions attached to the pardon precluded the petitioner from
seeking to obtain the proceeds of his property: but the Circuit
Court was of opinion that the effect of a pardon was to restore
to its recipient all rights of property lost by the offence pardoned, unless the property had, by judicial process, become
vested in other persons, subject to such exceptions as were prescribed by the pardon itself; that until an order of distribution
of the proceeds was made in these cases, or the proceeds were
actually paid into the hands of the party entitled as informer
to receive them, or into the treasury of the United States, they
were within the control of the court, and that no vested right
to the proceeds had accrued so as to prevent the pardon from
restoring them to the petitioner. Woolworth's Rep. 198.
This ruling is here assailed by officers of the court, who are
called upon to make restitution of a portion of the proceeds
they obtained, not by the United States, who are alone interested in the decision. It is not a matter for these officers to

Oct. 1875.]

OSBORN V. UNITED STATES.

complain that proceeds of property adjudged forfeited to
the United States are held subject to the further disposition
of the court, and possible restitution to the original owner.
That is a matter which concerns only the United States, and
they have not seen fit to object to the decision. But, independently of this consideration, we are clear that the decision
was correct. The pardon, as is seen, embraces all offences
arising from participation of the petitioner, direct or indirect,
in the rebellion. It covers, therefore, the offences for which the
forfeiture of his property was decreed. The confiscation law
of 1862, though construed to apply only to public enemies, is
limited to such of them as were engaged in and gave aid and
comfort to the rebellion. 12 Stat., sect. 7, p. 590. The pardon
of that offence necessarily carried with it the release of the
penalty attached to its commission, so far as such release was
in the power of the government, unless specially restrained by
exceptions embraced in the instrument itself. It is of the
very essence of a pardon that it releases the offender from the
consequences of his offence. If in the proceedings to establish
his culpability and enforce the penalty, and before the grant of
the pardon, the rights of others than the government have
vested, those rights cannot be impaired by the pardon. The
government having parted with its power over such rights,
they necessarily remain as they existed previously to the grant
of the pardon. The government can only release what it holds.
But, unless rights of others in the property condemned have
accrued, the penalty of forfeiture annexed to the commission
of the offence must fall with the pardon of the offence itself,
provided the full operation of the pardon be not restrained by the
conditions upon which it is granted. The condition annexed to
the pardon of the petitioner does not defeat such operation in the
present case. The property of the petitioner forfeited consisted
of numerous money-bonds, secured by mortgage on lands in
Kansas. These bonds were not sold under the confiscation
laws: they were collected by the officers of the court, in part
by voluntary payments by the obligors, and in part by sale of
the lands mortgaged. These lands did not belong to the petitioner. A mortgage in Kansas does not pass the title of the
property mortgaged: it is a mere security frn +he debt, to

OSBORN V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

which the creditor may resort to enforce payment. The property mortgaged was not confiscated nor sold under the confiscation laws. When a bond of one of the debtors was not
voluntarily paid, the court proceeded to enforce its payment by
the ordinary measure resorted to in the case of mortgages; that
is, a sale of the security.
The object of the condition in question annexed to the pardon was to protect the purchaser of property of the petitioner,
at a judicial sale decreed under the confiscation laws, from any
claim by him either for the property or the purchase-money.
Numerous sales had been made under decrees in confiscation
cases, and a similar condition was usually inserted in pardons
to secure the purchasers from molestation. Full effect is thus
given to the condition; and, as a pardon is an act of grace,
limitations upon its operation should be strictly construed.
But it is contended, that, as the bonds were forfeited to the
government by the decree of the District Court, there can be
no restitution except by grant or conveyance of some kind
from the government, and that the proprietary interests of the
government can only be disposed of by act of Congress. The
answer is, that the forfeiture results, not from the decree of the
court, but from the offence which the decree establishes and
declares. The pardon, in releasing the offence, obliterating it
in legal contemplation (Carlisle v. United States, 16 Wall.
151), removes the ground of the forfeiture upon which the
decree rests, and the source of title is then gone.
But, were this otherwise, the constitutional grant to the
President of the power to pardon offences must be held to carry
with it, as an incident, the power to release penalties and forfeitures which accrue from the offences.
The petitioner being restored by the pardon to his rights in
the proceeds of the property forfeited, after deducting from
them the costs of the legal proceedings, naturally invoked the
aid of the court in which the proceedings were had, or to which
they were transferred, for restitution of the proceeds. Proceedings in confiscation cases are required by the statute to
conform as nearly as may be to proceedings in admiralty or
revenue cases; and in admiralty it is the constant practice for
persons having an interest in proceeds in the registry of the

Oct. 1875.]

LLOYD ET AL.

v. FULTON.

court to intervene by petition and summary proceedings to
obtain a delivery of the moneys to which they are entitled. The
forty-third admiralty rule recognizes this right; and in cases
without number the right has been enforced. The power of the
court over moneys belonging to its registry continues until they
are distributed pursuant to final decrees in the cases in which
the moneys are paid. If from any cause they are previously
withdrawn from the registry without authority of law, the
court can, by summary proceedings, compel their restitution.
In the present case, it is no answer to the order for restitution
that the appellants received the moneys they obtained as
officers of the court, and that they have long since ceased to be
such officers. If the moneys were illegally taken, they must be
restored; and, until a decree of distribution is made and enforced,
the summary power of the court to compel restitution remains
intact. The power could be applied in no case more fittingly
than to previous officers of the court.
The careful and labored reports of the commissioners appointed by the court to examine into the proceedings in the
confiscation cases, ascertain the expenses incurred, and trace
out as far as possible the moneys received, were properly confirmed. There is no objection to their findings which merits
consideration.
The decree brought before us for review must be affirmed,
except as to the costs of the proceedings subsequent to the presentation of the application of the petitioner. Those costs
should be apportioned against the parties ordered to make
restitution, according to the respective amounts they are adjudged to restore. The cause will, therefore, be remanded, with
directions to modify the decree in this particular; but, in all
The decree is affirmed.
other respects,

LLOYD ET AL. V. FULTOx.
1 As the provision of the English Statute of Frauds touching promises made
in consideration of marriage is in force in Georgia, a promise there made,
but not in writing, to settle property upon an intended wife, is void. Such
promise after marriage is also void for want of consideration.

