REPORTS OF TIE DECISIONS
Or THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1875.

MCCOrM, EXECUTOR, v. CO~MMSSIOi-RS OF YKIOX COUY,

Orno.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of a State reversing that of a Court of
Common Pleas, and remanding the cause for "further proceedings according to law," is not final; nor can the judgment subsequently rendered by the
inferior court be re-examined here.

ERPor to the Court of Common Pleas for the County of
Richand, State of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Tr I. Smith for the defendant in error. No counsel
appeared for the plaintiff in error.
RIn.
CniF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Commissioners of Knox County having sued McComb
in the Court of Common Pleas of Richland County, he filed
an answer to their petition, to which they demurred, alleging
for cause that it did not contain facts sufficient to bar the
action. This demurrer was overruled, and replies were thereupon filed. McComb then demurred to the replies, because
the facts stated did not constitute a defence to the matter set
up in the answer. This demurrer was sustained, and judgment given in favor of McComb.
The case was then taken by writ of error to the Supreme
VOL. I.

1

2

MCCOIAB, EX'R, V. COMMISSIONERS, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

Court of the State, where the judgment of the Common Pleas
was reversed for error in sustaining the demurrer to the replies,
and overruling that to the answer; but, upon suggestion by
McComb that he might ask leave to amend his answer, the
cause was remanded "for further proceedings according to
law." Upon the filing of the mandate in the Common Pleas,
that court, in accordance -with the decision of the Supreme
Court, overruled the demurrer to the replies, and sustained that
to the answer. McComb did not ask leave to amend his answer, but elected to rely upon his defence, as already stated.
Thereupon the court gave judgment against him upon the case
made by the petition.
This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse that judgment.
The Court of Common Pleas is not the highest court of the
State; but the judgment we are called upon to re-examine is
the judgment of that court alone. The judgment of the Supreme Court is one of reversal only. As such, it was not a
final judgment. Parcels v. Johnson, 20 Wall. 653; MAoore v.
Bobbins, 18 id. 588; St. Clair v. Lovingston, id. 628. The
Common Pleas was not directed to enter a judgment rendered
by the Supreme Court and carry it into execution, but to proceed with the case. according to law. The Supreme Court, so
far from putting an end to the litigation, purposely left it open.
The law of the case upon the pleadings as they stood was settled; but ample power was left in the Common Pleas to permit
the parties to make a new case by amendment. In fact, the
cause was sent back for further proceedings because of the suggestion by McComb that he might want to present a new
defence by amending his answer.
The final judgment is, therefore, the judgment of the Court
of Common Pleas, and not of the Supreme Court. It may have
been the necessary result of the decision by the Supreme Court
of the questions presented for its determination; but it is none
the less, on that account, the act of the Common Pleas. As
such, it was, when rendered, open to review by the Supreme
Court, and for that reason is not the final judgment "of the
highest court in the State in which a decision in the suit could
be had." Rev. Stat. sect. 709.
The writ is dismissed.

