MCMIANUS V.

O'SULLIVAN ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

and (2) that the proceeds of the sale were not paid into the
treasury of the United States.
Upon this state of facts, the judgment of the court below was
clearly right. It is certain that no suit can be maintained
against the United States under the Abandoned and Captured
Property Act, if the property has neither been captured, seized,
nor sold pursuant to its provisions, and the proceeds are not in
the treasury.
Judgment affirmed.

MCMA-us v. O'SULrVAN ET A.
0
This court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of a State court where
a Federal question was not in fact passed upon, and where a decision of it
was rendered unnecessary in the view which tie court below took of the
case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
Submitted by Xr. Calhoun Benham for plaintiff, and by Mr.
John 3. Coghlan and 1M1r. William Irvine for defendants.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Terence B. McManus, under whom the plaintiff claims,
entered into the possession of the premises in controversy in
1854, or thereabouts. He continued his possession until his
death in 1861, at or about which time the defendants entered and
held adversely to his estate until the commencement of this
action in August, 1867.
When McManus entered, and during all the time he was in
possession, the city of San Francisco was asserting title to the
property, under a Mexican pueblo right, before the commissioners appointed under the act of Congress providing for the settlement of private land-claims in California, and before the courts
upon appeal. A decree was rendered in favor of the city by
the Circuit Court of the United States, May 18, 1865. From
this decree an appeal was taken to this court; pending which an
act was passed, March 8, 1866, entitled "An Act to quiet the
title to certain lands within the corporate limits of the city of
San Francisco." 14 Stat. 4. Upon the passage of this act, the
appeal was dismissed.

Oct. 1875.]

MOMANUS v. O'SULUVAN

ET AL.

McManus and his representatives do not pretend to connect
themselves with the city title by any actual grant. The extent of their claim is, that their possession was evidence of their
connection with the true title, which was at that time the city
title. Neither do the defendants assert any claim under the
true title. Their only defence is possession adverse to the
estate of McManus, but admitted to be not adverse to the city.
Against this the plaintiff insists, that, as the defendants did not
claim adversely to all the world, their possession adverse to
him could not defeat his right of action.
Thus it will be seen that two questions were properly presented
to the Supreme Court of California for adjudication; to wit: 1. Does possession necessarily connect itself with the true
title, in the absence of proof to the contrary? and, 2. Is possession, within the meaning of the statute of limitation in California, adverse to one who claims title, if it is not
also adverse to all the world?
If these questions were decided against the plaintiff, no Federal question could be involved. The record, without the opinion
of the court, shows that they were presented, and does not show
that any Federal question was decided. Under such circumstances, it is proper, if it can be at any time, to look to the
opinion of the court, which has been sent here with the record,
to ascertain whether, in point of fact, the court necessarily passed
by the intermediate questions, and actually did decide as to the
effect of the pueblo right and the treaty, with the accompanying
acts of Congress, upon the title of the plaintiff.
Looking to that, we find that the court decided that possession
did not carry with it the presumption that the plaintiff held under
the city title; and that, if the possession of the defendants was
adverse to him, it was a bar to his right of action, even though it
was not adverse to all the world. These are questions within
the exclusive jurisdiction of the State courts, and not subject
in any manner to our re-examination. Their decision against
the plaintiff made it unnecessary to consider the proposed
Federal question. Thus it is seen that the Federal question was,
in fact, not decided; and that, in the view the court below took
of the case, such a decision was not necessary. It is clear,
therefore, that we have no jurisdiction of this case.
Writ of error dismissed.

