TOWNSEND v. TODD ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

interest to the claimant. Unless where the contract is express
to that effect, the United States are not liable to pay interest.
Interest should never be allowed on old claims, where payment
has been deferred because the accounting officers of the treasury
were of the opinion that further legislation was necessary to
authorize their allowance, unless the new law clearly provides
for the payment of interest as well as principal.

TOWNSEND v. TODD ET AL.
This court is bound to follow the courts of the State of Connecticut in their unifbrm decisions, in construing the recording acts of that State, that a mortgage
must truly describe the debt intended to be secured; and that it is not sufficient
that the debt be of such a character that it might have been secured by the
mortgage had it been truly described.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
Mr. John S. Beach for the appellant.
Or. Simeon -E. Baldwin, contra.

MR. JusTIoE, HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The validity of the mortgage of $50,000 is attacked on the
ground that it is in violation of the spirit and policy of the
statutes and recording system of the State of Connecticut.
The district and the circuit judge, each familiar with the
statutes and decisions of that State, sustained this proposition.
The precise objection to the mortgage is, that it does not truly
describe the debt intended to be secured. The mortgage by its
terms was given to secure the payment of a note of $50,000,
dated April 12, 1873, executed by George T. Newhall to the
order of James M. Townsend, payable on demand, with interest
at the rate of seven per cent, payable semi-annually in advance.
The bill alleges, and it is found by the district judge to be
true, that Newhall was not at the date of the mortgage, and
when the same was recorded, indebted to Townsend in any sum
whatever which was secured by said note. The understanding
was that Townsend would endeavor to borrow money or avail-

Oct. 1875.]

TOWNSEND V. TODD E'T AL.

able securities to furnish to Newhall's creditors in satisfaction
of his debts, and the mortgage was to stand as security for the
repayment of the values thus advanced. The mortgage and
note were to be placed in the hands of one White; and, if
Townsend was unable to render this pecuniary aid, the sum of
$40,000 was to be indorsed upon the note and mortgage by
White, and the mortgage was to stand as security for the
Chapman mortgage of $7,500, and a debt of $2,500 due to
Townsend, also secured by another mortgage. Townsend did
not obtain or borrow money or securities from any third person on the faith of this mortgage; but, in reliance upon the
security of the mortgage, he did indorse notes for Newhall, and
pay money to an amount exceeding $6,000. The struggle on
the part of Townsend is to hold his mortgage for this sum of
$6,000.
The question depends upon the recording acts of the State of
Connecticut; and we are bound to follow the decisions of the
courts of the State in their construction of those acts, if there
has been a uniform course of decisions respecting them. Allen
v. Massey, 17 Wall. 854; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Clicago
Clity v. Bobins, 2 Black, 428.
The cases of Pettebone v. Grswold, 4 Conn. 158; Shevard
v. Shepard, 6 id. 37; North v. Belden, 13 id. 883; H~art v.
-kalder, 14 id. 77; Merrils v. Swift, 18 id. 257; Bacon v.
Brown, 19 id. 30; and several others,-are clear and decisive
against the validity of the mortgage in question. In Brown v.
N£ix, 20 Conn. 420, and Potterv. Holden, 31 id. 385, the Supreme
Court of that State held to its principles in words, but in effect
considerably relaxed the rule. If those cases stood alone, or if
there was no later case, there would be some room for doubt
what the rule should be. The very recent case, however, of
Flood v. Bramhall, 41 Conn. 72, fully and distinctly reasserts
the rule laid down in the earlier cases. It is there held that the
mortgage must truly describe the debt intended to be secured,
and that it is not sufficient that the debt be of such a character
that it might have been secured by the mortgage had it been
truly described.
In most of the States, a mortgage like the one before us,
reciting a specific indebtedness, but given in fact to secure ad.

454

G. TRUNK R.R. Co. v. RICHARDSON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

vances or indorsements thereafter to be made, is a valid security,
and would be good to secure the $6,000 actually advanced before other incumbrances were placed upon the property. 11
Ohio St. 232; 12 id. 38; 84 N. Y. 307; 85 id. 500; 22 id.
380; 2 Sand. Ch. 78; 6 Duer, 208.
We should be quite willing to give the appellant the benefit
of this principle to the extent of his actual advances; but the
contrary rule seems to be so well settled in Connecticut, that
we are not at liberty to do so. The decree below vacating and
cancelling the appellant's mortgage, being in conformity with
that rule, is
Affirmed.

G(RAD ThuNK RAmRoAD ConANY v. RxcnnADsoN ET AL.
1. The erection of buildings by the permission of a railroad company within
the line of its roadway by other parties, for convenience in delivering and
receiving freight, is not inconsistent with the purposes for which the charter
was granted; and a license by the company to such other parties is admissible to show its consent to the occupation of its premises.
2. The determination of an issue, as to whether the destruction of property by
fire communicated by a locomotive was the result of negligence on the part
of a railroad company, depends upon the facts shown as to whether or not
it used such caution and diligence as the circumstances of the case demanded or prudent men ordinarily exercise, and not upon the usual conduct
of other companies in the vicinity.
8. Where the statute of a State provides, that, "when an injury is done to a
building or other property by fires communicated by a locomotive-engine
of any railroad corporation, the said corporation shall be responsible in
damages for such injury," and have an insurable interest in such property
"along its route," - Held, that the phrase "along its route" means in proximity to the rails upon which the locomotive-engines run; and that the corporation is liable for such an injury to buildings or other property along
its route, whether they are outside of the lines of its roadway, or lawfully
within those lines.
4. In an action for such an injury, evidence was offered by the plaintiff, that, at
various times during the same summer before the fire in question occurred,
the defendant's locomotives scattered fire when going past the buildings,
without showing that either of those which he claimed communicated the
fire in question was among the number, or was similar to them in its make,
state of repair, or management. Held, that the evidence was admissible,
as tending to prove the possibility, and a consequent probability, that some
locomotive caused the fire, and to show a negligent habit of the officers and
agents of the corporation.
5, The statute applies to an injury to such buildings and property which is caused
by fire spreading from other buildings to which it was first communicated by
the locomotive.

