Oct. 1875.]

Mi

Mississn,,

Aw

.&

Mo. R.R. Co. v. CRomEwu.

643

MIssouI RArnaoAD ComrAwy v. CRoxWELL.

A court of equity is not bound to shut its eyes to the evident character of a
transaction where its aid is sought to carry into effect an unconscionable
bargain, but will leave the party to his remedy at law.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted by 3Ir. George a. Wright and Mr. B?. P. Lowe for
the appellant, and by Mr. John N. Rogers for the appellee.
0

Mr. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill in this case was filed in the court below by the appellee, Cromwell, against the appellants, the Mississippi and
Missouri Railroad Company, and Muscatine County, of the
State of Iowa, to compel the former to transfer to the complainant on its books, and to issue to him a certificate for, seventeen hundred and fourteen shares of its capital stock standing
in the name of Muscatine County, which stock the complainant claims to have purchased at an execution sale made by the
marshal of the United States for the District of Iowa.
It is conceded that one James F. Harrison of New York, in
October, 1867, recovered a judgment in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Iowa against Muscatine
County, for $6,500, upon the coupons attached to certain bonds
issued by that county in 1854, being a portion of $150,000 of
bonds issued in payment of its subscription for said stock; and
that under an execution on said judgment in October, 1868, the
marshal assumed to levy on said stock, and on the 23d of December, 1868, sold the same at public auction in the city of
Des Moines; and that the complainant, Cromwell, became the
purchaser for the sum of $50; and that the marshal executed
to him a bill of sale accordingly.
The appellants question the validity of the levy made by the
marshal, on the ground that the stock was not located in Iowa,
but in the city of New York, and could not be levied on in the
district of Iowa. Without attempting to decide this point, we

644

Miss. AND MO. R.R. Co. v. CROMWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

will proceed to the examination of other grounds of defence
more directly bearing upon the title to equitable relief.
The certificates of the stock had been deposited, in June, 1866,
with the Union Trust Company in the city of New York, in
pursuance of an agreement by which the stockholders and bondholders of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company had
arranged for a formal judicial sale of the railroad of said company under the foreclosure of a mortgage to the Chicago, Rock
Island, and Pacific Railroad Company. By this agreement, the
stockholders consenting and depositing their stock as aforesaid
were to receive sixteen per cent of the par value thereof, either
in money or in the bonds of the Chicago, Rock Island, and
Pacific Railroad Company; making the amount to be received
by the county of Muscatine for its stock about 827,400, with
interest from Dec. 1, 1865. The deposit of the stock held by
the county under this arrangement entitled it to this sum. In
this state of things, certain creditors of the railroad company
(including said Harrison) filed a bill in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Iowa, claiming that the
arrangement was a fraud on their rights, and that the sixteen
per cent which the stockholders had stipulated for ought to be
given up to them in payment of their demands as far as it
would go for that purpose. This claim was sustained by the
court; and a decree to that effect was made in May, 1868, before the issuing of Harrison's execution under which the stock
was sold. The total amount of the sixteen per cent reserved
to the stockholders, after deducting their share of the expenses,
was $541,000; and the total amount of the claims of creditors,
to which the money was by the said decree appropriated, was
nearly $800,000,-more than sufficient to absorb the whole of it.
Now, as the stock of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad
Company, by the foreclosure and sale of all its property under
the mortgage, had become completely valueless, if it had not
ceased to exist for any purpose except the perception of the
sixteen per cent before mentioned, and as that sixteen per
cent was also entirely absorbed and taken away by the outside
creditors of the company under this decree, it would appear
that the subsequent levy on and sale of the stock belonging to
Muscatine County was a vain and useess transaction. The

Oct. 1875.]

]
Mss. AND io.

R.R. Co. v. CRoMWML.

645

property of the company was gone; its franchises -were gone;
the amount which the stockholders had arranged to realize was
gone; and consequently the stock could have been nothing but
an empty name, and the attempt to keep it afloat for speculative purposes is not such as should recommend it to a court of
equity. The parties to such a transaction ought at least to be
left to their remedies at law. A court of equity should have
no sympathy with any such contrivances to gain a contingent
or speculative advantage, if any such is to be gained.
On the other hand, if, as intimated by the counsel, there is a
contingency of obtaining the sixteen per cent appropriated to
this stock by the arrangement made between the two railroad
companies (now amounting to over $32,000), the case stands
on no better grounds to recommend it to the special interposition of the court. This result cannot be attained without in
some way depriving the county of Muscatine of that sum.
If by payment of the county bonds, or in any other way, the
sixteen per cent becomes liberated from the decree, the county
will be equitably entitled to the money, unless Cromwell, the
appellee, has a better equity. To him it will be a windfall,
like a prize in a lottery. He paid no adequate consideration
to entitle him to claim it as a matter of equity. If the law
gives it to him, he should seek his remedy at law. Equity will
not lend its aid to any such games of hazard. The levy on the
stock and the formal sale of it by Harrison, after having with
other creditors obtained a decree for appropriating the sixteen
per cent due on it, was evidently not done for the honest purpose of making his debt by the sale, or he would not have
allowed it to be sold for fifty dollars. The object must have
been to get, by the forms of sale, some ulterior unconscionable
advantage by the possession of the stock. The purchaser,
Cromwell, stands in no better position. He comes into court
with a very bad grace when he asks to use its extraordinary
powers to put him in possession of thirty thousand dollars'
worth of stock for which he paid only fifty dollars. The court
is not bound to shut its eyes to the evident character of the
transaction. It will never lend its aid to carry out an unconscionable bargain, but will leave the party to his remedy at law.
This has been so often held on bills for specific performance,

646

PHILLIPS, ETC. CONST. CO. V. SEYMOUR ET AL.

[Sup. Ct

and in other analogous cases, that it is unnecessary to spend
argument on the subject.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directions to dismiss
the bill of complaint.

PHILLIPS AND COLBY CONSTRUCTION COMPAINY V. SEYMIOUn
ET A.L.
1. A., who had undertaken to build a railroad for a company, entered July 18,
1872, into a sealed contract with B. for building a hundred and sixty
miles of the road. The contract, among other things, provided that B.
should complete the first section, of forty miles, on or before the first day of
September then next ensuing; the third section, of twenty miles, by the
fifteenth day of that month; the fourth section, of twenty miles, on the
fifteenth day of the following November; the fifth section, of twenty miles,
on the fifteenth day of December; and so on ; the whole to be completed
May 1, 1873. Payment was to be made to B. as the work progressed, the
15th of each month, on monthly estimates, by the engineer of the railroad
company, of the work done the previous month, except fifteen per cent
after the completion of forty miles, which was to be retained as security
for the performance by B. until the work should be completed, and to be
forfeited to A., and applied to any claim for damages which he might sustain by the failure of B. to have the stipulated work completed at the time
specified. Fifteen per cent of the estimates on the first forty miles, and a
liquidated sum of $15,000 agreed to be paid for extra work on that section,
were to be retained as security for the completion of the first sixty miles.
B. failed to finish any portions of the work by the specified time; but A.,
although authorized by the contract to declare it forfeited, excused the
failure, paid B. the estimate for the work then done, and permitted him
to proceed with the work. B. continued to do so until A. failed to pay the
large sums due him by the estimates for work done in October and November. B. then learned from A. that the latter was unable to pay those estimates, and would probably be unable for a time to pay future monthly
estimates. B. thereupon ceased to do any further work, and brought this
suit. Held, 1. That the declaration of B. was sufficient on demurrer, as
it averred, in substance, that from the time he entered upon the performance of the contract in July, 1872, until the fifteenth day of December of
that year, when A. wholly failed to make the stipulated payment for the work
then actually done, he, with a large force and with suitable equipments along
the whole line of the road, had prosecuted the work with all the energy and
skill that he possessed, and that A. had expressed satisfaction at the manner in which the work was done. 2. That A. so far waived absolute performance on the part of B. as to consent to be liable on his covenant for
the contract price of the completed work, but did not waive his right to
whatever damages he may have sustained by the failure of B. to perform

