Oct. 1875.]

EARLE BT AL. V. "MOVEIGH.

Bankrupt Law of Congress suspends all proceedings under the
Insolvent Law of the State, has no application.
The assignment in this case being in our judgment valid and
binding, there was no property in the hands of the plaintiffs in
error which the assignee in bankruptcy could claim. The assignment to them divested the insolvents of all proprietary rights
they held in the property described in the conveyance. They
could not have maintained any action either for the personalty
or realty. There did, indeed, remain to them an equitable
right to have paid over to them any remainder after the claims
of all the creditors were satisfied. If a contingency should
ever arise for the assertion of this right, the assignee in bankruptcy may perhaps have a claim for such remainder, to be
applied to the payment of creditors not protected by the assignment, and whose demands have been created subsequent to
that instrument. Of this possibility we have no occasion to
speak now.
Our conclusion is, that the court below erred in sustaining the
demurrer to the defendant's answer; and the judgment of
the court must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings.

EAILE ET AL. v. MOVEIGH.
Where the statute of a State provided, that, during the absence of a party and al
the members of his family, notice of a suit might be posted upon the front
,door of his "usual place of abode,"- Held, that a notice posted upon a house
seven months after it had been vacated by the defendant and his family, and
while they were residing within the Confederate lines, was not posted upon his
"usual place of abode," and that a judgment founded on such defective notice
was absolutely void.

APPEAL from the Circult Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
.ir. S. . Beach for the appellants.
I. P. Phillips, contra.
M . JuSTICE CLIFTORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Due notice to the defendant is essential to the jurisdiction

ARILE ET AL. -V. MCVEIGI.

[Sup. Ct.

of all courts, as sufficiently appears from the well-known legal
maxim, that no one shall be condemned in his person or property without notice, and an opportunity to be heard in his defence, Nations v.Johnson, 24 How. 203.
Such notice may be actual or constructive, as prescribed by
law. Where actual notice is required, personal service, in a
legal manner, of due process, is a compliance with the requirement; and, in cases where constructive notice is allowed, the
duty of the moving party is fulfilled if he complies in every
respect with the law, usage, or rule of practice, as the case may
be, which prescribes that mode of service.
Two suits were commenced by the respondents against the
present complainant, and his son, who was not served, to enforce
the payment of the several promissory notes described in the
declarations in those suits; and the plaintiffs therein obtained
service of process in the respective suits on the same day in the
words following: "Executed the within summons Feb. 24, 1862, on James H.
McVeigh, by leaving a copy thereof posted at the front door of
his usual place of abode; neither he nor his wife, nor any white
person, who is a member of his family and above the age of sixteen
years, being found at his said usual place of abode."
Declarations in due form were filed in the respective suits;
and, the defendant not appearing in either, judgment was rendered against him in the first suit for the sum of $3,535.49,
and in the second for the sum of $8,014.34, with interest in
each case, as set forth in the record.
Executions were regularly issued, and returns were made of
nulla bona; and thereupon the creditors filed their bill of complaint in the county court, in which they set up the said judgments, and alleged that the defendant had no personal assets,
and prayed that the lien of their judgments might be enforced
by a sale of the real estate of the defendant for the satisfaction
of the same; that the defendant might be required to answer
the allegations of the bill of complaint; and that a commissioner might be appointed to report the real estate owned by
defendant, together with the incumbrances, if any, upon the
same; and that the court will enter such decree in the case as
the circumstances may require.

Oct. 1875-.]

.JADEET AL,. V. MGVEIG.

Personal service could, not be obtained; and, the defendant
having failed to enter an appearance or to give bond as required, the court made an order of publication, and directed
that a copy of the order be inserted in the "State Journal"
once a week for four successive weeks, and that the same be
posted at the front-door of the court-house of the county.
Proof of publication was exhibited, and the person appointed
to ascertainwhat real estate was owned by the defendant made
a report; and it appearing that the rents and profits of his real
estate would not suffice to pay the plaintiffs' judgments, and
others mentioned in the same report, within, five years, the
court did further order, adjudge, and decree that so much of
the same as was requisite for the purpose should be sold at
public auction, and prescribed the terms of sale, and appointed
a commissioner to carry the decree into effect.
Pursuant to the decree of the court, the commissioner advertised the real estate for sale, as appears by a copy of the advertisement exhibited in the record. Enough appears to show
that the sale of the real estate was postponed to a later day
than that named in the advertisement, and that the defendant,
in the mean time, filed an injunction-bond in the case, in which
it is recited that the defendant had obtained from the judge of
the eleventh circuit of the State an injunction enjoining and
restraining the said creditors and the commissioner, until an
order is granted by the county Circuit Court to the contrary,
from any proceedings to enforce the payment of the said two
judgments. Pending the temporary injunction, the defendant
sued out a summons commanding the said judgment creditora
to appear at the rules of the said court, on the day therein
named, to answer to the bill of complaint filed in the said court
by the debtor in the said judgments.
Sufficient appears to show that the intent and purpose of the
bill of complaint were to obtain a decree enjoining and restrain,
ing the said judgment creditors from any proceeding to enforce
the payment of the two judgments described in the aforesaid
decree of sale; and with that view the judgment debtor alleged
that the return to the process in each of those suits was false and
fraudulent; that the process was not posted at the front-door
of his usual place of abode as the law directs, and that the

EARLE ET AL.

V. MCVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

respective judgments are illegal, and should be set aside; that
the family of the debtor left there six weeks before the Federal
forces occupied the place, and that the defendant in those suits
left there and joined his family within the Confederate lines
six days subsequent to the entry there of the Federal forces,
and that he ever after remained with his family within the Confederate lines until the close of the war, and that these facts
were well known to the judgment creditors and their counsel.
Service was made, and the judgment creditors appeared as
respondents, and filed an answer.
Reference will only be made to a single allegation of the
answer, as the others are not material in this investigation.
They allege that the return of the process which led to the
judgments in each of the two suits "was and is true in every particular, and was and is in no respect false and fraudulent; and
that the process in each case was, in fact, executed in exact conforinity with the return." No answer having been filed by the
commissioner appointed to make the sale, the bill of complaint
as to him was taken as confessed, and the complainant filed the
general replication to the answer of the other respondents.
Hearing was had upon the bill, exhibits, and answer, before the
judge of the eleventh circuit of the State, pursuant to notice,
and on the motion of the respondents to dissolve the temporaly
injunction; and it appears from the record that the motion of
the respondents was overruled. Whereupon the respondents
filed a petition praying for the removal of the cause into the
next Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of the State; and the record shows that the petition was
granted.
Prior to the removal of the cause, the same had been set
down for hearing, but no proofs had been taken ; and, instead of
taking proofs, the solicitors entered into a stipulation, that on
-he trial it should be admitted that the complainant was a resident of that city for many years prior to the Federal occupation
during the rebellion; that during that time he was extensively
engaged in business there, and was the head of a family, owning
a dwelling-house, in which he resided, and other real estate;
that he sympathized with the rebellion, but did not engage in
the military or civil service of the insurgents; that his absence

Oct. 1875.]

OALE ET AL. V. MOfEIGH.

from the city, throughout the rebellion, was not one which he regarded as absolute and permanent, but contingent and temporary,
depending for its continuance upon the fortunes of the war.
Both parties were again heard in the Circuit Court of the
United States; and the court entered a decree that the injunction heretofore granted in the cause be perpetuated, and that
the respondents pay to the complainant his costs; and the respondents entered an appeal to this court.
Argument to show that no person can be bound by a judgment, or any proceeding conducive thereto, to -which he was
never a party or privy, is quite unnecessary, as no person can
be considered in default with respect to that which it never
was incumbent upon him to fulfil. Standard authorities lay
down the rule, that, in order to give any binding effect to a judgment, it is essential that the court should have jurisdiction of
the person and the subject-matter; and it is equally clear that
the want of jurisdiction is a matter that may always be set up
against a judgment when sought to be enforced, or where any
benefit is claimed under it, as the want of jurisdiction makes it
utterly void and unavailable for any purpose. .Bordenv. Fitch,
15 Johns. 141.
Notice to the defendant, actual or constructive, is an essential prerequisite of jurisdiction. Due process with personal
service, as a general rule, is sufficient in all cases; and such it is
believed is the law of the State where the judgments were recovered in this controversy, in all cases where such service is
practicable. But the laws of that State also provide for service
in three classes of cases in which personal service cannot be
effected: (1.) Residents who are temporarily absent from
home. (2.) Service may also be made upon persons not residents of the State. (3.) Where the party resides in the State,
in case it is not known in what particular county he has his
residence.
1. Temporary absence from home will not defeat service, as in
that case the statute provides that notice may be given to the
party by delivering a copy of the process to the party in person;
or, if he be not found at his usual place of abode, by delivering
such copy and giving information of its purport to his -wife, or
any white person found there, who is a member of his family,

EARLE ET AL. V. MOVEIGH

[
[Sup.
Ct

and above the age of sixteen years; or, if neither he nor his
wife nor any such white person be found there, by leaving such
copy posted at the front-door of his usual place of abode.
2. Persons not residing in the State may, in a proper case, be
served by the publication of the notice once a week for foul
consecutive weeks in a newspaper printed in the State. Code
1860, p. 703.
3. Provision is made in respect to the third class, that on
affidavit that a defendant is a non-resident of the State, or that
diligence has been used to ascertain in what county or corporation he is, without effect, or that process directed to the officer
of the county or corporation in which he resides or is has been
twice delivered to such officer more than ten days before the
return-day, and been returned without being executed, an order
of publication may be entered against such defendant. Code,
p. 707L
Doubtless constructive notice may be sufficient in certain
cases; but it can only be admitted in cases coming fairly within
the provisions of the statute authorizing courts to make orders
for publication, and providing that the publication, when made,
shall authorize the court to decide and decree. Hollingsworth
v. Barbour, 4 Pet. 475; Begina v. Lightfoot, 26 Eng. L. & Eq.
177; Vations v. Johnson, 24 How. 205; Galpin v. Page, 18
Wall. 369.
When the law provides that notice may be posted on the
"front-door of the party's usual place of abode," in the absence
of the family, the intention evidently is that the person against
whom the notice is directed should then be living or have his
home in the said house. He may be temporarily absent at the
time the notice is posted; but the house must be his usual place
of abode, so that, when he returns home, the copy of the process
posted on the front-door will operate as notice; which is all
that the law requires. By the expression, "the usual place of
abode," the law does not mean the last place of abode; for a party
may change his place of abode every month in the year. Instead of that, it is only on the door of his then present residence
-where the notice may be posted, and constitute a compliance
with the legal requirement.
Apply that rule to the case before the court, and it is cleax

Oct. 1875.J

EARLE ET AL. V. MOVEId~l.

that the notice was insufficient. Neither the complainant nor
his family resided there: on the contrary, the case shows that
his family left that city six weeks before the same was occupied
by the Federal forces, and that they departed, leaving no white
-personin the house from -which they departed, -and that these
facts were well known to the attorney of the respondents and
to the officer -who made the returns in question, which was
made seven months after the complainant had left the county
and was residing within the Confederate lines.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that the house
where the notice, if any, was posted, was not ,at that time the
usual place of abode of the defendant in those suits.; and it
follows that the judgments founded on such defective notices
-are absolutely -void.
Special reference is made 'to the act of the 10th of February,
1862, as having some bearing on the case; but the record shows
that-the present complainant had left his former residence seven
months before the passage of that act, and followed his family
within the insurgent lines, lie abandoned the business in
which he was engaged and was known, as is admitted in the
stipulation of the *parties, throughout the whole perioa of the
rebellion, as having sympathized with it, and adhered to its
fortunes.
Other defences failing, it is suggested by the'respondents
'that the complainant, when he departed from the city, left an
agent resident there; but it is a sufficient answer to that suggestion to say that the agent referred to did not reside in the
house where it is alleged the notices were posted, and that he
bad no authority whatever to accept or waive notice to the
complainant in any such proceeding.
'Concede that due service might have been made under the
act providing for proceedings against non-residents: still it is
clear that the ,concession cannot benefit the respondents, as
they did not attenipt to comply with the conditions contained
in either section of that act. Sess. Acts, 1861, p. 58.
Viewed in any light, it is plain that the case falls within the
rule that-the service of process by posting a c'opy on the door of
a dwelling-house is not a good service, if it appears by competenit evidence that the house was not the usual place where the

.ETNA LIFE INS. Co. v. FRANCE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

defendant or his family resided at the time the notice was
posted. tarris v. Jardeman, 14 How. 340; Buchanan v.
Bucker, 9 East, 192; Boswell v. Otis, 9 How. 350; Oakley v.
Aspinwall, 4 Comst. 513.
Even in proceedings in rem, notice is requisite in order that
the sentence may have any validity. Every person, said Marshall, C. J., may make himself a party to such a proceeding,
and appeal from the sentence, but notice of the controversy iz
necessary in order that one may become a party; and it is a
principle of natural justice, of universal obligation, that, before
the rights of an individual can be bound by a judicial sentence,
he shall have notice, either actual or implied, of the proceedings against him. The Mary, 9 Cranch, 144.
No man shall be condemned in his person or property without notice, and an opportunity to be heard in his defence, is a
maxim of universal application; and it affords the rule of decision in this case.
-Decree affirmed.

ETA LinE INsuRA.A

cE Co. v. FRACE ET AL.

1. Where a party, in order to effect an insurance upon his life, agreed that if the
proposal, answers, and declaration made by him-which he declared to be
true, and which were made part and parcel of the policy, the basis of the
contract, and upon the faith of which the agreement was entered into should be found in any respect untrue or fraudulent, then, and in such case,
the policy should be null and void,- Held,that the company was not liable
if the statements made by the insured were not true.
2. The agreement of the parties that the statements were absolutely true, and
that their falsity in any respect should void the policy, removes the question of their materiality from the consideration of the court or jury.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Afr. Samuel C. Perkins for the plaintiff in error.
3fr. Nathan Hf. Sharpless for the defendant in error.

MR. JUSTI E HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The action was assumpsit to recover $10,000, the amount of
a policy insured upon the life of Andrew J. Chew in July, 1865.

