1342

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opinion

in

Chambers

448 U. S.

GREGORY-PORTLAND INDEPENDENT SCHOOL
DISTRICT v UNITED STATES ET AL.
ON REAPPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-203. Decided September 8, 1980
A reapplication to stay, pending appeal to the Court of Appeals, the
District Court's decision ordering the busing of students within the
applicant school district, is denied.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST.
Applicants have requested me to grant a stay pending
appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit of a decision by the District Court ordering the busing of students
within the applicant district. The application, as was proper,
was first submitted to MR. JusTicE POWELL, the Circuit Justice for the Fifth Circuit, and denied by him. It has now
been resubmitted to me. As indicated by the cases discussed
in the application for stay, e. g., Columbus Board of Educatzon v Pensck, 439 U S. 1348 (1978), this Court has been
divided for a number of years as to the constitutional propriety of busing orders. If I were casting my vote as a single
Justice of this Court, rather than as an individual Justice empowered to grant a stay, I would in all likelihood not only vote
to grant certiorari in the case if the Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit affirmed it, but would also give the most serious
consideration to voting on the merits to reverse that decision.
However, as has been frequently pointed out, that is not the
role of an individual or Circuit Justice in a case such as this.
That obligation is to determine whether four Justices would
vote to grant certiorari, to balance the so-called "stay equities," and to give some consideration as to predicting the
final outcome of the case in this Court.
For these reasons, and because MR. JUsTicE PowELL is the
Circuit Justice for the Fifth Circuit, and more familiar with
the situation of any case in it than I could be, I am unwilling
to "second-guess" his own denial of the application in this
case. I accordingly deny the reapplication for a stay

