1318

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

448 U. S.

McDANIEL ET AL. v. SANCHEZ ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-126.

Decided August 14, 1980

An application to stay, pending the disposition of a petition for certiorari,
the Court of Appeals' judgment requiring applicant Texas county officials to proceed with procedures for the "preclearance," under Section 5
of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, of a new apportionment plan for
county comnissioner precincts ordered by the District Court and approved by the county commisioners, is granted. It appears that there
is a "reasonable probability" that four Members of this Court will vote
to grant certiorari and that the balance as to the possibility of "irreparable harm" favors the applicants.

MR. JUSTICE POWELL, Circuit Justice.

This is an application for a stay of the judgment of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, pending
consideration of a petition for certiorari. Applicants are officials of Kleberg County, Tex., who have been ordered by the
United States District Court for the Southern District of
Texas to proceed immediately with procedures for the "preclearance" of a new apportionment plan for county commissioner precincts under § 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965,
79 Stat. 439, as amended, 42 U S. C. § 1973c.
I
This suit began in 1978 as a class action challenging the
boundary lines of the four county commissioner precincts in
Kleberg County Plaintiffs claimed that these precincts, as
drawn, violated the one-person, one-vote principle and
unconstitutionally diluted the voting strength of MexicanAmericans. After a trial, the District Court found that the
precincts did violate the one-person, one-vote principle, but
ruled that plaintiffs had failed to meet their burden of proof
on the dilution claim.

McDANIEL v. SANCHEZ
1318

Opimon m Chambers

The District Court then directed defendants to submit a
proposed new apportionment plan. That plan was drawn by
a university professor selected by the County Commissioners
and approved for submission to the District Court by the
Commissioners. The District Court approved the plan and
rejected an argument by plaintiffs that preclearance under the
Voting Rights Act was necessary, relying on East Carroll
Parzsh School Board v Marshall, 424 U S. 636 (1976) (per
curzam)
In East Carroll this Court stated that "courtordered plans resulting from equitable jurisdiction over adversary proceedings are not controlled by § 5." Id., at 638, n. 6.
On appeal, the Fifth Circuit reversed in a per curam opinion. 615 F 2d 1023 (1980). It relied on this Court's later
decision in Wise v L?pscomb, 437 U S.535 (1978), for the
proposition that plans drawn up or approved by a legislative
body are "legislative" plans even if submitted in response to
a court order. As a result, the Court of Appeals found that
the plan in this case is legislative and concluded that it is
subject to the preclearance provisions of § 5. The court remanded the case for appropriate action and the District Court
then ordered applicants to begin the § 5 procedures "immediately" On July 25, 1980, the Fifth Circuit denied a stay
pending consideration of a petition for a writ of certiorari.
II
The preclearance procedures at issue here require either
an action in the District Court for the District of Columbia
for a declaratory judgment that the new plan is not racially
discriminatory, or submission of the plan to the Attorney
General of the United States, who may interpose an objection within 60 days. 42 U S. C. § 1973c. See Allen v
State Board of Electwns, 393 U S. 544, 548-550 (1969)
Applicants will argue in their petition for certiorari that they
should not be required to follow these procedures because this
apportionment plan was court-ordered and was not the prod-

1320

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion m Chambers

448 U. S.

uct of a legislative action. They argue in this application
that their petition is likely to be granted because the decisions
of this Court have left unsettled the principles that determine
which apportionment plans are essentially "legislative," as
opposed to "judicial," in nature. They further argue that a
stay is necessary in order to prevent their claim from becoming moot before it can be heard.
In Wise v Lipscomb, supra, we faced the quest;on whether
a plan for the election of members of the City Council of
Dallas was judicial or legislative. The existing system of
electing members at large had been declared unconstitutional,
and the city had been given an opportunity by the court to
produce a substitute plan. Because the plan submitted by
the City Council, and approved by the District Court, included a provision for the election of several council members
at large, it was necessary to decide whether the plan was
invalid under East Carroll,supra,in which we held that judiczally imposed plans should not, absent special circumstances,
include multimember districts.
The Court in Wise decided that the Dallas plan was legislative, rather than judicial, and therefore was exempt from
the higher level of scrutiny accorded to judicial plans.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, in an opinion joined by MR. JUSTICE
STEwART, viewed the plan as one enacted by the City Council,
emphasizing that in his view the Council was exercising its
lawful powers in so acting. 437 U S., at 546-547 MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, in a dissent joined by MR. JUSTICE

BRENNAN

and MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, agreed that the power of the legislative body under state law to enact the plan at issue is an
important factor, but disagreed about the powers possessed
by the City Council in that case. He concluded that the
Council could only have acted pursuant to a court order and
that the case was therefore controlled by East Carroll, supra,
at 638, n. 6, where we labeled a plan "judicial" partly because

McDANIEL v. SANCHEZ
1318

1321

Opinion in Chambers

the legislative body had no authority to reapportion itself.
437 U. S., at 550-554. My opinion concurring in part and
concurring in the judgment, joined by the three remaining
Justices, asserted that assumptions about state law were
"unnecessary" because the "essential point is that the Dallas
City Council exercised a legislative judgment, reflecting the
policy choices of the elected representatives of the people,
rather than the remedial directive of a federal court." Id.,
at 548.
Arguably, it was this last approach that the Court of
Appeals followed in the present case. It determined that the
plan was a legislative one because it was approved for submission by the Commissioners of Kleberg County
The
Court of Appeals was apparently unconcerned that the reapportionment imght be outside the Commissioners' legislative
powers.' If so, it can be contended that the court was following an approach that has been endorsed by only a minority
of Justices. Applicants also make a substantial argument
that this approach is inconsistent with the decision in East
Carroll, as that case has been interpreted by the majority of
2
this Court.
IUnder Tex. Rev Civ Stat. Ann., Art. 2.04 (1) (Vernon Supp. 1979),
the Commissioners can only enact a reapportionment plan during their
July or August terms. See Wilson v. Weller, 214 S. W 2d 473 (Tex. Civ
App. 1948). The plan in this case was submitted in November. Respondents contend, however, that the Commissioners have an "inherent"
power to reapportion their precincts when a "vacuum" has been created
by a court ruling that the existing precincts are drawn unconstitutionally
2
ndeed, this apparent inconsistency may have produced a conflict
within the Fifth Circuit on the issues raised here. In Marshall v. Edwards, 582 F 2d 927 (1978) (en bane), cert. denied, 442 U. S.909 (1979),
a case involving the same litigation as East Carrollbut an entirely different
plan, the Fifth Circuit labeled that plan "court-ordered" partly because
the legislative body merely submitted it, rather than adopting it. 582 F
2d, at 933-934. Applicants contend that the Commissioners acted in a
similarly limited fashion here.

1322

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opmion m Chambers

448 U. S.

III
It is fair to say that the opinions m East Carroll and Wise
v Jiipscomb fall considerably short of providing clear guidance to the courts that initially address this difficult issue.
It would be helpful, therefore, for this Court to exercise its
responsibility to provide such guidance. It seems to me that
this case presents the opportunity
I mention briefly the settled principles that govern the
granting of stays. Times-Picayune Publishing Corp. v
Schulingkamp, 419 U S. 1301, 1305 (1974) (PowELL, J., in
chambers), Graves v Barnes,405 U S. 1201, 1203-1204 (1972)
(PowELL, J., in chambers)
In view of the ambiguity of our
precedents (to which I may have contributed), I cannot say
whether the possibility of reversal is significant. I do think
there is a "reasonable probability" that four Members of the
Court will consider the issue sufficiently meritorious-and the
need for clarification sufficiently evident-to warrant a grant
of certiorari. The applicants assert that, absent a stay, they
will be required immediately to expend substantial money on
preclearance procedures, and that this expenditure will be
irretrievable. They argue further that without a stay their
petition to this Court will become moot. The balance as to
the possibility of "irreparable harm" seems to favor the
applicants.
I will therefore enter an order recalling the mandate and
staying the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit pending disposition of the petition for
certiorai.

