1312

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion

in

Chambers

448 U. S.

IN RE ROCHE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-66.

Decided July 23, 1980

An application to stay, pending a petition for certiorari, a Massachusetts

Supreme Judicial Court Justice's order adjudicating applicant television
news reporter in civil contempt for refusal to disclose the identities of
news sources in connection with disciplinary proceedings against a state
judge, and the Supreme Judicial Court's affirmance of such order, is
granted. It appears reasonably probable that four Justices will vote
to grant certiorari, that there is a fair prospect of reversal, and that, in
considering the irreparable harm that would result to applicant if the
stay is denied, the balance of equities favors a stay
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, Circuit Justice.

This is an application for a stay of enforcement, pending a
petition for a writ of certiorari, of the July 10, 1980, order of
a single justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court,
adjudicating applicant in civil contempt for refusal to disclose
the identities of news sources, and of the July 16, 1980, order
of the Supreme Judicial Court affirming the adjudication of
contempt.
Applicant Roche is a reporter who participated in a television news team's investigation of a number of state judges.
On January 11, 1979, applicant broadcasted a television news
story about alleged misconduct by respondent, a State District
Court Justice. The report prompted an investigation by the
Massachusetts Commission on Judicial Conduct that culminated in the filing of formal proceedings.
In anticipation of disciplinary hearings, the Commission
furnished the state judge with the names of 65 witnesses whom
the Commission proposed to call. Among these was applicant. On May 16, the Commission issued an order allowing
the judge to depose 11 of the 65 witnesses, including applicant.
At his deposition, applicant testified about his own observa-

IN RE ROCHE
1312

1313

Opmion m Chambers

tions in the course of his investigation, and indicated a willingness to reveal the content of interviews with any individual
who could be independently identified as one of applicant's
sources. Accordingly, applicant did communicate to respondent judge the substance of his interviews with those persons
who publicly appeared on the television news broadcast.
Applicant also conceded that names of all the people whom
he had previously interviewed were contained in the list of
witnesses for the disciplinary hearings. Citing a newsman's
"privilege," however, applicant refused to specify or discuss
those on the list whom he had interviewed in confidence, unless they had first been identified by other means.
In the course of some procedural skirmishing, applicant
Roche moved for a protective order from Justice Kaplan of
the Supreme Judicial Court based upon this asserted newsman's privilege, and respondent judge sought an order compelling applicant to identify his sources. Justice Kaplan
referred the issue to the Conduct Commission, which ruled
that the claim of newsman's privilege under the First Amendment was insubstantial, and that applicant should divulge
the identities of his sources so that the respondent judge
could prepare to impeach or correct the testimony of those
sources during the hearings. Upon renewal of the motions
to him, Justice Kaplan concurred in the Commission's view
He reasoned that inasmuch as the applicant had consented to
disclose the substance of interviews with sources if otherwise
identified-as through the process of deposing each of the 65
hearing witnesses-the net effect of applicant's claim of privilege was simply to compel the respondent judge to sift
through a series of deponents to obtain information directly
available from the reporter. Justice Kaplan concluded that
"no significant principle Fwas] to be served by the suggested
approach," Applicant's Ex. B., p. 4, and, on July 7, ordered
Roche to respond to questions about unidentified sources.
Applicant subsequently appeared at a deposition but once
again declined to identify his undisclosed sources. On July

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opimon in Chambers

448 U. S.

10, Justice Kaplan adjudicated him in civil contempt, and
stayed execution of the contempt order. The adjudication of
contempt was affirmed by the full Supreme Judicial Court on
July 16, and the next day Justice Kaplan ordered that the
stay of civil contempt sanctions be vacated on July 21. Upon
application to me as Circuit Justice, I entered an interim
order continuing the stay pending filing of a response and further order of the Circuit Justice or this Court.
Only recently, I have had occasion to review the principles
that guide a Circuit Justice's determination of stay applications. Rostker v Goldberg, ante, p. 1306. Generally, a stay
will issue upon a four-part showing that (1) there is a "reasonable probability" that four Justices will find the issue
sufficiently substantial to grant certiorari, (2) there is a
"fair prospect that a majority of the Court will conclude
that the decision below was erroneous," ante, at 1308, TimesPicayune Publishng Corp. v Schulingkamp, 419 U S. 1301,
1305 (1974) (PowELL, J., in chambers), 1 (3) irreparable
harm to applicant is likely to result if the request for a stay
is denied, and (4) the "balance of equities"--to the parties
and to the public-favors the issuance of a stay
Predicting the probability of a grant of certiorari and of a
reversal of the decision below in this case is an uncertain
undertaking. The question of a newsman's privilege to conceal sources is not a matter of first impression. Branzburg
v Hayes, 408 U S. 665 (1972), held that the First Amendment
does not provide newsmen with an absolute or qualified testimonial privilege to be free of relevant questioning about
1 In Rostker, my evaluation of the "fair prospect" for reversal of the
decision below was conducted in the context of a direct appeal. Where
review is sought by the more discretionary avenue of writ of certiorari,
however, the consideration of prospects for reversal dovetails, to a greater
extent, with the prediction that four Justices will vote to hear the case.
Thus, it may be that the "fair prospect"-of-reversal criterion has less
independent significance in a stay determination when review will be
sought by way of certiorari.

IN RE ROCHE
1312

1315

Opinion in Chambers

sources by a grand jury More recently, two of my Brethren
found the prospects for review by the full Court insufficient to
warrant staying contempt proceedings against a New York
Times reporter for his failure to submit documents to m
camera judicial inspection in compliance with a subpoena for
those documents by the defendant in a murder trial. New
York Times Co. v Jascalemch,439 U S. 1317 (1978) (W anz,
J. in chambers), New York Times Co. v Jascalewch, 439
U S. 1331 (1978) (MARSH:ALL, J., in chambers)
At the same time, there is support for the proposition that
the First Amendment interposes a threshold barrier to the
subpoenaing of confidential information and work product
from a newsgatherer. Four dissenting Justices in Branzburg
discerned at least some protection in the First Amendment
for confidences garnered during the course of newsgathering.
408 U S., at 721 (Douglas, J., dissenting), id., at 744-747
(STE WART, J., dissenting, joined by BRENNAN and MARsaALL,
JJ.) And MR. JUSTICE POWELL, who joined the Court in
Branzburg, wrote separately to emphasize that requests for
reporter's documents should be carefully weighed with due
deference to the "vital constitutional and societal interests"
at stake. Id., at 710. Consequently, I do not believe that
the Court has foreclosed news reporters from resisting a
subpoena on First Amendment grounds.2
2 The opinions in chambers denying the requested stay in New York
Times Co. v. Jascalevch on the basis of the unlikelihood of review turned
not upon the general meritlessness of a newsman's privilege, but more particularly upon the improbability that such a privilege would be applied
to preclude in camera inspection of papers by a judge. 439 U. S., at
1322-1323 (WmHrm, J.), 439 U. S., at 1337 (MARsHALL, J.), see United
States v. Nixon, 418 U. S. 683 (1974).
Respondent also suggests that Herbert v. Lando, 441 U. S. 153, 167-169
(1979), contradicts any assertion of a newsman's privilege. That decision,
however, dealt with discovery of editorial processes when the collective
state of mind of a news organization was directly in issue in a suit against
that organization.

1316

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

448 U. S.

Assuming that there is at least a limited First Amendment
right to resist intrusion into newsgatherers' confidences, this
case presents an apt occasion for its invocation. As determined by Justice Kaplan below, respondent judge could have
obtained the information sought from the applicant by other
adequate-albeit somewhat roundabout-methods. Thus,
this case does not present a question of necessity for the confidences subpoenaed. What is ranged against the asserted
First Amendment interests of the applicant is essentially
respondent's convenience. If I am correct, therefore, that a
majority of the Court recognizes at least some degree of constitutional protection for newsgatherers' confidences, it is
reasonably probable that four of my Brothers will vote to
grant certiorari, and there is a fair prospect that the Court will
reverse the decision below 3
Turning to consider the irreparable harm of the applicant
in the absence of a stay, and to weigh the "balance of equities," I conclude that these favor the continuation of the
stay below pending a petition for writ of certiorari and disposition thereof. Without such a stay, applicant must either
surrender his secrets (and moot his claim of right to protect
them) or face commitment to jail. If the stay remains in
force, on the other hand, the judge subject to the disciplinary
inquiry can obtain the information he seeks by deposing the
hearing witnesses. The hardship that this would imposealthough not negligible-does not outweigh the unpalatable
choice that civil contempt would impose upon the applicant.
Finally, even respondent's burden of going forward without
the desired cooperation of the applicant can be alleviated
by an agreement with the Commission to continue disciplinary
3

Civil contempt proceedings such as these-against a nonparty and

colored by First Amendment overtones-are appealable for purposes of
our review New York Times Co. v Jascalevzh, supra, at 1318-1319
(WHrr, J., in chambers) The judgment sought to be stayed has been
affirmed by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts and is final.

IN RE ROCHE
1312

Opinion in Chambers

proceedings until resolution of applicant's petition for a writ
of certiorar. 4
Having decided that a stay pending a timely petition for
writ of certiorari and disposition thereof is warranted,5 I have
today entered an order continuing my stay of enforcement
of the order of the single justice of July 10, 1980, adjudicating
applicant Roche m civil contempt.

4
Respondent judge suggests that "the ends of justice might
be
served by the Circuit Justice ordering a stay of the formal proceedings
against the Respondent." Memorandum in Opposition 7 Should the
Commission and respondent judge be unable to agree upon a continuance,
respondent judge is, of course, free to apply for a stay of the proceedings
m accordance with proper procedures.
5For the reasons stated in this opinion, I believe that applicant's showing is sufficient to support my order of a stay notwithstanding the denial
of an indefinite stay below Cf. Rostlcer v. Goldberg, ante, p. 1306.

