OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Per Cunam

448 U. S.

REID v. GEORGIA
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS
OF GEORGIA

No. 79-448.

Decided June 30, 1980

Upon his early morning arrival at the Atlanta Airport on a commercial
flight, petitioner was seen by a federal narcotics agent to look occasionally backward at a second man. Petitioner and the other man each
carried a shoulder bag and apparently had no other luggage. When the
two men left the terminal together, the agent asked them for identification, and after they had consented to a search of their persons and
shoulder bags, petitioner tried to run away, and before being apprehended, abandoned his bag, which was subsequently found to contain
cocaine. Prior to his trial on a charge of possessing cocaine, petitioner's
motion to suppress the cocaine was granted by the Georgia trial court,
but the Georgia Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the stop of
petitioner was permissible, since he appeared to the agent to fit the
so-called "drug courier profile."
Held. The agent could not, as a matter of law, have reasonably suspected
petitioner of crimnal activity on the basis of the observed circumstances. Only the fact that petitioner preceded another person and
occasionally looked backward at him as they proceeded through the concourse relates to their particular conduct, whereas the other circumstances describe a very large category of presumably innocent travelers.
The fact that the agent believed that petitioner and his compamon were
attempting to conceal the fact that they were traveling together is too
slender a reed to support the seizure.
Certiorari granted, 149 Ga. App. 685, 255 S. E. 2d 71, vacated and
remanded.

PER CUPIAM.

The petitioner was indicted in the Superior Court of Fulton
County, Ga., for possessing cocaine. At a hearing before trial,
he moved to suppress the introduction of the cocaine as evidence against him on the ground that it had been seized from
him by an agent of the federal Drug Enforcement Adimnistration (DEA) in violation of his rights under the Fourth
and Fourteenth Amendments.

REID v. GEORGIA
438

Per Cunam

The relevant facts were determined at the pretrial hearing

and may be recounted briefly The petitioner arrived at the
Atlanta Airport on a commercial airline flight from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in the early morning hours of August 14, 1978.
The passengers left the plane in a single file and proceeded
through the concourse. The petitioner was observed by an
agent of the DEA, who was m the airport for the purpose of
uncovering illicit commerce in narcotics. Separated from the
petitioner by several persons was another man, who carried a
shoulder bag like the one the petitioner carried. As they proceeded through the concourse past the baggage claim area, the
petitioner occasionally looked backward in the direction of
the second man. When they reached the main lobby of the
terminal, the second man caught up with the petitioner and
spoke briefly with him. They then left the terminal building
together.
The DEA agent approached them outside of the building,
identified himself as a federal narcotics agent, and asked them
to show him their airline ticket stubs and identification, which
they did. The airline tickets had been purchased with the
petitioner's credit card and indicated that the men had stayed
in Fort Lauderdale only one day According to the agent's
testimony, the men appeared nervous during the encounter.
The agent then asked them if they would agree to return to
the terminal and to consent to a search of their persons and
their shoulder bags. The agent testified that the petitioner
nodded his head affirmatively, and that the other responded,
"Yeah, okay" As the three of them entered the terminal,
however, the petitioner began to run and before he was apprehended, abandoned his shoulder bag. The bag, when recovered, was found to contain cocaine.
The Superior Court granted the petitioner's motion to suppress the cocaine, concluding that it had been obtained as a
result of a seizure of him by the DEA agent without an articulable suspicion that he was unlawfully carrying narcotics.
The Georgia Court of Appeals reversed. 149 Ga. App. 685,

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Per Cuniam

448 U. S.

255 S. E. 2d 71. It held that the stop of the petitioner was
permissible, citing Terry v Ohio, 392 TI S. 1 (1968), since
the petitioner, "in a number of respects, fit a 'profile' of drug
couriers compiled by the [DEAl " 149 Ga. App., at 686, 255
S. E. 2d, at 72. The appellate court also concluded that the
petitioner had consented to return to the terminal for a search
of his person, and that after he had attempted to flee and had
discarded his shoulder bag, there existed probable cause for
the search of the bag.
The Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments' prohibition of
searches and seizures that are not supported by some objective justification governs all seizures of the person, "including
seizures that involve only a brief detention short of traditional
arrest. Davis v Mississspps, 394 U S. 721 (1969), Terry v
Ohio, 392 U S. 1, 16-19 (1968) " United States v BrgnoniPonce, 422 TI S. 873, 878 (1975) * While the Court has recognized that in some circumstances a person may be detained
briefly, without probable cause to arrest him, any curtailment
of a person's liberty by the police must be supported at least
by a reasonable and articulable suspicion that the person
seized is engaged in criminal activity See Brown v Texas,
443 U S. 47, 51 (1979), Delawarev Prouse,440 U S. 648, 661
(1979), United States v Bngnoni-Ponce, supra, Adams v
Williams, 407 U S. 143, 146-149 (1972), Terry v Ohw, supra.
The appellate court's conclusion in this case that the DEA
agent reasonably suspected the petitioner of wrongdoing
rested on the fact that the petitioner appeared to the agent to
fit the so-called "drug courier profile," a somewhat informal
compilation of characteristics believed to be typical of persons
unlawfully carrying narcotics. Specifically, the court thought
*"Obviously, not all personal intercourse between policemen and citizens involves 'seizures' of persons. Only when the officer, by means of
physical force or show of authority, has in some way restrained the liberty
of a citizen may we conclude that a seizure has occurred." Terry v. Ohio,
392 U. S. 1, 19, n. 16 (1968). See-also zd., at 34 (Wrrfr, J., concurring),
zd., at 31, 32-33 (Harlan, J., concurring).

REID v. GEORGIA

438

Per Cunam

it relevant that (1) the petitioner had arrived from Fort
Lauderdale, which the agent testified is a principal place of
origin of cocaine sold elsewhere in the country, (2) the petitioner arrived in the early morning, when law enforcement
activity is diminished, (3) he and his companion appeared to
the agent to be trying to conceal the fact that they were
traveling together, and (4) they apparently had no luggage
other than their shoulder bags.
We conclude that the agent could not, as a matter of law,
have reasonably suspected the petitioner of criminal activity
on the basis of these observed circumstances. Of the evidence
relied on, only the fact that the petitioner preceded another
person and occasionally looked backward at him as they proceeded through the concourse relates to their particular conduct. The other circumstances describe a very large category
of presumably innocent travelers, who would be subject to
virtually random seizures were the Court to conclude that as
little foundlation as there was in th,s case nn11
a
seizure. Nor can we agree, on this record, that the manner
in which the petitioner and his companion walked through the
airport reasonably could have led the agent to suspect them of
wrongdoing. Although there could, of course, be circumstances in which wholly lawful conduct might justify the suspicion that criminal activity was afoot, see Terry v Ohzo,
supra, at 27-28, this is not such a case. The agent's belief
that the petitioner and his companion were attempting to
conceal the fact that they were traveling together, a belief
that was more an "inchoate and unparticularized suspicion or
'hunch,"' 392 U S., at 27, than a fair inference in the light
of his experience, is simply too slender a reed to support the
seizure in this case.
For these reasons, the judgment of the appellate court cannot be sustained insofar as it rests on the determination that
the DEA agent lawfully seized the petitioner when he approached him outside the airline terminal. Accordingly, the
petition for certiorari is granted, the judgment of the Georgia
4Tr

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
POWELL, J., concurring

448 U. S.

Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded to
that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
It ?s so ordered.

MR. JUSTCcE REHNQUIST dissents for the reasons stated by
MR. JUSTICE STEWART in his opinion in United States v Mendenhall, 446 U S. 544 (1980)
He believes that the police
conduct involved did not implicate the Fourteenth or Fourth
Amendment rights of the petitioners.
MR. JuSTICE PowELL, with whom THE CBEF JusTCE and
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN join, concurring.'
This case is similar in many respects to United States v
Mendenhall, 446 U S. 544 (1980), in which a defendant observed walking through an airport was stopped by DEA
agents and asked for identification. The threshold question
in Mendenhall, as here, was whether the agent's initial stop
of the suspect constituted a seizure within the meaning of
the Fourth Amendment. MR. JUsTICE STEWART, joined by
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, was of the opinion that the mere
stopping of a person for identification purposes is not a
seizure.
"We conclude that a person has been 'seized' within
the meaning of the Fourth Amendment only if, in view
of all of the circumstances surrounding the incident, a
reasonable person would have believed that he was not
free to leave." Id., at 554.
1I agree, on the basis of the fragmentary facts apparently relied upon
by the DEA agents m this case, that there was no justification for a
"seizure."
2
MR. JusTiCE STEWART also noted that "'[t]here is nothing m the
Constitution which prevents a policeman from addressing questions to
anyone on the streets."' 446 U. S., at 553, ouoting Terry v. Ohio, 392

U. S. 1, 34 (1968) (WITE, J., concurring).

See also ante, at 440, n.

REID v. GEORGIA
438

PowELL, J., concurring

Thus, on the basis of facts remarkably similar to those in
the present case, MR. JUSTICE STEWART and MR. JuSTIcE

REENwQuiST decided that no seizure had occurred.
My concurring opinion in Mendenhall, in which ThaE CimF
JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BLACKmuN joined, did not con-

sider the seizure issue because it had not been raised in the
courts below Even if the stop constituted a seizure, it was
my view that the DEA agents had articulable and reasonable
grounds for believing that the individual was engaged in
crimnal activity Therefore, they did not violate the Fourth
Amendment by stoppmg that person for routine questioning.
I expressly stated, however, that my decision not to reach the
seizure issue did not necessarily indicate disagreement with
the views of MR. JUSTICE STEWART and MR. JusTICE REHn-

QuiST. Id., at 560, n. 1.1
The state courts, which decided this case before our decision in Mendenhall, did not consider whether the petitioner
had been seized. Rather, those courts apparently assumed
that the stop for routine identification questioning constituted a seizure, and addressed only the question whether the
agent's actions were justified by articulable and reasonable
grounds of suspicion. Because we similarly do not consider
the initial seizure question in our decision today, that issue
remains open for consideration by the state courts in light of
the opinions in MendenhaI.

JUSTIcE WHnT, joined by MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, MR. JUSTICE
MARSHALL, and MR. JUSTICE; STEVENS, filed a dissenting opinion in
Mendenhall in which they concluded that the respondent had been detamed in violation of the Fourth Amendment.
31A.

