OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

448 U. S.

ROSTKER, DIRECTOR OF SELECTIVE SERVICE, FT AL.
v GOLDBERG ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-70.

Decided July 19, 1980

An application to stay, pending review on appeal, the three-judge District
Court's order invalidating the registration provisions of the Military
Selective Service Act on the ground that exclusion of females from such
provisions constitutes gender-based discrimination in violation of the
equal protection component of the Fifth Amendment, is granted. It
appears that there is a "reasonable probability" that four Justices will
note probable jurisdiction, that there are "fair" prospects for a reversal,
and that, in balancing the irreparable harm that allegedly would result
to the Government if the stay is denied against the harm that allegedly
would result to the persons required to register under the Act if the
stay is granted, the equities favor the Government.

Circuit Justice.
This is an application for a stay pending review on appeal
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN,

of the July 18, 1980, order of a three-judge District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania invalidating the registration provisions of the Military Selective Service Act, 50

U S. C. App. §451 et seq., and enjoining the Government
from enforcing them.'

At stake are the Government's plans

I Briefly, the procedural history of this case is as follows: The original
complaint was filed in June 1971 by male citizens subject to registration
and induction who argued that the Selective Service Act violated several
of their constitutional rights, including the right to equal protection of
the laws guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment. Application to the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvama for the
convening of a three-judge court under the then applicable statute, 28
U. S. C. § 2282 (1970 ed.), was demed, and the suit was dismissed. On
review, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upheld
the dismissal of all claims except that founded upon the failure to conscript females. The Court of Appeals remanded the case to the District
Court for a determination of the substantiality of the equal protection
claim, and of plaintiffs' standing to raise that issue. On remand, the Dis-

ROSTKER v. GOLDBERG
1306

Opinion in Chambers

to register more than four million males born in 1960 and
1961 in the two weeks commencing on July 21.
The District Court concluded that the exclusion of females
from the registration provisions constitutes gender-based discrimination and that the federal parties had failed to demonstrate that the exclusion was substantially related to an
important governmental interest. Accordingly, it found the
provisions violative of the equal protection component of
the Fifth Amendment. The applicants, Bernard Rostker, Director of Selective Service et al., urge both that the District
Court applied too strict a standard of scrutiny in light of the
national defense interests at stake, and that even under the
standard which that court applied the decision not to include
females could be justified. Beyond that, the applicants contend that the Government will suffer irreparable injury if it
is not permitted to go forward with implementation of the
President's July 21 through August 2 call for draft registration, while respondents-a class including persons required to
register within the next two weeks-will suffer only minor and
remediable harms should I decide to stay the District Court's
injunction. Respondents submit that the three-judge court
properly decided the constitutional question before it, that
trict Court found that plaintiffs had standing, and convened a three-judge
court.
On July 1, 1974, the three-judge court, with Judge Rosenn dissenting,
denied defendants' motion to dismiss. Rowland v Tarr, 378 F Supp. 766.
There were no further proceedings until June 1979, when the court proposed to dismiss the case due to inaction. Additional discovery ensued,
and on February 17, 1980, defendants' motion for summary judgment was
denied. On July 1, 1980, a plaintiff class of potential registrants was certified, and on July 18, 1980, the District Court entered its order enjoining
registration under the Selective Service Act and declined to enter a stay
of execution.
Although the statute authorizing three-judge courts in actions such as
this was repealed in 1976, Pub. L. 94-381, §§ 1 and 2, 90 Stat. 1119 (Aug.
12, 1976), the Act remains applicable to suits filed before the date of
repeal, § 7, 90 Stat. 1120.

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion m Chambers

448T. S.

its injunction was proper, and that its subsequent decision to
deny a stay of that injunction was likewise appropriate.
The principles that control a Circuit Justice's consideration
of in-chambers stay applications are well established. Relief
from a single Justice is appropriate only in those extraordinary cases where the applicant is able to rebut the presumption that the decisions below-both on the merits and on the
proper interim disposition of the case--are correct. Whalen
v Roe, 423 U S. 1313, 1316-1317 (1975) (MARSHALL, J., in
In a case like the present one, this can be acchambers)
complished only if a four-part showing is made. First, it
must be established that there is a "reasonable probability"
that four Justices will consider the issue sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari or to note probable jurisdiction, Graves
v Barnes, 405 U S. 1201, 1203-1204 (1972) (POwELL, J., in
chambers), Mahan v Howell, 404 U S. 1201, 1202 (1971)
(Black, J., in chambers) Second, the applicant must persuade me that there is a fair prospect that a majority of the
Court will conclude that the decision below was erroneous.
While related to the first inquiry, this question may involve
somewhat different considerations, especially in cases presented on direct appeal. Times-Pwayune Publishing Corp.
v Schulingkamp, 419 U S. 1301, 1305 (1974) (PowELL, J.,
in chambers), Graves v Barnes, supra, at 1203-1204. Third,
there must be a demonstration that irreparable harm is likely
to result from the denial of a stay Whalen v Roe, supra,
at 1316, Graves v Barnes, supra, at 1203. And fourth, in a
close case it may be appropriate to "balance the equities"to explore the relative harms to applicant and respondent, as
well as the interests of the public at large. Cf. Holtzman v
Schlesinger, 414 U S.1304, 1308-1309 (1973) (MARSHALL, J.,
in chambers) (citing cases), Republican Committee v Ripon
Society, 409 U S. 1222, 1224 (1972) (REHNQUIST, J., in
chambers).
That the first prong of this test is satisfied is undeniable.

ROSTKER v. GOLDBERG
1306

1309

Opinion m Chambers

The importance of the question and the substantiality of the
constitutional issues are beyond cavil. The second prong is
more troubling. In my judgment the case is a difficult and
perplexing one. My task, however, is not to determine my
own view on the merits, but rather to determine the prospect
of reversal by this Court as a whole. In the past, the standard
of review to be applied in gender-based discrimination cases
has been a subject of considerable debate, compare Schlestnger
v Ballard, 419 U S. 498 (1975), with Craig v Boren, 429
U. S. 190 (1976)
And my Brethren's application of the
standard upon which we have finally settled in a context as
sensitive as that before me cannot be predicted with anything
approaching certainty Nonetheless, it does seem to me that
the prospects of reversal can be characterized as "fair." I
therefore turn to the interrelated inquiries that make up the
third and fourth prongs of the approach set forth above.
The applicants identify three distinct injuries that the
United States would sustain if the District Court's order were
to remain in force and this Court were then to uphold the
Selective Service Act. First, during the life of the District
Court's injunction, the United States is barred from instituting registration without time-consuming congressional action,
even in the face of a clear and present threat to national security Accordingly, the Nation's military capability to respond to emergencies would remain uncertain until the full
Court completes review of the ruling below' See Affidavit
of W Graham Claytor, Deputy Secretary of Defense, at 2
(July 16, 1980), Affidavit of Bernard Rostker, Director of
Selective Service, at 2 (July 15, 1980)
Second, the inauguration of registration by the President and the Congress was
2Further, inasmuch as congressional appropriations for registration
lapse on September 30, 1980, at the end of the current fiscal year, Affidavit of John P White, Deputy Director of Office of Management and
Budget, at 6 (July 15, 1980), a decision by the full Court in favor of the
Government after that date will necessitate additional delay while Congress
authorizes a new appropriation.

1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinon in Chambers

448 U. S.

not merely a predicate to possible future conscription. It
was an act of independent foreign policy significance-a deliberate response to developments overseas. Thus, a suspension of registration until a decision on its validity is reached
might frustrate coordinate branches in shaping foreign policy
Affidavit of John P White, Deputy Director of Office of Management and Budget, at 2-4 (July 15, 1980), Affidavit of
W Graham Claytor, supra, at 3, Affidavit of Warren Christopher, Deputy Secretary of State, at 1-2 (July 12, 1980) 1
Third, considerable resources have been expended in preparation for the imminent registration effort. The Government
has distributed publicity material, trained and assigned personnel, engaged computer support, and entered into contractual arrangements, all with a view toward the commencement
of actual registration on Monday, July 21. Should the Government ultimately prevail at some future date, these preparations will have to be replicated at considerable expense. Affidavit of Bernard Rostker, supra, at 4-5, Affidavit of John P
White, supra, at 6. While difficult to evaluate with precision,
these are considerations of palpable weight.
For their part, respondents urge that should they eventually succeed on the merits they will have suffered irreparable
injury by virtue of having had to register during the pendency
of the Government's appeal. But although registration imposes material interim obligations upon respondents-including the duty to appear-I cannot say that the inconvenience
of those impositions outweighs the gravity of the harm to
the United States should the stay requested be refused. Nor
does an irremediable injury stem from the fact that respond3
To be sure, the extent and duration of these irreparable injuries could
be curtailed if the Government were substantially to amend the Selective

Service Act during the period preceding review by this Court. In light
of the serious question raised by this case, however, the Government
should not be obliged to abandon an important statutory scheme without
an opportunity for plenary consideration by the Court.

ROSTKER v. GOLDBERG
1306

1311

Opinon m Chambers

ents' names will be enrolled upon registration lists. If respondents' claim is upheld, the destruction of those lists can
be ordered. On balance, therefore, I conclude that the equities favor the Government. Accordingly, I have today entered an order staying execution and enforcement of the District Court's judgment.

