NAMED AND UNNAMED CHILDREN v. TEXAS

1327

Opinion m Chambers

CERTAIN NAMED AND UNNAMED NON-CITIZEN
CHILDREN AND THEIR PARENTS v. TEXAS
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY

No. A-179. Decided September 4, 1980
An application to vacate the Court of Appeals' stay, pending appeal, of
the District Court's injunction prohibiting Texas education officials from
denying free education to any child, otherwise eligible, due to the child's
iumgration status-the District Court having held that a Texas statute
which prohibits use of state funds to educate alien children who are
not "legally admitted" to the United States, violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment-is granted. This order is
without prejudice to a school district's ability to apply for a stay of
the District Court's injunction, which stay would be justified if the
district can demonstrate that, because of the number of undocumented
alien children within its jurisdiction or because of exceptionally limited
resources, the injunction's operation would severely hamper the provision of education to all its students during the coming year. Because
of the significance of the District Court's constitutional ruling, it appears, even before decision by the Court of Appeals, that there is a
reasonable probability that this Court will grant certiorari or note probable jurisdiction, and it is not unreasonable to believe that five Members
of the Court may agree with the District Court's decision. Also, the
balance of harms weighs heavily on the side of undocumented alien
children, who will suffer irreparable harm from denial of public education if the stay is not vacated.

MR. JUSTICE POWELL, Circuit Justice.
This is an application to vacate an order of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, staying, pending
appeal, an injunction entered by the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Texas. The District
Court held that § 21.031 of the Texas Education Code (Supp.
1980), which prohibits the use of state funds to educate alien
children who are not "legally admitted" to the United States,
violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth

1328

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opinion in Chambers

448 U. S.

Amendment.1 The court enjoined state education officials
from denying free public education to any child, otherwise
eligible, due to the child's immigration status. The District
Court denied the State of Texas' motion to stay its injunction,
because the court found that a stay "would substantially
harm the plaintiffs and would not serve the public interest."
The Court of Appeals, upon subsequent motion of the State,
stayed the injunction pending appeal without opinion.
Plaintiffs below, and applicants here, are a class of schoolage, "undocumented" alien children, who have been denied
a free public education by the operation of § 21.031, and their
parents.2 Precise calculation of the number of children in
Texas encompassed by this description is impossible. The
State estimates that there are 120,000 such children, but the
District Court rejected this figure as "untenable" and accepted a more modest estimate of 20,000 children. These
undocumented children have not been legally admitted to the
United States through established channels of immigration.
None, however, is presently the subject of deportation proceedings, and many, the District Court found, are not deportable under federal inimgration laws. The District Court
concluded that "the great majority of the undocumented
children
are or will become permanent residents of this
country "

This case came before the District Court as a result of a
consolidation, by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, of lawsuits filed in all federal judicial districts in Texas
against the State and state education officials challenging the
validity of § 21.031. No other State has a similar statute.
The court found that § 21.031 effectively denied an educa1

Another Federal District Court in Texas had previously held that
§ 21.031 violates the Equal Protection Clause as applied to the Tyler
Independent School District. Doe v Plyler, 458 F Supp. 569 (ED Tex.
1978), appeal pending, No. 78-3311 (CAS).
The United States intervened on the side of plaintiffs below and has
filed here a statement in support of the application to vacate the stay

NAMED AND UNNAMED CHILDREN v. TEXAS
1327

1329

Opmion m Chambers

tion to the plaintiff children. Although they could attend
school upon payment of tuition, the court further found
that such payment is beyond the means of their families.
It held that the Equal Protection Clause applies to all people
residing in the United States, including unlawful aliens. It
recognized that no precedent of -this Court directly supports
this ruling, and, therefore, relied on analogous rulings of this
Court, see, e. g., Mathews v Diaz, 426 U. S. 67, 77 (1976)
(Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment applies to aliens
unlawfully residing in the United States), and precedents in
lower courts, see Bolanos v Kiley, 509 F 2d 1023, 1025 (CA2
1975) (dictum). In addition, the court found guidance in
the language of the Equal Protection Clause, which extends
protection to persons within a State's jurisdiction, and ruled
that a state law which purports to act on any person residing
within the State is subject to scrutiny under the Clause.
The District Court then determined that the Texas statute
was subject to strict scrutiny because it impaired a fundamental right of access to existing public education. It sought
to distinguish San Antono Independent School District v
Rodriguez, 411 U. S. 1 (1973), which held that the Constitution does not protect a right to education, at least beyond
training in the basic skills necessary for the exercise of other
fundamental rights such as voting and free expression. Id.,
at 29-39. The court observed that § 21.031 established a
complete bar to any education for the plaintiff children, and
thus raised the question reserved in Rodriguez of whether
there is a fundamental right under the Constitution to mmimal education. It stressed that an affirmative answer to this
question would not involve the federal courts in overseeing
the quality of education offered by the States, an involvement
condemned in Rodriguez. Applying strict scrutiny, the court
held the statute violative of the Equal Protection Clause because it was not justified by a compelling state interest.
While not explicitly so holding, the court also implied that it
would hold the statute unconstitutional even if it applied

1330

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opnion in Chambers

448 U. S.

rational-basis scrutiny or merely required that the law be
substantially related to an important state interest.

I
"The power of a Circuit Justice to dissolve a stay is well
settled." New York v Kleppe, 429 U S. 1307, 1310 (1976)
(MAnsRALL,

J., in chambers)

See Meredith v Fasr, 83 S. Ct.

10, 9 L. Ed. 2d 43 (1962) (Black, J., in chambers) The
well-established principles that guide a Circuit Justice in
considering an application to stay a judgment entered below
are equally applicable when considering an application to
vacate a stay
"[T]here must be a reasonable probability that four
members of the Court would consider the underlying
issue sufficiently meritorious for the grant of certiorari
or the notation of probable jurisdiction, there must be a
sigmficant possibility of reversal of the lower court's
decision, and there must be a likelihood that irreparable
harm will result if that decision is not stayed." TimesPicayune Publishing Corp. v Schulingkamp, 419 U S.
1301, 1305 (1974) (POWELL, J., in chambers).
When an application to vacate a stay is considered, this formulation must be modified, of course. there must be a significant possibility that a majority of the Court eventually will
agree with the District Court's decision.
Respect for the judgment of the Court of Appeals dictates
that the power to dissolve its stay, entered prior to adjudication of the merits, be exercised with restraint. A Circuit
Justice should not disturb, "except upon the weightiest considerations, interim determinations of the Court of Appeals
in matters pending before it." O'Rourke v Levmne, 80 S. Ct.
623, 624, 4 L. Ed. 2d 615, 616 (1960) (Harlan, J., in chambers)
The reasons supporting this reluctance to overturn interim
orders are plain, when a court of appeals has not yet ruled
on the merits of a controversy, the vacation of an interim

NAMED AND UNNAMED CHILDREN v. TEXAS
1327

1331

Opimon m Chambers

order invades the normal responsibility of that court to
provide for the orderly disposition of cases on its docket.
Unless there is a reasonable probability that the case will
eventually come before this Court for plenary consideration,
a Circuit Justice's interference with an interim order of a
court of appeals cannot be justified solely because he disagrees about the harm a party may suffer. The applicants,
therefore, bear an augmented burden of showing both that
the failure to vacate the stay probably will cause them
irreparable harm and that the Court eventually either will
grant certiorari or note probable jurisdiction.
This is the exceptional case where it appears, even before
decision by the Court of Appeals, that there is a reasonable
probability that this Court will grant certioran or note
probable jurisdiction. The District Court's holding that the
Equal Protection Clause applied to unlawful aliens raises a
difficult question of constitutional significance. It also revolves a pressing national problem. the number of unlawful
aliens residing in our country has risen dramatically In more
inmediate terms, the case presents a challenge to the administration of Texas public schools of importance to the
State's residents. The decision of the Court of Appeals may
resolve satisfactorily the immediate question. But the overarching question of the application of the Equal Protection
Clause to unlawful aliens appears likely to remain.
It is more difficult to say whether there is a significant
probability that a majority of this Court eventually will agree
with the District Court's decision. Mathews v Dwz upheld the power of the Federal Government to make distinctions between classes of aliens in the provision of Medicare
benefits against a clann that the classification violated the
Due Process Clause. The Court's resolution of the case
rested, however, on Congress' necessarily broad power over
all aspects of immigration and naturalization, and we speinvolves
cifically stated that "equal protection analysis
significantly different considerations because it concerns the

1332

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opimon m Chambers

448 U.S.

relationship between aliens and the States rather than between
aliens and the Federal Government." 426 U S., at 84-85.
The District Court relied explicitly on this distinction in holding that the Equal Protection Clause applies to the State's
treatment of unlawful aliens. Likewise, as mentioned above,
the court relied on a reservation in San Antonio Independent
School Districtv Rodriguez, supra,to find room for its holding
that there is a constitutional right to a mnimal level of free
public education. Thus, while not finding direct support in
our precedents, the court concluded that these holdings are
consistent with established constitutional principles.
Although the question is close, it is not unreasonable to
believe that five Members of the Court may agree with the
decision of the District Court. This is not to suggest that I
have reached any decision on the merits of this case or that
I think it more probable than not that we will agree with the
District Court. Rather, it recognizes that the court's decision is reasoned, that it presents novel and important issues,
and is supported by considerations that may be persuasive
to the Court of Appeals or to this Court. Further, it may be
possible to accept the District Court's decision without fully
embracing the full sweep of its analysis.
II
Applicants also have presented convincing arguments that
they will suffer irreparable harm if the stay is not vacated.
The District Court, having before it the voluminous evidence
presented during trial, explicitly relied on the probable harm
to plaintiffs in denying the State's motion to stay the injunction. Undocumented alien children have not been able
to attend Texas public schools since the challenged statute
was enacted in 1975. The harm caused these children by lack
of education needs little elucidation. Not only are the children consigned to ignorance and illiteracy; they also are
denied the benefits of association in the classroom with students and teachers of diverse backgrounds. Instead, most

NAMED AND UNNAMED CHILDREN v. TEXAS
1327

Opmion m Chambers

of the children remain idle, or are subjected prematurely to
physical toil, conditions that may lead to emotional and behavioral problems. These observations appear to be supported by findings about the condition of the children in
question.
The State argues that the stay works minimal harm on
applicants because they have been out of school for five years.
Absence for the additional year needed to settle this controversy will not add further irreparable harm. It seems to
me that this argument is meritless on its face. Expert testimony presented at trial indicates that delay in entering school
will tend to exacerbate the deprivations already suffered and
mitigate the efficacy of whatever relief eventually may be
deemed appropriate.
The State does not argue that it or the Texas Education
Agency will be harmed directly if the stay is vacated. The
primary involvement of the State and the Agency is to provide state funds to local, independent school districts. See
generally San Antonio Independent School Dtstrzct v Rodmguez, 411 U S., at 6-17 Nor does the State allege that it
will be compelled to furnish additional funds for the upcommg school year. Rather, it submits that its total expenditure
will be "diluted" by $70 per pupil by the addition of the new
students. Certainly, this decrease in per pupil expenditure
from a current figure of $1,200 is not de msnzms. But the
core of the State's argument is that the stay was necessary to
avoid irreparable harm to the independent school districts.
It contends that the influx of new Spanish-speaking students
will strain the abilities of the districts to provide bilingual
education, and thus cause the districts to violate existing or
pending rules governing the provision of bilingual education.
These legal difficulties seem speculative.
Perhaps the greater danger is that the quality of education
in some districts would suffer during the coming year. The
admission of numbers of illiterate, solely Spanish-speaking

1334

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opnion m Chambers

448 U.S.

children may tax the resources of a school district. The
affidavits submitted to the Court of Appeals document the
possibility of severe stress only in the Houston Independent
School District. 3 Affidavits submitted by the applicants indicate, however, that many school districts are prepared to
accept the undocumented children and do not foresee that
their assimilation will unduly strain their abilities to provide
a customary education to all their pupils.
Under these circumstances, I conclude that the balance of
harms weighs heavily on the side of the children, certainly in
those school districts where the ability of the local schools to
provide education will not be threatened. I therefore will
vacate the stay instituted by the Court of Appeals, which
applies to all school districts within Texas. This order shall
be without prejudice to the ability of an individual school
district, or the State on its behalf, to apply for a stay of the
District Court's injunction. If the district can demonstrate
that, because of the number of undocumented alien children
within its jurisdiction or because of exceptionally limited
resources, the operation of the injunction would severely hamper the provision of education to all its students during the
coming year, the granting of a stay would be justified.4

3

The State argues here that serious difficulties can be expected m the
Dallas and Brownsville School Districts as well.
4
Applicants indicate that the District Court already has expressed a
willingness to consider staying its injunction m those school districts that
can demonstrate exceptional difficulty in admitting the children this fall.

