MOORE v. BROWN

1335

Opinion in Chambers

MOORE

ET AL.

v BROWN

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-195. Decided September 5, 1980
An application to stay the District Court's preliminary injunction, which
ordered Alabama election officials to conduct district rather than at-large
voting to fill vacancies on the Mobile County School Board, is denied.
The District Court may have erred in entering such injunction without
hearing further evidence or making fresh findings of fact after its prior
decision that the at-large voting system violated the Fourteenth Amendment by diluting the effectiveness of black votes had been vacated and
the case had been remanded for further proceedings (see Williams v.
Brown, 446 U. S. 236). But in the present posture of the case the
unacceptable alternative to allowing the District Court's preliminary
injunction to stand would be to enjoin the coming election entirely and
to allow incumbents whose terms have expired to remain in office until
an at-large election can be held.

MR. JUSTICE PowELL, Circuit Justice.
The applicants, the Mobile County School Board and its
Commissioners, request that I stay a preliminary injunction
entered by the District Court in another phase of the litigation over the composition of the Board. The injunction ordered Alabama election officials to conduct district rather
than at-large voting to fill School Board vacancies.
This Term, m City of Mobile v Bolden, 446 U S. 55
(1980), this Court considered a constitutional challenge to
Mobile's system of at-large elections for City Commissioners.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART wrote for a plurality of four Justices
and concluded that the plaintiffs were required to prove a
racially discriminatory purpose to show that Mobile's at-large
voting system violated the Fourteenth Amendment. The
District Court, by contrast, had thought it sufficient to show
that the existing election system had the effect of impeding
the election of blacks. The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Cir-

1336

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion

in

Chambers

448 U. S.

cuit had affirmed.1 Because we disagreed with the analysis of
the District Court and Court of Appeals, we reversed and remanded for further proceedings.
Bolden's companion case, Williams v Brown, 446 U S. 236
(1980) (Brown I), involved at-large elections for the School
Board. In that case as well, the District Court and Fifth
Circuit had held unconstitutional a system of at-large elections, relying on analysis similar to that used by them in
Bolden. We therefore vacated the 3udgment and remanded
for further proceedings in light of Bolden. Approximately
11 weeks later, the Court of Appeals in turn vacated the
decision of the District Court and remanded the case to it.
I
The Alabama Legislature created the Mobile County Board
of School Commissioners in 1826. Commissioners then were
elected at large. That practice has continued to the present
day 2 Under current law, the Board is composed of five persons who serve staggered 6-year terms. The at-large election system contains no obstacle to ballot access by blacks. In
Brown I, however, the District Court nevertheless concluded
that the system of at-large elections "diluted" the effectiveness of black votes. The court ordered a phased-in system of
district elections to increase the likelihood that blacks would
be elected to the Board. Under the District Court's plan,
Mobile County was divided into five districts. Two of the
district seats were filled in elections in 1978.3 Another disIAlthough recognizing that a discriminatory purpose had to be proved,
the Court of Appeals had thought that the "aggregate" of discriminatory
effects was sufficient to establish a discriminatory purpose.
2 In 1975, after this suit was filed, the state legislature passed a local Act
restructuring the Board into five single-member districts. A state court
subsequently held that the Act violated the Alabama Constitution because
of a defect in its publication.
3On August 29, 1978, I denied an application to stay the District Court's
plan pending review by this Court.

MOORE v. BROWN
1335

Opinion in Chambers

trict seat was scheduled to be filled in an election this fall.
The two remaining district seats were to be filled in 1982.
Under the District Court's original plan, however, the introduction of district seats did not necessarily correspond to
the expiration of incumbents' terms of office. Only one atlarge seat expired in 1978, but two new district seats were
added that year.' Thus, since 1978 the Board has operated
with six members rather than five. The District Court therefore ordered one of the at-large Commissioners whose term is
to expire in 1980 to act as the nonvoting "chairman" of the
Board during the remainder of his term.5
In sum, at the time we vacated the District Court's original
plan, the Board contained six members, two of whom had
been elected from districts pursuant to the plan. Two atlarge seats were due to expire this fall, and one new district
member would be elected. Thus, the coming election would
have resulted in a return to a five-member Board, three of
whom would have been elected from districts.
II
Controversy has followed our decision vacating the District
Court's original district election plan. At least some of the
at-large Commissioners thought that our decision in effect invalidated the election of the two district Commissioners
chosen in 1978. Accordingly, some persons refused to acknowledge the legitimacy of the votes of the district members. Under these circumstances, the Board is reported to
have been paralyzed since April.
The District Court reassumed jurisdiction over the case on
July 11, 1980. Two primary issues confronted the court.
First, as I have noted, substantial dispute had arisen over the
legitimacy of the two 1978 district elections. Board members
disagreed with one another, not only substantively, but also
4

A black was elected to each district seat in 1978.
5The nonvoting "chairman" did have the power to break ties.

1338

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opmlon m Chambers

448 U. S.

on the threshold question of whether two of their number
were even official Board members at all. In sum, the Board
could not function. The District Court resolved the deadlock
by holding that the 1978 winners remained the official Board
members.
The second issue concerned future elections. Under the District Court's original plan, one district election was to have been
held in 1980, and two at-large seats were to expire. The district
primary was scheduled for Tuesday, September 2, and the
general election for November 4. Without taking evidence or
making findings of fact, the District Court on July 25 entered
a preliminary injunction that would, as the court characterized
it, "preserv[e] the status quo pending a decision on remand."
The injunction reinstated the district election plan that we
had vacated in April. The injunction was appropriate, according to the District Court, because plaintiffs would be irreparably harmed if the at-large election were held. Holding
the district election, by contrast, would not impose significant
harm on defendants or on the public interest. Finally, the
court thought that the plaintiffs had "a substantial likelihood"
of eventually prevailing on the merits.
Defendants-applicants here-sought a stay of the munction pending appeal. Specifically, they asked that the District Court enjoin the district election scheduled for this fall,
and permit the two at-large members now on the Board to
continue to serve past the normal expiration of their terms.
The District Court denied the requested stay on August 19.
Defendants next asked the Fifth Circuit to stay the preliminary injunction. On August 26, that court denied the stay
without opinion. Late Thursday, August 28, defendants applied to me to stay the preliminary injunction.
III
I have serious concerns about the process and reasoning
underlying the District Court's entry of a preliminary injunction. The District Court and the Court of Appeals in Brown

MOORE v. BROWN
1335

Opinion m Chambers

I had invalidated the at-large election law and imposed a
system of district elections. We vacated their judgment, and
remanded the case for further proceedings. On remand, the
District Court purportedly acted to preserve the status quo
pendente lite, but did so by reinstating its own election plan
that we had vacated. After our remand, I would have
thought that the slate was wiped clean until there had been
further evidence, or at least fresh findings of fact. Until then,
the status quo was the presumptively valid election system
provided by Alabama law-not the judge-made election plan
that we had vacated.
I also was troubled by two additional elements of the District Court's analysis. First, it concluded that the balance
of harms heavily favored entering the preliminary injunction.
The court seemed to perceive little or no harm to the defendants, and to the public interest, resulting from reinstatement
of the judge-created election plan. The court's injunction,
however, imposes on Mobile County a method of selecting its
School Board members that had not been enacted by state or
local elected representatives. While the preliminary injunction is in effect, district elections will be held. These elections may produce--indeed, the District Court intended that
they produce-Commissioners who would not have been
elected under the longstanding system of at-large elections.
As MR. JusTIcE STEvENs observed, "the responsibility for
drawing political boundaries is generally committed to the
legislative process." City of Mobile v Bolden, 446 U S.,
at 91 (concurring opinion). The District Court appeared to
ignore the fact that altering the voting system established by
Alabama law more than a century ago, and since maintained,
is a substantial intrusion on local self-government.
Second, the court concluded that plaintiffs had "a substantial likelihood" of success on the merits. Yet, the court made
no finding of fact, nor indeed alluded to any fact known to it,
to justify that conclusion. Compare Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 52
(a) ("in granting or refusing interlocutory injunctions the

1340

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

448 U.S.

court shall
set forth the findings of fact and conclusions of
law which constitute the grounds of its action"). Nor did
the District Court explain how the plaintiffs would prove a
purposeful violation of constitutional rights as required by the
plurality's decision in Bolden.' Indeed, although we had directed that proceedings on remand be conducted in light of this
Court's decision in Bolden, our opinion m that case was not
mentioned m the District Court's opinion.

IV
It may well be, for the reasons stated above, that the District Court erred in entering the preliminary injunction.7 The
court at least offered unsatisfactory reasons for its decision.
Yet, I am reluctant to stay the effect of the injunction. The
parties agree that, at this late date, if an election is to occur
this fall at all, it must be the district election ordered by the
District Court.8 The applicants therefore urge me to grant a
stay that would prevent holding any election at all, and to
keep in office, until an at-large election can be held, the
incumbents whose terms are due to expire. In Times-Picayune
8

Moreover, in Brown I, the District Court itself had recognized that, in
general, it is "a difficult task" to prove "overt racial considerations in the
actions
of government officials." App., 0. T. 1979, No. 78-357, p. 30a.
7
This opinion is not intended to convey any doubt about the legitimacy
of the status of the two Commissioners elected in 1978 pursuant to the
District Court's then-operative district election plan. The applicants do
not8 challenge that aspect of the District Court's order.
As often happens (and for reasons that rarely are explained) emergency applications with respect to elections reach us on the eve of the
weekend before the election. This places the Court, or the Circuit Justice
(as is usually the case), in the unwelcome position of ruling under serious
time constraints on the validity of an election that has been planned for
months. This is an example. The application was presented to me less
than five full days (including the Labor Day weekend) before the scheduled primary election. Had proceedings on remand moved more expeditiously, it might have been possible to hold this fall the at-large elections
envisioned by Alabama law

MOORE v. BROWN
1335

Opinion in Chambers

Publishing Corp. v Schulingkamp, 419 U S. 1301, 1305 (1974)
(PowELL, J., in chambers), I summarized the principles that
normally guide a Circuit Justice in considering a request for
a stay Although applicants here forcefully argue that the
Times-P-cayune requirements are fully met, I have concluded
not to stay the injunction. A Circuit Justice should exercise
restraint before staying an interim order entered by a District
Court and affirmed by a Court of Appeals.' This caution
seems especially pertinent where a scheduled election would
be enjoined. Thus, in the posture in which this case now
comes to me-and in light of the unacceptable alternative of
enjoining the fall election and retaining in office incumbents
whose terms have expred-I decline to stay the preliminary
injunction."0

9

Just recently, I commented:
"A Circuit Justice should not disturb, 'except upon the weightiest considerations, interim determinations of the Court of Appeals in matters pending before it.' O'Rourke v. Levine, 80 S. Ct. 623, 624, 4 L. Ed. 2d 615, 616
(1960) (Harlan, J., in chambers). The reasons supporting this reluctance
to overturn interim orders are plain: when a court of appeals has not yet
ruled on the merits of a controversy, the vacation of an interim order invades the normal responsibility of that court to provide for orderly disposition of cases on its docket." Certain Named and Unnamed Noncitizen Children v Texas, ante, at 1330-1331 (in chambers).
10 Because of the time constraints that I have mentioned, see n. 8, supra,
I issued an order denying the stay on Friday, August 29, reserving the
right subsequently to file this opinion.

