OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Per Curiam

IN RE KENNEDY
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 98-6945.

Decided January 11, 1999

Pro se petitioner seeks leave to proceed informa pauperis on his petition

for extraordinary relief. The instant petition constitutes his 12th frivolous filing with this Court.
Held. Petitioner's motion to proceed informa pauperisis denied. He is
barred from filing any further petitions for extraordinary writs and for
certiorari in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee
and submits his petition in compliance with this Court's Rule 33.1.
Martin v. Districtof Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1.

See

Motion denied.
PER CURIAM.

Prose petitioner Kennedy seeks leave to proceed informa
pauperisunder Rule 39 of this Court. We deny this request
pursuant to Rule 39.8. Kennedy is allowed until February
1, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fee required by
Rule 38 and to submit his petition in compliance with this
Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the Clerk of the Court not
to accept any further petitions for certiorari nor petitions for
extraordinary writs from Kennedy in noncriminal matters
unless he pays the docketing fee required by Rule 38 and
submits his petition in compliance with Rule 33.1.
Kennedy has abused this Court's certiorari and extraordinary writ processes. In October 1998, we invoked Rule
39.8 to deny Kennedy in forma pauperis status. See In re
Kennedy, post, p. 807. At that time, Kennedy had filed four
petitions for extraordinary writs and six petitions for certiorari, all of which were both patently frivolous and had been
denied without recorded dissent. The instant petition for an
extraordinary writ thus constitutes Kennedy's 12th frivolous
filing with this Court.
We enter the order barring prospective filings for the
reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court

IN RE KENNEDY

154

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

of Appeals, 506 U.S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Kennedy's
abuse of the writ of certiorari and of the extraordinary writ
has been in noncriminal cases, and so we limit our sanction
accordingly. The order therefore will not prevent Kennedy
from petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might
be imposed on him. The order, however, will allow this
Court to devote its limited resources to the claims of petitioners who have not abused our process.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

dissenting.

For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (STEVENS,
J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.

