OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS
ASSOCIATED PRESS ET AL. v. DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE FIFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF COLORADO
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. 04A73.

Decided July 26, 2004

An application to stay orders of a Colorado trial court and the Colorado
Supreme Court restricting publication of transcripts of in camera pretrial proceedings in a sexual assault prosecution held to determine the
relevance and admissibility of certain evidence pursuant to Colorado's
rape shield law is denied without prejudice to its being filed again subsequent to July 28, 2004. After applicants, newspaper publishers and
media outlets, were mistakenly e-mailed the transcripts, the trial court
prohibited their publication and required their deletion from the applicants' computers. The applicants challenged the order before the State
Supreme Court, which agreed that it was a prior restraint on speech,
but found that a more narrowly tailored order would pass constitutional
muster. After this application was filed, the state trial court found
some of the evidence admissible under the state statute, but has not
determined whether the transcripts at issue should be made public.
The trial court's determination as to the rape shield material's relevancy
will significantly change the circumstances leading to this application.
That court may decide to release the transcripts in their entirety or in
part. Release may be imminent. Though the constitutional interests
are important, a brief delay will permit the state courts to clarify, perhaps avoid, the controversy at issue.

Circuit Justice.
This is an application for a stay of orders of the Colorado
State District Court for Eagle County and the Supreme
Court of Colorado restricting publication of the contents of
transcripts of in camerapretrial proceedings held in a criminal prosecution for sexual assault. The applicants are several major newspaper publishers and media outlets that have
JUSTICE BREYER,

1301

1302

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. DISTRICT COUR" FOR
FIFTH JUDICIAL DIST. OF COLO.
Opinion in Chambers

been covering the prosecution. They filed their application
in this Court on July 21, 2004. Due to a change in circumstances following the submission of their application, I deny
the application without prejudice to its being filed again in
two days' time (or thereafter), i. e., subsequent to July 28,
2004.
At issue are the transcripts of trial court hearings, held
in camera on June 21 and June 22, 2004, to determine the
relevance and admissibility of certain evidence pursuant to
Colorado's rape shield statute, Colo. Rev. Stat. ยง 18-3-407(2)
(Lexis 2003). The transcripts were mistakenly e-mailed to
the applicants by a court reporter of the trial court. Upon
realizing its mistake, the trial court issued an order prohibiting publication of the contents of the transcripts and requiring their deletion from the applicants' computers. See
Order in People v. Bryant, No. 03-CR-204 (Dist. Ct., Eagle
Cty., June 24, 2004). The applicants challenged the order
before the Colorado Supreme Court, which agreed with them
that the order imposed a prior restraint on speech, but concluded that a more narrowly tailored version of the order
would pass constitutional muster. See People v. Bryant, 94
P. 3d 624 (2004).
Accordingly, the Colorado Supreme Court ordered the
trial court to:
"(1) make its rape shield rulings as expeditiously as possible and promptly enter its findings of facts and conclusions of law thereon; (2) determine if some or all portions of the June 21 and June 22 transcripts are relevant
and material and, therefore, admissible imder the rape
shield statute at trial; and (3) enter am appropriate
order, which may include releasing to the [applicants]
and the public a redacted version of the June 21 and
June 22 transcripts that contains those portions that are
relevant and material in the case, if any, and maintains
the ongoing confidentiality of portions that are irrelevant and immaterial, if any." Id., at 626-627.

Cite as: 542 U. S. 1301 (2004)
Opinion in Chambers

In evaluating the validity of the prior restraint, the Colorado Supreme Court made clear that the government's "interest of the highest order" in preventing publication applied
only to those portions of "the in camera transcripts that are
not relevant and material under the rape shield statute."
Id., at 626. Two days after the Colorado Supreme Court
issued its opinion, the applicants submitted their application
for a stay of the trial court's and the Colorado Supreme
Court's orders, directing it to me as Circuit Justice.
On July 23, the same day that responses to the application
were filed in this Court, the Colorado trial court issued its
ruling on the admissibility of evidence under the Colorado'
rape shield statute. See Order re: Defendant's Motion to
Admit Evidence Pursuant to C. R. S. ยง 18-3-407 and People's Motions in Limine #5 and #7 in People v. Bryant,
No. 03-CR-204 (Dist. Ct., Eagle Cty., July 23, 2004). According to this ruling (which affects all of the hearings held
in camera pursuant to the rape shield statute, not just those
at issue in this application) the trial court
"determines that certain evidence ... is relevant to a
material issue(s) in this case ...and will permit the
evidence to be offered at the trial of this matter. The
Court determines that certain other evidence ... is not
relevant to any material issue in this case, and therefore
may not be offered at the trial of this matter, unless
circumstances later warrant." Id., at 5-6.
The ruling goes on to specify the evidence that is relevant
and material. To my knowledge, the trial court has not yet
made its determination as to whether the transcripts of June
21 and 22, in whole or in part, shall be made public.
My reading of the transcripts leads me to believe that the
trial court's determination as to the relevancy of the rape
shield material will significantly change the circumstances
that have led to this application. As a result of that determination, the trial court may decide to release the tran-

1304

ASSOCIATED PRESS v. DISTRICT COURT FOR
-FIFTH JUDICIAL DIST. OF COLO.
Opinion in Chambers

scripts at issue here in their entirety, or to release some portions while redacting others. Their release, I believe, is
imminent. I recognize the importance of the constitutional
interests at issue. See, e. g., Capital Cities Media, Inc. v.
Toole, 463 U. S. 1303, 1304 (1983) (Brennan, J., in chambers);
Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 423 U. S. 1327, 1329 (1975)
(Blackmun, J., in chambers). But a brief delay will permit
the state courts to clarify, perhaps avoid, the controversy at
issue here. See Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 423 U. S.
1319, 1325 (1975) (same).
Consequently, the application is denied without prejudice
.to the applicants' filing again in two days' time. Should they
do so, the respondent shall file a response one day subsequent indicating: (1) (if the trial court has acted) why any
redacted portions of the transcripts must remain confidential; or (2) (if the trial court has not acted) which portions of
the transcripts it believes, in light of the trial court's admissibility determinations, should remain confidenti.al and why.
The applicants shall file their reply, if they wisa to file one,
one further day later.
The application is denied without prejudice.

