OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Per Curiam.

389 U. S.

COLEMAN v. ALABAMA.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT

OF ALABAMA.

No. 162, Misc. Decided October 16, 1967.
In an evidentiary hearing, following remand, it appeared that until
petitioner's trial, no Negro had ever served on a grand jury panel
and few, if any, on petit jury panels in the county, and that no
Negroes served on the grand jury which indicted petitioner or
the petit jury which convicted him. The State presented no
rebuttal evidence, and the State Supreme Court's statement that
the acknowledged disparity "can be explained by a number of
other factors," viz., by Negroes moving out of the county, and
some disqualifications for felony convictions, held not to rebut
petitioner's prima facie case of denial of equal protection of the
laws.
Certiorari granted; 280 Ala. 509, 195 So. 2d 800, reversed and
remanded.
Jack Greenberg, Michael Meltsner and Orzell Billings-

ley for petitioner.
MacDonald Gallion, Attorney General of Alabama, and

Leslie Hall, Assistant Attorney General, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

The motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and
the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted.
On our previous remand, we held that petitioner was
entitled to "his day in court on his allegations of systematic exclusion of Negroes from the grand and petit
juries sitting in his case." 377 U. S. 129, 133. Petitioner was thereupon afforded an evidentiary hearing on
his allegations. Although the evidence was in dispute
regarding the inclusion of Negroes in the grand and
petit jury venires in the county in which petitioner was
indicted and tried, it appeared that no Negro served on

COLEMAN v. ALABAMA.
22

Per Curiam.

the grand jury which indicted or the petit jury which
convicted petitioner. It further appeared that up to
the time of petitioner's trial, no Negro had ever served
on a grand jury panel and few, if any, Negroes had
served on petit jury panels. This "testimony in itself
made out a prima facie case of the denial of the equal
protection which the Constitution guarantees." Norris v.
Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 591. In the absence of evidence
adduced by the State adequate to rebut the prima facie
case, petitioner was therefore entitled to have his conviction reversed. Arnold v. North Carolina,376 U. S. 773;
Eubanks v. Louisiana, 356 U. S. 584; Reece v. Georgia,
350 U. S. 85, 87-88; Hernandez v. Texas, 347 U. S. 475,
481; Hill v. Texas, 316 U. S. 400, 406; Norris v. Alabama,
supra.
On our independent examination of the record, we are
unable to discover any evidence adduced by the State
adequate to rebut petitioner's prima facie case. The
Alabama Supreme Court, in affirming the trial court's
denial of relief, acknowledged that the evidence indicated
"a disparity" and stated only that "that disparity can be
explained by a number of other factors." 280 Ala. 509,
512, 195 So. 2d 800, 802. The only factors mentioned,
however, were that Negroes had moved away from the
county and that some may have been under the statutory
disqualification of having suffered a felony conviction.
In the circumstances of this case these factors were not in
our view sufficient to rebut petitioner's prima facie case.
The judgment of the Alabama Supreme Court is therefore reversed and the case is remanded to that court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is 8o ordered.

