OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Syllabus.

389 U. S.

WHITEHILL v. ELKINS, PRESIDENT, UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND, ET AL.
APPEAL

FROM

THE UNITED

STATES

DISTRICT

COURT

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 25.

Argued October 16, 1967.-Decided November 6, 1967.

Appellant, who had been offered a University of Maryland teaching
position, brought this suit for declaratory relief challenging the
constitutionality of .a state "loyalty oath," which he refused to
take. The oath, drafted by the Attorney General and approved
by the Board of Regents, contains a certification that an applicant
for public employment is not "engaged in one way or another
in the attempt to overthrow the Government . . . by force or
violence." Section 11 of the Ober Act authorizes state agencies
to fix procedures to ascertain that a prospective employee is not
a "subversive person," a term which, as defined in §§ 1 and 13,
reaches one who is a member of a subversive organization which
would alter, overthrow, or destroy the Government by revolution, force, or violence. A three-judge District Court dismissed
the complaint. Held:
1. Since the authority to prescribe oaths is provided by § 11
of the Ober Act, which is tied to §§ 1 and 13, the oath here must
be considered, not in isolation, but with reference to §§ 1 and 13.
Pp. 56-57.
2. Sections 1 and 13 violate due process requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment, since they are unconstitutionally vague
and overbroad by not distinctly delineating between permissible
and impermissible conduct in the sensitive and important area of
academic freedom. Pp. 57-62.
(a) In Gerende v. Election Board, 341 U. S. 56, which
involved application of an oath to candidates in Maryland for
public office, this Court did not reach the question now presented.
P. 58.
(b) In the light of the gloss placed upon the Act by the
Maryland courts, it is uncertain whether only those members of a
"subversive" group are barred who seek to overthrow or destroy
the Government by force or violence. Thus, a prospective employee could not know, save as he risked a perjury prosecution,

WHITEHILL v. ELKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

54
whether as
throw the
engaged in
ignorant of
258 F. Supp.

a member of a group aiming through violence to overGovernment he would "in one way or another" be
an attempt at violent overthrow even though he was
the group's real aims. Pp. 57-62.
589, reversed.

Sanford Jay Rosen argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the brief were Elsbeth Levy Bothe and
Joseph S. Kaufman.
Loring E. Hawes, Assistant Attorney General of Maryland, argued the cause for appellees. With him on the
brief was Francis B. Burch, Attorney General.
Bernard Wolfman and Herman I. Orentlicher filed a
brief for the American Association of University Professors, as amicus curiae, in support of appellant.
Edward C. Mackie filed a brief for the Baltimore
Metropolitan Chapter of Americans for Constitutional
Action, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit for declaratory relief that a Maryland
teacher's oath required of appellant was unconstitutional
was heard by a three-judge court and dismissed. 258
F. Supp. 589. We noted probable jurisdiction. 386
U. S.906.
Appellant, who was offered a teaching position with
the University of Maryland, refused to take the following oath:
"I,
, do hereby (Print Nameincluding middle initial) certify that I am not engaged in one way or another in the attempt to overthrow the Government of the United States, or the
State of Maryland, or any political 'subdivision of
either of them, by force or violence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

389 U. S.

"I further certify that I understand the aforegoing statement is made subject to the penalties of
perjury prescribed in Article 27, Section 439 of the
Annotated Code of Maryland (1957 edition)."
The question is whether the oath is to be read in isolation or in connection with the Ober Act (Art. 85A, Md.
Ann. Code, 1957) which by §§ 1 and 13 defines a "subversive" as ". . . any person who commits, attempts to
commit, or aids in the commission, or advocates, abets,
advises or teaches by any means any person to commit,
attempt to commit, or aid in the commission of any act
intended to overthrow, destroy or alter, or to assist in the
overthrow, destruction or alterationof, the constitutional
form of the government of the United States, or of the
State of Maryland, or any political subdivision of either
of them, by revolution, force, or violence; or who is a
member of a subversive organization or a foreign subversive organization, as more fully defined in this article."
(Italics supplied.) Section 1 defines the latter terms:
"subversive organization" meaning a group that would,
inter alia, "alter" the form of government "by revolution,
force, or violence"; "foreign subversive organization" is
such a group directed, dominated, or controlled by a foreign government which engages in such activities.
The oath was prepared by the Attorney General and
approved by the Board of Regents that has exclusive
management of the university. It is conceded that the
Board had authority to provide an oath, as § 11 of the
Act directs every agency of the State which appoints,
employs, or supervises officials or employees to establish
procedures designed to ascertain before a person is appointed or employed that he or she "is not a subversive
person." And that term is, as noted, defined by §§ 1
and 13. Our conclusion is that, since the authority to
prescribe oaths is provided by § 11 of the Act and since
it is in turn tied to § 1 and 13, we must consider the

WHITEHILL v. ELKINS.
54

Opinion of the Court.

oath with reference to § 1 and 13, not in isolation. Nor
can we assume that the Board of Regents meant to
encompass less than the Ober Act, as construed, sought
to cover.
If the Federal Constitution is our guide, a person who
might wish to "alter" our form of government may not
be cast into the outer darkness. For the Constitution
prescribes the method of "alteration" by the amending
process in Article V; and while the procedure for amending it is restricted, there is no restraint on the kind of
amendment that may be offered. Moreover, the First
Amendment, which protects a controversial as well as a
conventional dialogue (Terminiello v. Chicago, 337 U. S.
1), is as applicable to the States as it is to the Federal
Government; and it extends to petitions for redress of
grievances (Edwards v. South Carolina, 372 U. S. 229,
235) as well as to advocacy and debate. So if §§ 1 and 13
of the Ober Act are the frame of reference in which the
challenged oath is to be adjudged, we have important
questions to resolve.
We are asked to treat §§ 1 and 13 as if they barred only
those who seek to overthrow or destroy the Government
by force or violence. Reference is made to Gerende v.
Election Board, 341 U. S. 56, where, in considering the
definition of "subversive" person applicable to § 15 of
the Act, governing candidates for office, we accepted the
representation of the Attorney General that he would
advise the proper authorities in Maryland to take and
adopt the narrower version of the term "subversive."
The Court of Appeals of Maryland had indicated in Shub
v. Simpson, 196 Md. 177, 76 A. 2d 332, that the purpose
of the Act was to reach that group, and that the words
"revolution, force, or violence" in § 1 did not include a
peaceful revolution but one accomplished by force or
violence. Id., at 190-191, 76 A. 2d, at 337-338. In
that view the "alteration" defined would be an altera-

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

389 U. S.

tion by force and violence. That construction had not
yet been fashioned into an oath or certificate when
Gerende reached us. That case involved an attempt by
a candidate for public office in Maryland to require the
election officials to dispense with an oath that incorporated the statutory language. The Court of Appeals
refused the relief asked. We referred to the narrow
construction of §§ 1 and 15 given in the Shub case saying:
"We read this decision to hold that to obtain a
place on a Maryland ballot a candidate need only
make oath that he is not a person who is engaged 'in
one way or another in the attempt to overthrow the
government by force or violence,' and that he is not
knowingly a member of an organization engaged in
such an attempt. [196] Md. at [192], 76 A. 2d at
338. At the bar of this Court the Attorney General
of the State of Maryland declared that he would advise the proper authorities to accept an affidavit in
these terms as satisfying in full the statutory requirement. Under these circumstances and with this
understanding, the judgment of the Maryland Court
of Appeals is affirmed." 341 U. S., at 56-57.
As we said in Baggett v. Bullitt, 377 U. S. 360, 368,
n. 7, we did not pass upon or approve the statutory
definition of a "subversive" person in the Gerende case.
Rather we accepted the narrowing construction tendered
by the Attorney General during oral argument so as to
avoid the constitutional issue that was argued.
It is, however, urged that § 18 of the Act which contains a severability clause makes it possible for the
Maryland Attorney General and for us to separate the
wheat from the chaff that may be in §§ 1 and 13. The
District Court found merit in the point. 258 F. Supp.,
at 596. But our difficulty.goes deeper. As we have said
in like situations, the oath required must not be so

WHITEHILL v. ELKINS.
54

Opinion of the Court.

vague and broad as to make men of common intelligence speculate at their peril on its meaning. Baggett
v. Bullitt, supra; Elfbrandt v. Russell, 384 U. S. 11;
Keyishian v. Board of Regents, 385 U. S. 589. And so
we are faced with the kind of problem which we thought
we had avoided in Gerende.
As we have seen, §§ 1 and 13 reach (1) those who
would "alter" the form of government "by revolution,
force, or violence" and (2) those who are members
of a subversive organization or a foreign subversive
organization.
The prescribed oath requires, under threat of perjury,
a statement that the applicant is not engaged "in one
way or another" in an attempt to overthrow the Government by force or violence. Though we assume arguendo
that the Attorney General and the Board of Regents
were authorized so to construe the Act as to prescribe
a narrow oath (1) that excluded "alteration" of the
Government by peaceful "revolution" and (2) that excluded all specific reference to membership in subversive
groups, we still are beset with difficulties. Would a
member of a group that was out to overthrow the Government by force or violence be engaged in that attempt
"in one way or another" within the meaning of the oath,
even though he was ignorant of the real aims of the
group and wholly innocent of any illicit purpose? We
do not know; nor could a prospective employee know,
save as he risked a prosecution for perjury.
We are in the First Amendment field. The continuing
surveillance 1 which this type of law places on teachers is
I There is not only the provision for perjury prescribed in § 11,
but also § 14 which provides in part that "Reasonable grounds on all
the evidence to believe that any person is a subversive person, as
defined in this article, shall be cause for discharge" of the employee.
See Anti-Fascist Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 175, n. 1
(concurring opinion).

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

389 U. S.

hostile to academic freedom. As we said in Sweezy v.
New Hampshire, 354 U. S. 234, 250:
"The essentiality of freedom in the community of
American universities is almost self-evident. No
one should underestimate the vital role in a democracy that is played by those who guide and train
our youth. To impose any straitjacket upon the
intellectual leaders in our colleges and universities
would imperil the future of our Nation. No field of
education is so thoroughly comprehended by man
that new discoveries cannot yet be made. Particularly is that true in the social sciences, where few, if
any, principles are accepted as absolutes. Scholarship cannot flourish in an atmosphere of suspicion
and distrust. Teachers and students must always
remain free to inquire, to study and to evaluate, to
gain new maturity and understanding; otherwise our
civilization will stagnate and die."
The restraints on conscientious teachers are obvious.
As we noted in the Elfbrandt case, even attendance at an
international conference might be a trap for the innocent
if that conference were predominantly composed of those
who would overthrow the Government by force or violence. 384 U. S., at 16-17. "Juries might convict
though the teacher did not subscribe to the wrongful
aims of the organization." Id., at 17.
In sum, we read the oath as an integral part of the
Ober Act; and we undertake to read §§ 1 and 13 of that
Act in light of the gloss that the Maryland courts have
placed on it. We know that the Shub case says that "[a]
person who advocates the overthrow of the Government
of the United States . . . through force or violence
could scarcely in good faith, take the constitutional oath
of office . . . ." 196 Md., at 190, 76 A. 2d, at 337.
(Italics supplied.) Yet that case does little more than

WHITEHILL v. ELKINS.
54

Opinion of the Court.

afford the basis for argument that membership in a subversive organization means that the member must advocate a violent overthrow. This, however, is speculation,
not certainty. Another Maryland case bearing on the
question is Character Committee v. Mandras, 233 Md.
285, 196 A. 2d 630. There an applicant for admission
to the Maryland bar answered "No" to the question "Are
you now or have you ever been a subversive person as
defined by the [Ober Act] ?" He had apparently at
one time been a member of the Communist Party. At
a hearing he testified he had joined the party because
he was interested in the candidacy of Henry Wallace
and in the cause of civil liberties; but he denied he
had been a subversive person or that he had advocated
violent overthrow of the Government. The Court of
Appeals affirmed the Board of Law Examiners, finding
that the applicant was not a subversive person. So
it can be argued that passive membership as a matter
of Maryland law does not make a person a subversive.
Yet, as we read §§ 1 and 13 of the Ober Act, the alteration
clause and membership clause are still befogged. 2 The
2

Art. 15, § 11, of the Maryland Constitution reads:

"No person who is a member of an organization that advocates

the overthrow of the Government of the United States or of the
State of Maryland through force or violence shall be eligible to
hold any office, be it elective or appointive, or any other position
of profit or trust in the Government of or in the administration
of the business of this State or of any county, municipality or other
political subdivision of this State."
Shub tells us that the Ober Act was enacted pursuant to this state
constitutional provision. 196 Md., at 192, 76 A. 2d, at 338. Our
attention is not drawn to, nor have we found, any severability clause
applicable to this constitutional provision. It is certainly dubious,
then, whether the severability clause of the Ober Act can operate
to "sever" the membership clause in the definition of subversive
person so that it reads more narrowly than the constitutional provision upon which the Ober Act rests.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

389 U. S.

lines between permissible and impermissible conduct are
quite indistinct. Precision and clarity are not present.
Rather we find an overbreadth that makes possible oppressive or capricious application as regimes change.
That very threat, as we said in another context
(NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 432-433), may deter
the flowering of academic freedom as much as successive
suits for perjury.
Like the other oath cases mentioned, we have another
classic example of the need for "narrowly drawn" legislation (Cantwellv. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 311) in
this sensitive and important First Amendment area.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, whom MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE WHITE join, dissenting.

STEWART

Maryland will doubtless be surprised to learn that its

meticulous efforts to conform the state "loyalty oath" to
the requirements of Gerende v. Election Board, 341 U. S.
56, have been to no avail. It will also be entitled to feel
baffled by an opinion which, while recognizing the continuing authority of Gerende, undertakes to bypass that
decision by a process of reasoning that defies analysis.
Appellant Whitehill was denied employment in the
state university as a temporary lecturer by reason of his
refusal to sign an oath that more than meets the requirements of Gerende. He was asked only whether he is
now, in one way or another engaged in an attempt to
overthrow the Government by force or violence.1 References to international conferences, controversial discussions, support of minority candidates, academic freedom and the like cannot disguise the fact that Whitehill
was asked simply to disclaim actual, present activity,
' The oath did not even include the limited sort of "membership"
clause also approved in Gerende. See the Court's opinion, ante,
at 55-56, 57-58.

WHITEHILL v. ELKINS.
54

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

amounting in effect to treasonable conduct. Allusions
to the constitutional amending process cannot obscure
the fact that this oath makes no reference to "alteration"
of our form of government or to "believing in" or "being
a member of" anything whatsoever. The oath itself,
then, in no way violates, jeopardizes, or beclouds appellant's freedom of speech or of association. So much,
indeed, the Court's opinion appears to concede.
The Court concludes, however, that the oath must be
read "in connection with" certain sections of the Ober
Law because, as a state matter, the authority of the
Board of Regents to require an oath derives from that
law. The Court does not pause to tell us what the "connection" is or to explain how it serves to invalidate the
unambiguous oath required of this appellant. On the
one hand, it is plain, as the Court artistically avoids conceding, that the only effect of the law on this appellant
is to deny him state employment if he refuses to sign
an oath which, in itself, he can have no constitutional
objection to signing. On the other hand, nowhere does
the Court suggest that the character of the oath itself
is altered by any language in the statute authorizing the
Regents to impose it. The oath does not refer to the
statute 2 or otherwise incorporate it by reference. It
contains no terms that are further defined in the statute.
In short, the oath must be judged on its own bottom.
The only thing that does shine through the opinion
of the majority is that its members do not like loyalty
oaths. Believing that it is not within the province of
this Court to pass upon the wisdom or unwisdom of
Maryland's policy in this regard, and finding nothing
unconstitutional about the oath tendered to this appellant, I would affirm the judgment of the court below.
2

The document submitted to appellant for his signature did

contain the notation customary to government documents of the
authority under which it was promulgated.

