SHIEFFIELD &c. RAILWAY CO. v. GORDON.

285

Syllabus.

every such device used strikes and rubs the leg to which it is
attached, as whenever the projecting striker is hit by the
opposing leg the blow is communicated to the other. Nor is
such supposed function described or referred to in the specification or claim of the plaintiff's patent.
In view, then, of the state of the art, as shown to exist by
the defendants' evidence, the court below was right in finding
that the complainant's device exhibits no patentable novelty.
There is no merit in the proposition made in the second
assignment of error, that defendants are estopped from
asserting that there is no patentable novelty in plaintiff's invention, by their conduct in seeking to procure, through one
of their employ~s, a patent for substantially the same invention. Whether or not there is any inconsisteficy in trying, at
one time, to get a patent for a supposed invention, and in afterwards alleging, as against a rival successful in obtaining a
patent, that there is no novelty in the invention, it certainly
cannot be said to constitute an estoppel. Besides, the defence
of want of patentable invention in a patent operates not
merely to exonerate the defendant, but to relieve the public
from an asserted monopoly, and the court cannot be prevented
from so declaring by the fact that the defendant had ineffectually sought to secure the monopoly for himself.
The decree of the court below is accordingly
Afimed.

SHEFFIELD AND BIRMINGHAM COAL, IRON AND
RAILWAY COMPANY v. GORDON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 176. Argued December 20,1893.-Decided January 15,1894.

Exceptions to the report of a master should point out specifically the errors
upon which the party relies, not only that the opposite party may be
apprised of what he has to meet, but that the master may know in what

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
particular his report is objectionable, and may have an opportunity to
correct his errors or reconsider his opinions.
The main object of a reference to a master being to lighten the court's
labors, the court ought not to be obliged to rehear the whole case on the
evidence, when the report is made.
If the report of a master is clearly erroneous in any particular, it is within
the discretion of the court to correct that error.
When a contract provides that work done under it shall be examined by a
superintendent every two weeks, and if done to his satisfaction it shall
be a final acceptance by the other party, so far as done, the acceptance
by the superintendent forecloses that party from thereafter claiming
that the contract had not been performed according to its terms.
In the absence of a certificate by a master that the entire evidence taken by
him was sent up with his report, it is impossible to impeach his conclusions upon it.
The proceedings in this case were taken within the time required by the
statutes of Alabama.

THIS was an intervening petition filed by the firm of Gordon, Strobel & Laureau, in a case pending in the Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Alabama, for the foreclosure of a
deed of trust, setting up and claiming a mechanic's lien on
certain furnace property described in the petition, to secure
the payment of a large balance due to them as builders. The
Central Trust Company of New York, trustee under the deed
of trust, and plaintiff in the foreclosure suit; the Sheffield and
Birmingham Coal, Iron and Railway Company, the mortgagor; Jacob G. Chamberlain, who was receiver in the foreclosure suit, and one Charles D. Woodson, as holder of certain
bonds of the company, were made defendants to the petition.
Petitioners' claim arose under a contract whereby they agreed
to construct for the Alabama and Tennessee Coal and Iron
Company, the predecessor of the appellant corporation, three
iron blast furnaces at Sheffield, in Colbert County, Alabama,
for $564,000, ninety per cent of which amount was to be paid
from time to time during the construction of the furnaces, and
which ninety per cent had been practically paid as agreed
between the parties, the claim of the appellees being the balance, together with some amounts alleged to have been paid
out for excessive freight charges, and upon material furnished
to repair and reconstruct one of the furnaces.

SHEFFIELD &c. RAILWAY CO. v. GORDON.

287

Argument for Appellant.

Joint and several answers were filed by the defendants, setting forth certain defences to the petition, and demanding
proof of each allegation thereof. It was admitted that the
defendant company had become liable for whatever amount
was due the petitioners by the original Alabama and Tennessee
Coal and Iron Company. The main defence was that Gordon,
one of the intervenors, had undertaken to supervise the blowing in of one of the three furnaces, in which operation the furnace was ruined and subsequently abandoned; that in the
blowing in of a second furnace, it suffered such damage that
it required about six months to put it in good condition; that
the furnaces were not built according to the plans, specifications, and agreements of the contract, but were constructed in
so faulty and inadequate a manner that their daily expense
for coal was much larger than it would have been had they
been properly constructed.
A decree was entered by consent referring the case to a
special master to examine and report the facts as to the existence of the contract, the construction of the furnaces, the payments made therefor, the amount due the petitioners, the
existence of their lien, and also to report upon all matters of
defence stated in the answer.
In pursuance of this order the master took the depositions
of a number of witnesses, found the facts, and reported a balance due of $57,808.12, with interest from September 18, 1888.
Exceptions were filed to this report by the defendants, which
upon argument were overruled by the court, and a final decree
entered in favor of the intervenors for the amount reported by
the master. From this decree an appeal was taken to this
court.
2%1. Henry B. Tompkins for appellant.
I. The rule is well settled that the acceptance of work
built under a written contract does not estop the owner from
showing a non-compliance by the builder with the contract
and corresponding damage to him. The effect of his acceptance is to hold him liable on a quantum mereuit. Thomas v.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Ellis, 4 Alabama, 108; -Merriwether v. Taylor, 15 Alabama,
735; Hawkins v. .Maddox, 19 Alabama, 54:; Bell v. Teague,
85 Alabama, 211; Cutcliff v. .McAnally, 88 Alabama, 507.
II. In actions by which it is sought to declare and enforce
a lien given by statute to mechanics and material men and
the like, every fact necessary to the creation of the lien must
be alleged and proven. The statute requires it (the claim
of lien) to be filed within the time, and that it was so filed
must, as we have seen, be averred in the complaint and proved
on the trial. Corrugating Co. v. Thacker, 87 Alabama, 458.
The filing of the claim of lien in the office of the judge of
probate of a county in the State of Alabama, being a proceeding or record of a state court, could only be proven in a
Federal court by copy of same duly certified according to the
acts of Congress. The enforcement of the claim of lien by
appellees was in the nature of a proceeding in remn; and the
right or title, to subject the property, should be clearly shown.
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 733, 734:.
III. Filing the claim of lien properly sworn to in the office
of the judge of probate is not giving the notice such as the
statute requires to invest the mechanic or contractor with a
lien. But notice of the same must be given, and this is only
done by having the statement duly recorded. Bell v. Teague,
85 Alabama, 211; Chandler v. -Hanna,73 Alabama, 390.
IV. The court was without jurisdiction to decree a lien in
favor of appellees against the property of appellant, because
the lien at the time of the filing of the petition for its enforceinent had become lost under the statutes of Alabama providing for mechanics' and contractors' liens and their enforcement.
I r. 1K A. Gunter and -T. P., . Brickall for appellees.
]m. JusTIoE B-oWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
An interlocutory decree was entered in this case by consent,
and the questions in issue arise upon exceptions to the report

SHEFFIELD &c. RAILWAY CO. v. GORDON.

289

Opinion of the Court.

of the special master, to whom the case was referred to take
proofs, and to report the amount found by him to be due.
He was not, however, required to report the testimony.
Defendants excepted to so much of said report and the findings of the master in reference thereto as determined "1. That the defences set up by the defendants are not
sustained by the evidence;
"2. That the petitioners, Gordon, Strobel & Laureau, are
entitled to be paid the contract price for their work and
material;
"3. That the sum of $57,808.12, with interest from the
18th day of September, 1888, is the amount due the intervenors; and
"64. That the intervenors have a lien upon the property
described in their petition; and for grounds and reasons for
such exceptions they assign the following:
"1st. BMcause the evidence in the case sustained the
defences set up by the defendants; and showed, 2d, that the
work and materials done and furnished by intervenors were
not up to the requirement and guaranty of their contract,
by which the value of the plant, as built and equipped, was
worth sixty or seventy-five thousand dollars less than the contract price; and, 3d, because such report is contrary to the
weight of testimony on each of the matters so reported."
There are two difficulties in the way of considering the case
upon these exceptions.
(1) The exceptions themselves are too broad, and amount
simply to a general denial of the facts and conclusions of the
master. The first three are to the finding of the master that
the defences are not sustained, that the petitioners are entitled
to the contract price, and that the sum awarded is the amount
due. In other words, they are general denials of the merits
of the claim. The fourth is a denial of petitioners' lien
because the evidence sustained the defences, because the work
was not up to the requirements of the contract, and because
the report was against the weight of testimony. This exception is scarcely more definite than the other. There are no
exceptions here to the findings of the master, now assigned
VOL. CLI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

as error, that the intervenors did not guarantee that the work
or plant, as a whole, should be adequate in design, strength,
and capacity for the purposes intended and specified; or to
the finding that the petitioners were entitled to be paid the
freight excess payments and extra material furnished for the
construction of the furnaces, or that the furnaces had attained
the product in the making of pig iron, as specified in the
contract.
Proper practice in equity requires that exceptions to the
report of a master should point out specifically the errors
upon which the party relies, not only that the opposite party
may be apprised of what he has to meet, but that the master
may know in what particular his report is objectionable, and
may have an opportunity of correcting his errors or reconsidering his opinions. The court, too, ought not to be obliged
to rehear the whole case upon the evidence, as the main object
of a reference to a master is to lighten its labors in this
particular. In the case of Dexter v. Arnold, 2 Sumner, 108,
125, an exception to a report of a master that he had stated
and certified that there was due on a certain mortgage a certain sum when he ought to have reported that there was
nothing due, was held by Mr. Justice Story to be quite
untenable. "It is too loose and general in its terms," said
he, " and points to no particulars. It comes to nothing,
unless specific errors are shown in the report; and those
errors, if they exist, should have been brought directly to the
view of the court in the form of the exception itself. At
present it amounts onl:f to a general assignment of errors, and
the argument on this exception has shown none."
The same rule was laid down in Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet.
359, 366, wherein the exceptions to the report of a master
were held to be too general, indicating nothing but dissatisfaction with the entire report; and furnishing no specific grounds,
as they should have done, wherein the defendant had suffered
any wrong, or as to which of his rights had been disregarded.
The court observed that "exceptions to a report of a master
must state, article by article, those parts of the report which
are intended to be excepted to." The court cited with ap-

SHEFFIELD &c. RAILWAY CO. v. GORDON.

291

Opinion of the Court.

proval the case of WTI1"es v. Rogers, 6 Johns. 566, wherein it
was said that exceptions to reports of masters in chancery are
in the nature of a special demurrer; and the party objecting
must point out the error, otherwise the part not excepted to
will be taken as admitted.
So in Greene v. Bishop, 1 Cliff. 186, 191, Mr.Justice Clifford
held that "general allegations of error, without pointing to
any particulars, are clearly insufficient, for the reason that, if
allowable, the losing party might always compel the court to
hear the case anew, and should that practice prevail, references such as made in this case would become both useless and
burdensome, as they would only operate to promote delay
and increase the expenses of litigation, without relieving the
court from any of the labor of the trial or ever accomplishing
anything of value to either party." See also Stanton v. Alabama &e. Railroad,2 Woods, 506, 518.
That this is not a novel practice in Alabama is evident from
a number of decisions of the Supreme Court of that State
affirming the general doctrine in the most specific terms.
Alexander v. Alexander, 8 Alabama, 797; Royall's Administratorv. McKenzie, 25 Alabama, 363; O'Reilly v. Brady, 28
Alabama, 530 ; .Mahane v. TFilliams, 39 Alabama, 202. See
also White v. Hampton, 10 Iowa, 238; Reed v. Jones, 15 Wisconsin, 40; Smalley v. Corliss, 37 Vermont, 486, 492. Cases
are referred to a master, not on account of his presumed
superior wisdom, but to economize the time and labor of the
court, and as exceptions are usually filed to his report, if they
are so general as to require a rehearing of the entire case,
there is really nothing saved by a reference.
It is true that if the report of the master is clearly erroneous
in any particular, it is within the discretion of the court to
correct the error, but we see no occasion for exercising such
discretion in this case. It would appear- from the report and
the recital in the final decree of the court that the main contest was over the construction of a certain guaranty in the
contract that "all the work" was "to be done in good and
workmanlike manner and of suitable material, and each part
to be adequate in design, strength, capacity, and workman-

OCTOBER TERN, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ship for the purposes for which it is intended, for the sum of
$564,000." Immediately following this is a stipulation that
the "superintendent shall pass upon the work every two
weeks, and if to his satisfaction, it shall be a final acceptance
by" the company "so far as done. But if not in compliance
with the contract, and to his satisfaction, as to the quality of
material or character of workmanship," petitioners agreed "to
make it so as rapidly as possible." The evidence showed
without contradiction that one Doud, who was the superintendent of the Coal and Iron Company, made inspections and
supervised the work from time to time, and accepted it when,
in his judgment, it was in compliance with the contract. The
contractors claimed to have finished the work. on the 8th of
August, 1888, and requested its final acceptance. The president of the Sheffield and Birmingham Coal, Iron and Railroad
Company, which had become, by consolidation with the Alabama and Tennessee Coal and Iron Company, responsible on
this contract, referred the matter of final acceptance to Mr.
Doud, the superintendent, who on the 18th of August accepted, in writing, the plant as completed according to the
terms of the contract.
The master and the court agreed in holding that the intervenors did not guarantee in their contract that the work or
plant as a whole should be adequate in design, strength, capacity, and workmanship for the purposes intended and specified,
and that, as an acceptance of the work bi-weekly as it progressed was shown, and a further acceptance of the whole on
completion of the contract was made by the superintendent
in compliance with the terms of the contract, such acceptance
in the absence of fraud or mistake on the part of the superintendent was conclusive upon the company. We see no
reason to question the correctness of this conclusion. It is
difficult to see what effect should be given the acceptance of
the work by the superintendent, if not to foreclose the parties
from thereafter claiming that the contract had not been performed according to its terms. 2llartinsburg &c. Railroad
v. -March,114 _U. S. 549. There was, it is true, a proposal for
an additional remuneration of $20,000 to guarantee a certain

SHEFFIELD &c. RAILWAY CO. v. GORDON.

293

Opinion of the Court.

product, with an additional proposal that neither the ten per
cent reserved in the hands of the company, nor the $20,000,
should become due until the specified product had been attained; but it does not appear that this proposal had ever
been accepted, nor any agreement made to pay the extra
$20,000 for the attainment of this product. The only guaranty in the proposal as accepted was that each part- by
which we understand each part as related to every other part
should be adequate in design, strength, capacity, and workmanship f6r the purpose for which it was intended. In view
of the other provisions, we think the court was correct in
holding that there was no guaranty intended of the plant as a
whole.
(2) There is another objection, however, to our examination of the facts in this case. The order referring the case to
the special master, though minute in its details, did not require him to send up the testimony; neither does he purport
to do this in his report; and while a number of depositions
taken before him are filed, there is nothing to indicate that
these were all the testimony in the case. He finds in this
connection that the defences set up by the defendants are not
sustained by the evidence, and that the petitioners, Gordon,
Strobel, and Laureau, are entitled to be paid the contract price
for the material.
In the absence of any certificate that the entire evidence
taken by the master was sent up with his report, it is impossible to impeach his conclusion in this particular. Scotten v.
Sutter, 37 Michigan, 526; _Yay v. Byers, 13 Indiana, 412;
Fellenzer v. 17an falzcah, 95 Indiana, 128. There is no presumption that all the testimony was sent up.
(3) A further objection is made that the proofs contained
in the record do not disclose the filing of the claim of lien in
the office of the judge of probate of Colbert County, as required
by the statute. The master, however, finds that on the 18th
* of January, 1889, a verified statement of the amount claimed
to be due on this contract was filed with the judge of probate
of Colbert County in substantial conformity with section 3022
of the Code of Alabama of 1886, and there is no evidence to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

impeach his finding in that particular, and no objection or
exception taken to the want of proof upon this point. There
would appear to have been, from a memorandum we find in
the testimony, a mechanic's lien introduced in evidence as an
exhibit; but as it is not attached to the record, it is impossible to say that it does not bear out the finding of the master.
The statute of Alabama requires a statement in writing,
claiming a lien, to be filed in the office of the judge of probate
within six months after the indebtedness to the lien holder has
accrued, and as it appears that the work in this case was
finished on August 8, 1888, and accepted August 18, that the
unpaid residue of the consideration was not due for several
months thereafter, and that suit was begun on February
11, 1889, there seems to be nothing in the objection that
proceedings were not taken within the time required by
law.
Upon the whole, we think the decree of the court below was
correct, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

FORT WORTH CITY COMPANY v. SMITH BRIDGE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TRE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 565. Submitted January 3,1894.-

Decided January 15, 1894.

This court cannot take notice of a stipulation of counsel as to evidence
bearing on a finding of the court below in an action brought here by
writ of error.
Time was not of the essence of the contract upon which this action is
founded.
A corporation created for the purpose of dealing in lands, and to which
the powers to purchase, to subdivide, to sell, and to make any contract
essential to the transaction of its business are expressly granted, possesses, as fairly incidental, the power to incur liability in respect of
securing better facilities for transit to and from the lots or lands which
it is its business to acquire and dispose of.

