BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Statement of the Case.

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE KENTUCKY CONFERENCE OF THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH, SOUTH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 134. Argued and submitted December 6,1893. -Decided

February 5, 1894.

The citizens of Millersburg, Kentucky, raised a fund for the purpose of
establishing a collegiate institute in that place or its vicinity, and invited
the Kentucky Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
South, to take charge of it when established. The invitation was accepted, and the legislature of the State incorporated the institute by an
act, one provision in which was a reservation to the legislature of the
right to amend or repeal it. Large additions were then made to the fund
from other sources, and in 1860 another act was passed incorporating
the Board of Education of that Conference of the Methodist Church.
In this act, after reciting the raising of the money, and the establishment
of the institution at Millersburg, the control of the college and the disposition of the sums raised were placed in the hands of the Conference.
This act, also, was passed subject to the right of the legislature to amend
or repeal. In 1861, the legislature passed another act, in which, as construed by the courts, power was conferred upon the Conference to remove the college from Millersburg to any other place within the bounds
of the Kentucky Annual Conference. Held, that the latter act did not
impair any contract created by the former statutes and proceedings.
The Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wall. 190 require the affirmance of the
decree in the court below in this case.

THE plaintiffs in error, suing on behalf of themselves and
other shareholders of the Board of Education of the Kentucky
Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South,
and of the Millersburg Male and Female Collegiate Institute,
brought this suit in equity in the Circuit Court of Bourbon
County, Kentucky, against the Board of Education of the
Kentucky Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, South, and others, to obtain a decree perpetually
restraining the defendants from selling or disposing of certain
lands and buildings of the above-named Institute, commonly
known as the Kentucky Wesleyan College, located at Millersburg, Kentucky, or from removing that college, its capital or

property, from that place to Winchester in the same Common-

OCTOBER TERlM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

wealth, or from using the capital or fund of the Institute for
any purpose or at any place, except in its conduct and management at Millersburg.
Upon final hearing the bill was dismissed, and that decree
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, the highest
court of the Commonwealth. The present writ of error questions the correctness of the decree of affirmance upon the
ground, among others, that it gives effect to legislative enactments which, it is alleged, impair the obligation of a contract,
in which the plaintiffs and those in whose behalf they sue have
an interest, for the permanent location and maintenance of
the college at Millersburg.
The facts relating to the alleged contract, and to the Federal
question suggested by the legislation referred to, will sufficiently appear in the following statement:
At a meeting of the citizens of Xillersburg, held on the 4th
day of January, 1858, these resolutions were adopted:
"Whereas it is proposed to purchase ground and erect
buildings for an institution of learning and boarding-house,
the whole to cost about fifteen thousand dollars; and whereas
it is believed to be indispensable to the success of educational
enterprises that they may be under the supervision of some
denomination: Therefore,
"Resolved, That w6 promise and pledge ourselves for the
amount subscribed to secure a male and female collegiate
institute in Millersburg or its immediate vicinity, on the
following basis, to wit: 1, that it be an Institute for the
Covington district, Kentucky Conference, and be under
the control of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South; 2, the
trustees and building committee be appointed by the Quarterly
Conference of the Millersburg station, the former to be subject
to the approval of the Kentucky conference; 3, it shall be
upon the joint stock plan, the shares to be $25 each, and to
be subject to sale or transfer, but not to bear interest; 4, in
case the said church fail to sustain the Institute, and it shall
from any cause be discontinued, then the property is to revert
to the stockholders pro rata; 5, the stock subscribed shall be
paid to the building committee on the following terms: one-

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Statement of the Case.

third when the buildings are put under contract, one-third
when they are covered in and floors laid, and one-third six
months thereafter."
For the purpose of accomplishing these objects, the Millersburg Male and Female Collegiate Institute was incorporated
by an act of the legislature of Kentucky, approved February
16, 1858, Laws Ky. 1858, c. 689, the preamble of which
recited that "divers citizens in and near the town of Millersburg, in the county of Bourbon, have subscribed a considerable
sum of money for the purpose of erecting in or near said town
a seminary of learning, to be under the control and supervision of the Kentucky Annual Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South, to the extent hereinafter provided."
The act made certain trustees and their successors in office
capable of purchasing and holding any lands, tenements, goods,
chattels, and money, not exceeding $50,000 in value, that
should be purchased, granted, or devised to the use of
the institution. It was provided that the trustees might
receive additional subscriptions and donations in aid of the
seminary, and should be selected, from time to time, by the
Kentucky Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, South, upon the nomination of the Millersburg station
of that church. The fourth section of the act is as follows:
"All persons who shall subscribe twenty-five dollars or more
in aid of said Institute shall be deemed stockholders therein,
said sum to constitute a share. And if the said Methodist
Church shall ever relinquish or surrender, or cease to exercise
a control over said Institute, then, and in that case, its control and management shall revert to and vest in said stockholders, who may, at a meeting for that purpose called, proceed
to elect a board of trustees; ,and if said corporation shall cease
to exist, or be dissolved, or its charter surrendered or repealed,
all its property of every kind or description shall vest in said
stockholders."
This act, it was declared, should take effect from its passage,
"but the legislature reserves the right to amend or repeal the
same."

At the meeting of the Kentucky Annual Conference, held
VOL. cLT--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

in Millersburg, in September, 1858, the trustees of the Institute presented a memorial, stating that it had secured a charter
for a collegiate institute to be held and controlled, as in its
charter provided, by that Conference; had obtained a subscription of $7500 ; and had purchased a suitable piece of land,
and taken steps to have all necessary buildings erected on it.
The Conference having been asked to accept the subscription,
grounds, etc., upon the terms set forth in the charter of the
Institute, the memorial was referred to a committee, which
reported as follows : "1, that we accept the Institute upon the
terms set forth in the charter; 2, that we request the presiding bichop to appoint the preacher of Millersburg station
agent to raise the sum of $10,000 for our educational fund; 3,
that the sum of $10,000, when secured, be subscribed as the
stock of this Conference in the Institute; 4, that we, the
members of this Conference, being deeply impressed with
the sense of our educational necessities, do hereby pledge ourselves personally to the support of this institution, and we will
afford every facility in our power to the agent in raising the
above $10,000.,,
The Conference approved the report of the committee. But
having expressed its belief that harmony of action in that body
would be secured if the charter of the Institute were amended
so as to make it exclusively a male school, with college privileges, a meeting of the stockholders and friends of the Institute was held, at which it was resolved: "1, that we, as
stockholders in the Institute, will unite in application to the
legislature to so amend the charter as to make it a first-class
male college; 2, that we will raise our subscription to $10,000,
and that we will use our best efforts to advance and sustain
the enterprise, upon the condition that the IKentucky Annual
Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, will
appoint a special agent to raise an additional sum of $10,000;
and further, that said Conference, in good faith, pledges itself
to aid in the erection of suitable buildings, and to take the
proper steps to endow the college as soon as practicable."
These proceedings were approved by the Conference.
On the 30th day of September, 1858, at a meeting in Lex-

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Statement of the Case.

ington, Kentucky, of the Board of Education, which had been
constituted by the Conference at its meeting in Millersburg,
but had not then become incorporated, it was resolved: "1,

that we believe that $200,000 will be ultimately required to
establish and sustain in the best manner a first-class college,
and that we proceed at once to raise one-half of that amount;
2, that no part of the capital raised for the educational fund
shall ever be appropriated to the payment of the salaries of
the professors and other teachers, or for any contingent expenses whatever, and that only $10,000 of that fund, as already
pledged by the Conference, shall be appropriated toward the
erection of the college buildings; 3,that no part of the proceeds of the capital shall be used for any purpose whatever
until, in the judgment of the Board of Education and the
trustees of the college, it is annually sufficient to support three
professors; 4, that we issue scholarships of the value of $500
each, to be perpetual and transferable, and to entitle the holder
to tuition in eithei the preparatory department or the college
proper, in any studies necessary to graduation; 5, that we issue
scholarships of the value of $100 each, to terminate in fifty
years from the time of the opening of the college, not to be
transferable, and to entitle the holder to tuition only in the
college proper, and in such studies only as may be necessary
to graduation-in other respects, they are to be similar to
the scholarships of Asbury University, of Greencastle, Indiana;
6, that we issue scholarships to the value of $50 each, entitling
the holder to five years' tuition at any time within fifty years
from the time of the opening of the college, in any of the
classes of the college, in the studies necessary to graduation, but
not to be transferable; 7, that if the original stockholders of the
Millersburg Male and Female Collegiate Institute will raise in
Bourbon County, and in that portion of Nicholas County lying
in the vicinity of Millersburg, $10,000 in addition to the $10,000
pledged by them, the entire amount of $20,000 thus raised to
be invested in the erection of the buildings, we will issue
scholarships for the said $20,000 on the same terms as to
others, provided that their amount of stock in that case be
surrendered, in lieu of said issue of scholarships, to the Ken-

OCTOBER TERVf, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

tacky Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
South, to be held by said conference as part of the educational
fund; 8, that the treasurer of the educational fund be instructed to pay over moneys coming into his hands, as they
may be needed, so soon as the $10,000, already pledged by
the stockholders, shall have been secured, provided that he
shall, in so doing, be governed by the action of the conference
and the other part of these proceedings; 9, that any individual
who shall endow a professorship shall have the privilege of
naming it."
The above proposition was acceded to by stockholders at a
meeting held in October, 1858, to consider the subject, and
scholarships were issued to those making subscriptions or donations. A certificate of perpetual scholarship recited that the
person to whom it was issued had, by payment of the sum
therein named "to the treasurer of the Educational Fund of
the Kentucky Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, South, purchased" the same "in the college or university to be established by said conference at IlMillersburg,
Kentucky," under certain specified limitations. The certificate
of a fifty-year scholarship contained similar recitals, accompanied by numerous conditions, that need not be here repeated.
The notes executed for the scholarships were in the following
form: " $500.
Bourbon County, Kentucky,
, 18-.
after date I promise to pay to the order of
treasurer of the Educational Fund of the Kentucky Annual
Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, five
hundred dollars, this being the
note in
payment
for a scholarship in the college or university to be established
by said Conference." Some of the notes had in them these
words: "In the college or university now established by said
Conference." Upon delivery by donors or subscribers of their
notes, the agent executed a receipt in the following form:
"Received of (William M. Miller), five hundred dollars ($500),
and his note for five hundred dollars ($500), payable in one
year from the day of18-, to
, treasurer
of the Educational Fund of the Kentucky Annual Conference
of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, which, when paid,
-year

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Statement of the Case.

will entitle him to two perpetual scholarships in the college or
university established by said Conference.
County,
C
Kentucky,
- , 18-."
While certificates of scholarships were being issued, the
buildings were in process of erection at Miillersburg, and by
November 23, 1859, nearly $60,000 had been donated in cash
and notes, of which about $20,000 had been expended on the
buildings, leaving only a small sum to be applied for their
completion.
On the 12th of January, 1860, the legislature of Kentucky
passed an act entitled "An act to incorporate the Board of
Education of the Kentucky Annual Conference of the Mviethodist Episcopal Church, South," 1 Laws 1860, c. 39, the preamble reciting that "the Kentucky Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South, have resolved to form an Educational
Fund and establish a college for the promotion of literature,
science, morality, and religion within the limits of said Conference; and having, in fact, secured the sum of fifty-seven
thousand dollars in cash and in good and reliable notes, and
located an institution at Millersburg, Bourbon County, which
is now ready for occupancy: now, in order to give full and
complete legal effect thereto," etc. This act authorized the
Board to make by-laws and ordinances for the proper conduct
and government of the college, to elect its president and
faculty, to establish, change, or abolish professorships as the
exigencies of the college might require, and to perform all
acts, not inconsistent with the constitution or statutes of the
State, that were necessary or expedient in sustaining the Educational Fund of the Conference, and for the proper conduct of
the college. The board was required to meet at the time of
the commencement of the college at Millersburg, and at such
other times as it might determine. The money paid into the
hands of the treasurer, as the Educational Fund, was directed
to be invested in Kentucky state bonds, county bonds, or safe
and profitable stocks, as the board might determine, except
the amount necessary "to pay for the present college buildinm." By the 11th section, the act incorporating the Millersburg Male and Female Collegiate Institute, approved February

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Defendants in Error.

16, 1858, was repealed. And, by the 12th section, the right
to amend or repeal the act of 1860 was reserved.
By an act of the Kentucky legislature, approved September
17, 1861, amendatory of the act incorporating the Board of
Education of the Kentucky Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, it was provided: "§ 1. That it
shall and may be lawful for the trustees of Millersburg Male
and Female Collegiate Institute, who were in office on the
12th day of January, 1860, when the act incorporating said
institute was repealed, or their survivors, to convey, by deed,
to the Board of Education of the Kentucky Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, the property
held by said trustees in and near the town of Millersburg, for
the purpose of carrying into effect any contract made by said
trustees or stockholders of said institute with said board, and
their conveyance, recorded in the proper office, shall be effectual to pass the title of said property to said board and their
successors. § 2. Nothing contained in the act of the general
assembly incorporating said board, approved January 12, 1860,
shall be construed so as to prevent or hinder said board, or
their successors, from removing the seat of the college from
Millersburg to any other place in the bounds of the Kentucky
annual conference. § 3. This act to be in force from its passage." Laws 1861, 2, 3; Private Laws, c. 8, p. 4.
This act was accepted by the Annual Conference by formal
action taken September 25, 1861, and on the 4th day of
November, 1861, nearly twenty-seven years before this suit
was brought, the trustees of the Millersburg M ale and Female
College conveyed to the Board of Education, and their successors in office, the grounds on which the college buildings
were erected, "for the benefit of the Educational Fund of the
Kentucky Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
South, forever, to be held and used and disposed of in such
way as the charter of said Board of Education may direct."
AXr. Thomas F. Hargis,for plaintiff in error, submitted on
his brief, in which he cited, to the point that there was a contract between the founders of the college and the conference,

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATIONf.
Opinion of the Court.

to keep and maintain the institution at Millersburg: lascallv.
Madison University, 8 Barb. 17-; Ctiambers v. Baptist Edueatior Society, 1 B. Mon. 215; Louisville v. University of
Louisville, 15 B. Mon. 142; State v. Adams, 44 Missouri, 570;
Allen v. Mc Keen, 1 Sumner, 276; Philips v. Bury, 2 T. R.
345; lurdock's Appeal, 7 Pick. 303; Sage v. Dillard,15 B.
Mon. 340, 356; .Kean v. Johnson, 1 Stockton, (9 N. J. Eq.)
401.
Mr. D. X. Thornton and 2ir.J. -ff.Wilson, (with whom was
.211. Samuel Shellabargeron the brief,) for defendants in error.

MR. JusTiE HR L,A
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

The plaintiffs contend that, notwithstanding the act of 1858
reserved the right to amend or repeal the charter of the Millersburg Male and Female Collegiate Institute, the 11th section
of the act of 1860 repealing the act of 1858, incorporating the
Millersburg Male and Female Collegiate Institute, was repugnant to that provision of the constitution of Kentucky, then in
force, declaring that "no law enacted by the General Assembly
shall relate to more than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the title." Art. II., § 37. This contention was sustained by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, upon the ground
that the subject of the repeal of the charter of 1858 was not
expressed in the title of the act of 1860. And, in our consideration of the principal question in the case, we will assume,
without discussion, that the charter of the Institute was not
repealed by the act of 1860.
But the court below further said, in the same connection,
that the repeal of the charter of the college "was not actually
necessary, because the corporation created by it practically
ceased to exist after the contract made between the original
stockholders and Board of Education, whereby the latter acquired for use of the Kentucky Wesleyan College possession
of and equitable title to all property of the Millersburg Male
and Female Collegiate Institute, and the trustees thereof were
deprived of their function and divested of every right except

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the naked legal title; and as section 1 of the act of September 17,
1861, merely empowered those trustees to convey that property
to the Board of Education, which they might have been
coerced to do by a court of equity, no injury resulted from it."
But plaintiffs in error insist that the first section of the act of
1861 impaired the obligation of the contract in question.
The view taken by the court below upon this point is, in our
judgment, entirely sound. From the inception of the scheme
to establish an educational institution at Millersburg, it was
intended that it should be under the control of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South, represented by its Kentucky Annual
Conference. This purpose was distinctly recognized in the
.charter of the Institute, which gave authority to that Conference, upon nominations by the M\illersburg station of that
Church, to select the trustees of the Institute from time to
time, and declared that if the Methodist Church should ever
relinquish or surrender, or cease to exercise a control over, the
Institute, then its control and management should revert to
and vest in its stockholders, who were authorized, at a meeting
called for that purpose, to elect trustees. The trustees of the
Institute, therefore, acted within the authority conferred upon
them, when, in September, 1858, they asked the Conference
to accept the subscription, grounds, etc., that had been obtained
for the Institute. The Conference did formally accept the
Institute upon the terms set forth in its charter, and by such
acceptance acquired full control of the college. The court
below correctly held that after the control of the Institute had
been thus transferred to the Conference, the trustees had no
other functions to perform, in respect to the property of the
college, except to hold the naked legal title. Why, then, was
it not. competent for the General Assembly to invest the
trustees of the Institute -as was done by the first section of
the act of 1861 -with authority to convey to the Board of
Education the property held by them for the purpose of carrying into effect any contract made by them or the stockholders
of the Institute with-that Board? It must be remembered
that the right to amend or repeal was reserved to the General
Assembly in the charter of the Institute granted in 1858. The

-

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Opinion of the Court.

transfer of the naked legal title from the trustees of the Institute to the Board of Education did not take from the Institute

any substantial right, but was in execution of the purpose to
put the college and its property wholly under the control and
management of the Kentucky Annual Conference of the Methodist Church, South. The deed from the trustees stated that
the college buildings had been erected for the benefit of the
Educational Fund of the Kentucky Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, forever to be held, used, and
disposed of in such way as the charter of that Board might
direct. That charter, we have seen, was granted to give legal
effect to the purpose of the Conference, previously avowed, to
form an Educational Fund and establish a college for the promotion of literature, science, morality, and religion within its
bounds, to which end a large sum in cash and notes had been
secured, and an institution located at Millersburg, then ready
for occupancy. If the first section of the act of September 17,
1861, had contemplated any diversion of the property and
funds of the Institute from the purposes for which they were
acquired, and for which, by its charter, they could be used, a
different and more serious question would have arisen.
This brings us to the examination of the second section of
the act of 1861, which provided that nothing in the charter
of the Board of Education "shall be construed so as to prevent
or hinder said Board or their successors from removing the
seat of the college from Millersburg to any other place within
the bounds of the Kentucky Annual Conference." The contention of the plaintiffs is that there was and is a contract, the
benefits of which they can rightfully claim, that the Institute
should remain permanently at Millersburg; and that, if the
second section of the act of 1861 contains a grant of power to
remove the Institute from that town, it was void as impairing
the obligation of the contract.
Literally interpreted, the second section of the act of 1861
would be held to do nothing more than prescribe a rule for the
interpretation of a previous legislative enactment; and, so
interpreted, it would be inoperative as an act of legislation
under those provisions of the constitution of Kentucky, then

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in force, confiding the powers of government to three distinct
departments, legislative, executive, and judicial, and declaring
that no person or collection of persons, being of one of those
departments, should exercise any power properly belonging to
either of the others, except in the instances expressly directed
or permitted. Art. I, §§ 1, 2. But the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky, regarding substance rather than form, held that the
intention of the General Assembly, by the second section of
the act of 1861, was to confer upon the Board of Education a
power not expressly granted by the act of 1860, namely, the
power of removing the seat of the college from Millersburg to
any other place in the bounds of the Kentucky Annual Conference. We assume that the act means what the court below
said it meant, in view of the constitution of the State. It
must, therefore, be taken, in our examination of the question
as to the repugnancy of the second section of the act of 1861
to the Constitution of the United States, that it was intended
by the General Assembly of Kentucky to give the Board of
Education authority to remove the college and its capital and
funds from Millersburg to some other place within the bounds
of the Kentucky Annual Conference. Did the act, thus interpreted, impair the obligation of any contract that the plaintiffs
in error had in reference to that college . It certainly did, if
the alleged contract forbade the removal of the Institute from
IMillersburg, except with the assent of the plaintiffs and those
in whose behalf they sue. So that it is necessary to inquire as
to the existence and effect of the alleged contract. And that
question must be determined by this court upon its own judgment, independently of any adjudication by the state court.
Jefferson Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436, 443; TfJright v. Nagle,
101 U. S. 791, 794:; Louisville &Q Vashville Railroad Co. v.
Palmes, 109 U. S. 244, 254, 257; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683, 697; I'Tecsburg &c. RailroadCo.
v. .Dennis, 116 U. S. 665, 667. If there was no such contract,
as is alleged, then no right, secured by the National Constitution, has been denied by the decree below.
The argument in support of the existence of the alleged
contract rests upon the words of various documents, showing

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Opinion of the Court.

that the original purpose of those who were instrumental in
establishing this Institute was to have it located at IMillersburg. Undoubtedly, those persons were moved to act, in some
degree, by the belief that the seat of the proposed college
would be at Millersburg. That belief is disclosed in the resolutions adopted by the citizens of Millersburg at the meeting
of January 4, 1858. It is also expressed in the charter of the
Institute granted in the same year, reciting that money had
been subscribed for the purpose of erecting in or near said
town a seminary of learning. It is again expressed in the
certificates of perpetual scholarships issued under the authority
of the Conference. It is further expressed in the charter of
the Board of Education of 1860, referring to the college as
having been "located" at Millersburg, with buildings then
ready for occupancy. And it is equally manifest that when
that charter was granted, the Conference believed that the
ends proposed to be accomplished by the establishment of the
institution, namely, the promotion, within its bounds, of literature, science, morality, and religion, could be accomplished
by an institute located at Millersburg. It is equally true, upon
the record before us, that the Conference was not wanting in
earnest, persistent efforts to sustain the Institute at Millersburg. But that body, in its wisdom, determined that the
objects in view could be best accomplished by removing the
college to some other place. And we are of opinion that its
removal to Winchester would not be in excess of its authority.
At the meeting of citizens of Millersburg, held in 1858, it
was declared that the Institute should be under the control of
the Methodist Episcopal Church, South; and, although the
object avowed was to secure a collegiate institute at IMillersburg or in its immediate vicinity, the only condition named in
the resolution passed at that meeting, upon which the property
should revert to the stockholders was the failure of the church
to sustain the Institute, or its discontinuance from any cause.
And, in the charter of the Institute, it is provided that if "the
Methodist Church shall ever relinquish or surrender, or cease
to exercise a control over said Institute, then, and in that case,
its control and management shall revert to and vest in said

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

stockholders, who may, at a meeting for that purpose called,
proceed to elect a board of trustees; and if said corporation
shall cease to exist, or be dissolved, or its charter surrendered
or repealed, all its property of every kind or description shall
vest in said stockholders." It is a significant fact that the
2e'manent location of the Institute at Millersburg was not
made in terms by the resolutions of the citizens' meeting or
by the charter of the college a condition upon which the control of the Institute and its property should remain with the
Conference. The Methodist Episcopal Church, South, as
represented by the Kentucky Annual Conference, has not
relinquished, surrendered, or ceased to exercise control of the
Institute, and, therefore, its control and management has not
reverted to stockholders through trustees of their own selection. The Institute has not been discontinued; nor has the
corporation ceased, in law, to exist; nor has its charter been
surrendered or repealed; and, therefore, its property has not,
in any view of the facts, or of the legislation in question, vested
in stockholders.
The primary object of those who first moved in this matter,
namely, to secure the establishment of an institution of learning under the control of the Kentucky Conference of the
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, has not been overlooked
or ignored in anything that has been done or proposed to be
done. The belief of those who subscribed to the stock of the
Institute, or accepted scholarships after the Institute passed
under the control of the Conference, through its Board of
Education, that the Institute would remain permanently at
Millersburg, cannot be regarded as equivalent to a contract or
absolute agreement that prevents the Conference from removing the Institute to another place, if it deems such a course
to be best for the cause of education and morality. It is not
the province of this court to sit in judgment upon the propriety of the course pursued by that body. We can only deal
with the question of contract. And that question cannot
depend upon any consideration of what, under all the circumstances, is fair and just as between the Conference and those
citizens of Millersburg and vicinity who may have believed,

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Opinion of the Court.

or expected, when making their subscriptions or giving their
support to the institution, that it*
would always be maintained
at that place. This court, in determining the Federal question
involved, can only look at the question of the power of the
General Assembly of Kentucky to authorize the removal of
the Institute to another place within the bounds of the Conference. In the absence of a binding agreement, upon the
part of the Conference or those representing it, that the Institute should remain permanently at IMillersburg, even if the
object of its original establishment could not be accomplished
by keeping it there, our duty is to adjudge, without reference
to considerations of abstract justice or equity, that the legislation in question is not repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States.
In the brief of learned counsel for the plaintiffs are cited
numerous authorities which, it is supposed, require a different
conclusion from that announced by us.
One of the cases much relied on is Sage v. Dillard,15 B.
Mon. 340, 360, 361. The question there determined is indicated in the following extract from the opinion of the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky: "In this case it appears that the
original founders, or endowers, of the Institute, were willing
to entrust their charity to the care and management of the
original trustees, and such others, of course, as might be necessary, in their opinion, to effectuate the objects of the charity.
To trustees, of their own selection, they confided the bounty
which they bestowed for a great, a praiseworthy, and a noble
purpose. In the hands of these men, and others of their
choice, they entrusted the management and control of an
institution which, by their munificence, was brought into
being, and into which their beneficence has infused energy
and usefulness. This charity has grown into a valuable estate,
and sustains an institution which was designed to promote
education in the Christian Scriptures, and qualify a Baptist
ministry to disseminate religious knowledge in the West.
The object is a laudable one; and can it be that the legislature,
in retaining the right to 'alterI or 'amendI the charter, retained the right to take the supervision and control of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

opulent charity out of the hands of those to whose care and
oversight the founders confided it, and place it in the hands of
strangers, who never breathed, perhaps, a single breath of
vitality into this institution, either to impart to it life or
growth? We think not."
Another case cited by plaintiffs is City of Louisville v. Pres.
& Trustees of University of Louisville, 15 B. Mon. 642, 687,
694. The principal question in that case was as to the validity
of an amendment of the charter of the University of Louisville,
giving to the city of Louisville, one of the donors of the institution, to the exclusion of other donors, the power of electing
trustees of the University. The court, as counsel correctly
observe, held that though a part of the funds were granted by
the city, the charter constituted a contract, by which all the
donors, the trustees, and the State were bound, and the obligation of which could not be impaired by an act passed under a
reserved power to alter, amend, or repeal. Chief Justice
Marshall, speaking for the Court of Appeals of Kentucky,
said, among other things, that "it would at least seem to be
just that the donors should have a right to insist that, as long
as their donation is retained, it shall not, even under the
authority of the State, be diverted from the uses stipulated in
the charter, and the right should be transmissible as incident
to the reversionary interests, and to the contract of donation.
. . . We are of opinion, therefore, upon the ground of authority as well as of reason, that the original charter of the
University of Louisville creates a private corporation, which is
protected by that clause of the Constitution of the United
States which prohibits the enactment of laws impairing the
obligation of contracts; and that so much of the amended
charter of the city of Louisville of 1861, as relates to the existing corporation and charter of the university, and vests, or
professes to vest, in a new corporation, or in new trustees, the
property and privileges of the original corporation, is in
violation of that constitutional prohibition, and consequently
void."
Our attention has also been called to the case of State v.
Adams, 44 Missouri, 571, 577, relating to the charter of St.

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION1.
Opinion of the Court.

Charles College, a corporation of Missouri. That charter, in
conformity with the wishes of its founder, declared the college to be an institution purely literary, affording instruction
in ancient and modern languages, and in the sciences and the
liberal arts, and not including or supporting by its funds any
department for instruction in systematic or polemic theology,
nor instituting any regulations which should render a place in
its classes offensive "to reasonable, liberal-minded persons,
whatever might be their religious views." By a legislative
amendment of the charter, it was provided that the concurrence of the Missouri Annual Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South, should be requisite in filling vacancies on the board of curators, upon the Conference affording
satisfactory assurances for the maintenance and endowment
of the college. One of the questions in the case was whether
this amendment was not void as impairing the obligation of
the contract created by the original charter. The Supreme
Court of Missouri, referring to the provisions of the original
charter, said: "It would have been difficult to more emphatically provide for the exclusion of special or denominational
religious influences. The declared objects and principles of
the foundation are inconsistent with it, and the choice of
future curators is to be uncontrolled by any ecclesiastical body
or personage. We do not, hence, suppose that the founder
intended to exclude all influence from, or instruction in, the
great principles of Christian ethics, the basis of all character, the foundation of good citizenship and just government,
and which are professedly adopted by men of all creeds; but
he did intend to prevent the institution from becoming in any
special sense a theological or religious school. The amendment in the charter, by requiring the concurrence in the choice
of the curators of an ecclesiastical body representing one of
the religious denominations of the State, endangers, in this
regard, the principles of the foundation; and even if it did
not, it changes the character of the administration of the
trust, hinders the free choice of their successors, according to
the will of the founder, by the men to whom he had entrusted
his bounty, and essentially impairs the contract under which

OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

he advanced it." For these reasons the amendment was held
to be a violation of the contract embraced in the charter.
Reference has been made to Allen v. 3lcKean, 1 Sumner,
276, 305, which involved the validity of an act of the legislature of Maine relating to Bowdoin College, of which the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts was the founder. By the
Act of Separation of Maine from Massachusetts, the powers
and privileges of the president, trustees, and overseers of the
college were guaranteed under its charter, so that they could
not be altered, limited, annulled, or restrained except by judicial process, according to the principles of law, unless with
the assent of both States. Massachusetts subsequently, by
formal Resolve, gave its assent to any alteration or modification of the act relating to the college, not affecting the rights
or interests of that Commonwealth, which the authorities of
the college corporation might make, with the consent of the
legislature of Maine. Alluding to the Resolve of Massachusetts, and considering its scope and effect, Mr. Justice Story
said: " Nothing is clearer in point of law than the right of
a founder to have his visitorial power exclusively exercised by
the very functionaries in whom he has vested it. It is the
very substratum of his dotation. This is not all. The founder
has a right to have the statutes of his foundation, as to the
powers of the trustees, strictly adhered to, except so far as he
has consented to any alteration of them. But an authority to
alter or modify those powers can never be fairly construed
into an authority to take them away from his trustees, and
confer the same powers on other persons. My view of the
resolve, therefore, is, that it authorizes no alterations or modifications of the college charter which shall divert the funds
of the founder from their original objects . . . and, a
fortiori,that it does not justify the transfer of these powers
from the trustees to any other persons not in privity with them.
It does not authorize the legislature of Maine to assume to
itself the powers of the trustees or overseers, or either of them,
or to appoint new trustees or overseers; for that would affect
the rights and interests of the founder, who has a right to
select his own administrators of his own bounty in perpetuity."

BRYAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Opinion of the Court.

Neither of those cases has any application to the one before
us. There has been no diversion of the funds raised for this
Institute. From the beginning, the purpose was to establish
an institution to be under the control and supervision of some
religious denomination, and the denomination selected was
the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, represented by the
Kentucky Annual Conference. Nor has the legislature assumed to make any material change in its control and management. The trustees, as the charter of the Institute required,
are selected by that Conference. The question here relates
simply to the power of removing the Institute from the place
of its origin to another place within the bounds of that Conference. There is no question of diversion of funds, or of
change of control and management. It is clear that the above
cases are wholly inapplicable to the present controversy.
The case more directly in point than any one to which our
attention has been called is the Pennsylvanic College Cases,
13 Wall. 190. It resembles the present one in many important
particulars. The principles which, in that case, sustained the
validity of the legislation of Pennsylvania relating to the
colleges at Canonsburg and Washington lead to an affirmance
of the decree below.
We concur with the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in saying
that neither the contract between the original stockholders
and Board of Education nor the act of 1860 contains an express condition that the title of the property which became
part of the endowment fund was to be held upon condition
that the college be forever conducted and maintained at
Millersburg, and nowhere else within the territorial limits of
the Annual Conference; that such condition exists, if at all,
by implication only; that the law does not presume a party
entitled to a right or benefit of reservation claimed under
contract in the absence of an express stipulation, except such
as reason and justice dictates; that not only those residing
elsewhere, but as well residents of Millersburg and vicinity,
must be presumed to have regarded the establishment and
successful maintenance of a first-class college under the patronage and control of the Annual Conference as the first and
VOL. cLi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

main consideration for the outlay of money made, and the
particular locality as of secondary importance; and, therefore,
all that can be reasonably implied in behalf of the citizens of
Millersburg is that they expected and believed that the successful operation of the institution would prove compatible with
the continuance of it at that place. To now imply anything
else or more, that court well says, would not only involve the
absurdity of hazarding or sacrificing an institution of learning,
the successful and useful operation of which within the bounds
of the Conference was clearly the main inducement for the great
outlay already made, "but be in disregard of the rights and
interests of those residing elsewhere than at Millersburg, who
have contributed either by purchasing scholarships or donations, very much more than has been raised at that place.
There is mention made in the act of 1860, and also in the
certificates of scholarships, of the college being established at
Millersburg, but the language used does not import an agreement that it shall permanently remain there; on the contrary,
we think it should, as it can fairly, be interpreted as merely
descriptive of the institution. In our opinion, therefore, there
exists no contract or undertaking, express or implied, for the
continuance of the institution at Millersburg any longer than
its useful and successful operation requires."
It results from these views that the decree below does not
give effect to an act of the General Assembly of Kentucky
that is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
The decree must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

DOWER v. RICHARDS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 178. Argued December 20, 1893. -Decided

February 4,1894.

Under the Statutes of the United States, a ledge containing gold-bearing
rock, which has formerly been profitably worked for mining purposes,
but all work upon which has been abandoned, and which, at the date of

