OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

HAUGHEY v. LEE.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 189. Argued January 3,1894. -Decided

January 15, 1894.

Letters patent No. 379,644, granted March 20, 1888, to Michael Haughey for
an improvement in interfering devices for horses, in view of the state
of the art at that time as shown by the evidence, are void for want of
patentable novelty in the invention covered by them.

ON October 24, 1889, Michael Haughey filed a bill of complaint against Jesse Lee, Lewis S. Lee, and Walter Lee, as
partners, under the style of Jesse Lee & Sons, alleging that
the United States had, on March 20, 1888, granted him letters
patent (No. 379,644) for an improvement in interfering devices for horses; that the defendants were infringing complainant's rights as such patentee; and praying for an
injunction and account. On January 21, 1890, the defendants
filed an answer, denying infringement, and alleging the invalidity of complainant's patent, because of certain specified
anticipations and because, under the condition 6f the art, of
want of invention. Replication was duly filed, evidence was
taken, and, on May 13, 1890, after argument, the court below
decreed the dismissal of the bill. From this decree an appeal
was duly taken and allowed to this court.

.Mr. E. J. O'Brien for appellant.
.Mr. Ernest Howard Hunter for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill of complaint alleged infringement of the conplainant's rights as grantee of letters patent, and the court below,
upon issue joined and evidence taken, dismissed the bill for
want of patentable novelty in the complainant's invention.

IIAUGHEY v. LEE.
Opinion of the Court.

The question thus presented for our consideration is the
frequent and troublesome one, whether a given patented
device evinces novelty or invention, within the meaning of
the law of patents, or is merely an improvement, useful
perhaps, but so obviously a mere conclusion from what
has gone before as not to be entitled to protection as an
invention.
In the history of most of the arts, the first invention is of a
striking and undeniable character; and the earlier improvements likewise usually display an unmistakable power of invention. But, after the field of invention has been mainly
occupied, it becomes difficult to distinguish between improvements that involve patentable invention and those that are
the result of the exercise of ordinary mechanical knowledge
and skill.
The object of the invention in the present case is to provide
a remedy for preventing or curing the habit of interfering in
horses. This habit of interfering is the striking of one leg
by the other during motion, causing injury of the part struck,
and impeding the movement. Many trotting horses carry
their feet closely together, and during rapid motion are liable
to strike one leg with the hoof of the other, often causing a
serious injury. The complainant's design is to fasten a strap
on one of the legs of the horse, to which strap shall be
attached a pendant that will move or swing freely between
the legs, and strike the leg opposite to the one provided with
the strap. The effect upon the horse is to lead him to strive
to avoid the touch of the swinging pendulum. This be can
only do by moving with his legs sufficiently apart to avoid it,
and in this way, it is claimed, he soon loses the habit of
striking.
Assuming that the complainant's device really operates so
as to educate the horse to correct a habit of striking, it wotuld
certainly be a useful invention, and, if novel, would be entitled to the protection of letters patent.
It, however, appears from the evidence that interfering
devices are old and of various forms, all having the same
object -protection of the leg and spreading or widening the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

stride.

The earlier devices were chiefly to protect the leg, and

were in the nature of boots or bandages. However, it was
soon perceived that, owing to the docile character of the
horse, the interfering apparatus might be made to operate not
merely as a protection to the legs when they came in contact,
but to train the horse to -widen his stride, so as to prevent
such contact. Thus we find it stated in letters patent to
John J. Davy, granted January 29, 1867, that the patent6e
sought to cure horses of the vice of intervention by interposing a strap upon one of the legs to which was attached a
boot with radiating bristles. The pricking of the bristles led
the horse to widen his stride, and thus to effect a cure.
Charles B. Dickinson, in letters patent granted to him on
October 14, 1879, claims that by the use of interfering straps
to which soft and yielding loops are attached, which strike the
horse's leg, he is taught to spread his gait. In the patent
granted to Jefferson Young, Jr., on December 13, 1881, it is
proposed to cure the habit of interference by a leather boot,
which, being attached to one foot, shall lightly touch the
other when the two are brought too near each other.
The complainant points to the fact that the pendant swings
or moves freely from a loose joint as a feature distinguishing
his invention from the preceding ones. As a matter of fact,
there is evidence in the record tending to show that just such a
pendant, loosely hung, was in use in Norristown, Pennsylvania,
and in Philadelphia years before the date of the patent in suit.
There is likewise evidence that in all the prior devices the stiff
projecting striker would, in time, sag or hang down more or
less, thus practically exemplifying the same method of operation as that of the complainant. It likewise appears that the
idea of employing a dependent striker, loosely jointed to a leg
strap, was not original with the patentee. Such a pendant
was used in devices to prevent kicking, and no invention
would seem to be exercised in adapting the device to the new
purpose of curing interference.
The further contention, that the plaintiffs striker taps the
leg to which it is attached as well as the opposite leg, presents
no substantial difference. As observed by the court below,

SHIEFFIELD &c. RAILWAY CO. v. GORDON.

285

Syllabus.

every such device used strikes and rubs the leg to which it is
attached, as whenever the projecting striker is hit by the
opposing leg the blow is communicated to the other. Nor is
such supposed function described or referred to in the specification or claim of the plaintiff's patent.
In view, then, of the state of the art, as shown to exist by
the defendants' evidence, the court below was right in finding
that the complainant's device exhibits no patentable novelty.
There is no merit in the proposition made in the second
assignment of error, that defendants are estopped from
asserting that there is no patentable novelty in plaintiff's invention, by their conduct in seeking to procure, through one
of their employ~s, a patent for substantially the same invention. Whether or not there is any inconsisteficy in trying, at
one time, to get a patent for a supposed invention, and in afterwards alleging, as against a rival successful in obtaining a
patent, that there is no novelty in the invention, it certainly
cannot be said to constitute an estoppel. Besides, the defence
of want of patentable invention in a patent operates not
merely to exonerate the defendant, but to relieve the public
from an asserted monopoly, and the court cannot be prevented
from so declaring by the fact that the defendant had ineffectually sought to secure the monopoly for himself.
The decree of the court below is accordingly
Afimed.

SHEFFIELD AND BIRMINGHAM COAL, IRON AND
RAILWAY COMPANY v. GORDON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 176. Argued December 20,1893.-Decided January 15,1894.

Exceptions to the report of a master should point out specifically the errors
upon which the party relies, not only that the opposite party may be
apprised of what he has to meet, but that the master may know in what

