OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

NEW YORk

AND NEW, ENGLAND
COMPANY v. BRISTOL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME

RAILROAD

COURT OF ERRORS OF THE

STATE

OF

CONNECTICUT.
No. 917. Submitted Jauuary 8,1894.- Decided February 5,1894.
This court has jurisdiction over a decision of a state court that a statute of
the State, compelling the removal of grade crossings on a railroad is
constitutional, and a judgment in accordance therewith enforcing the
provisions of the statute.
The act of the legislature of the State of Connecticut relating to railway
grade crossings, (Act of June 19, 1889, c. 220, Laws 1889, 134,) being
directed to the extinction of grade crossings as a menace to public
safety, is a proper exercise of the police power of the State.
A power reserved by a statute of a State to its legislature, to alter, amend,
or repeal a charter of a railroad corporation, authorizes the legislature
to make any alteration or amendment of a charter granted subject to
that power, which will not defeat or substantially impair the object of
the grant or any rights vested under it.
Railroad corporations are subject to such legislative control as may be
necessary to protect the public against danger, injustice or oppression;
and this control may be exercised through a board of commissioners.
There is no unjust discrimination, and no denial of the equal protection of
the laws, in regulations regarding railroads, which are applicable to all
railroads alike.
The imposition upon a railroad corporation of the entire expense of a
change of grade at a highway crossing does no violation to the Constitution of the United States, if the statute imposing it provides for an ascertainment of the result in a mode suited to the nature of the case.

By section one of the act of the legislature of Connecticut
of June 19, 1889, c. 220, entitled "An act relating to Grade
Crossings," (Pub. Laws Conn. 1889, p. 134:,) it was provided:
"The selectmen of any town, the mayor and common council
of any city, the warden and burgesses of any borough within
which a highway crosses or is crossed by a railroad, or the
directors of any railroad company whose road crosses or is
crossed by a highway, may bring their petition in writing to
the railroad commissioners, therein alleging that public safety
requires an alteration in such crossing, its approaches, the

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. BRISTOL.

557

Statement of the Case.

method of crossing, the location of the highway or crossing,
the closing of a highway crossing and the substitution of another therefor, not at grade, or the removal of obstructions to
the sight of such crossing, and praying that the same may be
ordered; whereupon the railroad commissioners shall appoint
a time and place for hearing the petition, and shall give such
notice thereof as they judge reasonable to said petitioner, the
railroad company, the municipalities in which such crossing is
situated, and to the owners of the land adjoining such crossing
and adjoining that part of the highway to be changed in
grade; and after such notice and hearing, said commissioners
shall determine what alterations, changes, or removals, if any,
shall be made and by whom done; and if the aforesaid petition is brought by the directors of any railroad company, or
in behalf of any railroad company, they shall order the expense
of such alterations or removals, including the damages to any
person whose land is taken, and the special damages which the
owner of any land adjoining the public highway shall sustain
by reason of any change in the grade of such highway, in consequence of any change, alteration, or removal ordered under
the authority of this act, to be paid by the railroad company
owning or operating the railroad in whose behalf the petition is
brought; and in case said petition is brought by the selectmen
of any town, the mayor and common council of any city, or
the warden and burgesses of any borough, they may, if the
highway affected by said determination was in existence when
the railroad was constructed over it at grade, or if the layout
of the highway was changed for the benefit of the railroad
after the layout of the railroad, order an amount not exceeding one-quarter of the whole expense of such alteration, change,
or removal, including the damages, as aforesaid, to be paid by
the town, city, or borough in whose behalf the petition is
brought, and the .remainder of the expense shall be paid by
the railroad company owning or operating the road which
crosses such public highway; if, however, the highway affected
by such order, last mentioned, has been constructed since the
railroad which it crosses at grade, the railroad commissioners
may order an amount not exceeding one-half of the whole

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

expense of such alteration, change, or removal, including the
damages, as aforesaid, to be paid by the town, city, or borough
in whose behalf the application is brought, and the remainder
of the expense shall be paid by the railroad company owning
or operating the road which crosses such public highway.
The directors of every railroad company which operates a
railroad in this State shall remove or apply for the removal of
at least one grade crossing each year for every sixty miles
of road operated by it in this State, which crossings, so to be
removed, shall be those which in the opinion of said directors
are among the most dangerous ones upon the lines operated
by it, and if the directors of any railroad company fail so to
do, the railroad commissioners shall, if in their opinion the
financial condition of the company will warrant, order such
crossing or crossings removed as in their opinion the said
directors should have applied for the removal of under the
above provisions, and the railroad commissioners in so doing
shall proceed in all respects as to method of procedure and
assessment of expense as if the said directors had voluntarily
applied therefor."
Section 2 related to alterations of highways, one-fourth of
the expense of which was to be paid by the State. Appeal
from any decision of the commissioners under the act was
specifically provided for.
On September 2, 1890, the railroad commissioners of the
State of Connecticut made an order reciting that whereas the
directors of the New York and New England Railroad Company had failed to remove or apply for the removal during
the year ending August 1, 1890, of any grade crossing of a
highway which crossed or was crossed by their railroad; and
whereas in their opinion said directors should have applied
for the removal of the grade crossing of their road and the
highway known as Main Street in the town of Bristol; and
directing a hearing upon the matter, with notice to the railroad
company, the town, and the owners of land adjoining that
portion of the highway. The hearing was had on several
days, from September 24, 1890, to February 11, 1891, and the
commissioners, being of opinion that the financial condition

NT. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. BRISTOL.

559

Statement of the Case.

of the company warranted the order, and that public safety
required it, ordered the crossing removed, and determined
and directed the alterations, changes, and removals to be
made arid done, and that they be executed by the railroad
company at its sole expense, including damages occasioned
thereby. The company appealed from this order to the Superior Court of the county of Hartford, the petition for appeal
setting forth various grounds therefor, which by voluntary
amendment and by direction of the court were reduced to these:
"1. On the 2d day of March, 1891, the railroad commissioners of this State made an order to said company, requiring
the removal of the grade crossing of its railroad and Main
Street in the town of Bristol, a full copy of which, marked
Exhibit 'A,' is to be annexed hereto and filed herewith.
"1 a. Said company is not, and at the date of said order
was not of sufficient ability to execute the work of making
the changes required by said order, and its financial condition
does not, and did not then warrant the making of such an.
order.
"11. Said company cannot meet the expenses of executing
the said order of the railroad commissioners, and have enough
income left to pay its fixed charges, including interest on its
bonds issued as aforesaid and outstanding, and the dividends
on its preferred stock issued as aforesaid, and maintain its
railroad in good and proper condition.
"12. If the law under which the proceedings were had, as
set forth in said order, justifies said order, then it and said
law are void as violating both the Constitution of the United
States and the constitution of the State of Connecticut, in
that said order impairs the obligation of the contracts made
by said company with the holders of its bonds and preferred
stock by making it impossible for said company to pay the
interest on their bonds and dividends on their preferred stock
as agreed between them and said company, and yet maintain
and operate its railroad efficiently, and further, in that it takes
the property of said company without just compensation and
without due process of law, and denies to it the equal protection
of the laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"16. Said order, herein appealed from, was not an order
necessary for the safety of the public.
"17. Said order should have been so made, and proceedings
leading up thereto had, if at all, under section 2 of the act of
1889, as that one-quarter of the expense of its execution should
be paid by the State."
Paragraph 1 a was substituted for paragraphs 2 to 10 inclusive, struck out by the court as mere statements of evidence.
The court, upon hearing the parties, the evidence not being
preserved in the record, but it appearing that evidence was
adduced by the company as to its earnings, expenses, and
property, made findings of fact that the railroad company
was of sufficient ability to execute, and that the financial
condition of the company warranted, the order of the commissioners for the removal of the grade crossing in question;
that the crossing was among the most dangerous upon the
line of the railroad, and that the safety of the public required
*its removal; and affirmed the order appealed from. Thereupon the company prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court
of Errors of Connecticut and assigned various errors to the
rulings of the Superior Court in amendment of the petition on
appeal, and in the exclusion and admission of evidence; and
afterwards amended its reasons for appeal by adding the
following:
"8. Because the court erred in holding that the statute
under which said proceedings were had, as set forth in said
order of the railroad commissioners, justified said order, instead
of holding that it was no law, because contrary to the constitution of this State in that it takes the property of the plaintiff
without just compensation and without due process of law.
"9. Because the court erred in holding that the statute
under which said proceedings were had, as set forth in said
order of the railroad commissioners, justified said order, and in
therefore affirming said order, and overruling the plaintiff's
claim that said statute was void as violating the Constitution
of the United States, in that it impaired the obligation of the
contracts made by said company with the holders of its bonds
and preferred stock, by making it impossible for said company

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. BRISTOL.

561

Statement of the Case.
to pay the interest on its bonds and dividends on its preferred
stock, as agreed between them and said company, and yet
maintain and operate its railroad efficiently, and further, in
that it took the property of said company without due process
of law, and denied to it the equal protection of the law.
"10., Because the court erred in overruling the claim of the
plaintiff in the twelfth paragraph of its petition of appeal,
that said statute was void, and was no justification of said
order, under the Constitution of the United States and the
Fourteenth Amendment thereof.
"11. Because the judgment does not meet the issues. There
is no general finding of the issues against the plaintiff, and no
finding as to issues raised in paragraphs 11 and 17."
The Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut decided that
there was no error in the judgment appealed from, (62 Connecticut, 527,) and thereupon a writ of error was allowed to
this court, and errors assigned as follows:
"1. The said court erred in holding that the statute under
which were had the proceedings as set forth in the order of
the railroad commissioners exemplified in the record of the
case justified said order, and in affirming the judgment of the
Superior Court in and for Hartford County affirming said
order; and in overruling plaintiff's claim that said statute was
void as violating the Constitution of the United States in that
it impaired the obligation of the contracts made by said company with the holders of its bonds and preferred stock by
making it impossible for said company to pay the interest on
its bonds and dividends on its preferred stock as agreed between
them and said company, and yet maintain and operate its
railroad efficiently; and further, in that it took the property
of the company without due process of law, and denied to it
the equal protection of the law.
"2. The said court erred in overruling the claim of the
plaintiff in error in the twelfth paragraph of its petition of
appeal from the railroad commissioners to the Supreme Court
as set forth in the record, that said statute was void and was
no justification of said order under the Constitution of the
United States and the Fourteenth Amendment thereof."
VoL. cI-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument against the Motions.

-Mr. Henry .Robinso and Air. John J.Jennings for the
motions to dismiss or to affirm.
AMr. Charles E. Perkins and Mr. Edward D. Robbins opposing.
It is conceded that in Connecticut the existing grades of
both the railroads and the highways crossing them were
legally established.
When plaintiff's railroad was built
through the town of Bristol many years ago, the legislature
had enacted a special law giving to plaintiff's predecessor the
right to cross highways, but at the same time giving to all
persons sustaining damage from interference by the railroad
company with a highway the same rights as to a judicial
assessment of damages which were given to persons whose
land was taken. By a subsequent act of the legislature it was
provided that "the locations of the several railroad corporations in this State, of which the New York & New England
Railroad Company has become and is a successor, and the construction of said road by and upon its centre line, and as
adopted and in use by it, are hereby ratified, confirmed, and
approved, and the same shall stand good and be for the use
and benefit of the said New York & New England Railroad
Company."
That was the condition of the rights of the plaintiff in error
when the act of 1889 was passed.
I. The plaintiff in error contends that that act denies it the
equal protection of the laws, to which it is entitled under the
Constitution of the United States.
If the railroad commissioners and the Superior Court, after
a fair hearing of both the plaintiff railroad company and the
defendant town, had ascertained the degree of responsibility
of each of the parties and had judicially assessed upon each a
corresponding share of the expense, the case then presented
would differ widely from that at bar. But, although it is
admitted that justice would require the town to pay some, and
perhaps a large part, of the expense, nevertheless, the town is
favored by an exemption from its just share of the burden,

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. BRISTOL.

563

Argument against the Motions.

and the other interested party before the commissioners is by
the terms of the law required to bear the burden of both. In
other words, even in this aspect of the matter, as between it
and the town, the railroad company is denied the equal protection of the laws.
II. Plaintiff claims that by virtue of this law and the order
made thereunder, its property is taken without due process of
law.
The Supreme Court of Connecticut justifies this taking of
plaintiff's property by the following reasoning: "This statute
is in its operation an amendment to the charter of each of the
railroad corporations affected by it. It imposes on the plaintiff, being a corporation of that kind, an obligation which
previous to its passage the charter of the plaintiff did not
impose; but as that charter contained the provision that it
might be altered at pleasure by the legislature, the statute is
binding upon it."
The scope of this claim seems wider than that of the claim
made in support of the attack by the legislature of New York
on the Broadway Surface Railroad Company, yet the New
York Court of Appeals held that claim to be contrary to the
constitution, in People v. O'Brien, 111 N. Y. 1. In that case
all that was attempted to be affected was a franchise created
by an amendable charter. The Supreme Court of Connecticut
holds, that because the charter of a corporation may be
amended, there is no limitation on the rights of the legislature
over the property of that corporation.
The right to amend the charter of a corporation does not
include the right to arbitrarily deprive the stockholders of this
corporation of what' in substance is their property, held by
them, it is true, for purposes of management and control,
under a corporate organization created by a special law, but
being nevertheless private property- not by virtue of any
charter, but by force of the most fundamental and general
laws of modern society, which from their nature necessarily
protect alike and fully, all legitimate acquisitions of the members of the community, no matter whether held by them as
individuals, partners, associations, or corporations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument against the Motions.

Calling a railroad a highway does not make the person or
corporation operating the railroad a piece of governmental
machinery like the town; and because a State may lay taxes
through the agency of the towns, and so pay for a public service, it does not follow that it may force a private corporation
to use up its private property for the same purpose.
There is here admittedly no case of a legal nuisance or of
a legal wrong of any kind committed by plaintiff, but the
State is dealing in this law and the proceedings of the railroad
commissioners thereunder, with crossings which were created
in their present form nearly fifty years ago with full legislative authority, and which have received additional legislative
sanction, less than fourteen years ago; and in applying to the
plaintiff in a case of this kind rules applicable to joint tortfeasors, the State of Connecticut covers with only a thin disguise the taking of plaintiff's property without due process
of law.
It is suggested that the plaintiff has had a hearing, and that
this is enough to constitute due process of law.
There was a hearing on the question, how the highway
should be carried over or under the railroad. There was also
a hearing as to whether plaintiff's financial ability warranted
the order. But before the hearings began at all, it was settled by the prejudgment of this extraordinary board of three
men, that this particular one among the more dangerous
crossings was the one to be removed, and, as a necessary consequence under the law, that no matter how much of the
danger at the crossing is created by the condition of the adjoining highways for which the town of Bristol is alone responsible - no matter even, if, on investigation, it could- be shown
that in this case the railroad company is not responsible for
any of the danger at the crossing, nevertheless, the railroad
company is to pay for the whole work ordered.
Moreover, it should be noted that the railroad company is
not required by this order to merely make reasonable changes
in the grade of its railroad. N~ot only is it ordered to move
its railroad tracks over to ground now occupied by substantial buildings, owned by private persons, and to build a costly

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD C0.

v. BRISTOL.

565

Opinion of the Court.

bridge, but it is also ordered to go entirely outside of its own
location and to make safe and comfortable grades not merely
on Main Street, but on two other compactly-built-up streets,
named in the record at page 9, which do not cross the railroad at all, and is even to pay "the special damages which
the owner of any land adjoining the public highways shall
sustain by reason of any change in the grade of such highways."
It seems to the plaintiff that, when it is denied a hearing
as to all the matters of primary importance, it is a hollow
mockery to talk about its having its day in court, because it
is allowed to be heard on a question so narrowed as merely
to mean whether it can get money to pay this bill, or because
its engineers are allowed to suggest modifications of the plans
presented, so as to obviate the ordering of impracticable railroad construction.
Mr..

CHIEF JUsTIOE

FuLLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The reasons of appeal to the Supreme Court were filed
October 7, 1892, and assigned errors in the action of the
Superior Court in dealing with various paragraphs of the
petition of appeal from the order of the railway commissioners,
and in the admission and exclusion of evidence, but contained
nothing questioning the constitutionality of the law under
which the proceedings were had until they were amended
December 17, 1892, by adding the paragraphs raising that
question. This tardiness in bringing the contention forward
is perhaps not to be wondered at in view of the repeated
adjudications of the Supreme Court of Connecticut sustaining
the constitutionality of similar laws, as well as of this particular
statute, and of the rulings of this court in reference to like
legislation.
A motion to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction
is now made, and with it is united a motion to affirm on the
ground, in the language of our rule, (Rule 6, paragraph 5,)
"that, although the record may show that this court has
jurisdiction, it is manifest that the writ or appeal was taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

for delay only, or that the question on which the jurisdiction
depends is so frivolous as not to need further argument."
We agree with counsel that this court has jurisdiction, but
are of opinion that the principles to be applied in its exercise
are so well settled that further argument is not needed, and
that, this being so, the jurisdiction may be said under the
circumstances to. rest on so narrow a foundation as to give
color to the motion to dismiss and justify the disposal of the
case on the motion to affirm.
It must be admitted that the act of June 19, 1889, is directed
to the extinction of grade crossings as a menace to public
safety, and that it is therefore within the exercise of the police
power of the State. And, as before stated, the constitutionality of similar prior statutes as well as of that in question,
tested by the provisions of the state and Federal constitutions,
has been repeatedly sustained by the courts of Connecticut.
Woodruff v. Catlin, 54 Connecticut, 277, 295; TFesthrookds
Afpeal, 57 Connecticut, 95; I.
.
. . Railroad Co.'s
Appeal, 58 Connecticut, 532; TFoodruff v. Railroad Co., 59
Connecticut, 63; States Attorney v. Branford,59 Connecticut,
402; N. Y. & Nf. -. Railroadv. Taterbury,60 Connecticut, 1;
.3fiddletown v. -. Y., N. H. & artford Railroad, 62 Connecticut, 492.
In TFoodruff v. Catlin, the court, speaking through Pardee,
J., said in reference to a similar statute: "The act, in scope
and purpose, concerns protection of life. Neither in intent
nor fact does it increase or diminish the assets either of the
city or of the railroad corporations. It is the exercise of
the governmental power and duty to secure a safe highway.
The legislature having determined that the intersection of two
railways with a highway in the city of Hartford at grade is a
nuisance dangerous to life, in the absence of action on the part
either of the city or of the railroads, may compel them severally to become the owners of the right to lay out new highways
and new railways over such land and in such manner as will
separate the grade of the railways from that of the highway
at intersection; may compel them to use the right for the
accomplishment of the desired end; may determine that the

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. BRISTOL.

567

Opinion of the Court.

expense shall be paid by either corporation alone or in part
by both; and may enforce obedience to its judgment. That
the legislature of this State has the power to do all this, for
the specified purpose, and to do it through the instrumentality
of a commission, it is now only necessary to state, not to
argue."
And as to this act, the court, in 58 Connecticut, 552, on this
company's appeal, held that grade crossings were in the nature
of nuisances which it was competent for the legislature to cause
to be abated, and that it could, in its discretion, require any
party responsible for the creation of the evil, in the discharge
of what were in a sense governmental duties, to pay any part,
or all, of the expense of such abatement.
It is likewise thoroughly established in this court that the
inhibitions of the Constitution of the United States upon the
impairment of the obligation of contracts, or the deprivation
of property without due process or of the equal protection of
the laws, by the States, are not violated by the legitimate
exercise of legislative power in securing the public safety,
health, and morals. The governmental power of self-protection cannot be contracted away, nor can the exercise of rights
granted, nor the use of property, be withdrawn from the implied liability to governmental regulation in particulars essential to the preservation of the community from injury. Beer
Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Fertilizing Company v.
Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27;
New Orleans Gas Co. v. Zouisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650;
.Augler v. Hansas, 123 U. S. 623; Budd v. New Y-ork, 143
U. S. 517. And also that "a power reserved to the legislature to alter, amend, or repeal a charter authorizes it to make
any alteration or amendment of a charter granted subject to
it, which will not defeat or substantially impair the object of
the grant, or any rights vested under it, and which the legislature may deem necessary to secure either that object or any
public right." Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466,
476; S8pring Valley Waterworks v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347;
-. Pennsylvania College
Cases, 13 Wall. 190; Tomlinson v.
Jessup, 15 Wall. 454.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The charter of this company was subject to the legislative
power over it of amendment, alteration, or repeal, specifically
and under general law. Priv. & Spec. Laws Conn. vol. 5, pp.
543, 54:7; vol. 7, p. 466; vol. 8, p. 353; Spec. Laws Conn.
1881, p. 64; Stats. 1875, 278; Gen. Stats. 1888, ยง 1909; N. Y.
& N. E. ?ail'roadv. Waterbury, 60 Conn. 1.
The contention seems to be, however, that the legislature,
in discharging the duty of the State to protect its citizens, has
authorized by the enactment in question that to be done which
is, in certain particulars, so unreasonable and so obviously
unjustified by the necessity invoked as to bring the act within
constitutional prohibitions.
The argument is that the existing grades of railroad crossings were legally established, in accordance with the then
wishes of the people, but, with the increase in population,
crossings formerly safe had become no longer so; that the
highways were chiefly for the benefit of the local public, and
it was the duty of the local municipal corporation to keep
them safe; that this law applied to railroad corporations treatment never accorded to other citizens in allowing-the imposition of the entire expense of change of grade, both costs and
damages, irrespective of benefits, on those companies, and in
that respect, and in the exemption of the town from its just
share of the burden, denied to them the equal protection of
the laws.
And further, that the order, and, therefore, the law which
was held to authorize it, amounted to a taking of property
without due process, in that it required the removal of tracks
many feet from their present location, involving the destruction of much private property; the excavation of the principal highway and those communicating; and the building of
an expensive iron bridge, all at the sole expense, including
damages, of the company, without a hearing as to the extent
of the several responsibilities of the company and the town, or
as to the expense of the removal of this dangerous crossing as
compared with other dangerous crossings, or of the degree of
the responsibility of the company for the dangers existing at
this particular crossing. The objection is not that hearing was

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. BRISTOL.

569

Opinion of the Court.

not required and accorded, which it could not well be in view
of the protracted proceedings before the commissioners and
the Superior Court and the review in the Supreme Court, but
that the scope of inquiry was not as broad as the statute should
have allowed, and that the particular crossing to be removed
was authorized to be prejudged.
It is further objected that the Supreme Court had so construed the statute that upon the issue whether the financial
condition of the company warranted the order, no question of
law could be raised as to the extent of the burdens, which a
certain amount of financial ability would warrant, and thus in
that aspect by reason of the large amount of expenditure
which might be, and as matter of fact was in this instance,
required, the obligation of the contracts made by the company with the holders of its securities was impaired. Complaint is made in this connection of the striking out by the
Superior Court of certain paragraphs of the petition on appeal,
held by that court and the Supreme Court to plead mere matters of evidence, and the decision by the Supreme Court that
all the material issues were met by the findings. Those issues
were stated by the court to be whether or not the company's
directors had removed or applied for the removal of a grade
crossing as required by the statute; whether or not the grade
crossing ordered by the commissioners to be removed was in
fact a dangerous one which the directors ought to have removed, or for the removal of which the directors ought to
have applied; and whether or not the company's financial
condition was such as to warrant the order.
And upon these premises it is urged in addition that the
right to amend the charter of the corporation was not controlling, because that did not include the right to arbitrarily deprive the stockholders of their property, which, though held
by them, for purposes of management and control, under a
corporate organization created by special law, was, nevertheless, private property, not by virtue of the charter, but "1by
force of the most fundamental and general laws of modern
society, which from their nature necessarily protect a~ke and
fully all legitimate acquisitions of the members of the com-

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

munity, no matter whether held by them as individuals, or
partnerships, or associations, or corporations."
The Supreme Court of Connecticut held that the statute
operated as an amendment to the charters of the railroad corporations affected by it; that as grade crossings are in the
nature of nuisances, the legislature had a right to cause them
to be" abated, and to require either party to pay the whole or
any portion of the expense; that the statute was not unconstitutional in authorizing the commissioners to determine their
own jurisdiction, and that, besides, the right of appeal saved
the railroad companies from any harm from their findings;
that it was the settled policy of the State to abolish grade
crossings as rapidly as could be reasonably done; and that all
general laws and police regulations affecting corporations
were binding upon them without their assent.
We are asked upon the grounds above indicated to adjudge
that the highest tribunal of the State in which these proceedings were had, committed, in reaching these conclusions, errors
so gross as to amount in law to a denial by the State of rights
secured to the company by the Constitution of the United
States, or that the statute itself is void by reason of infraction
of the provisions of that instrument.
But this court cannot proceed upon general ideas of the
requirements of natural justice apart from the provisions of
the Constitution supposed to be involved, and in respect of
them we are of opinion that our interposition cannot be successfully invoked.
As observed by Mr. Justice Miller in Davidsoa v. Nlrew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104, the Fourteenth Amendment cannot be
availed of "as a means of bringing to the test of the decision
of this court the abstract opinions of every unsuccessful litigant in the state court of the justice of the decision against,
him, and of the merits of the legislation on which such a decision may be founded." To use the language of Mr. Justice
Field, in -Miss'ouri Paciftc Railway v. Humes,115 U. S. 512,
520, "it is hardly necessary to say, that the hardship, impolicy,
or injutice of state laws is not necessarily an objection to their
constitutional validity; and that the remedy for evils of that
character is to be sought from state legislatures."

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. BRISTOL.

571

Opinion of the Court.

The conclusions of this court have been repeatedly announced to the effect that though railroad corporations are
private corporations as distinguished from those created for
municipal and governmental purposes, their uses are public,
and they are invested with the right of eminent domain, only
to be exercised for public purposes ; that therefore they are
subject to legislative control in all respects necessary to protect the public against danger, injustice, and oppression; that
the State has power to exercise this control through boards of
commissioners; that there is no unjust discrimination and no
denial of the equal protection of the laws in regulations applicable to all railroad corporations alike; nor is there necessarily such denial nor an infringement of the obligation of
contracts in the imposition upon them in particular instances
of the entire expense of the performance of acts required in
the public interest, in the exercise of legislative discretion;
nor are they thereby deprived of property without due process
of law, by statutes under which the result is ascertained in a
mode suited to the nature of the case, and not merely arbitrary
and capricious; and that the adjudication of the highest court
of a State, that, in such particulars, a law enacted in the exercise of the police power of the State, is valid, will not be.
reversed by this court on the ground of an infraction of the
Constitution of the United States. Nashville eo. Railway
v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Georgia Railroad & Banking Co.
v. SmithA, 128 U. S. 114; Minneapolis &ce. Railway v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; Dent v. Wfest Virginia, 129 U. S. 114;
Charlotte, Columbia &c. Railroad v. Gi es, 142 U. S. 386;
.Minneapolis& St. Louis Railway v. Emmons, 149 U. S. 364.
Judgment aflrmed.

