CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. LOWELL.
Syllabus.

anticipated by the Brown patent; that the patent of 1879, in
view of the state of the art, is to be limited and restricted,
if it has any validity at all, to the specific spring therein
described; and, as thus restricted, it is clearly not infringed.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the decree of the court
below should be
.Reversed, and the cause remanded,witAh directions to dismiss

the bill.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. LOWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR TH1

DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 173. Argued December 19, 1893.-Decided January 8,1894.

The station of a railway near a large town contained platforms and other
accommodations on each side of the tracks, with a double track between
them on which many trains were moving both day and night. There was
an underground connection between the two by means of a public street,
which was in a bad condition. It was a rule of the company that "when
a train is standing on a double track for passengers, trains from the
opposite direction will come to a stop with the engines opposite to each
other." A passenger who was in the habit of travelling on the road and
of stopping at this station arrived there in the rear car, in which a notice
was posted, that passengers leaving the car by the forward end should
turn to the right, and that those leaving by the rear should turn to the
left, in each case landing the passenger on the platform, "and thus
avoid danger from trains on the opposite track." The passenger passed
out at the forward end, where he found the collector, gave up his ticket,
and passed out at the left, on the track, with the knowledge of the collector, and without any objection on his part. In crossing he was struck
by an engine coming from an opposite direction, which had not observed
the rule to stop. He brought suit to recover damages for the injuries
which he had suffered. The company set up the defence of contributory
negligence. Plaintiff, as a witness in his own behalf, testified that he
had never seen the notice posted in the car, and that he had been in the
habit of alighting on the left side, without objection. When plaintiff
rested, the defendant asked the court to instruct the jury to find a verdict for it on the ground that the contributory negligence of the plaintiff
VOL. CLI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
was established as matter of law. The court declined, and the defendant
introduced evidence, and did not renew his request, but excepted to such
parts of the charge as related to the question of contributory negligence.
Verdict and judgment being had for plaintiff, the case was brought here
by writ of error. Held,
(1) That there was no doubt of the gross negligence of the defendant;
(2) That there was no obligation on the part of the plaintiff to cross the
track by the underground public street;
(3) That the plaintiff was not, under the circumstances, guilty of negligence in law, in turning to the left on leaving the car;
(4) That the charge was, as a whole, sufficiently favorable to the defendant, and that the question of negligence was properly left to the
jury.

THIs was an action at law for personal injuries received by
the plaintiff Lowell while crossing the track of the defendant
at Ridgeway station, within the limits of the city of St. Paul.
It appears by the bill of exceptions that the following facts
were established by the evidence:
The defendant, on the 17th day of March, 1889, was a
common carrier of passengers for hire, and was on that day
operating a railroad between St. Paul and Minneapolis. One
of the stations on the road was iRidgewood Park, within the
corporate limits of St. Paul, the general course and direction
of the road through such station being east and west.
There was a double track at that point and for some distance both east and west of it; the trains going east, or
towards St. Paul, moved on the south track, and the trains
going west, or towards Minneapolis, on the north track.
There were many unscheduled trains-freight, transfer, and
wild trains -moving back and forth on the tracks both day
and night.
The tracks at Ridgewood Park station were about nine feet
apart; the passenger trains were run on schedule time between
the two cities, and passed this station; during the day there
were many trains moving on both of these tracks; between
the hours of nine and eleven in the evening there were only two
passenger trains passing IRidgewood Park station, one going
east and the other going west; there were no trains of defendant scheduled to meet at Ridgewood Park station. The westgoing train, upon which plaintiff was a passenger, reached

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. LOWELL.
Statement of the Case.

Ridgewood Park at 10.10 P.m., and the only scheduled train
that would pass this station going east was due fifteen minutes
later, which fact was wellknown to the plaintiff.
The railroad company had erected two depots at iRidgewood
Park station, one on each side of the tracks -one south of
the south track and one north of the north track and opposite
to each other; each of these depots was supplied with a platform for the accommodation of passengers getting upon and
alighting from the cars, one of which- platforms was on the
south side of the south track and the other was on the north
side of the north track.
The only depot used by the defendant was the one situated
on the south side of the tracks; all the tickets were sold in
the depot on the south side; telegraph office, baggage-room,
and waiting-room were there, and the station on the north
side was closed, and had never been used by the defendant in
any way as a depot.
At the east end of each of these depots there was a flight
of steps leading down about fifteen or twenty feet to Victoria
Street, which at that point passed under the two tracks, the
tracks passing over the street by means of an iron bridge;
and it was possible for the passengers to go from one depot
to the other by the way of these steps and Victoria Street;
but Victoria Street on the 17th day of farch, 1889, was not
graded or in any way improved, but was a natural ravine
passing under the tracks at iRidgewood Park station.
Victoria Street about the station and underneath the tracks
was marshy, muddy, and wet at that time; the steps leading
down on the north side from the north depot came down only
to within two feet of the ground, and passing in front of the
steps at the bottom thereof was a stream of water which ran
from there over the surface and in a zigzag direction down
Victoria Street and under the tracks.
This stream varied in width from two to six feet and in
depth from three or four inches to two feet ; the ground under
the tracks at Victoria Street was uneven and irregular, and
there were no lights or any illumination whatever along Victoria Street at that point and under the tracks, and the night

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

was dark. It was customary for all persons living on the
south side of the tracks at the station to cross over the southlying tracks in going to their homes, and not under the
tracks by Victoria Street, which custom was well known to
the defendant.
There was no planking between the two depot platforms,
except at the easterly end of the platforms across the tracks
at Ridgewood Park station, but the surface of the ground was
occupied by the tracks and ties as on any other part of the
road.
The platform on the north side was lighted by two large
kerosene lamps on posts, and the south platform was furnished
with the same kind and number of lamps, but there was conflicting evidence as to whether one of these lamps was burning on the night of the accident.
The north-side building was closed, but the platform on the
north side was in good order for the embarkation and debarkation of passengers, and was of the same size as the one on
the south side; the plaintiff was at the time of the accident, a
man thirty-six years of age, in full possession of all his faculties;
he lived in a house situated on the south side of the tracks,
about one thousand feet west of the depots and about two
hundred and fifty south of the tracks; he had lived there
prior to the accident continuously for about six months, and
the only way he could reach his home after alighting from
defendant's train at the station, was to cross over the southline track of the defendant's road, except through Victoria
Street; he was in the habit of taking the cars at Ridgewood
Park depot for St. Paul about twice each week during his
residence at the point mentioned, and would return from St.
Paul by the trains of defendant and debark at this station.
In so doing plaintiff had always boarded and departed from
the defendant's train on the south side of the same, as he did
on the night the accident in question occurred; and he had
worked as a laborer on the streets in the neighborhood of the
depot, and was familiar with it and its surroundings.
On the afternoon of the 17th day of March, 1889, he purchased a round-trip ticket at the Ridgewood Park depot for

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. LOWELL.
Statement of the Case.

St. Paul and return, and went to St. Paul, leaving there on
his return home at 10 P.m.; he was with a companion named
Fosberg, both plaintiff and Fosberg riding in the smoking car,
which was on the rear end of the train, and was a combination
car, divided by a partition in the middle, the rear half being for
baggage and the front half for passengers desiring to smoke.
The train was composed of an engine, tender, two passenger coaches, and this combination car; in each end of the
smoking apartment of the combination car, there were posted
up notices or signs in large printed letters as follows, which
could be plainly seen and read by all passengersin the car:
"Passengers leaving this car at the forward end will turn to
the right; if at the rear end, will turn to the left, and avoid
danger from trains on the opposite track."
Plaintiff could read English. He testified that he had never
seen the sign; that he generally rode in the smoking car; that
the train arrived at the Ridgewood Park station at about ten
minutes past ten o'clock P.m. and pulled in with the cars opposite the north platform, and two ladies and five or six gentlemen alighted, all on the north side of the train and on the
north platform; that there was a conductor, a ticket collector,
and a brakeman on the train, and as the train stopped the
plaintiff and Mr. Fosberg got up and passed out of the front
door of the smoking car, Mr. Fosberg being first, and the
plaintiff following.
On the platform they were met by the collector, who was
standing in front of and a little to the north side of the door,
and who asked for their tickets, which they delivered to him,
Fosberg first and plaintiff after him. They immediately left
the car on the south side and started across the space between
the tracks and the south track towards the south platform,
Fosberg being about ten feet in advance of plaintiff. The
collector saw them getting off on the south side and said
nothing to them, but immediately on receiving their tickets,
entered the smoking car.
That before the plaintiff had time to alight from said car
the train had begun to move slowly away from the station.
This conductor or ticket collector saw both Fosberg and the

OCTOBER TERI,

1893.

Statement of the Case.

plaintiff turn and step down the steps towards the south side
of the car to cross over to the side station, and raised no
objection, and did not caution either of them against so
doing.
That plaintiff, in stepping down from said car, took hold of
the iron railing on the end of the platform on the right-hand
side, and stepped down with the left foot first and faced toward
the west up the south-line track.
That plaintiff saw no train coming on the south-line track,
and Fosberg, who had already crossed over the track ahead of
him, neitheissaw nor heard any train coming from the west on
the south-line track; that just as soon as plaintiff stepped from
the car he started towards the station across the south-line
track for the purpose of going to his home; that just as he
was crossing the track he was struck by a wild train coming
from the west and which was being run backwards on the
south-line track, and was knocked a distance of thirty feet,
falling upon the platform of the station a little to the east of
the centre thereof.
Several witnesses swore that the train had a headlight burning at both ends, and several witnesses swore that they
saw no headlight on the end approaching the east and the
depot.
There was conflicting evidence as to the rate of speed at
which the engine was moving before and at the time it reached
the station, some witnesses putting it as high as twenty miles
an hour and some as low as five or six. Several witnesses
swore that the engine whistled for the station about a quarter
of a mile before reaching it, and that its bell was rung all the
way from where it whistled to the station, and several witnesses swore that they heard neither whistle nor bell. The
crew of the engine on it at the time was an engineer, fireman,
conductor, and brakeman.
Fosberg crossed the south track and got on the platform
safely and before the arrival of the engine, and was about ten
feet in advance of plaintiff, when he attempted to step across
the south rail of the south track, and Fosberg, seeing the engine
coming, called out, "Look out, Martin U" to the plaintiff, but

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. LOWELL.

215

Statement of the Case.

plaintiff was struck by the corner of the tender and knocked
on to the south platform.
The crew who were on the wild train, consisting of the fireman, brakeman, and conductor, saw the west-going passenger
train as it came into the station and as it stopped there to
receive and discharge passengers, and knew that it stopped
for that purpose. Plaintiff introduced general rule No. 66 of
the defendant, in regard to the running of its trains, which
was as follows: "When a train is standing on a double track
for passengers, trains from the opposite direction will come to
a stop with the engines opposite each other, and proceed slowly
until trains are past."
The train did not in any way stop until it had run far past
the station and until after plaintiff was struck.
The conductor of the passenger train, after seeing his passengers off the train on the north platform, gave the signal to
his engineer to go ahead, and got upon the platform of one of
the coaches, and, seeing the plaintiff and Fosberg going in the
direction of the approaching engine, called to them as loud as
he could to look out for themselves. There was an unobstructed view up the tracks to the west from any point at the
IRidgewood Park depot of at least 1500 feet, and a train approaching could be seen that distance.
There was conflicting evidence as to whether the passenger
train was moving westward or standing still when the engine
from the west reached a point opposite the passenger engine.
The plaintiff, who was sworn as a witness in his own behalf,
testified that in going in and out of this station he was in the
habit of getting off the cars on the south side; that he had
seen other people getting on and off in that way, and that no
one ever objected to his doing this. He further testified, under
objection, that he had seen people getting off upon the south
side both before and after the accident, and that he never saw
them get off on the north side and go down the steps and
under the bridge. His companion that night, F6sberg, also
testified that he had seen other people get off upon the south
side. Upon the conclusion of the testimony on the part of the
plaintiff, counsel for the defendant requested the court to in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

struct the jury to find a verdict for the defendant, upon the
ground that the plaintiff was proven to have been guilty of
contributory negligence in leaving the train upon the south
side, in disobedience of the rules and notice of the defendant,
and in not looking for, and seeing, the coming engine and
avoiding the same. The court denied the motion, and counsel
for defendant excepted. There was no evidence from either
side showing, or tending to show, that any reason or cause
existed for the plaintiff leaving the cars on the south side, instead of the north side, except as above set out. Upon the
conclusion of the entire testimony in the case defendant's
counsel did not renew his request to direct a verdict in his
favor, but took exceptions to such portions of the charge as
submitted to the jury the question of the contributory negligence of the plaintiff.
The case was, submitted to the jury, who returned a verdict
for the plaintiff in the sum of $8500, for which judgment was
entered. Upon motion a new trial was ordered unless plaintiff
would con'sent to remit $3000 from his judgment, which was
done. The defendant thereupon sued out this writ of error.
-M. Char"les E. Flandraufor plaintiff in error.
I. The court was correct (if it had not been qualified) in its
charge to the jury that the plaintiff could not recover, having
violated the reasonable rules of the defendant, and alighted
from the cars in a manner prohibited by the defendant. Bancroft v. Boston & Torcester Railroad,97 Mass. 275; Forsy1
v. Boston & Albany Railroad, 103 Mass. 510; Gonzales v.
larlem Railroad,38 NT. Y. 440; S. C. 98 Am. Dec. 58; Zebe
v. Pennsylvania Railroad, 33 Penn. St. 318.
IL The mere fact that the plaintiff may have entered or
alighted from the cars on the south side, instead of upon the
platform, and that he may have seen some others do the same
thing, cannot be construed in any way to be a license ora consent on the part of the defendant for the plaintiff to repeat the
act at its expense. Wheelwright v. Boston & Albany Railroad, 135 Mass. 225, 229.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. LOWELL.

217

Opinion of the Court.

III. The plaintiff was clearly guilty of contributory negligence, even if he had not been at fault in alighting on the
south side of the train, because when he got upon the space
between the two tracks, before he attempted to cross the south
track, it was his duty to exercise all his functions of seeing and
hearing to ascertain whether it was safe for him so to do.
Scho)Leld v. Chicago, .ilwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 114
U. S. 615; Chafee v. Old Colony Railroad,17 R. I. 658.
The train was evidently very close to the plaintiff when he
stepped out upon the south track, because he was immediately struck by it, and there can be no reason why he did not
see it and avoid it, except that Fosberg, his companion, had
just got across in time to save himself, about ten feet ahead
of him, and he was in a great hurry to catch up with him;
there is no other explanation of his reckless conduct.
.Mr. _3. A. .Ann, (with whom was Mr. Cushman E. Davis
on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Practically the only question in this case is whether the
evidence so clearly showed the plaintiff to have been guilty of
contributory negligence as to entitle the defendant, as matter
of law, to an instruction to the jury to return a verdict in its
favor.
It was not seriously contended that the defendant was free
from fault in failing to stop its train, in compliance with its
own rule, which demanded that "when a train is standing on
a double track for passengers, trains from the opposite direction will come to a full stop, with the engines opposite to each
other, and proceed slowly until trains are past." In view of
the frequency of accidents occurring to passengers crossing
one track at a station, after alighting from a train standing
upon another track," the rule is doubtless a proper one, and if
it had been observed on that evening, this accident would
probably not have occurred. In determining whether the
plaintiff was so clearly guilty of contributory negligence as to

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

entitle the defendant to a verdict, we are bound to put upon
the testimony the construction most favorable to him, and to
assume that the eastward bound train did not stop opposite
the other engine, but that it was passing at the rate of twenty
miles an hour; that it gave no signal by whistle or bell, and
carried no headlight upon the rear or east end of the engine.
If such were the facts, there could be no doubt of the gross
negligence of the defendant.
We are of the opinion that there was no absolute obligation
on the part of the plaintiff to cross the track by way of the
ravine known as Victoria Street. To do this would have required him to descend a flight of steps at the east end of the
station, about fifteen feet to the level of the street, which was
not graded or in any way improved, but was a natural ravine
passing under the tracks at this point. There was a stream of
water varying in width from two to six feet, and in depth
from two or three inches to two feet, running over the surface
of the street under such tracks. The ground beneath the
tracks was marshy, muddy, and wet at the time; the street
was uneven and irregular, and there were no lights or other
illumination along the street at that point, and the night was
dark. It seems to have been the universal custom for all persons living on the south side of the tracks to cross over the
tracks in going to their homes, and not under the tracks by
Victoria Street. 'Under such circumstances, the plaintiff had
a right to make use of the customary mode of alighting and
reaching his home.
The case resolves itself into the question, then, whether the
plaintiff was, as matter of law, guilty of negligence in failing
to get off the train on the north side, there being in the opinion
of the court no question that if he had alighted upon the platform and waited until the train passed he would not
have been injured. There was, it is true, a notice conspicuously posted at each end of the smoking car, in which plaintiff
was riding, requiring passengers leaving the car at the forward
end to turn to the right and at the rear end to turn to the left,
and avoid danger from the trains on the opposite track.
There was testimony tending to show that this notice had

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. LOWELL.

210

Opinion of the Court.

never been read by the plaintiff. Assuming, however, that he
was bound to read it, and was chargeable with knowledge of
its contents, there was other testimony tending to show that
it was habitually disregarded by passengers with the acquiescence of the conductor and the servants of the road about
the station., There was evidence that plaintiff and his companion Fosberg were met upon the platform of the car by the
collector, who asked for their tickets, which were delivered to
him; that the collector saw them get off on the south side and
said nothing to them, but immediately upon receiving their
tickets entered the smoking car; that no objection was raised
to their getting off upon the south side, and that other people
were in the habit of getting off in the same way. Now if the
custom of passengers to disregard the rule was so common as
to charge the servants of the road with notice of it, then it
was either their duty to take active measures to enforce the
rule, or to so manage their trains at this point as to render it
safe to disregard it. A railway company does not discharge
its entire obligation to the public by a notice of a certain
requirement, permitting the requirement to be generally disregarded, and then proceeding upon the theory that every one
is bound to comply with it. If, in such case, an accident
occur, the defendant should not be allowed to rely exclusively
upon a breach of its regulation. In this particular the case
resembles that of the Dublin &e. .Railway Co. v. Slattery, 3
App. Cas. 1155, in which the House of Lords held that a
notice not to cross the tracks which the company had permitted to fall into desuetude and made no attempt to enforce,
did not debar the plaintiff, who had disregarded it, from a
recovery. Had the plaintiff complied with the notice and
alighted upon the platform, he would still have been obliged
to cross the track with the same possibility of being struck
by a passing train that confronted him in this instance.
There was, in addition to this, some evidence to go to the jury
that it was customary for persons living on the south side of
the track to get off the train on that side, as the plaintiff did,
and none that they were in the habit of crossing by way of
Victoria Street.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In his manner of leaving the train there seems to have been
no negligence. He took hold of the iron railing at the end of
the platform on the right-hand side, stepped down with the
left foot first and faced towards the west on the south-line
track, saw or heard no train coming upon that track, and supposed that he was perfectly safe in crossing, as he knew that
no train was then due. It is in this connection, and under
these circumstances, that the question of the necessity was to
be considered. While there may have been nothing which the
law would recognize as a special necessity that evening for his
getting off on the south side, if it were usual and customary
for passengers to do so. and it was not manifestly dangerous,
and the plaintiff had been in the habit twice each week for six
months prior thereto of alighting in the same manner, and in
doing this he took the precaution to get off in such a way, that
if a train properly lighted had been coming, he could not have
failed to see it, it would be a question for the jury whether he
was guilty of contributory negligence in disregarding the
notice. In this view it is possible that the charge of the court
to the effect that unless there was some existing necessity
established by the testimony authorizing the plaintiff to alight
from that side of the train and cross over the tracks, he could
not recover, was too favorable to the defendant. But, however that may be, it seems to have been subsequently qualified
by the court saying that if passengers embarking upon or
alighting from the train at that point went customarily over
that route, then the mere fact that the plaintiff did cross there
in order to reach his home cannot of itself be considered negligence, and leaving it for the jury to say whether, under the
circumstances of this case, the plaintiff should not have obeyed
the rules and regulations of the company, and have alighted
upon the platform. The charge as a whole was sufficiently
favorable to the defendant, and the question of negligence was
a proper one for the jury- in other words, proof that the
plaintiff violated the regulations of the company, even without
the excuse of a cogent necessity, will not as matter of law
debar him from a recovery.
The judgment of the court is, therefore,
Affirmed.

WOLLENSAK v. SARGENT.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs concurred in the
result, because the only ruling in matter of law requested or
made at the trial on the question whether the defendant was
entitled to a verdict, by reason of contributory negligence of
the plaintiff, was upon a motion made at the close of the plaintiff's evidence and before the defendant had rested its case, and
therefore, by the settled rule, could not be the subject of exceptions or error; Columbia Railroad v. Hawthorne, 144 U. S.
202, 206; Bogk v. Gassert, 149 U. S. 17, 23; and because the
instructions given and duly excepted to were sufficiently favorable tQ the defendant.

WOLLENSAK v. SARGENT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE INITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 150. Argued December 7, 1893. -Decided January 8, 1894.

Reissued letters patent No. 9307, granted July 20, 1880, to John F. Wollensak
for new and useful improvements in transom lifters and locks, on the surrender of the original letters patent No. 136,801, dated March 11, 1873,
are void for want of patentable novelty in the invention described and
claimed in them.
Reissued letters patent No. 10,264, granted December 26, 1882, to John F.
Wollensak for a new and useful improvement in transom lifters, on the
surrender of the original letters patent, dated March 10, 1874, are void as
to the claims sued on, by reason of laches in the application for a reissue.
The fact that the patentee followed the advice of his solicitor in delaying to
apply for the reissue within due time does not justify the delay.

Tis was a consolidated bill in equity founded on two reissued patents granted to appellant for improvement in transom
lifters as follows: No. 9307, July 20, 1880, original patent
No. 136,801, March 11, 1873, and No. 10,264, December 26,
1882, original patent No. 148,538, March 10, 1874. Appellee
was charged with the infringement of the third claim of the
reissued patent No. 9307, and the third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
and ninth claims of reissue No. 10,264.

