CRESCENT MINLG CO. v. WASATCH A fMNG CO.

317

Syllabus.

charge upon a particular point, in which case, in the absence
of request that that should be done, it would not have been
well taken, Texas & Paciflc .Railway co. v. Volk, ante, 73,
although, even in that view, the exception might be held
equivalent to a request for the qualification; but the objection
really was to the giving of the instructions unqualified, and
counsel signified out of abundant caution what in their judgment would remove their ground of complaint. We hold,
therefore, that the point was sufficiently saved.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
grant a new trial.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

M.. JUSTICE BRow-N took no part in the consideration and
decision of this case.

CRESCENT MINING COMPANY v. WASATCH
MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 180. Argued December 21, 3893.-Decided January 22, 1894.

A. commenced an action against B. in Utah, to recover possession of a tract
of mining land. C., desiring to purchase the disputed tract, agreed with
B. to purchase it, a part of the purchase money to be paid at the signing
of the agreement (which was done), and the balance to be paid on delivery of the deed, after determination of the action in favor of B., C. to
go into possession at once, but not to remove any ores until delivery of
the deed. A., on his part, then sold the disputed premises to C. By a
subsequent agreement C. agreed to pay the consideration therefor to A. in
a year, if the suit should be determined in favor of A. in that time, and
if not then determined, to pay the purchase money into court in the
action of A. against B. By the same agreement the property was mortgaged by C. to A. to secure its performance. The money not having
been paid into court under the last agreement, A. brought a suit to foreclose the mortgage in which it was alleged that the action by A. against
B. was still pending and undetermined, and that C. had not paid the
amount into court, and by which was prayed a decree for such payment

6CTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
and for foreclosure and sale.' The defendant demurred, and, the demurrer
being overruled, answered, setting up an alleged fraudulent conspiracy,
whereby the most valuable parts of the lands agreed to be conveyed
by A. to C. had been omitted from the deeds. The answer also set up
that C. had commenced a suit against A. to compel a reformation of the
deed, in which a decree for reformation had been made below, and that
the suit was pending in this court on appeal. Issue being taken on this
answer, it was decreed that A. was entitled to have the amount of the
mortgage debt, with interest, paid into court in the suit between A. and
B., and for a decree of foreclosure. This decree, on appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, was modified by allowing thirty days for
the payment of the money before advertising the property for sale, and
by providing that the money should be paid into court in the foreclosure
suit, instead of in the action of A. against B., until an order could be
obtained in that case for the deposit of the money. Held, that in all this
there was no error.

IN the year 1883 the Wasatch Mining Company, a corporation under the laws of Utah Territory, brought an action in
the District Court for the Third Judicial District of that Territory, against William and Joseph A. Jennings, to recover possession of a certain tract of mining land, situated in Uintah
mining district, Summit County. That action was, at the time
of the events subsequently narrated, and still is, pending and
undecided.
The Crescent Mining Company, likewise a corporation organized under the laws of Utah Territory, desiring to purchase
said disputed tract of lahd, on March 8, 1883, entered into an
agreement in writing with Jennings, whereby, after reciting
the fact that the action was pending between the Wasatch
Mining Company and Jennings, it was agreed that the Crescent Mining Company should purchase the said tract, and pay
therefor $50,000, of which $7500 were paid at the time of the
signing of the agreement, and the balance when the deed was
delivered, which latter event was to take place when the said
action should be determined, and if the same should be decided
in favor of Jennings; that, in the meantime, the deed should
be deposited with the Deseret National Bank of Salt Lake
City; that the Crescent Mining Company should forthwith go
into possession, but until the delivery of the deed should not
remove, out of the premises described in the deed, any metal

CRESCENT MINING CO. v. WASATCH .1KllN

G CO.

319

Statement of the Case.

or ores of value. It was also provided that the Crescent Company might at any time, at its option, pay the balance of the
purchase money into the said bank, and lift the deed.
On July 9, 1886, the Crescent Mining Company entered into
an agreement, in writing, with the Wasatch Mining Company,
whereby the latter sold and conveyed to the former company
the premises in dispute, and the latter agreed to pay therefor
$4:2,500; and, on September 1, 1886, a further agreement, in
the nature of a mortgage, was entered into between the two
companies, referring to the pending litigation between the
Wasatch Company and Jennings, and providing that the Crescent Company would pay to the Wasatch Company the said
sum of $45,000 in one year from the date thereof-absolutely,
if at said time the said suit should be determined in favor of
the said Wasatch Company; but if said action should still be
pending undetermined, then said purchase money should be
paid into said court in said action, recognized by order thereof,
to be disposed of as follows: to be paid to the Wasatch Company on the final determination of said suit in their favor, and
subject to be repaid to the Crescent Mining Company, on its
request, if said action should be finally and on its merits determined adversely to the Wasatch Company; and in case
default should be made in the payment of said purchase
money, then the Wasatch Company were authorized to sell the
said premises, in the manner prescribed by law, and out of
the proceeds to pay said purchase money, with costs and a
reasonable attorney's fee for collection, the surplus, if any, to
be paid to the Crescent Mining Company.
The present suit was brought to foreclose this mortgage, the
complaint alleging that the suit of TFasatck Company v. Jennings was still pending and undetermined, and that the Crescent Mining Company had not paid the amount into court,
and asking for judgment for $42,500, with interest from one
year after the date of said mortgage, with attorney's fee, and
for a decree of foreclosure and sale.
The defendant demurred to this complaint on the ground
that it did not allege that the plaintiff had obtained an order
for the payment of the purchase money into court, or that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

such order had been made and that defendant had then refused,
or that any demand had ever been made upon defendant for
payment, and that it appeared on the face of the complaint
that defendant, not being a party to the suit of the Wfasatek
Oompany v. Jennings, could not appear in that case and ask
for an order permitting the payment into court.
This demurrer was overruled, and the Crescent Company
answered and alleged that the mortgage sued on had been
given to secure the purchase money of certain described mining
grounds; that owing to a fraudulent conspiracy between the
defendant's manager and certain agents of the plaintiff the
most valuable part of the lands purchased had been omitted
from the deed; and then added the facts showing that the
Crescent Company could not, of itself, obtain an order to pay
the purchase money into court, and that the Wasatch Company
had never obtained such an order and had never made any
demand.
The answer further averred that on January 3, 1887, the
Crescent Company had commenced an action, in the same
court, against the Wasatch Company, to compel a reformation
of the deed, so as to make said conveyance embrace all the
ground, and that said last-mentioned action had resulted in a
decree commanding a reformation of the deed as prayed for;
that said decree had been appealed from into the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Utah, which latter court had, on
August 27, 1888, affirmed said decree, from which said lastmentioned decree an appeal had been taken to the Supreme
Court of the United States, where said appeal was pending.
The record of that appeal in the Supreme Court of the United
States discloses that the decision of the court below has been
affirmed.
The cause was brought on for trial before the court sitting
without a jury, and resulted in certain findings of fact, substantially the same as alleged in the complaint, and in findings
of law as prayed for by the complainant, viz., that said plaintiff,
the Wasatch Company, was entitled to have said mortgage
debt, $42,500, paid in that court, in said action pending
between Wasatch Company and Jennings, together with

CRESCENT MILNG CO. v. WASATCH MINING CO.

321

Opinion of the Court.

interest thereon at 10 per cent per annum, from the 1st day
of September, 1887, until the same shall have been so paid into
court, together with costs and $1000 for an attorney's fee. It
was decreed that the plaintiff was entitled to a decree foreclosing said mortgage and directing a sale of the premises
covered by said mortgage, and to have so much of the proceeds
of sale paid into court as might be necessary to pay said purchase money, interest, and costs as aforesaid.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Utah, and on June 12, 1890, an opinion
and decree of that court were filed, affirming the decree of the
District Court in substantial respects, but modifying the same
by decreeing that thirty days should be allowed the defendant
in which to pay the money before the property should be
advertised for sale, and also providing that the money should
be paid into court in the case between the companies instead
of the case of the lFasatchCompany v. Jennings,until an order
should be obtained in that case for the deposit of the money.
The record further discloses that the Crescent Mining Company entered into possession of the' property, and has been
engaged, during the pendency of the litigation, in mining
and converting to its own use the ores and metals contained
therein.
From the decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah the present appeal was taken.
2fr. R. .V Baskin for appellant.
.AXr. A. B. Browne for appellee.
filed a brief for appellee.

.A&T.

. G. Sutherland

MR. JusTICE SHMAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Our examination of this record fails to disclose any error
in the decree appealed from.
The proceedings in the District Court of the Territory
of Utah, to enforce the mortgage given by the Crescent
VOL. cI-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mining Company to the Wasatch Mining Company, were
certainly in pursuance of the terms of that instrument. The
defence raised by demurrer, that the Crescent Company could
not pay the purchase money into the court until an order of
the court permitting such payment had been procured, and
that the Crescent Company, not being a party of record, could
not procure such order, was not sound, because that reason,
namely, that the Crescent Company was not a party of record,
equally prevented the Wasatch Company from procuring such
order. It is true that the Wasatch Company was a party
of record; but, of course, the court could not, on the application of that company, have granted an order on the Crescent
Company, not a party and not represented in court, to pay
money into court.
It is obvious that the contract, in that particular, required
the cotperation of the parties. Hence, when, by the terms
of the mortgage, the time had arrived for the payment of the
money, it was the duty of the Crescent Company to have
signified its readiness to pay and to unite with the Wasatch
Company in procuring the necessary order of the court. Not
having so done, a right to enforce the mortgage at once
arose.
Nor do we think that the defence set up in the answer,
that the deed executed by the Wasatch Company and
deposited, as provided for in the agreement, in the Deseret
National Bank, did not contain all the parcels of land to
which the Crescent Company was entitled, was sufficient,
because the answer itself disclosed that the Crescent Company
had availed itself of its remedy by direct proceedings against
the Wasatch Company to reform the deed. Such proceedings
would necessarily result in a decision that the deed in question
was correct, or else in a reformation of it.
An election to pursue a remedy by an independent action
would not seem to have left the Crescent Company free to
resist an enforcement of its express contract in the mortgage
by resorting to the same matter. However this may be, it
is satisfactory to know that this view of the subject worked
no injury to the Crescent Company when we learn from our

CRESCENT MINING CO. v. WASATCH MINING C0.

323

Opinion of the Court.

own records that the result of that independent proceeding
was a decree in favor of the company compelling a reformation of the deed, so as to include all of the lands purchased.
Wa8atch 2ining Co. v. Crescent -Mining Co., 148 U. S.
293.
Further objection is urged to the decree of the court below
in that it called for the payment of interest on the principal
sum from the time fixed for payment until the same shall
have been paid into court. It is said that the mortgage does
not itself provide for interest, and that if the money had been
paid into court it would have there remained without interest.
But this is not necessarily so. The court would, doubtless,
if so requested by the parties in interest, have ordered so large
a sum invested. At all events, it is no hardship that the
Crescent Company, which had both the use of the money and
the receipt of the issues and profits of the mines, should be
charged with interest for the period between the maturity
of the mortgage and the payment into court.
Another complaint urged to the decree below is because it
directs that the money should be paid into the District Court
of the Territory in the case between the two mining companies
instead of in the case between the Wasatch Company and
Jennings. But the decree discloses that this disposition
of the money is only temporary, to await the obtaining of
an order in the latter case. Such an order, as the case now
stands, is a matter of course, and doubtless can be obtained
forthwith, so as to dispense with the intermediate payment.
The decree of the court below is

Affimed.

