OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

HARDENBERGH v. RAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF OREGON.

STATES FOR THE

No. 113. Argued December 12, 13, 1893.- Decided January 3, 1894.
When the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court has fully attached against the
tenant in possession in an action of ejectment, the substitution of the
landlord as defendant will in no way affect that jurisdiction, although
he may be a citizen of the same State with the plaintiff. โข
By the laws of Oregon in force in 1872, a ,testator was authorized and empowered to devise after-acquired real estate.
A will in Oregon, duly executed May 15, 1872, and duly proved after the testator's death in 1886, in which he devised to his sister "all my right, title,
and interest in and to all my lands, lots, and real estate lying and being
in the State of Oregon," except specific devises previously made, and also
"all my personal property and estate," shows an intent not to die intestate, and passes after acquired real estate.

THE facts are stated at length in the opinion of the court.

It is sufficient here to say that Peter De Witt Hardenbergh, of
Portland, Oregon, made his will M ay 15, 1872, in form as prescribed by the laws of the State to pass real estate, that he
died in 1886, and that the will was duly admitted to probate,
and remains in full force. In 1882 he acquired a tract of
land in Portland, of which he was seized and possessed at the
time of his death. The question at issue in this case was,
whether this after-acquired estate passed by a clause in the
will devising to his sister "all my right, title, and interest in
and to all my lands, lots, and real estate lying and being in the
State of Oregon." The action to test this question was ejectment, brought by the brother of the testator, a citizen of New
York, against tenants in possession. The devisee having died,
her heirs were, on their own motion, substituted as defendants in the place of the tenants. One of these heirs was a
citizen of New York. The statute in force in Oregon at the
time of the making of the will and of the death of the testator provided that "1every person of twenty-one years of age
and upwards, of sound mind, may, by last will, devise all his

HARDENBERGH v. RAY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

estate, real and personal, saving to the widow her dower."
The court below held that it had jurisdiction in spite of the
fact that the plaintiff and one of the defendants were citizens
of the same State, and held that the after-acquired property
passed to the sister under the will. 33 Fed. Rep. 872. The
plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
AXr. Henry B. B. Stapler (with whom was -Yr. Hemnj T.
Smith on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
I. Under the law of Oregon, as it stood at the date of the
making of the will, and at the time of Mr. Hardenbergh's
death, real estate acquired after the making of a will did not
pass thereunder, but descended to the heirs at law.
Oregon was settled by settlers from the older States. They
took the rules of the common law with them into their new
home.
On June 27, 1844, "the common law of England, not modified by the statutes of Iowa or of this government," was.
formally declared by the legislature of the provisional government of Oregon to be the law of the land. Laws of Oregon,
1843-1849, 100. This shows the recognition of the common
law by the early emigrants to Oregon. Upon the organization of the state government the common law in its entirety,
not modified by the statutes of Oregon, became the law of the
land.
That the common law is recognized as the law of Oregon
in all cases where the same has not been modified by statute,
has been held in numerous cases in the Oregon courts. Bilem
v. Paisley, 18 Oregon, 47; Wood v. Rayburn, 18 Oregon, 3;
Paulson v. Buckman, 9 Oregon, 264:; Ford v. Umatilla
County, 15 Oregon, 313.
So that the statute of wills of Oregon with the common
law rules as to matters not covered by the statute, became the
law of the State of Oregon, and so continued so far as the purposes of this case are concerned until after the death of Mr.
llardenbergh, and until nineteen years after the making of
his will, when the law of Oregon was changed; and in the
VOL. CLI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

year 1891 it was declared as a new rule of law, that "any
estate or interest in real property acquired by any one after
the making of his or her will shall pass thereby, unless it
clearly appear therefrom that such was not the intention of
the testator." Laws of Oregon, 1891, 99.
By the rule of the common law, under a statute simply
giving the power to make a will of the real estate of the testator, real estate acquired after the date of the making of the
will did not pass to the devisee, but descended to the heirs
at law. Harwood v. Goodkight, 1 Cowp. 87, 90; Brunker v.
Cook, 11 M od. 121; Arthur v. Bokenham, 11 Mod. 148; Wind
v. Jekyl, 1 P. Wins. 572; .Marwoodv. Turner, 3 P. -ims. 163 ;
Jackson v. Blanshen, 3 Johns. 292; S. .3 Am. IDec. 485;
Jackson v. Halloway, 7 Johns. 394; Jacks n v. Potter,9 Johns.
312; )Jinuse v. Cox, 5 Johns. Oh. 441; S. C. 9 Am. Dec. 313;
'Fan Fleeck v. -Dutch Church of Yew Fork, 20 Wend. 457;
Pond v. Bergh, 10 Paige, 140 ; Parkerv. Bogardus, 5 N. Y.
309 ; Quinn v. Hardenbrook,54 N.Y. 83 ; Ballardv. C'arter,
5 Pick. 112; . C. 16 Am. Dec. 377; Ewer v. Hobbs, 5 Met.
(Mass.) 1; Fay v. Winchester, 4 Met. (Mass.) 513; Hays v.
Jackson, 6 M ass. 149; Brigham v. Winchester, 1 Met. (Mass.)
390; Girardv. Philadelphia,4 Rawle, 323; Johns v. Doe, 33
Maryland, 515; Jones v. Shoemaker, 35 Georgia, 151; Battle
v. Speight, 9 Iredell, (Law,) 288; iRoberts v. Elilliott, 3 T. B.
Mon. 395.
This rule of the common law, thus universally recognized,
prevailed also in the State of Oregon.
II.It is therefore respectfully submitted that the conclusion
arrived at by the learned court below, that at the date of Mr.
Hardenbergh's death real estate acquired after the making of
his will passed thereunder, is erroneous.
It is to be observed that the court below cites no authority
of the State of Oregon, in support of the position that afteracquired lands passed under a will made previous to their
acquisition. Indeed, only two cases, Ziggat v. Hart, 23 Missouri, 127, and Applegate v. Smith, 31 Missouri, 166, in support
of the position of the court on the point in question are cited,
over against which stands the vast array of decisions above

HARDENBERGH v. RAY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

referred to, representing the concurring opinions of the courts
of the American Union and of England. It is submitted that
an examination of these cases shows that they are not authorities which support the position of the court below, but rest
upon grounds peculiar to the State of M issouri and not applicable elsewhere.
III. There remains then only to consider the.further reasons
advanced in the opinion of the court below. The learned
court concedes that the common law of England prevailed in
Oregon. This concession would necessarily be fatal to the
position taken by the court if the rules of the common law as
to after-acquired real estate, which had been repeatedly declared under the statute of 32 Henry 8, c. 1, were held to be a
part of the common law. This difficulty by the court is overcome by holding, that "the statute of Henry 8 is no part of
the common law, and as such did not become a part of the
law of the English colonies. It is conceded that the common
law of England, as it stood prior to the accession of James 1,
together with the statutes passed in aid thereof, was brought
to this country by the colonists and became the basis of the
law of the land, 1 Kent, 342, 472, Story's Constitution, secs.
147, 157-8. The Statute of Wills, so far from being in aid of
the common law, was in derogation of it, and pr'o tanto superseded it." The court, therefore, holds that "this is not a
question of the common law."
It is respectfully submitted that this position is erroneous,
and that no distinction can be drawn between the statutes
"in aid of " or "in derogation" of the common law, but that
that statute of Henry 8, and all other general statutes, together with the common law rules in reference thereto, became the common law of the American colonies.
This was so ruled on an analogous point in the leading case
of Bogardus v. Trinity CGurch, 4 Paige, 178. See also Cornmonwealth. v. Leach, 1 Mass. 59; Cormonwealth v. IYnowlton,
2 Mass. 530 ; Sackett v. Sacett, 8 Pick. 309 ; Gilard v. Philadelphia, 4 Rawle, 323.
As the Statute of Wills was enacted in the 32d year of
Henry 8, viz.: in the year 1547, which antedated the emigration

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to this country from England, it necessarily follows that under
the above authorities it and the rules of the common law in
relation thereto became a part of the common law of the
American Colonies.
If, however, in any view of the matter the statute of wills
of Oregon can be held to have granted the power to a testator
to devise after-acquired real estate, it is submitted that an
examination of the will of sv[r. Hardenbergh shows that under
well-settled law no such intention can be gathered therefrom.
The statute of 1785, Virginia, (now suspended,) provided
"That every person aged twenty-one years and upwards, being
of sound mind, and not a married woman, shall have power,
at his will and pleasure, by last will and testament in writing,
to devise all the estate, right, title, and interest in possession,
reversion, or remainder, which he hath, or at the time of his
death shall have, of, in, or to lands," etc. Under this a will
which bequeathed the whole of my property was held not to
pass after-acquired lands. Smith v. _Edrington, 8 Cranch, 66.
See also -Lynes v. Townsend, 33 N. Y. 558 ; Quinn v. Har'denbrook, 54 N. Y. 83; Wetmore v. Parker, 52 N. Y. 450.
-Mr'. John, H. MitcIell and Mr.James K. Kelly, for defendants in error, on the question of jurisdiction said:
It is disclosed by the record that a question of jurisdiction
was urged by the defendants in the court below, growing out
of the citizenship of the parties. And it is now suggested by
the defendants in error, without indulging in argument of
the question, or doing more than presenting the facts on which
it rests, that the court below had no jurisdiction of any of the
defendants, and, therefore, if any modification whatever of
the judgment of the court below is to be directed by this
court, it should be to order a dismissal of the action for want
of jurisdiction. As this action was commenced and issues
joined prior to the act of -March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373,
the question of jurisdiction must be determined by the laws
then in force.
M a. JusTicn JAcKsoN delivered the opinion of the court.

HARDENBERGH v. RAY.
Opinion of the Court.

The principal questions presented by the record in this case
are, first, whether by the laws of Oregon, in force in 1872, a
testator was authorized or empowered to devise after-acquired
real property; and, second, whether, if such power existed,
the after-acquired real'estate in controversy passed by the
testator's will in the present case.
The facts which give rise to these questions are as follows:
Peter De Witt Hardenbergh, unmarried and without children,
a citizen of Portland, Oregon, died in 1886, leaving a will
executed by him May 15, 1872, which was duly probated and
remains in full force and effect. By the first clause of the
will the testator devised to several nephews, named therein,
a certain farm in Ulster County, New York; by the second
clause he devised to his sister, Catherine L. Tremper, all his
right, title, and interest in and to all other lands in that
county and State; and by the third and last clause he gave
and bequeathed to his sister, Ellen E. Ray, "all my right,
title, and interest in and to all my lands, lots, and real estate
lying and being in the State of Oregon, or elsewhere, except
as aforesaid; also all my personal property and estate of
whatsoever kind and nature."
At the date of the will the testator owned certain real
property in Portland, Oregon, and in January, 1882, some ten
years after the will was executed, he purchased, and at the
time of his death owned, a parcel of land in the city of Portland, valued at $30,000, which is the subject of controversy in
this suit.
Ellen E. Ray, the devisee under the third clause of the will,
died intestate in 1873, leaving as her heirs Thomas L. Ray,
Rachel L. Ray, Hylah E. Ray, and Mary E. Arbuckle, citizens
of Oregon; John De Witt Ray, a citizen of Illinois; and Sarah
A. Ray, a citizen of New York. Upon the death of the testator these heirs of Ellen E. Ray, who, under the laws of Oregon,
(ยง 3077, Hill's Anno. Laws of Oregon,) succeeded to her rights
as devisee, took possession of the premises in controversy, as
well as other real property in Oregon, owned by the testator
at the time the will was executed.
Herman R. Hardenbergh, a brother of the testator, claimed

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and demanded an interest in common with the heirs of Ellen
E. Ray in the real property acquired after the execution of
the testator's will, on the ground that as to those lands he died
intestate. This claim was. denied, and he thereupon brought
an action at law in the nature of ejectment against Charles
Sliter, J. C. Miller, and W. H. West, citizens of Oregon, who
were in possession of the demanded premises as tenants of the
heirs of Mrs. Ellen E. Ray.
Subsequently, on their own motion, these heirs were substituted as defendants in place of their tenants, against whom
the action was originally brought, and by their answer set up
that by the law of Oregon the land in question passed to them
by the third clause of the will, and that the testator did not
die intestate in respect thereto.
The heirs of Ellen E. Ray having thus made themselves
parties to the suit, and one of them (Sarah A. Ray) being a
citizen of the same State (New York) as the plaintiff, the point
was made in the court below, and has been presented in this
court, that the jurisdiction of the United States Circuit Court
was thereby defeated.
This objection to the jurisdiction of the court is without
merit, and was properly overruled by the lower court. When
the original suit was brought against Sliter, Miller, and West,
the persons in possession, the court acquired jurisdiction of the
controversy, and no subsequent change of the parties could
affect that jurisdiction. This is well settled by the authorities. X31 u1en v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537; Dunn v. Clarke, 8
Pet. 1; Clarke v. -Mathewson, 12 Pet. 164; Whyte v. Gibbes,
20 How. 54:1; Pheps v. Oaks, 117 U. S. 236, 240. In this
last case it was held that in ejectment against tenants in possession of real estate, whose landlord is a citizen of another
State, the plaintiff has a real and substantial controversy with
the defendant within the meaning of the act for the removal
of causes from state courts, which continues after the landlord is substituted and becomes a party for the purpose of
protecting his own interests. The rule announced in this case
clearly settles, in a case like the present, that where the jurisdiction of the court has completely attached against the tenant

AIRDENBERGH v. RAY.
Opinion of the Court.

in possession, the substitution of the landlord as a defendant
for such tenant will in no way affect or defeat the jurisdiction
of the court.
By stipulation of parties the trial of the cause by jury was
waiyed, and all questions of law and fact were submitted to
the court for its decision. The court found the facts substantially as set out above, and the conclusions of law announced
were to the effect that at the time the will was made the testator was empowered and authorized by the laws of Oregon
to devise any real estate situated in that State, whether acquired before or after the making of the will, of which he
might die seized and possessed. Also, that the intention of
the testator, as manifested by the will in the present case, was
to devise all of his real estate situated in the State of Oregon
to Ellen E. iRay, and that under and by virtue of the devise
the demanded premises, on the death of the testator, vested in
the defendants as her heirs, and that they were entitled to the
exclusive possession thereof. 33 Fed. Rep. 812.
The present writ of error is prosecuted to reverse that judg-.
ment. The two assignments of error present the questions
heretofore stated.
For the plaintiff in error it is contended that the testator
died intestate in respect to the demanded premises, for the
reasons that at the time of the execution of his will he possessed no testamentary power to devise after-acquired lands,
and because his will manifests no intention to dispose of such
property. If either of these propositions can be sustained,
the judgment of the court below must be reversed.
In support of the first proposition, it is urged, on behalf of
the plaintiff in error, that the common law, with its limitations and restrictions upon testamentary power in respect to
real estate, was in force in the State of Oregon at the date of
the execution of the will, and up to the death of the testator.
Without reviewing the authorities, it is well settled that by
the common law lands were not devisable, except in particular
places where custom authorized it. This disability of the common law was partially removed by the statute of 32 Henry 8,
c. 1, which authorized persons having title to land to dispose

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

thereof by will, and was construed as restricting the right of
devising lands, to such an interest only, as the testator had at
the time of the execution of the will. Under this statute real
estate, subsequently acquired, could not pass by devise; in
other words, under the statute of 32 Henry 8 the will as to
lands spoke from the date of its execution. So that a general
devise of all the testator's estate would comprehend and include all the personalty to which he was entitled at the time
of his death, but would not embrace after-acquired land,
though such might be the expressed intention of the testator.
The reason given for the distinction between real and personal estate was that a devise of land was regarded in the
same light as a conveyance, and as a conveyance at common
law would not vest for want of seizin, it was therefore held
to be operative only on such real estate as the testator might
have at the time of the making of the will, that is to say, that
a devise was in the nature of a conveyance or appointment
of real estate then owned, to take effect at a future date, and
could not therefore operate on future acquisitions.
While this strict and arbitrary rule of the common law has
been modified by the statutes of most, if not all, of the States
of the Union, it is contended for the plaintiff in error that the
rights of the parties in the present case are controlled by it,
for the reason that the legislature of Oregon did not confer by
statute testamentary power to dispose of after-acquired real
property until February, 1891.
The provisional government of Oregon in 1844 formally
declared by its legislature that "all the statute laws of Iowa
Territory, passed at the first legislative assembly of that Territory, and not of a local character, and not incompatible with
the conditions and circumstances of this country, shall be the
law of this country, unless otherwise modified; and the common law of England, and principles of equity, not modified by
the statutes of Iowa, and of this government, and not incompatible with its principles, shall constitute the law of the land."
Among the laws enacted by the first territorial legislature
of Iowa, and thus adopted by the provisional government of
Oregon, was the following act relative to wills:

HAR-DENBERGH v. RAY.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEcrio 1. Be it enacted by the Council and the Rouse of
Representatives of the Territory of Iowax, That any person
having an estate in any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, or
any annuity or rent charged upon, or issuing out of the same,
or any goods or chattels, rights, credits, and choses in action,
or in possession, and property of every description, whatever,
may give or devise the same to any person by last will and
testament by him or her lawfully executed." Laws of the
first session of the legislative assembly of the Territory of
Iowa, 1838-39, 471.
This statute was substantially the same as that of 32
Henry 8, under which, as settled by the decisions of the
English courts, and by those of the States where that statute is
in force, after-acquired real estate could not pass by will.
This statute remained in force until 1849, the year after
Oregon became a Territory, when the legislature adopted a
statute of wills, copied from the Revised Statutes of Missouri,
which provided that "every person of twenty-one years of
age and upwards, of sound mind, may, by last will, devise all
his estate, real and personal, saving to the widow her dower."
This Missouri statute, thus adopted by the Territory of Oregon, was a revision of the Virginia statute of 1785, which, by
the first section thereof, empowered every adult person of
sound mind to devise by last will and testament in writing
"all the estate, right, title, and interest in possession, reversion, or remainder, which he or she hath, or at the time of his
or her death, shall have of, in, or to, lands, tenements," etc.;
"also all goods and chattels."
When the laws of Missouri were revised in 1835, it appearing that one section of the Virginia act gave to the testator the
same testamentary power over his real estate that was given
him in a separate and distinct clause over his personal estate,
the superfluous words were dropped, and the testamentary
power over both real and personal properties were united in
the one section above quoted.
The Missouri statute thus adopted by Oregon was reenacted
in December, 1853, and took effect May 1, 1854, as a part of
the code of the Territory. After the admission of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

into the Union in 1859, the legislature of Oregon, in 1862 reenacted without change the above quoted section conferring
testamentary power, which has since continued to be the law
of Oregon. ยง 3066, Hill's Code.
By an act of the legislature of Oregon, approved February
20, 1891, it has been provided that "any estate or interest in
real property, acquired by any one after the making of his
or her will, shall pass thereby, unless it clearly appears therefrom that such was not the intention of the testator; nor shall
any conveyance or disposition of real property by any one
after the making of his or her will prevent or affect the operation of such will upon any estate, or interest therein, subject
to the disposal of that testator at his or her death."
The construction which the plaintiff in error seeks to have
placed upon these statutes is, that the territorial statute of
1849, copied from the Missouri statute, simply conferred the
power to make a will devising real estate, which, under the
rules of the common law, would not operate to pass real estate
acquired after the making of the will, and that such testamentary power over after-acquired real estate was first conferred
by the act of 1891.
Prior to the adoption of the Missouri statute by the territorial government of Oregon, that statute had received no
construction by the Supreme Court of Missouri, but subsequently, in 1856, that court was called upon, in the case of
Liggat v. Hart,23 Missouri, 127, 137, to decide whether afteracquired real estate would pass by will under the statute,
where such appeared to be the intention of the testator. The
court said: "The question is as to the construction of the
present law. Must we hold that the act now in force does
not confer testamentary power over after-acquired land, and,
on account of the change in phraseology of the statute, which
was made in 1835, go back to the construction put upon the
original statute? We think not. The language now used
does not require such a construction at our hands. It is different from the English statute of wills. The testamentary
power is given here in general language; it embraces both
real and personal estate, and is a power to make a testamen-

HARDENBERGH v. RAY.
Opinion of the Court.

tary disposition of all the testator's property, without any distinction between real and personal property, and not a mere
power of particular disposition. It is more in the nature of a
Roman will than an English devise of real property. But,
however this may be, when we consider the plan of revising
that was adopted, the impolicy of creating changes in laws
of daily practical importance, the little probability, when all
around us were abandoning the old, narrow construction of
the testamentary power, that our legislature should adopt it,
for the first time, by an express provision for that purpose,
and when we consider, too, that neither the community nor
the profession have generally, as we believe, been aware of
the supposed change, .
we do not think that we would
be warranted in declaring that the legislature, by the change
in the language, intended to effect the substantial change in
the meaning of the law that is supposed, and we shall accordingly give to the act, as it now stands, as literal a construction
in favor of the testamentary power as we should have felt
constrained to have given to the original act."
Again, in Applegate v. Smith, 31 Missouri, 166, 169 (1860),
the same court said: "We consider that the case of Ziggat v.
-Hart,23 Missouri, 127, settles the one now under consideration.
That case determines that the power over the after-acquired
lands possessed by the testator is the same as that which he
possessed over lands which. he owned at the making of the
will; that with respect to after-acquired lands, when the question arises whether they have passed by the will, it is just the
same and to be determined on the same considerations as
would determine the question whether lands owned by the
testator at the date of his will passed by it, or, in other words,
that after-acquired lands, as to the power of disposition, rest
on the same ground as the lands owned by the testator at the
date of his will, and the personal estate. According to this
there can be no question but that the lands in Missouri passed
by the will."
The construction which the Supreme Court of the State of
Missouri has thus given to its statute since its first adoption
thereof by Oregon does not have the same controlling effect it

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

would have if the decisions had been rendered before such
adoption, still, they are strongly persuasive of the proper interpretation of the act, and have been so regarded by the courts
of Oregon, which have clearly indicated that the statute of
wills of that State should receive the same construction which
has been placed thereon by the Missouri decisions. Thus in
a errish v. Get'fish, 8 Oregon, 351, 353, decided after the
:Missouri cases, it was said by the court: "OUr statute is an
exact copy of the Missouri statute, and the courts of that State
having been called upon frequently to construe it, we must
look principally to the decisions of that State to ascertain its
proper judicial construction."
This approval of the construction placed by the Supreme
Court of Missouri upon the statute, after its adoption by the
territorial government, in connection with its reenactment by
the legislature of the State* in 1862- after the date of the
Missouri decisions- may be fairly considered as settling its
proper interpretation by the courts of Oregon. If the same
construction had been placed upon the statute by the courts of
Missouri before its original adoption by the territorial government of Oregon, it is clear, upon the authorities, that that construction would have been adopted with the statute, and the
same effect would seem properly to follow from an approval
by the Supreme Court of the State of the construction placed
upon the statute by the Supreme Court of Missouri, prior to
its reenactment in 1862 by the legislature of the State of
Oregon.

If the later act of 1849, copied from the Revised Statutes of
Missouri, is no broader in its scope and operation than the
statute of 32 Henry 8, which was embodied in the Iowa statute adopted by the provisional government of Oregon in 1844,
then there would be a lack of testamentary power to dispose
of after-acquired real property. This is practically what the
contention of the plaintiff in error comes to. But the power
of testamentary disposition conferred by the act of 1849,
(copied from the Missouri statutes,) and reenacted in 1853 and
1862, as construed by the courts of Missouri and Oregon, is
more comprehensive in its provisions than the act of 32 Henry 8,

HARDENBERGH v. R.AY.
Opinion of the Court.

confers a larger and broader power of disposition over real
estate of which the testator may die seized and possessed, and
extends to and includes after-acquired real estate.
In respect to the question of testamentary power of disposition over real estate, the Missouri act adopted by the territorial government, and reenacted by the State of Oregon,
was unquestionably intended to be as broad and comprehensive
as the Virginia act of 1785, N-hich conferred the testamentary
power to devise after-acquired land, and was more comprehensive than the prior act of 1844, taken from the Iowa statute.
As already stated, the language of the statute makes no distinction between personalty and realty. It confers the power
to dispose of the realty as broadly as the personalty. The
saving to the widow her dower is itself indicative of an intention to make the will speak as of the date of the testator's
death, at which time the widow's right of dower would come
into actual possession and practical enjoyment, whether the
dower right extended to all lands owned during coverture or
possessed by the husband at his death.
In conformity with this construction, the Supreme Court of
Oregon has held, in Aorse v. _lHacrurn, 22 Oregon, 229, that
the will, as a general rule, speaks from the death of the testator, and not from its date, unless its language, by a fair construction, indicates a contrary intention; in this respect
adopting the rule laid down by the Supreme Court of
Connecticut in Can.feld v. Bostwick, 21 Connecticut, 550;
Gold v. Judson, 21 Connecticut, 616, where it is stated to be
the general rule that a will speaks from the death of the
testator, where there is nothing in its language to indicate a.
different intention.
Having reached the conclusion that the act of 1849,
adopted from the State of Missouri, (and since renacted,)
as construed by the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Missouri, and approved by the Supreme Court of Oregon,
confers testamentary power to devise after-acquired real
estate, it is not material to consider the statute of February
20, 1S91, or to determine whether that statute was intended
to be declaratory of the previous law, or was intended to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

prescribe a rule for the construction of wills in respect to
which the authorities have been and are in great conflict,
many of the cases holding, as in Smith v. Edrington, 8
Oranch, 66, that even where the power exists to dispose of
after-acquired real property, it would not pass unless such was
the clear and manifest intention on the part of the testator; in
other words, that the presumption in respect to such property
was in favor of the heir at law. This rule of presumption, or
construction, the Oregon statute of 1891 may have been intended to change by declaring that unless it appeared clearly
from the will it was not the intention of the testator, such
after-acquired real property would pass.
On this branch of the case our conclusion is that the testator
(flardenbergh) possessed the testamentary power to devise the
after-acquired lands in controversy.
The remaining question is, whether by the third and last
clause of his will the testator intended to dispose of all the
real estate in Oregon, or elsewhere, of which he might die
seized and possessed.
The cardinal rule for the construction of wills, to which all
other rules must bend, as stated by Chief Justice Marshall in
Smith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68, 75, is, that "the intention of the testator expressed in his will shall prevail, provided it be consistent with the rules of law. This principle is generally
asserted in the construction of every testamentary disposition.
It is emphatically the will of the person who makes it, and is
defined to be 'the legal declaration of a man's intentions,
which he wills to be performed after his death.' These
intentions are to be collected from his words, and ought to be
carried into effect if they be consistent with law."
In Japer v. Jasper, 17 Oregon, 590, the same rule is
adopted, and in ascertaining what the intention of the testator
is, the words used are to be taken according to their meaning
as gathered from the construction of the whole instrument.
It is furthermore settled by the authorities that when one
undertakes to make a will it will be presumed that his purpose
is to dispose of his entire estate. Phelps v. Phelps, 143 Mass.
570; Prudenv. Pruden,14 Ohio St. 251 ; Gi pin v. Williams, 17

RIARDENIBERGH v. RAY.
Opinion of the Court.

Ohio St. 396; Leigh v. Savidge, 14 N. J. Eq. (1 McCarter)
124 ; Gourley v. Thompson, 2 Sneed, 387; Appeal of Boards
of .Afisions, 91 Penn. St. 507.
In the present case the devise to the testator's sister of all
his right, title, and interest in and to all his lands, lots, and
real estate lying and being in the State of Oregon, or elsewhere, except as to the specific devises previously made; and
also all of his personal property and estate of whatsoever kind
or nature, is sufficiently comprehensive to indicate an intention to pass everything of which he might die seized and
possessed, both of real and personal property. This disposition, residuary in its character, is utterly inconsistent with an
intention to die intestate as to any portion of his estate, real
or personal. When the words of the will of a testator will
fairly carry, as in the present case, the whole estate of which
he dies seized and possessed, there is no presumption of an
intention to die intestate as to any part of his property. This
general rule is laid down in Given v. Uilton, 95 U. S. 594,
where it is further stated that "the law prefers a construction
which will prevent a partial intestacy to one that will permit
it, if such a construction may be reasonably given, (Vernon v.
]Fernon, 53 N. Y. 351,) and certainly when, as in this case,
the intent to make a complete disposition of all the testator's
property is manifest throughout his will, its prpvisions should
be so construed, if they reasonably may be, as to carry into
effect his general intent."
Without going into any review of the authorities, special
reference may be made to the case of W]ait v. Belding, 24
Pick. 129, 136, 137, which arose under a will executed in 1797,
before the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts went into effect,
which devised to the testator's two sons the whole of his
"lands and buildings, lying and being in the town of Hatfield." By a codicil, dated May 2, 1812, he gave to the same
sons lands, not enumerated in the will, purchased since then,
in the town of Hatfield, or elsewhere. In construing this will,
Ghief Justice Shaw said: "In general, a will looks to the
future; it has no operation, either on real or personal property, till the death of testator. General words, therefore, may

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

as well include what the testator expects to acquire, as what
he then actually holds. The term, ' all my property,' may as
well include all which may be his at his decease, as all which
is his at the date of the will, and will be construed to be so
intended, unless there are words in the description which limit
and restrain it. We are then brought back to the particular
description, 'the whole of my lands and buildings lying and
being in the town of Hatfield.' There are certainly no words,
and nothing in the will, showing an intent to limit it to the
lands and buildings then held by him. No uch intent can be
presumed.

Had it been all iny lands and buildings in .Hat-

field or elsewhere in the original will, the law would have
equally restrained its operation to lands then held, not because
it was the intent of the testator that it should so operate, but
because, assuming that it was his intent that all should pass,
such intent is in contravention of the rule of law, and cannot
be carried into effect.
"The court are of opinion that this general description of
the whole of his lands and buildings in Hatfield is broad
enough to embrace the whole estate there, whether acquired
before or subsequently to the making of the will, and there is
nothing in the terms or construction of the will which would
warrant us in restraining it to the lands then owned. By the
:Revised Statutes it is provided that a will shall embrace afteracquired real estate as well as personal property, when such is
the intent of the testator. These statutes do not affect this
will, and I only allude to them by way of illustration. Suppose this will had been made after the Revised Statutes, and
the question should be, whether the estate now in controversy
passed by othis devise. There seems to be no doubt that it
would, the description being general of all lands in Hatfield,
without limitation as to the time of acquisition. Then, if this
description was sufficient to include all real estate in Hatfield,
it would have passed by the original will, but for the rule of
law restraining the operation of all devises to estate held by
testator at the date of the devise. But when the date is
brought down by the republication of the will, it takes effect
upon all estate acquired between the original date and the

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. IcGEORGE.
Syllabus.

republication, and held by the testator at the time of the
republication. Had there been a general residuary clause, for
instance, such would clearly have been the effect of a republication. But the only difference is that a residuary clause
embraces all estate whenever acquired; but if the description
actually used is sufficiently large to embrace the estate in controversy, the result must be the same as to such estate."
These views are directly in point in the present case, where
the language is just as comprehensive, and manifests just as
clearly an intention of the testator to devise all his lands in
the State of Oregon.
It may, therefore, be laid down as a general proposition,
that where the testator makes a general devise of his real estate,
especially by residuary clause, he will be considered as meaning to dispose of such property to the full extent of tiis capacity ; and that such a devise will carry, not only the property
held by him at the execution of the will, but also real estate
subsequently acquired of which he may be seized and possessed
at the date of his death, provided there is testamentary power
to make such disposition. 1 Jarman on Wills, 326, 5th ed.,
and other authorities cited.
From the foregoing considerations we are of opinion that
there was no error in the judgment of the court below, and
Afflrmed.
the same is accordingly

CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. McGEORGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 965.

Submitted November 27, 1893. - Decided January 3, 1894.

Exemption from being sued out of the district of its domicil is a privilege
which a corporation may waive, and which is waived by pleading to the
merits.
The fact that neither the plaintiff nor the defendant reside in the district
in which the suit is brought do not prevent the operation of the waiver.
VOL. CLI-9

