SHAUER v. ALTERTON.
Syllabus.

Mexico of 1884, § 1881) that "no person, or persons, nor their
children, or heirs, shall have, sue, or maintain any action, or
.
but
suit, either in law, or in equity, for any land .
comtheir
right
to
after
his,
her,
or
ten
years
next
within
.
accrued, and
.
such suit shall have .
mence
.
.
shall be had and sued within teu years
that all suits
next after the title or cause of action, or suits, accrued or
fallen, and at no time after the ten years shall have passed."
Under similar statutes it has been held by this court that the
lapse of time not only bars the remedy, but extinguishes the
right, and vests a complete title in the adverse holder. See
Lejingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Croxall v. Shererd, 5
Wall. 268, 289; Probst v. Presbyterian Church, 129 U. S. 182.
In the last case this court held, construing the statute of New
Mexico here in question, that the defendant was entitled to an
instruction that an uninterrupted occupancy of land by a person, who in fact has no title thereto, for a period of ten years
adversely to the true owner, operates to extinguish the title of
the true owner thereto and vest 'the title of the property absolutely in the occupier.
But for the error of the court specified in the third assignment, in admitting the testimony of the defendant as to the
statements of Miller and Curtis, the judgment of the court
below must be
-Reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to set
aside the verdict and grant a new trial.

SHAUER v. ALTERTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH DAROTA.
No. 174. Argued and submitted December 19, 20, 1893. -Decided

February 5, 1894.

An assignment of error, based upon the exclusion by the trial court of an
answer given in the deposition of a witness to a particular question, will
be disregarded by this court, if the answer or the full substance of it is
not set forth in the record in an appropriate form for examination.

OCTOBER TERBE, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
In an action brought in South Dakota by the assignee of the stock of goods
of an insolvent trader (who had taken the stock in satisfaction of an
alleged debt due him from the insolvent) against a sheriff who had seized
them on a writ of attachment at the suit of a creditor of the insolvent,
the defence being set up that the transfer to the plaintiff was fraudulent
and in violation of the statutes of that State, it is competent for defendant to put in evidence a confidential business statement by the insolvent
to a commercial agency, concealing the alleged liability to the plaintiff.
The statutes of that State, strictly construed, invalidate any transfer of
property, made with the intent, on the part of the owner, to delay or
defraud creditors, even when the grantee purchased in good faith; and,
when liberally construed, will not permit the grantee, although taking
the property sin part in satisfaction of his own debt, to enjoy it to the
exclusion of other creditors, if the sale was made with intent to delay
or defraud other creditors, and if he had, at the time, either actual notice
of such intent, or knowledge of circumstances that were sufficient to put
a prudent person upon an inquiry that would have disclosed its existence.
Such a transfer must be accompanied by an open and visible change of
possession, without which it will be void as to creditors.
The assignor and the assignee to the transfer being brothers, the court may
rightfully instruct the jury that this relation makes it necessary to carefully scrutinize the facts, but that their determination must depend upon
whether the transaction was honest and bonafide.

Tas action was brought by the plaintiff in error in one of
the courts of the Territory of Dakota to recover damages for
the alleged unlawful taking by the defendant Alterton of a
certain stock of merchandise in a storehouse that had been
occupied by Louis S. Shauer, in the city of Mitchell, in that
Territory. The defendant justified the taking under attach.
ments in favor of creditors of Louis S. Shauer, which came to
his hands as sheriff of the county. There was a verdict in
favor of the defendant; and a new trial having been denied,
judgment whs entered in his favor. That judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, and the writ
of error in this case was directed to the Supreme Court of the
State of South Dakota, as the successor of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Dakota, by virtue of the act of February
22, 1889, c. 180, § 22, 25 Stat. 676, 683.
The bill of exceptions shows that there was evidence tending
to show the following facts:
In September, 1885, Louis S. Shauer, owner of the merchan-

SHAUER v. ALTERTON.
Statement of the Case.

dise attached, was indebted to his brother Gustave G. Shauer,
a druggist of Chicago, in the sum of $8000 and more, for
moneys loaned and advanced. While Louis was in Chicago,
about September 1, 1885, for the purpose of making fall purchases, Gustave informed him of his intention to buy another
drug store, and that he would need the sum Louis owed him.
The latter expressed his expectation of being able soon to pay
one-half of the amount due from him, and after returning to
Mitchell remitted a smaller sum than his brother expected.
Gustave, having written for more, and receiving only $200,
went to Mitchell, arriving there on Sunday, December 13,
1885. From a conversation with Louis during the evening
after his arrival at Mitchell, Gustave concluded that Louis
was financially embarrassed, and owed more than he could
pay. The following morning he urged his brother to secure
him by mortgage on his stock. Louis at first consented to do
this, but at a later hour of the same day he declined to give
a mortgage. Gustave then proposed that Louis sell him goods
to the amount of his debt. This Louis refused to do, unless
Gustave would take the entire stock, at fair market prices.
After consultation, it was agreed that Gustave should take
Louis' stock at 85 cents on the dollar, invoiced at wholesale
prices, and, after deducting Louis' debt to him of $6788, pay
$2100 in cash, and give his notes for the balance. They
commenced that afternoon the taking of an inventory, and
were so engaged for a day and a half. The inventory was
taken publicly, the storeroom being open while the work was
progressing. About ten or eleven o'clock in the forenoon of
December 16, 1885, Louis made a bill of sale to Gustave,
embracing the goods here in controversy. After its execution,
the parties proceeded to the store in which the goods were
contained, when Gustave delivered to Louis his check for
$2100, and his two notes of $12-T each, surrendering the note
he held against his brother. Louis delivered to Gustave the
bill of sale and the keys of the store. The transfer was
completed about noon of that day.
Immediately after the transfer Gustave opened an account
with the First National Bank of Mitchell, and went with
VOL. CLI-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Louis to an insurance office, where the insurance carried by
the latter on the stock was assigned to Gustave. They then
went to dinner. That afternoon they caused three other
policies of insurance to be changed from Louis to Gustave,
after which the latter returned alone to the store and directed
Louis' clerk to go to dinner. Having returned to the store,
and being informed by Gustave of his purchase of the stock,
the clerk entered the service of the latter. By direction of
Gustave he changed the "show" in front of the store. During
the most of that afternoon Gustave remained in the storeroom
and waited personally upon customers. He prepared and left
for publication at the office of the Republican and M ail, newspapers published at Mitchell, notices announcing the transfer
from Louis to himself, and asking for the patronage of the
public. These notices appeared in the next issue of each of
those newspapers. He also ordered letter-heads to be printed,
and a sign for the store with his name painted on it. lHe filed
the bill of sale for record in the office of the register of deeds.
During the afternoon of the day of the transfer Louis, on one
occasion, at the request of Gustave, came to the store to assist
in making the sale of a trunk, with the price of which Gustave
was not familiar.
Louis applied the check of $2100 and the two notes of $1247
each in payment of demands held against him by several of
his relatives.
The goods in controversy were seized by the sheriff under
the attachments about ten o'clock in the evening of December
16, 1885. Louis was present in the store at the time.
The bill of exceptions shows that the plaintiff read in evidence the deposition of H. H. Nash, cashier of the Chicago
National Bank, relating to three checks of $650.00, $270.87,
and $2100.00, respectively, which were in evidence in the case
as exhibits, and showed upon their faces that they had been
drawn by G. G. Shauer upon the Chicago National Bank in
favor of Louis S. Shauer. The first two checks named, as
alleged by the plaintiff, tended to show the payment of money
by the plaintiff to his brother Louis, making a part of the
indebtedness in question, and the third check of $2100.00 was

SHAUER v. ALTERTO.
Statement of the Case.

the check the plaintiff claims to have passed to Louis in part
consideration of the alleged transfer. On the objection of
defendant the court refused, upon the. ground of its being
incompetent, to allow the plaintiff to read the answer of the
deponent in response to the following question: "You may
state whether or not that check has all the appearance of
having passed through the bank in the ordinary course of
business." The objection to this question was sustained upon
the ground that it appeared in evidence that the check had
passed through other banks than that of which the witness
was cashier, and it did not appear that the witness was familiar
with the course of business of such other banks or their stamp
or endorsement thereon, so as to permit him to answer this
general question.
To the refusal of the court to allow the answer to be read,
the plaintiff duly excepted.
The plaintiff further offered to read in evidence other parts
of the deposition of Nash showing what the marks and endorsements on the back of each of the checks indicated, how
such marks were made, and by whom. The court refused
to allow those parts of the depositions to be read, and to
this refusal the plaintiff duly excepted. The objection to
this offer was sustained upon the same ground as that last
stated.
It appeared that the deposition was taken in Chicago, at
the taking of which both parties appeared by counsel, and
that Nash was cross-examined at length by counsel for defendant as to his familiarity with the business of the Chicago
National Bank, of which he was cashier.
The defendant was allowed under objection by plaintiff, to
which ruling the plaintiff duly excepted, to read in evidence a
confidential business statement made by Louis, in January,
1885, to Bradstreet's Commercial Agency at Sioux City, Iowa.
This statement, the bill of exceptions states, concealed the alleged indebtedness of Louis to his brother, the plaintiff, which
existed at that time. It was not shown that this statement
was brought to the knowledge of the plaintiff, nor to any of
the creditors of Louis. All of the indebtedness against Louis

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

upon which defendant relies, "was created at and subsequent
to September, 1885."
Neither party asked a peremptory instruction to find in his
behalf. The plaintiff asked ten instructions, of which only
three were given, the plaintiff excepting to the refusal of the
court to give each of the others. Six instructions were given,
at the instance of the defendant, to the giving of each of
which the plaintiff excepted. In addition, the court charged
the jury, the plaintiff excepting to six different parts of the
charge.
-Mr.-Henry TV..Magee, -Mr. A. E. Hitheock, and Mfr. E. V
Adkinson, for plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief.
I. Plaintiff should have been allowed to read in evidence
the deposition of H. H. Nash, cashier of the Chicago National Bank. The duties of a cashier being well defined and
the courts assuming that this officer always performs such
duties, it follows that a person holding the office of cashier
and familiar with the business of the bank, is acquainted with
the details of the ordinary transactions falling in the line of
his duties, and hence is a competent witness to testify concerning the same. .Merchants'Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604;
Baldwin v. Bank of Newburg, 1 Wall. 234:; United States v.
City Bank of Columbus, 21 How. 356.
II. Under objection by the plaintiff the defendant was
allowed to read in evidence a written statement made by
Louis S. Shauer to Bradstreet's Commercial Agency of Sioux
City, Iowa.
It was, not shown that the plaintiff or any of the attaching
creditors had knowledge, at any time, of this statement. The
statement was made about one year previous to the sale in
question. The object of the evidence was to show a false
representation on the part of Louis S. Shauer as to his financial condition. The only allegation of fraud charged by the
defendant is that on December 16, 1885, Louis S. Shauer being
then insolvent, made a fraudulent sale of these goods to the
plaintiff, for the purpose of defrauding his (Louis S. Shauer's)
creditors. Upon the issue formed by pleading fraud of this

SHAUER v. ALTERTO N.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

character, admissions made at this remote period would be
irrelevant. The act was too remote to have any bearing on
this fraudulent sale. Its effect would be to create prejudice
in the minds of the jury.
III. The instructions given by the court upon the question
of change of possession of the goods embraced in the transfer
were not applicable to the state of facts shown by the evidence
to have existed.
The plaintiff asked for the following instructions, which were
refused: "The acts that will constitute a delivery and change
of possession of property sold, so as to protect the parties to
the transaction as against the creditors of the vendor, vary in
different classes of cases, and will depend very much upon the
character and quantity of the property sold, as well as the circumstances of each particular case. It is not demanded that
the purchaser, to take possession of the property, go to an
unusual expense and do that which is contrary to the usual
course of business. If the purchaser takes a possession which
places him in that relation to the property which owners
usually are to the like kind of property, and does all reasonable acts with such property to inform the public of such purchase, and if such acts are open, public, and notorious, then
such purchaser has done all the law requires him to do. You
are to take into consideration the surrounding circumstances,
the time the purchaser had been in control of the property, the
kind of property, and all the elements making up the condition of this alleged sale, and if from these circumstances you
find that Gustave G. Shauer took possession of the goods in
question accompanied with such plain and unmistakable acts
of possession, control, and ownership as a prudent bona fde
purchaser would do in the exercise of his rights over the property, so that all persons might have notice that he owned and
had possession of the property, then you are instructed that he
has done all the law required of him in this particular."
On motion of the defendant the court gave these instructions: "You are instructed that a change of the property in
controversy in this case must not have been merely nominal
.and momentary, it must have been real, actual, and open, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

such as could be publicly known; if the property in controversy was permitted to remain in the possession of Louis S.
Shauer, then such transfer was fraudulent in law as to the
creditors of Louis S. Shauer, notwithstanding the sale may
have been to his brother in good faith and for a valuable consideration."
The instructions given state an arbitrary rule, which is in
substance that the change in possession must be accompanied
by such outward and visible signs that the world may be at
once apprised of the change.
No reference is made to the time in which such visible signs
may be given, the character of the property transferred, or the
circumstances surrounding the transaction.
It was the refusal of the court to qualify this rule by giving
the instructions asked by the plaintiff which furnishes the
ground of plaintiff's exception. The court in these instructions
uses the language of the decision rendered in Grady v. Baker,
3 Dakota, 296. In this case 12 or 16 days elapsed between
the date of sale and time of levy. In the case in controversy
this period is represented by a few hours.
The statute of South Dakota is similar to that of California.
The case of Grady v. Baker, supra, is based upon the decision
of that State. By a well-established line of decisions, the court
of California defines the law to be, that no arbitrary rule can
be given which will govern all cases; that each case must be
guided by the surrounding circumstances. Stevens v. Irwin,
15 California, 503; .C. 76 Am. Dec. 500; Lay v. Neville, 25
California, 545 ; Godchaux v. AMuyford, 26 California, 316 ; S.0.
85 Am. Dec. 178; TWoods v. Bugley, 29 California, 466; Parks
v. Barney, 55 California, 239.
IV. Conceding, for the purpose of argument, that notice
to the vendee would charge him with a fraudulent intent of
the vendor, then the appellant maintains that actual and not
constructive notice of such intent is a necessary element to
charge a purchaser for a good consideration. Foster v. Hall,
12 Pick. 89; S. C. 22 Am. Dec. 400; Gridley v. Bingham, 51
Illinois, 153; Hatch v. Jordan, 74 Illinois, 414; Waterman v.
Donaldson, 43 Illinois, 29; -ridge v. Eggleston, 14 Mass. 245;

SHAUER. v. ALTERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

S. C. 7 Am. Dec. 209; plawn, v. -fartin, 17 Arkansas, 146;
Field v. Garton, 12 Iowa, 218; Brown v. Smith, 7 B. Mon.
361; Byrne v. Becker, 42 Missouri, 264; WVeisiger v. cOhisholm,
28 Texas, 780; Leach v. Francis,41 Vermont, 670; Stearns v.
Gage, 79 N. Y. 102; Parker v. Conner, 93 N. Y. 118.
In this connection we call the attention of the Court to the
rule adopted by the Supreme Court of the State of Kansas,
from which the instruction complained of was taken. The rule
as stated by that court was as follows: "If the circumstances
surrounding his purchase are such as would put a prudent man
upon inquiry, which, if iprosecuted diligently, would have disclosed a fraud, he cannot be deemed a bona fide purchaser in
good faith." Phillips V. Reitz, 16 Kansas, 396.
This case cites as authority the earlier case of Baker v.
Bliss, 39 N. Y. 70. In the case of Parker v. Conner,supra,the
eminent court ably analyzes the doctrine of Baker v. Bliss,
and shows that it does not apply to cases parallel to the one
at bar, nor to the class of cases in which it is applied by the
Kansas court.
V. When a transfer is accepted by a creditor with the sole
purpose of obtaining satisfaction of his own claim, the intent
of the vendor, and the purchaser's knowledge of such intent
is immaterial. In such case the purchaser is not a mere volunteer, and the transfer is distinguished by the authorities from
a purchase upon a consideration advanced at the time. Dudley v. Danforth, 61 N. Y. 626 ; Dougherty v. Cooper, '77Missouri, 528; Frederick v. Allgaier, 88 Missouri, 598.
VI. A creditor in obtaining payment of his claim may purchase property in excess of his debt, if such excess is reasonably necessary for attaining his lawful purpose. Budlong v.
Rent, 28 Fed. Rep. 13; Young v. Stallings, 5 B. Mon. 307;
-Little v. Eddy, 14 Missouri, 160; Hobbs v. Davis, 50 Georgia,
213; Peehling v. Byers, 94 Penn. St. 316.
2f ".-MorganIH. Beach for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

1. The refusal of the court to allow the plaintiff to read the
answer of the witness Nash to the question, "You may state
whether or not that check has all the appearance of having
passed through the bank in the ordinary course of business,"
cannot be assigned as error. The bill of exceptions does not
show what answer was made to that question in- the deposition of the witness. It does not even state the facts the
answer tended to establish. We cannot, therefore, say that
the exclusion of the answer was prejudicial to the plaintiff.
For aught that appears in the record, the witness may have
made an answer that was injurious to the plaintiff, or one that
was of no value to either party.
In Packet Company v. Clougl, 20 Wall. 528, 542, one of
the assignments of error was the rejection of a deposition. In
respect to that assignment, the court said: "It is sufficient to
say that we have not before us either the deposition or any
statement of what it tended to prove. We cannot know, therefore, that it was of any importance, or that, if it had been
admitted, it could have had any influence upon the verdict.
A party who complains of the rejection of evidence must show
that he was injured by the rejection. His bill of exceptions
must make it appear that if it had been admitted, it might
have led the jury to a different verdict. This must be understood as the practice in this court, and such is the requirement
of our twenty-first rule. By that rule it is ordered that when
the error assigned is to the admission or rejection of evidence,
the specification shall quote the full substance of the evidence
offered, or copy the offer as stated in the bill of exceptions.
This is to enable the court to see whether the evidence offered
was material, for it would be idle to reverse a judgment for
the admission or rejection of evidence that could have had no
effect upon the verdict." At the date of the trial of that cause
in the court of original jurisdiction it was provided, by rule
twenty-one of this court, that "when the error alleged is to
the admission or rejection of evidence, the specification shall
quote the full substance of the evidence offered, or copy the
offer as stated in the bill of exceptions. Any alleged error
not in accordance with these rules will be disregarded." 11

SHAUER v. ALTERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

Wall. ix. Subsequently, the rule was modified so as to substitute for the words above quoted the following: "When the
error alleged is to the admission or rejection of evidence, the
specification shall quote the full substance of the evidence admitted or rejected." 14 Wall. xii. This change of phraseology did not affect the substance of the rule.
The principle announced in Packet Co. v. 'lough was reaffirmed in RailroadCo. v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255, 261, and T~Iompson
v. First NYat. Bank, 111 U. S. 529, 535-6. The rule is not the
less applicable in the present case, because the trial court excluded the answer to the question upon the particular ground
stated in the bill of exceptions. It may, therefore, be regarded
as settled, that an assignment of error, based upon the exclusion by the trial court of an answer given in the deposition of
a witness to a particular question, will be disregarded by this
court if the answer, or the full substance of it, is not set forth
in the record in appropriate form for examination.
Nor did the court err in excluding those parts of Nash's
deposition showing "what marks and endorsements on the
back of each of the checks indicated, how such marks were
made, and by whom.' The checks themselves were in evidence; and if, as the bill of exceptions states, the witness did
not appear to be familiar with the course of business of the
banks through which the checks passed, so as to entitle him
to speak upon the subject, the exclusion of his answers relating
to the subject referred to was not error.
2. The court did not err in allowing the defendant to read,
in evidence, the confidential business statement made by Louis
S. Shauer to Bradstreet's Commercial Agency, at Sioux City,
in January, 1885. That statement, the bill of exception recites,
concealed the alleged liability of Louis to his brother, then
existing. Why should such concealment have been made?
.The answer to that question has some, though, perhaps, very
slight bearing upon the inquiry whether Louis was, in fact,
indebted to his brother to the full extent claimed by the latter.
3. By the statutes of Dakota it is provided that "a debtor
may pay one creditor in preference to another, or may give
to one creditor security for the payment of his demand, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

preference to another;" also, that "every transfer of property
or charge thereon made, every obligation incurred, and every
judicial proceeding taken with intent to delay or defraud any
creditor or other person of his demands, is void against all
creditors of the debtor and their successors in interest, and
against any persons upon whom the estate of the debtor devolves in trust for the benefit of others than the debtor;"
further, that "every transfer of personal property other than
a thing in action, or a ship or cargo at sea or in a foreign port,
and every lien thereon other than a mortgage, when allowed
by law, and a contract of bottomry or respondentia, is conclusively presumed, if made by a person having at the time the
possession or control of the property, and not accompanied by
an immediate delivery, and followed by an actual and continued change of possession of the things transferred, to be
fraudulent, and therefore void against those who are his creditors while he remains in possession, and the successors in
interest of such creditors, and against any person on whom his
estate devolves in trust for the benefit of others than himself,
and against purchasers or incumbrancers in good faith subsequent to the transfer." Civil Code, §§ 2021, 2023, 202,; Compiled Laws of Territory of Dakota, §§ 4654, 4656, 4657.
Other provisions of the statute are to the effect that "actual
notice consists in express information of a fact;" that "constructive notice is notice imputed to a person not having actual
notice;" and that "every person who has actual notice of circumstances sufficient to put a prudent man upon inquiry as to
a particular fact, and who omits to make such inquiry with
reasonable diligence, is deemed to have constructive notice of
the fact itself." Civil Code, §§ 2107, 2108, 2109; Compiled
Laws of Territory of Dakota, §§ 4741, 4742, 4743.
In view of these statutory provisions, and of the facts which
the evidence tended to establish, two principal questions were.
considered by the court in its charge to the jury: first, whether
the transfer of the merchandise in question was made with
the intent to delay or defraud the creditors of Louis S. Shauer;
second, whether the transfer to his brother was accompanied
by such immediate delivery of the merchandise and followed

SHAUER v. ALTERTOI.
Opinion of the Court.

by such actual and continued change of possession as the
statute required.
Upon the first of these questions, the court said, generally,
to the jury, that an intent upon the part of the debtor to delay
his creditors in the collection of their debts was as much
within the statute as if the intent had been to cheat or defraud; that while a debtor, in failing circumstances, was at
liberty, acting in good faith and openly, to prefer some creditors over others, he could not, as against those not paid, reserve
to himself a secret trust in any transfer; that a creditor, thus
favored by the debtor, will not be permitted to enjoy the
preference given him if he seeks, by the transaction, to cover
or protect the remainder of the debtor's property so that it
could not be applied to the payment of his honest debts; and
that if a creditor seeks to appropriate the debtor's property
for a debt, any material part of which was knowingly fictitious,
the whole transaction would be held as tainted with fraud
and void as to other creditors.
Applying these principles to the facts of this case, the court
said: "Therefore, should you find from the evidence that
Louis S. Shauer was fairly and honestly indebted to his
brother, Gustave Shauer, in the full amount claimed, which
I believe is about $6700, you will remember the exact amount,
and that with the honest intention of securing such indebtedness he purchased the property in question without notice or
knowledge of any fraudulent intent on the part of Louis S.
Shauer to delay or defraud his creditors, and without any
intent on his own part to secure any interest in said property,
present or future, to his brother Louis, and without any intent
to delay or defraud the creditors of Louis S. Shauer, then he
is entitled to recover whatever may have been the intent of
Louis Shauer himself, for the intent of Louis Shauer can affect
the plaintiff only in the case that he knew, had notice, or as
a prudent man had knowledge sufficient from the circumstances to put him upon inquiry as to his brother's fraudulent
intent. On the other hand, should you find that the alleged
indebtedness from Louis to Gustave Shauer, and which forms
a part of the consideration of the sale, was knowingly false

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and fictitious in whole or in a material part, or should you
find that the balance of the consideration money or price was
paid by Louis to Gustave Sbauer with the intent to place the
same out of and beyond the reach of the creditors of Louis
Shauer, or should you find that Gustave Shauer in making
this purchase had any intent not only to secure his own indebtedness, but also the further intent to hinder and delay
the creditors of Louis Shauer, or any intent to so dispose of
the remainder of the property after the satisfaction of his
own debt either that it would be out of the reach of the other
creditors or that it would inure in the future to the use and
benefit of Louis Shauer, then and in either event the transaction would be tainted with fraud, and the plaintiff cannot
recover."
The jury was further instructed, at the instance of the
plaintiff, that if they found that Louis Shauer made a sale of
these goods to his brother, it would be presumed, in absence
of proof to the contrary, that such sale was made in good
faith and with honest intentions; that if the evidence was
equally balanced, the defendant must fail in respect to the
fraud alleged by him; and that if the plaintiff knew of the
insolvency of his brother, and that the payment of his debt
would deprive other creditors of their claims, "this mere
knowledge on his part would not make the sale in question
fraudulent."
The plaintiff contends that the instructions of the court upon
the question of intent were based upon an erroneous interpretation of the statute, in that they made knowledge that was
sufficient, under all circumstances, to put him, as a prudent
man, upon inquiry as to his brother's fraudulent intent, equivalent to actual notice or knowledge of such an intent. That
the court held this view is made clear by one of the instructions given to the jury .at the request of the defendant, in
which it was said that "actual knowledge by the purchaser of
any fraudulent intent on the part of the seller is not essential
to render a sale void;" and that "if the facts brought to
the attention of Gustave G. Sbauer were such as to awaken
suspicion and lead a man of ordinary prudence to make inquiry,

SHAUER v. ALTERT01T.
Opinion of the Court.

and he fails to make such inquiry, then he is chargeable with
notice of fraudulent intent and with participation in the fraud,
and it will be your duty to find for the defendants."
It is admitted that if at the time of his alleged purchase the
plaintiff had actual notice that his brother intended, by the
sale, to delay or defraud his creditors, the sale x~ould have been
void against creditors. But the plaintiff denies that anything
short of actual notice or knowledge of such fraudulent intent
will suffice, under the statute, to invalidate his purchase. The
statute of Dakota, strictly interpreted, would seem to invalidate any transfer of property made with the intent, upon the
part of the owner, to delay or defraud creditors, even when
the transferee purchased in good faith. But it was not thus
interpreted by the court below. It was liberally construed so
as to protect bonajRde purchasers for value. Assuming, for the
purpose of this case, that this interpretation was correct, we
are of opinion that while the plaintiff was not bound to act
upon mere suspicion as to the intent with which his brother
made the sale in question, if he had knowledge or actual notice
of circumstances sufficient to put him, as a prudent man, upon
inquiry as to whether his brother intended to delay or defraud
his creditors, and he omitted to make such inquiry with reasonable diligence, he should have been deemed to have notice
of such fact, and, therefore, such notice as would invalidate
the sale to him, if such sale was in fact made with the intent
upon the part of the vendor to delay or defraud other creditors. Referring to the statute of Dakota, declaring a conveyance of real property, other than a lease for a term not
exceeding one year, void as against any subsequent purchaser
or encumbrancer, (including an assignee of a mortgage, lease,
or other conditional estate, of the same property or any part
thereof,) in good faith and for a valuable consideration, whose
conveyance is first duly recorded, the Supreme Court of Dakota,
in G'ess v. Evans, 1 Dakota, 387, 399, said: "Actual notice
of a prior unrecorded conveyance, or of any title, legal or
equitable, to the premises, or knowledge and notice of any
facts which should put a prudent man upon inquiry, impeaches
the good faith of the subsequent purchaser. There should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

proof of actual notice of prior title or prior equities, or circumstances tending to prove such prior rights, which affect the
conscience of the subsequent purchaser. Actual notice, of
itself, impeaches the subsequent conveyance. Proof of circumstances, short of actual notice, which should put a prudent
man upon inquiry, authorizes the court or jury to infer and
find actual notice. Or, to express it exactly, good faith consists in an honest intention to abstain from taking any unconscientious advantage of another, even through the forms or
technicalities of law, together with an absence of all information or belief of facts which would render the transaction unconscientious. And notice is either actual or constructive."
A less stringent rule cannot be applied to the Dakota statute relating to transfers of property with intent to delay or
defraud creditors. The plaintiff had the right, by a purchase
of his brother's stock of merchandise, to obtain payment of
his claims in preference to the claims of other creditors. But
the statute of Dakota, however liberally construed in favor of
purchasers from a fraudulent debtor, will not permit him to
enjoy, to the exclusion of other creditors, the fruits of his
purchase, when the sale was made with the intent to delay or
defraud other creditors, if he had, at the time, actual notice of
such intent or knowledge of such circumstances or facts as
were sufficient to put a prudent person upon an inquiry that
would have disclosed the existence of such intent upon the
part of. the vendor. The plaintiff could not properly have
claimed a more favorable interpretation of the Dakota statute
than was given to it by the court below. A statute that
declares every transfer of property, made with intent to delay
or defraud any creditor of his demands, void against all creditors of the debtor, would be wholly defeated in its operation if
the rights of the transferee were not subject to the rule that
"whatever is notice enough to excite attention and put the
party on his guard, and call for inquiry, is notice of everything
to which such inquiry might have led." W ood v. Caipenter,
101 U. S. 135, 141; Zennedy v. Greene, 3 Myl. & K. 699, '722.
4. Having disposed of the question as to the intent with
which the sale in question was made, the court referred to the

SHAUER v. ALTERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

provision of the statute, declaring the transfer of personal
property - the vendor having at the time possession or control
thereof -to be conclusively fraudulent and void, as against
creditors, unless such transfer is accompanied by an immediate
delivery, and followed by an actual and continued change of
possession. Thd court said to the jury that the statute means,
as declared by the Supreme Court of the Territory in Grady
v. Baker, 3 Dakota, 296, 299, that the sale shall be open and
public, that the world may be apprised of the change of ownership; and that the change of possession must be actual and
continued, and not subject to some secret trust between the
buyer and seller. "Some of the cases," the court below
observed, "say that the change must be of that character
that customers and those accustomed to frequent the premises
may be at once advised of the change of possession by the
changed appearance of the property or its change of custody.
And 'this is true, whatever may be the good intention or bona;
fides of the transaction; even the law will not tolerate such
transfers as against creditors. The change of possession must
be open and visible, and if not, as against creditors without
knowledge of the transfer, it will be void, though made for
a valuable consideration in good faith and without any actual
intent to defraud. In such case the law conclusively presumes
a fraudulent intent, and the party to such sale will not be
heard to prove the contrary."
In addition to what appears in the charge, the court, at the
instance of the defendant, instructed the jury that a change
of the property in controversy in this case must not have been
merely nominal and momentary, but real, actual, and open,
such as could be publicly known; and that if the property
was permitted to remain in the possession of Louis S. Shauer,
then the transfer was fraudulent in law as to his creditors,
notwithstanding the sale may have been made to his brother
in good faith and for a valuable consideration.
The specific objection made by the plaintiff to these instructions is that they stated an arbitrary rule, namely, that the
change in possession must be accompanied by such outward,
visible signs as would apprise the world of the change, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

-

made no reference to the time within which such signs should
be given, or to the nature of the property transferred or to the
circumstances attending the transaction. The court, it is said,
should have qualified the rule as indicated in the instructions
asked by him. We cannot sustain this position. The instructions asked by the plaintiff, on this point, did not substantially
differ from those given by the court, except they were more
elaborate and referred more in detail to the facts. The court
told the jury that the statute required not only an immediate
change of possession, but one so open that the public would be
apprised of it. While the court was at liberty to recall to the
minds of jurors all the facts and circumstances bearing upon
this issue, we cannot say that it erred in not doing so, or that
it erred in leaving to the jury to determine whether, under all
the evidence, there was such immediate delivery and such
actual change of possession of the property in controversy as
was necessary, under the statute as explained, to malke the
transfer valid against creditors.
In this connection, it is appropriate to say that the interpretation placed by the court below on the Dakota statute,
relating to change of possession, accords with the decisions of
the Supreme Court of California in respect to a similar statute.
In Stevens v. Irwin, 15 California, 503, 507, it was said: "A .
reasonable construction must be given to this language, in
analogy to the doctrines of the courts holding the general
principles transcribed into the statute. The delivery must be
made of the property; the vendee must take the actual possession; that possession must be open and unequivocal, carrying
with it the usual marks and indications of ownership by the
vendee. It must be such as to give evidence to the world of
the claims of the new owner. He must, in other iVords, be in
the usual relation to the property which owners of goods
occupy to their property. This possession -not taken to be
surrendered back again-not formal, but substantial." See
also lay v. N eville, 25 California, 545, 553; TFoods v. Bugby,
29 California, 466; Parks v. Barney, 55 California, 239.
There are many other cases to the same effect.
5. Exception was taken to what the court said to the jury

SHAUER v. ALTERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

touching the relation of the plaintiff and the vendor of the
goods. After observing that the law scrutinizes carefully all
transfers of the failing debtor and zealously guards the rights
of creditors against fraudulent dispositions of the debtor's
property, the court said that it was for that reason that transfers to one's wife or to members of his family are carefully
scrutinized, experience having taught that such conveyances
are more frequently fraudulent than transactions between
strangers or those not intimately connected or acquainted. It
is said that this language authorized the jury to infer that the
mere fact of the parties being related would cause the good
faith of the transaction to be suspected. But this criticism of
the charge is met by the next succeeding sentence, in these
words: "Yet experience also teaches that honest and bona
fide sales and transfers of property are made, and that too
much stress, or even importance, should not be given to such a
fact alone." It is also met by the fact that the court, at the
instance of the plaintiff, instructed the jury that if these goods
were sold by Louis to Gustave, the law presumed that the sale
was made in good faith and with honest intentions; that in
absence of proof to the contrary, the validity of the sale could
not be questioned; that if the evidence was equally balanced
upon that point, the defendant must fail, and that mere
knowledge on the part of Gustave that his purchase would
deprive other creditors of their debts would not make the sale
fraudulent. Again, at the instance of the plaintiff, the court
said: "The mere sale by a party of his stock of goods to a
relative is not a badge of fraud. If such sales were fraudulent
in themselves, it would be impossible for family connections to
aid each other in case of financial embarrassment without danger of being placed in a false position and losing the entire
sum loaned. Under this rule, if Louis S. Shauer owed his
brother, Gustave G. Shauer, a just debt, he had the same right
to transfer his property to his brother in payment of this debt
as he would have had to transfer the same property to any one
of these attaching creditors in payment of his claim."
The jury could not have been induced by anything said by
the court to give undue weight to the fact that the transaction
VOL. CLI- 4 O

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

in question was between brothers. If that fact induced them,
under the instructions, - as it might properly have done, - to
carefully scrutinize the evidence, it must be assumed that they
performed their duty without forgetting the injunction that
the law presumed the sale, despite the fact of the near relationship of the parties, to have been made in good faith, if
accompanied by immediate delivery and followed by actual,
continued change of possession.
We are of opinion that it was not error for the jury to be
told that the relations of the parties to the transaction made
it necessary to carefully scrutinize the facts, but that their
determination must, at last, depend upon the inquiry whether
the transaction was honest and bonafide.
We perceive no ground to doubt that the case was well
tried. The jury were fully and properly instructed in respect
to every aspect of the case, and we have no authority to set
aside their verdict, even if it does not appear to be justified by
the evidence. Railroad Co. v. .F'alof,100 U. S. 24, 31;
Lincoln v. Power, ante, 436.
Judgment afrmed.

BUCKSTAFF v. IRUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 207. Argued and submitted January 17, 1894. -Decided

February 5, 1894.

Where in an action on a contract a counter claim to the amount of $10,000
is interposed by the defendant, and judgment is given for plaintiff for
less than $5000, this court has jurisdiction to review that judgment when
brought here by defendant below.
When one party contracts to set up a machine for another party, and the
other party contracts to pay for it, one-third when the machine is steamed
up ready to run, and the balance at a future time, with interest, and it is
mutually agreed that the buyer shall satisfy himself before payments are
due that the machine works to his satisfaction, and if it does not, that
the seller shall within 60 days after notice, comply with the terms

