KEYSTONE MANUFACTURING CO. v. ADAMS.

139

Statement of the Case.

KEYSTONE

MANUFACTURING
ADAMS.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COMPANY

v.

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 156.

Argued December 8, 11, 1893. -Decided January 8, 1894.

The invention patented to Henry A. Adams by letters patent No. 132,128,
dated October 15, 1872, for a new and useful improvement in cornshellers, is a substantial and meritorious one, well worthy of a patent,
and is infringed by machines manufactured under sundry letters patent
granted to Harvey Packer.
When, in a class of machines widely used, it is made to appear that, after
repeated and futile attempts, a machine has been contrived which accomplishes the result desired, and a patent is granted to the inventor, the
courts will not adopt a narrow construction, fatal to the grant.
While it is undoubtedly established law that complainants in patent cases
may give evidence tending to show the profits realized by defendants
from use of the patented devices, and thus enable the courts to assess the
amounts which the complainants are entitled to recover, yet it is also
true that great difficulty has always been found, in the adjudicated cases,
in applying the rule that the profits of the defendant afford a standard
whereby to estimate the amount which the plaintiff is entitled to recover,
and in defining the extent and limitations to which this rule is admittedly
subject.
Such a measure of damages is of comparatively easy application where the
entire machine used or sold is the result of the plaintiff's invention; but
when, as in the present case, the patented invention is but one feature
in a machine embracing other devices that contribute to the profits made
by the defendant, serious difficulties arise.
The record shows that the complainant did not seek to recover a license
fee, nor did he offer any evidence from which his damages could be computed. He relied entirely on the proposition that the amount which he
was entitled to recover could be based on the profits realized by the defendant from the sale of the patented invention, and the amount of such
profits he claimed to have shown by evidence tending to show what certain third companies were alleged to have made from the sale of similar
devices in similar cornshelling machines. H eld, that he could recover
only nominal damages.
ON the 14th day of May, 1886, Henry A. Adams filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois a bill of complaint against the Keystone

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

Manufacturing Company, a corporation of the State of Illinois,
and Thomas A. Galt, J. B. Patterson, George S. Tracy, and
JE. L. Galt, officers and managers of the said company, complaining that the defendants were infringing his rights as the
patentee and owner of letters patent No. 132,128, granted on
October 15, 1872, by the United States to him as the original
and first inventor of a certain new and useful improvement in
-cornshellers. The bill contains the usual averments and
prayed for an account and an injunction. On August 2, 1886,
the defendants filed a joint answer, admitting that letters
patent had been issued to the complainant, as alleged, denying
that said patent described any new or patentable invention,
alleging that the said alleged invention had been anticipated
in numerous other specified letters patent, and denying that
the machines made and sold by the defendant company were
infringements of any rights possessed by the complainant.
A replication was duly filed, evidence was taken, and
argument had, the result of which was that, on June 30, 1888,
the court entered an interlocutory decree sustaining the
validity of the patent, finding an infringement, directing an
account, and appointing a master to state the same. Afterwards, on June 21, 1889, the master filed a report awarding
the sum of $27,620 to the complainant, being the amount of
the profits he found to have accrued to the defendants from
their use of the patented machines, to which report exceptions
were filed. On February 5, 1890, a final decree was entered
overruling the exceptions to the master's report, decreeing the
payment by the defendant company of the sum of $27,620 and
costs, and dismissing the bill for want of equity as against
Thomas A. Gait, J. B. Patterson, George S. Tracy, and E. L.
Galt.
From this decree an appeal was taken to this court.
_H. John G. 3Eanahan, for appellant, on the question of
.damages said:
It is established that there was positive testimony taken
before the master which the master considered to be direct

KEYSTONE MANUFACTURING CO. v. ADAMS.

141

Argument for Appellant.

and sufficient under the circumstances, to prove that the appellant made at least the amount of profit, in manufacturing
and selling its machines, that was proven to be made by the
other manufacturers in the same locality on the same kind of
machines, and the master was warranted in finding in dollar&
and cents that as the amount of profit; and the court below
decided that the master's report was correct, upon full consideration of the very points upon which the question is
presented to this court.
The proofs in this case as to profits and damages bring the
case clearly within all the decisions of this court upon that
point. The doctrine laid down in Illinois Central Railroadv.
Turrill,94 U. S. 695, was that, where the defendants infringe
complainant's patent by the use of a machine in repairing
railroad rails, they are responsible for the advantages derived
from the patented device over the use of other device.s for
doing such work. The advantage derived by the defendant
by using the H. A. Adams device in their machine was at
least the amount proven by the testimony taken before the
master.
In Mowry v. iFAitney, 14 Wall. 620, 651, it was held that
the question to be determined in regard to profits is: "What
advantage did the defendant derive from using the complainant's invention over what he had in using other processes then
open to the public, and adequate to enable him to obtain an
equally beneficial result? The fruits of that advantage are his
profits."
The evidence in this case is that the defendant's machine
was benefited to such an extent that it was able to derive a,
profit equal to the amount found by the master by making
and selling the machines containing H. A. Adams's invention.
The doctrine laid down in Dobson v. Hartford Ca Tet Co.,
114 U. S.439, Tilghnan v. Proctor,125 U. S. 136, and other
cases, is not controverted in any way by the findings in the case
at bar. In the case at bar it was recognized by the court below
that the burden of proof as to profits and damages rested W+ith
the complainant, and it is contended on behalf of the appellee
that the complainant did prove in dollars and cents the amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of profit which the manufacturers of these machines made
in the locality where the appellant manufactured and sold
machines. This proof was made in dollars and cents in specific amounts, and the number of machines made by appellant was proven and admitted by appellant. The master so
found, the court so found, and the testimony fully bears out
these findings. The appellee also proceeded to apportion the
profit of manufacturing and selling these machines among the
various improvements which were used in the machine, dividing
the total profit into four .parts, assigning one part to the invention of H. A. Adams, thereby conforming to the decision of
this court in Garretson v. Cla', 111 U. S. 120.
-M. Lewis L. Coburn and Mr. John -i.
pellee.
MR. JUSTICE SHERAS,

Thacker for ap-

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Prior to the invention patented in 1872 by Henry A.
Adams, a well-known defect in cornshellers consisted in the
clogging or choking of the chute through which the ears of
corn descended to the sheller. As the ears would approach
the throat of the machine, they were liable to stop and wedge
against each other. This sometimes necessitated the stopping
of the machine in order to break the clog in the feed or chute,
and usually the services of an attendant were required to clear
the chute and break the clog by punching the ears with a
stick.
The object of the Adams invention was to remedy this
defect, and the device invented is described in the first claim
of the patent in the following terms: "The combination with
a cornsheller of a series of wings, wheels, or projections, so
arranged on a shaft as to revolve in the same direction which
the corn is running, and so placed relative to the throat as to
force into the machine all misplaced or hesitating ears, substantially as specified." Resorting to the specification, we find
the following description of the invention:

KEYSTONE MANUFACTURING CO. v. ADAMS.

143

Opinion of the Court.

"This invention relates to an improvement upon the cornsheller patented by Augustus Adams, as described in his letters
patent No. 54,659, dated May 15, 1866. In said patented cornsheller a winged shaft is placed above the openings into the
sheller, and is revolved oppositely to the direction of the entering corn, in such a manner that the said wings strike the
upper ear, if two ears attempt to enter the throat at once, and
throw said upper ear back into position to descend properly;
but I have discovered that the ear so thrown back retards the
feed, inasmuch as the following ears are likely to override the
ear so thrown back, and the difficulty is thus continued.
"In the present invention I propose to overcome this objection by forcing all the ears, as they approach the throat, to
pass rapidly out of the way into the sheller; and to this end
I arrange a shaft above the throat, with a series of wings,
wheels, or projections, to revolve in the same direction as the
entering corn, so as to force the corn rapidly forward into the
sheller, which is capable of shelling all the corn that can be
forced through the throat. By this means I avoid any chance
of clogging the feed under ordinary circumstances."
That the patented device is useful and successfully overcomes the choking or clogging that interfered with the operation of cornshellers as previously constructed, is clearly made
out in the case. The evidence is positive as to this point, and
also to the effect that the application of the invention dispensed with the extra attendant, whose duty it was to remove
the clog by using a stick or fork, and increased the ordinary
capacity of the machines. It is also miade to appear that the
invention has gone into general use.
While it is true that the mere fact that a device has gone
into general use, and has displaced other devices which had
previously been employed for analogous uses, does not establish, in all cases, that the later device involves invention
within the meaning of the patent laws, yet such fact is always
of importance, and is entitled to weight, when the question is
whether the machine exhibits patentable invention. Smith v.
Goodyear Dental Tulcanite Co., 93 U. S. 486, 495.
We, therefore, agree with the court below that "the change

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

was a substantial and meritorious one, and one which was
well worthy of a patent, by reason of the improvement which
it produced in the operative effect of the cornsheller."
We also concur in the reasoning and conclusion of the court
below respecting the novelty of the invention. While it is
true that the device patented by Augustus Adams, the father
of the present patentee, in May, 1866, was intended to effect
the same purpose, and used likewise a revolving shaft with
wings or protuberances, yet the mode of operation was entirely different. The theory of the earlier machine was to
prevent the clogging of the ears of corn in the throat of the
sheller by driving back some of the ears, and thus keeping
them from entering the sheller simultaneously. But it seems
that this interrupted the continuous flow of the ears into the
sheller, and retarded the operation of shelling.
Another patent alleged as an anticipation was that granted
to Augustus Adams, August 6, 1861, No. 1861, and which is
asserted to contain a rotating shaft with little wheels fastened
thereon, having teeth or prickers on their faces. This shaft,
however, is located underneath the chute, down which the ears
of corn descend, and the evidence shows that this device did
not operate so as to prevent clogging. On the contrary, the
clogging of the feed in this machine required the attention of
one man all the time. This was the defect which the same
patentee, Augustus Adams, sought to obviate by the device
patented by him in 1866.
It must be admitted that both of these patents granted to
Augustus Adams, one in 1861, the other in 1866, describe
mechanical contrivances closely resembling the invention in
question, patented by H. A. Adams, October 15, 1872. There
is present in all three machines a rotating shaft with spurs or
wings, and the purpose sought to be effected is the same.
But, as we have seen, when the test of practical success is
applied, the conclusion is favorable to the last patent.
Where the patented invention consists of an improvement
of machines previously existing, it is not always easy to point
out what it is that distinguishes a new and successful machine
from an old and ineffectual one. But when, in a class of

KEYSTONE MANUFACTURING CO. v. ADAMS.

145

Opinion of the Court.

machines so widely used as those in question, it is made to
appear that at last, after repeated and futile attempts, a
machine has been contrived which accomplishes the result
desired, and when the Patent Office has granted a patent to
the successful inventor, the courts should not be ready to
adopt a narrow or astute construction, fatal to the gilant.
The question of infringement is readily disposed of. The
defendant, the Keystone Manufacturing Company, manufactures and sells machines made under certain patents granted
to Harvey Packer, and it is claimed that because, in these
machines, the ears of corn do not drop down a chute to the
point where they pass into the throat of the sheller, but are
brought directly to the shelling devices by carriers, such difference in the mode of bringing the corn to be operated on
by the shelling devices distinguishes the machines. But we
agree with the court below, that there is nothing in the H. A.
Adams patent which restricts his device to corshellers where
the ears are fed into a chute, through which they drop to the
throat of the sheller. It is equally well adapted to be used
in that form of machine where the chute is dispensed with,
and where the ears of corn are brought by other means to
the throat of the machine. What we have to compare is the
forcing device in the respective machines, and as we find that
the defendant uses a spiked shaft at the entrance to the throat
of his machine, revolving in the same direction in which the
corn is running, for the purpose of urging or compelling the
ears to enter the sheller, we cannot hesitate to hold it an
infringement of the complainant's device.
It may be proper to say that there is a feature of the
Packer machines, having reference to its operation after the
corn has passed beyond the reach of the picker shaft, not
found in the Adams, which seems to be a further improvement in the art of corushelling, and which may have justified
the granting of a patent for such improvement, though, of
course, such a question is not now before us.
These views justify the decree of the court below, so far as
it declares the validity of the patent sued on, and its infringement by the defendant. But we are unable to sustain that
VOL. CLI-1O

OCTOBER TERM:, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

decree in overruling the exceptions to the master's report, and
in adjudging, in accordance with the finding of the master,
the payment by the defendant company to the plaintiff of the
sum of twenty-seven thousand six hundred and twenty dollars.
The record shows that the complainant did not seek to
recover Alicense fee, nor did he offer any evidence from which
his damages could be computed. He relied entirely on the'
proposition that the amount which he was entitled to recover
could be based on the profits realized by the defendant from
the sale of the patented invention, and the amount of such
profits he claimed to have shown by evidence tending to show
what certain third companies were alleged to have made from
the sale of similar devices in similar cornshelling machines.
The reasoning of the master and of the court below on this
subject can be made clearly to appear by the following extracts
from the opinion of the learned judge:
"The complainant, to establish the extent of the defendant's
profits, called witnesses familiar with the cost and selling price
of the Sandwich, Joliet and IMarseilles machines, and showed
what the profits of these manufacturers were on the different
sizes of machines made by them, and what proportion of these
profits was fairly attributable to the defendant's device. No
proofs were introduced by either party as to the actual profits
realized by the defendant company, but it was evidently
assumed by the master that the machines of the defendant
were so near like those of the other companies in their
material, form and cost of construction that the profits of
defendant on machines made and sold by it must have been
substantially the same as the profits made by these other
manufacturers.
"Here are competing manufacturers making the same kind
of machine for the same market, and the natural conclusion
is that they would pursue substantially the same business
methods and realize about the same profits."
While it is undoubtedly established law that complainants
in patent cases may give evidence tending to show the profits
realized by defendants from use of the patented devices, and
thus enable the courts to assess the amounts which the corn-

KEYSTONE MANUFACTURING CO. v. ADAMS.

117

Opinion of the Court.

plainants are entitled to recover, yet it is also true that great
difficulty has always been found, in the adjudicated cases, in
applying the rule that the profits of the defendant afford
a standard whereby to estimate the amount which the plaintiff
is entitled to recover, and in defining the extent and limitations to which this rule is admittedly subject.
Such a measure of damages is of comparatively easy application where the entire machine used or sold is the result of
the plaintiff's invention; but when, as in the present case, the
patented invention is but one feature in a machine embracing
other devices that contribute to the profits made by the
defendant, serious difficulties arise.
It is unnecessary, in this opinion, to review the numerous
cases, some at law, others in equity, wherein this court has
considered various aspects of this question. It is sufficient to
say that the conclusions reached may be briefly stated as follows: It is competent for a complainant, who has established
the validity of his patent and proved an infringement, to
demand, in equity, an account of the profits actually realized
by the defendant from his use of the patented device; that
the burden of proof is on the plaintiff; that where the infringed device was a portion only of defendant's machine,
which 'embraced inventions covered by patents other than that
for the infringement of which the suit was brought, in the
absence of proof to show how much of that profit was due to
such other patents, and how much was a manufacturer's profit,
the complainant is entitled to nominal damages only. Seymour v. .iloCormick, 16 How. 480; Rubber Co.v. Goodyear,
9 Wall. 788;
owry v. TMiney, 14 Wall. 620; -izabeth v.
Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126.
In the case last named it was said: "It is unnecessary here
to enter into the general question of profits recoverable in
equity by a patentee. The subject, as a whole, is surrounded
with many difficulties, which the courts have not yet succeeded in overcoming. But one thing may be affirmed with
reasonable confidence, that if an infringer of a patent has
realized no profit from the use of the invention, he cannot be
called upon to respond for profits; the patentee, in such case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

is left to his remedy for damages.

It is also clear that a

patentee is entitled to recover the profits that have been actually realized from the use of his invention."
In Garretsonv. Clark, 111 U. S. 120, 121, this court quoted
with approval the statement of the rule made in the court
below by Mr. Justice Blatchford: "The patentee must in
every case give evidence tending to separate or apportion the
defendant's profits and the patentee's damages between the
patented feature and the unpatented features, and such evidence must be reliable and tangible, and not conjectural or
speculative."
Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 146, is an important
case, in which many of the earlier cases were reviewed, and it
was there said: "The infringer is liable for actual, not for
possible, gains. The profits, therefore, which he must account
for are not those which he might reasonably have made, but
those which he did make, by the use of the plaintiff's invention; or, in other words, the fruits of the advantage which he
derived from the use of that invention, over what he would
have had in using other means then open to the public and
adequate to enable him to obtain an equally beneficial result.
If there was no such advantage in his use of the plaintiff's
invention, there can be no decree for profits, and the Iilaintiff's
only remedy is by an action at law for damages."
In the light of these decisions there was error in the court
below, not in any formal disregard of the rule restricting the
plaintiff's recovery to the profits actually realized, but in permitting the plaintiff to prove, not the defendant's profits, but
those realized by other companies. This was in effect showing
what, in the opinion of the master and the court, "he might
reasonably have made, and not those which he did make."
The fallacy of this application of the rule is obvious, for
nothing is more common than for one manufacturing concern
to make profits where another, with equal advantages, operates
at a loss.
The learned judge seems to havd thought that the course of
the defendant, in not itself disclosing the condition of its
business, justified the master in estimating its profits upon

BATES v. PREBLE.
Syllabus.

the basis of those of other similar establishments. But, as we
have seen, the burden of proof was upon the plaintiff. He
relied, notwithstanding defendant's objections, on incompetent
and irrelevant evidence, and the decree in his favor, in so far
as it awards more than nominal damages, cannot be sustained.
The decree of the court below is
Reversed, the costs in this court to be paid by the appellee;
and this cause is remanded with directions to enter a
decreefor nominal damages with costs.

BATES v. PREBLE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 123. Argued November 28, 29, 1893. -Decided January 8, 1894.

This court is not committed to the general doctrine that written memoranda
of subjects and events, pertinent to the issues in a case, made cotemporaneously with their taking place, and supported by the oath of the
person making them, are admissible in evidence for any other purpose
than to refresh the memory of that person as a witness.
When it does not appear that such a memorandum was made cotemporaneously with the happening of the events which it describes, it should not
be submitted to the jury.
If such a memorandum, made in a book containing other matter relating to
the issues which is not proper for submission to the jury, be admitted in
evidence, the leaves containing the inadmissible matter should not go
before the jury.
In such case it is not enough to direct the jury to take no notice of the
objectionable matter, but the leaves containing it should be sealed up and
protected from inspection by the jury before the book goes into the
conference room.
In Massachusetts, where an action in tort, grounded on fraud of the defendant, is commenced more than six years after the cause of action arose,
and the general statute of limitations applicable to actions sounding
in tort is set up, if the fraud is not secret in its nature, and such as
-cannot readily be ascertained, it is necessary to show some positive act
of concealment by the defendaynt, to take the case out of the operation
of that statute; and the mere silence of the defendant, or his failure to
inform the plaintiff of his cause of action, does not so operate.

