OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

MAYNARD v. HECHT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 680. Submitted January 8, 1894.-Decided January 22, 1894.
Under the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 827, when an
appeal or writ of error is taken from a District Court or a Circuit Court
in which the jurisdiction of the court alone is in issue, a certificate from
the court below of the question of jurisdiction to be decided is an
absolute prerequisite for the exercise of jurisdiction here; and, if it be
wanting, this court cannot take jurisdiction.
MOTION TO DISMSS.
Charles Hecht filed his petition in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska,
October 14, 1890, against the plaintiffs in error, alleging that
the amount in controversy in the suit exceeded the sum or
value of $2000 exclusive of interest and costs, and that he had
been damaged in the sum of $2500 by reason of the purchase
upon defendants' false and fraudulent representations in writing of certain land for which he paid the sum of $1800, and
which turned out to be without value. The petition, among
other things, averred that plaintiff had executed a deed of
reconveyance of the property in question and formerly tendered the same, and he brought said deed into court, and also
a promissory note of the Saline County Nurseries given to him
at the time of the purchase as indemnity against a mortgage
upon the premises, and prayed judgment for $2500, together
with interest and costs. Defendants answered, denying the
allegations of the petition, and alleging that the purchase price
of the land was paid in horses which Hecht guaranteed to be
sound, but which were in fact worthless. To this answer a
reply in general denial was filed, and trial having been had, a
verdict was returned in favor of Hecht for $1720. Defendants then moved for a new trial, and the same day filed a
motion to dismiss the case upon the ground that the Circuit

MAYNARD v. :EECHT.
Opinion of the Court.

Court had no jurisdiction, since it appeared from the petition
that the amount in controversy was less than the sum of
$2000 exclusive of interest and costs, and no evidence was

introduced at the trial tending to prove that the amount exceeded that sum. June 10, 1891, the court overruled each of
the motions and entered judgment upon the verdict. The
writ of error was allowed November 16, 1891. No certificate
of question for decision was applied for or granted by the
court.
31r. TFalter : Lamb, .Y. A'nott . Ricketts, .Mr. Henry
H. Iilhon, .M. Walter H. Smith, and -Mr. 0. . Holcomb
for the motion.
2f'. C.S. -Montgomery opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Under section five of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, a
writ of error can be taken directly to this court from the Circuit Courts only in the six classes of cases therein mentioned,
and the contention is that the writ may be sustained in this
case as fal]ing within the first class, described in that section
as follows: "In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court
is in issue; in such case the question of jurisdiction alone shall
be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below for
decision." According to that provision the question involving
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must have been in issue and
decided against the party seeking to bring it before this court
for determination, and must be certified for decision. And as
no such question was certified by the Circuit Court in this
case, we are confronted on the threshold with the inquiry
whether we can take jurisdiction of the writ, an inquiry controlled by the rule that an affirmative description of the
appellate jurisdiction of this court in a suit implies a negative
on the exercise of such appellate power as is not comprehended
within it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

By the act of February 25, 1889, c. 236, 25 Stat. 693, it was
provided: "That in all cases where a final judgment or decree
shall be rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States in
which there shall have been a question involving the jurisdiction of the court, the party against whom the judgment or
decree is rendered shall be entitled to an appeal or writ of
error to the Supreme Court of the United States to review
such judgment or decree without reference to the amount of
the same; but in cases where the judgment or decree does not
exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, the Supreme Court
shall not review any question raised upon the record except
such question of jurisdiction." The act of 1891 was framed
in this regard in view of the former act, and section five restricts the power of this court, in all suits in which its appellate
jurisdiction is invoked by reason of the existence of a question
involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the case,
to the review of that question only. The act did not contemplate several appeals in the same suit at the same time,
but gave to a party to a suit in the Circuit Court where the
question of th6 jurisdiction of the court over the parties or
subject-matter was raised and put in issue upon the record at
the proper time and in the proper way, the right to a review
by this court, after final judgment or decree against him, of
the decision upon that question only, or by the Circuit Courts
of Appeals on the whole case. 3fefLish v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661,
668.
And the section under consideration declares in express
terms that when the case is brought directly to this court the
question of jurisdiction so in issue shall be certified for decision.
The rules in relation to certificates of division of opinion in
civil causes under sections 650, 652, 693 of the Revised Statutes
were well settled. Each question had to be a distinct point
or proposition of law, clearly stated, so that it could be definitely answered without regard to the other issues of law in
the case; to be a question of law only, and not a question of
fact, or of mixed law and fact, and hence could not involve or
imply a conclusion or judgment on the weight or effect of
testimony or facts adduced in the case; and could not embrace

MAYNARD v. IECHT.
Opinion of the Court.

the whole case, even where its decision turned upon matter of
law only, and even though it were split up in the form of
questions. Fire Insurance Association v. TWickham, 128
U. S. 426; Dublin Township v. -MifordSavings Institution,
128 U. S. 510. The same rules were applicable to the certificate of points on diviion of opinion on the hearing or trial of
criminal proceedings under sections 651 and 697. United
States v. .lall, 131 U. S. 50; United States v. Perrin, 131
U. S. 55. And prior to the act of February 25, 1889, this
court had jurisdiction of a case brought up on certificate of
division of opinion on the question whether the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction of it. .Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v.
.Marshall County Supervisors, 131 U. S. App. xcix.
By section six of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat.
826, 828, it is provided "that in every such subject within its
appellate jurisdiction, the Circuit Court of Appeals may at
any time certify to the Supreme Court of the United States
any questions or propositions of law concerning which it
desires the instruction of that court for its proper decision."
In Columbus Watch Co. v. Robbins, 148 U.-S. 266, it was
held that in order to give this court jurisdiction over questions
or propositions of law sent up by a Circuit Court of Appeals
for decision, it was necessary that the questions or propositions
should be clearly and distinctly certified to, and should show
that the instruction of this court was desired in a particular
case as to their proper decision. And reference was there
made to the rules laid down in reference to certificates on
division of opinion above adverted to. So in Cincinnati,
Hamilton &c. Railroad Co. v. i[c-een, 149 U. S. 259, it was
held that the act of March 3, 1891, does not contemplate the
certification of questions of law to be answered in view of the
entire record in the cause, although this court may, if it sees
fit, order the entire record to be sent up, and thereupon decide
the case as if it had been brought up by writ of error or appeal. We think the intention of Congress as to the certification mentioned in both sections is to be arrived at in the light
of the rules theretofore prevailing as to certifying from the
court below, and since, in the instance of an appeal upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

question of jurisdiction under the fifth section of the act, a
certificate by the Circuit Court presenting such question for
the determination of this court is explicitly and in terms required in order to invoke the exercise by this court of its
appellate jurisdiction, we are of opinion that the absence of
such certificate is fatal to the maintenance of the writ of error
in this cause. The narrowness of range in the particular
instance can make no difference in the application of the
principle.
It appears that the petition for writ of error was filed in
this case July 6, 1891, together with a bond for the prosecution thereof, and an assignment of errors, and this petition and
the assignment raised the question that the matter in dispute
in the cause did not exceed, exclusive of interest and costs, the
sum of two thousand dollars; but the trial judge made no
endorsement thereon. The writ specifies no particular ground
of error, and it is upon the writ that the allowance was entered November 16, 1891, the judge certifying that on that
day it was presented to him "for allowance and signature."
But in any view the absence of the formal certificate cannot
be helped out by resort to these papers. The inquiry is not
whether we can ascertain the question sought to be presented,
but whether we can exercise jurisdiction under the statute,
which we cannot if the certificate is an absolute prerequisite,
as we hold it to be. And upon that ground we dismiss the
writ without discussing whether the question of jurisdiction
indicated could properly be held to have been in issue, or
whether, if so, the case would fall within the fifth section.
Writ of error dismissed.

