OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

over, and the punishment was commuted to life imprisonment,
and he was sent to Fort Leavenworth to serve it out.
In some cases, it is true, that no correction can be made
of the judgment, as where the court had under the law no
jurisdiction of the case-that is, no right to take cognizance
of the offence alleged, and the prisoner must then be entirely
discharged; but those cases will be rare, and much of the
complaint that is made for discharging on habeas corpus
persons who have been duly convicted will be thus removed.
Ordered, that the writ of habeas co~pus issue, and that the
.petitioner be discharged from the custody of the warden
of the penitentiary at Anamosa in the State of Iowa;
but without prejudice to the right of the United States to
take any lawful measures to have the petitioner sentenced
in accordance with law upon the verdict against him.

DAVIS v. UTAH TERRITORY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 961. Submitted November 15, 1893. -Decided

January 8,1894.

In Utah it is not necessary that an indictment for murder should charge
that the killing was unlawful.
An indictment which clearly and distinctly alleges facts showing a murder
by the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought is
good as an indictment for murder under the Utah statutes, although
it may not indicate upon its face, in terms, the degree of that crime, and,
thereby, the nature of the punishment which may be inflicted.
The indictment in this case sufficiently charged the crime of murder.
After the verdict of the jury that the defendant was guilty of murder in
the first degree, the court, the defendant being present, announced that
he had been convicted of murder in the first degree without any
recommendation, and, as he elected to be shot, therefore it was ordered,
adjudged, and decreed that he be taken, etc., and shot until he was dead.
Held that this was a full compliance with the requirements of the statutes of Utah.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

DAVIS v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Warren ff7. Dusenberry for plaintiff in error.
.7kb'. Solicitor General for defendant in error.
lMR.

JusTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, Enoch Davis, was indicted in the
First Judicial District Court of the Territory of Utah for
murder, alleged to have been committed as follows:
"The said Enoch Davis, on the sixth day of June, A.D.
eighteen hundred and ninety-two, at the county of Uintah, in
said Territory of Utah, in and upon one Louisa Davis, there
being, wilfully, feloniously, and of his deliberately premeditated malice aforethought, did make an assault with a certain
revolver by him, the said Enoch Davis, then and there had
and held, with which said revolver he, the said Enoch Davis,
her, the said Louisa Davis, upon the head did then and there
wilfully, feloniously, and of his deliberately premeditated
malice aforethought beat, bruise, and wound, thereby then
and there inflicting upon the head of her, the said Louisa
Davis, one mortal wound, of which the said Louisa Davis
then and there instantly died, and so the grand jurors aforesaid so say that in manner aforesaid, he, the said Enoch Davis,
her, the said Louisa Davis, then and there did kill and murder,
contrary to the form of the statutes of said Territory, in such
cases made and provided, and against the peace and dignity
of the people aforesaid."
The defendant demurred to the indictment on the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a public
offence. The demurrer was overruled,,and he excepted. The
defendant then pleaded not guilty. After trial, the jury
returned the following verdict: "We, the jury empanelled in
the above-entitled cause, find the defendant, Enoch Davis,
guilty of murder in the first degree as charged in the indictment. Newell Brown, foreman."
There was a motion for a new trial upon various grounds.
And defendant also moved in arrest of judgment upon the
following grounds: first, the indictment does not charge
murder in the first degree; second, the verdict against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant of murder in the first degree was in excess of the
offence charged in the indictment.
Under date of November 3, 1892, appears the following
order of the court:
"The defendant being present in court, the motions for a
new trial and in arrest of judgment having been separately
argued by respective counsel, and the court now being fully
advised therein, orders that said motions be overruled; to
which order the defendant excepts. Defendant being present
in court and being asked by the court if he had anything to
say why sentence should not be now pronounced against him,
and he answering in the negative, and said defendant having
chosen to be shot instead of hanging:
"Thereupon the court rendered its judgment: Whereas
you, the said Enoch Davis, having been duly convicted of the
crime of murder in the first degree, without any recommendations whatever; it is therefore ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that you, the said Enoch Davis, be taken hence to the
penitentiary of the Territory of Utah, where you shall be
safely kept until Friday, December 30, 1892, and that
between the hours of ten in the forenoon and four in the
afternoon on said day you be taken from your place of confinement to the jail or jail yard of the county jail of the
county of Uintah, or some other private and convenient place
in said county of Uintah, and that you then be shot till you are
dead. You are hereby remanded into the custody of the
U. S. marshal of Utah, who will see that this judgment and
sentence of the court are carried out and executed. To which
orders defendant excepts."
An appeal was taken'to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
and the judgment was affirmed.
Murder is declared by the statutes of Utah to be "the
unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought."
This is substantially murder as defined at common law. 4 B1.
Com. 195; 3 Inst. 47. And such malice may be express or
implied; express, when there is manifested a deliberate intention unlawfully to take away the life of a fellow-creature;
implied, when no considerable provocation appears, or when

DAVIS v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

the circumstances attending the killing show an abandoned or
malignant heart. 2 Comp. Laws of Utah, 578, §§ 4452, 4453.
It is also provided, Ib. 579, §§ 4454, 4455, that "every murder perpetrated by poison, lying in wait, or any other kind of
wilful, deliberate malice and premeditated killing; or committed in the perpetration of, or attempt to perpetrate, any
arson, rape, burglary, or robbery, or perpetrated from a premeditated design, unlawfully and maliciously to effect the
death of any other human being, other than him who is killed;
or perpetrated by any act greatly dangerous to the lives of
others, and evidencing a depraved mind, regardless of human
life, is murder in the first degree; and any other homicide,
committed under such circumstances as woild have constituted
murder at common law, is murder in the second degree;"
further, that "every person guilty of murder in the first degree
shall suffer death, or, upon the recommendation of the jury,
may be imprisoned, at hard labor in the penitentiary for life,
at the discretion of the court, and every person guilty of murder in the second degree shall be imprisoned, at hard labor, in
the penitentiary for a term not less than five or more than fifteen years."
In respect to the forms of pleadings in criminal actions and
the rules by which their sufficiency is to be determined, it is
provided that the indictment must contain a clear'and concise
statement of the acts or omissions constituting the offence,
with such particulars as to time, place, person, and property,
as will enable the defendant to understand distinctly the
character of the offence charged, and to answer the indictment; and must be direct and certain as regards the party and
the offence charged, and the particular circumstances of the
offence. The words used in the indictment are to be construed
according to their usual acceptance in common language, except such words and phrases as are defined by law, and they
are to be construed according to their legal meaning. Words
in the statute defining a public offence need not be strictly
pursued in the indictment, but other words conveying the same
meaning may be used. 2 Comp. Laws of Utah, 687-8, §§ 4928,
4929, 4930, 4931, 4936, 4937.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.

In respect to the description of the offence, an indictment is
sufficient, under the laws of Utah, if the act or omission
charged as the offence is clearly and distinctly set forth, without repetition, and in such a manner as to enable the court to
understand what is intended, and to pronounce judgment upon
conviction according to the right of the case. Comp. Laws of
Utah, vol. 2, § 4938.
The first assignment of error relates to the overruling of the
demurrer to the indictment. The point here made is that as
murder is defined by the statute to be the unlawful killing of
a human being with malice aforethought, it was necessary to
charge, in words, that the killing was "unlawful." This
position cannot be sustained; for the facts alleged present, in
clear and distinct language, a case of unlawful killing. It
is not necessary, as we have seen, to use the very words of
the statute defining the offence. It is sufficient if those used
convey the same meaning. The indictment sets forth the
case of an assault and battery, committed by the defendant wilfully, feloniously, and with deliberately premeditated malice
aforethought, and resulting in instant death, whereby the
defendant did kill and murder, contrary to the statute, etc.
Such facts plainly import an unlawful killing.
Other assignments of error present the objection that the
indictment is so framed that it will not support a verdict of
guilty of murder in the first degree. This objection is based,
in part, upon the theory that murder in the first degree and
murder in the second degree are made distinct, separate
offences. But this is an erroneous interpretation of the
statute. The crime defined is that of murder. The statute
divides that crime into two classes in order that the punishment may be adjusted with reference to the presence or
absence of circumstances of aggravation. And, therefore,
"whenever a crime is distinguished into degrees," it is left to
the jury, if they convict the defendant, "to find the degree of
the crime of which he is guilty." 2 Comp. Laws of Utah,
715, § 5076. If the defendant pleads guilty "of a crime
distinguished or divided into degrees, the court must, before
passing sentence, determine the degree." Ib. § 5101. An in-

DAVIS

v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

dietment which clearly and distinctly alleges facts showing a
murder by the unlawful killing of a human being with malice
aforethought is good as an indictment for murder under the
Utah statutes, although it may not indicate, upon its face, in
terms, the degree of that crime, and thereby the nature of the
punishment that may be inflicted. Of course, if an indictment
is so framed as to clearly show that the crime charged is not
of the class designated as murder in the first degree, the jury
could not find a verdict of guilty of murder in that degree.
But, as already suggested, the pleader need not indicate the
degree, but may restrict the averments to such facts as, in
law, show a murder, that is to say, an unlawful killing with
malice aforethought, leaving the ascertainment of the degree
to the jury, or, in case of confession, to the court. As the
acts which, under the Utah statute, constitute murder, whether
of the highest or lowest degree, constituted murder at common law, it is clear that an indictment good at common law
as an indictment for murder, in whatever mode or under
whatever circumstances of atrocity the crime may have been
committed, is sufficient for any degree of the crime of murder
under a statute relating to murder as defined at common law,
and establishing degrees of that crime in order that the punishment may be adapted to the special circumstances of each
case.
These views are abundantly sustained by authority. The
earliest legislative enactment in this country by which degrees
of murder were established was the Pennsylvania statute of
April 22, 1794, "for the better preventing of crimes," etc.
That statute recites as the reason for its passage that the
several offences, which were included in the general denomination of murder, differed greatly in the degree of their
atrocity, and that it was unjust to involve them in the same.
punishment. It was consequently enacted that all murder
perpetrated by means of poison, etc., should be deemed murder of the first degree, and all other kinds of murder should
be deemed murder of the second degree, leaving the jury, if
there was a trial, or the court, if the prisoner pleaded guilty,
to ascertain from evidence the degree of the crime. In the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Chief Justice Tilghman said:
"iNow this act does not define the crime of murder, but
refers to it as a known offence; nor so far as it concerns
murder in the first degree does it alter the punishment, which
was always death. All that it does is to define the different
kinds of murder, which shall be ranked in different classes,
and be subject to different punishments. It has not been the
practice since the passing of this law, to alter the form of
indictments for murder in any respect; and it plainly appears
by the act itself that it was not supposed any alteration would
be made. It seems taken for granted that it would not
always appear on the face of the indictment of what degree
the murder was, because the jury a're to aseertain, the degree
by their verdict, or, in case of confession, the court are to ascertain it by examination of witnesses. But if the indictments were so drawn as plainly to show that the murder was
.of the first or second degree, all that the jury need do would
be to find the prisoner guilty in manner and form as he stands
indicted." Yeates and Brackenridge, JJ., concurred in these
views, the former observing, p. 188: "Different degrees of
guilt exist under the general crime of murder, which is, therefore, arranged under two classes of murder of the first and
second degree. The uniform practice since the act was passed
has been to lay the offence as at common law." White v.
Commonwealth, 6 Binney, 179, 182 (1813). The same principle was announced in Commonwealth v. -Flanagan,7 W. & S.
415, 418.
So, in Wicks v. Commonwealth, 2 Virginia Cas. 381, 391,
decided in 1824 in Virginia, where the statute dividing the
crime of murder into degrees was like that of Pennsylvania, it
was said that the legislature did not intend to change, much
less to divide, the common law crime of murder into two separate offences to be prosecuted and punished under two distinct indictments, but intended to graduate the punishment of
each murder according to the circumstances under which it
should be committed.
In Green v. Commonwealth, 12 Allen, 155, 170,the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, referring to the previous

DAVIS v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

cases of Commorwealth v. Gardner,11 Gray, 438, and Comnorwealth v. Desmarteau,16 Gray, 1, said: "The reason on which
these decisions were founded was this: that the statute establishing degrees of murder did not create any new offence or
change the definition of murder as it was understood at common law; that the forms of indictment previously in use
descriptive of murder embodied every shade or degree of the
crime, from that which was most aggravated, malicious, and
premeditated down to that which had only the element of
implied malice in its most mitigated form; and that as the
offence was not changed, but only its punishment mitigated in
certain .cases, the indictment was sufficient to embrace every
species of murder, whether it fell within one or the other of
the degrees of homicide as defined by the statute. The logical and necessary conclusion from these discussions is, that an
indictment for murder at common law does charge murder in
the first degree." To the same effect are many other adjudged
cases, among which are Graves v. State, 45 N. J. Law, (16
Froom,) 203, 206; .itchell v. State, 8 Yerger, 513, 526; People v. Murray, 10 California, 309, 310; .People v. Dolan, 9
California, 576, 584; Eennedy v. People, 39 N. Y. 245, 250;
People v. Gon 'oy, 97 N. Y. 62, 70; State v. Zessing, 16 Minnesota, 64, 66, 67; State v. Ver'ill, 54 MNfaine, 408, 415; Gehrke
v. State, 13 Texas, 568, 573, 574; .McAdanm v. State, 25
Arkansas, 405, 416.
We are of opinion that the indictment in this case sufficiently charged the crime of murder. The acts constituting
the crime are set forth with such clearness and distinctness that
both the defendant and the court understood the character of
the offence charged, and the court was enabled to pronounce
judgment according to the right of the case. The defendant
was charged with having wilfully, feloniously, and of his
deliberately premeditated malice aforethought, assaulted the
deceased with a revolver, with which he beat, bruised, and
wounded her upon the head, inflicting a mortal wound,
from which death instantly resulted, whereby, in the manner
stated, the defendant killed and murdered the person so
assaulted. The indictment alleges an unlawful killing with

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

malice aforethought and thereby a murder. It was not necessary to allege, in express words, an intent to kill, because
murder, as defined by the statute, may be committed if the
killing be unlawful, and if no considerable provocation appears,
or the circumstances attending the killing show an abandoned
or malignant heart. Under the charge made in this case it
was competent to show by evidence, under section 4454 of the
Compiled Laws of Utah, that the killing was with wilful, deliberate malice, and was premeditated, and it was, perhaps, competent to show that the killing, in the mode charged, was by
an act greatly dangerous to the life of the decedent, and "evidencing a depraved mind, regardless of human life." In either
case, a verdict of murder in the first degree would have been
proper. If the evidence showed a case of homicide that under
the statute was not murder in the first degree, but was nevertheless committed under such circumstances as would have
constituted murder at common law, then the verdict should
have been that the defendant was guilty of murder in the second degree. But as the evidence was not preserved in a bill
of exceptions, we cannot say that the verdict of guilty of murder in the first degree was unauthorized by the facts adduced
at the trial. It certainly was within the scope of the indictment.
Another assignment of error is that the court failed to
adjudge that the defendant was guilty of some offence. This
objection is supposed to be sustained by section 5100 of the
Compiled Laws of Utah, which provides: "After a plea or
verdict of guilty, or after a verdict against the defendant, on
a plea of a former conviction or acquittal, if the judgment is
not arrested, or a new trial granted, the court must appoint a
time for pronouncing judgment, which must be at least two
days after the verdict, if the court intend to remain in session
so long; or, if not, as remote a time as can reasonably be
allowed, but in no case can the judgment be rendered in less
than six hours after the verdict."
There is nothing in the record upon which this assignment
can be based. The motions for new trial and in arrest of judgment having been overruled, and the defendant having been

GOTTLIEB v. THATCHER.
Syllabus.

asked, as required by the statute, (§ 5108,) if he had anything
to say why sentence should not be pronounced, and having
answered that inquiry in the negative, the court proceeded to
judgment. The appellant insists that it was necessary that
the court itself, in the exercise of its independent judgment
upon the facts, and as a condition of its authority to sentence,
should have adjudged that he was guilty of the crime charged
before imposing the sentence prescribed by the statute. The
court, the defendant being present, announced that he had
been duly convicted of the crime of murder in the first degree,
without any recommendation, and, therefore, it was "ordered,
adjudged, and decreed" that he be taken, etc., and shot until
he was dead. What the court said, on the occasion of the
sentence, was, in effect, a judicial determination that the
defendant had been duly convicted of the offence named.
That was the only judgment it was necessary to render, and
the sentence which followed gave legal effect to that adjudication. The statutes of Utah required nothing more.
There are no other assignments of error which require
notice at our hands.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is
A#rmed.

GOTTLIEB v. THATCHER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNrTED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 192.

Argued January 4, 5, 1894.-Decided January 15, 1894.

The proofs fail to establish that the transactions complained of by the
appellant were fraudulent, as alleged.
The relationship of brothers does not of and in itself cast suspicion upon a
transfer of property by one to the other, or create such a prima facie
presumption against its validity as would require the court to hold it to
be invalid without proof that there was fraud on the part of the grantor,
participated in by the grantee.

