OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

main consideration for the outlay of money made, and the
particular locality as of secondary importance; and, therefore,
all that can be reasonably implied in behalf of the citizens of
Millersburg is that they expected and believed that the successful operation of the institution would prove compatible with
the continuance of it at that place. To now imply anything
else or more, that court well says, would not only involve the
absurdity of hazarding or sacrificing an institution of learning,
the successful and useful operation of which within the bounds
of the Conference was clearly the main inducement for the great
outlay already made, "but be in disregard of the rights and
interests of those residing elsewhere than at Millersburg, who
have contributed either by purchasing scholarships or donations, very much more than has been raised at that place.
There is mention made in the act of 1860, and also in the
certificates of scholarships, of the college being established at
Millersburg, but the language used does not import an agreement that it shall permanently remain there; on the contrary,
we think it should, as it can fairly, be interpreted as merely
descriptive of the institution. In our opinion, therefore, there
exists no contract or undertaking, express or implied, for the
continuance of the institution at Millersburg any longer than
its useful and successful operation requires."
It results from these views that the decree below does not
give effect to an act of the General Assembly of Kentucky
that is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
The decree must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

DOWER v. RICHARDS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 178. Argued December 20, 1893. -Decided

February 4,1894.

Under the Statutes of the United States, a ledge containing gold-bearing
rock, which has formerly been profitably worked for mining purposes,
but all work upon which has been abandoned, and which, at the date of

DOWER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.
a town-site patent of the land within which it lies, is not known to be
valuable for mining purposes, is not excepted from the operation of the
town-site patent, although, after the town-site patent has taken effect,
the land is found to be still valuable for mining purposes.
This court, upon a writ of error to the highest court of a State in an action
at law, cannot review its judgment upon a question of fact.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. L. Gear for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr.Preston F. Simonds for defendants in error.
MP. JUSTIcE GEAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment, brought November 15,
1887, by the executors of Philip Richards against Harriet
Dower and others, in the superior court for the county of
Nevada in the State of California, to recover possession of
two lots in the city of Nevada in that county, which the
complaint alleged that Richards in his lifetime was the
owner and in possession of.
The defendants, in their answer, alleged that Harriet Dower,
of whom the other defendants were servants, was the owner
and in possession and entitled to the possession of a quartz
ledge and mine, called the Wagner ledge, situated partly upon
and crossing the lots demanded; that Richards had no other
right of possession than under a town-site patent, granted by
the United States to the city of Nevada in 1869; that the
ledge was known to be a gold-bearing ledge, and was held
and worked as such long prior and subsequent to that patent,
and was by the laws of the United States excepted from that
patent; and that Harriet Dower had located the ledge, and
was engaged in working it, including three hundred feet on
either side thereof, under those laws. The laws relied on by
the defendants were the acts of July 26, 1866, c. 262; March
2, 1867, c. 177; 14 Stat. 251, 541; June 8, 1868, c. 53; 15
Stat. 67; May 10, 1872, c. 152; 17 Stat. 91; Rev. Stat.
§ 2392.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

A jury trial was waived, and the case submitted to the
Superior Court, which made findings of fact, in substance as
follows: A town-site patent for a tract including the two lots
demanded was issued July 1, 1869, by the United States to
the city of Nevada, which, before May 1, 1887, conveyed all
its title in these lots to Richards, and that title was now vested
in the plaiutiffs as his executors. Before the issue of that
patent, the Wagner ledge was known to exist as a gold-bearing quartz lode, but had never been located or marked out;
and there was no proof that any local mining rules were in
force in that district. For many years before 1869 it had
been profitably worked, and many tons of gold-bearing rock
extracted from it, by persons who were trespassers upon the
public domain, and were not shown to have had more than a
mere possessiopedis of certain shafts, tunnels and dumps. In
the winter of 1868-69, work on the ledge was abandoned, and
no work was afterwards done by those persons, and the defendants did not claim under them. In 1884, Harriet Dower,
being a citizen of the United States and qualified to make a
mining location, attempted to make a quartz mining location
upon the ledge, within the lots demanded, which in manner
and form complied with the laws of the United States in
respect to mining locations; and by virtue of her location she
claimed the ledge with three hundred feet on each side thereof,
and since did annual work thereon as required by those laws,
excavated the soil, sank shafts, erected buildings, and piled
earth, sand and debris across the surface of the lots. For
more than a year before her attempted location, no annual
work had been done by any one upon the ledge. On May 1,
1887, Richards was the owner and in possession and entitled
to the possession of the lots, and the defendants wrongfully
and unlawfully ejected him from the part claimed by them,
and ever since wrongfully and unlawfully withheld the possession thereof from him and his executors.
Upon the facts so found, the court decided, as matter of
law, that the plaintiffs were owners and entitled to the possession of the lots; that no part of them was subject to location
as a mining claim at the date of Harriet Dower's attempted

DOWER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

location; that the whole of these lots passed to Richards by the
town-site patent and the subsequent conveyance; and that the
plaintiffs were entitled to judgment against the defendants for
the restitution of the part claimed by the latter, and for costs;
and gave judgment for the plaintiffs accordingly. Upon a
statement of the evidence, agreed to in writing by counsel, and
certified by the judge, a motion for a new trial was made and
denied. From the judgment for the plaintiffs, and from the
order denying a new trial, the defendants, in accordance with
the state practice, appealed to the Supreme Court of the State.
That court, as stated in its opinion filed in the case, and
reported in 81 California, 44, affirmed the judgment upon the
following grounds: Upon the facts found and the evidence
stated in the record before that court, it decided, as matter of
fact, that before 1869 a gold-bearing quartz ledge was known
to exist and had been profitably worked within the limits of
these lots, but had never been located or marked out; that in
the winter of 1868-69 all work on the ledge was abandoned,
and no work was afterwards done there until one of the defendants in 1884 made the location under which they claimed;
that from the time when work was so abandoned until July 1,
1869, when the town-site patent was granted, the portion of
the ledge included within the boundaries of these lots was regarded as worked out, and as of no further value for mining
purposes, and was not known to be valuable for mining purposes at the date of that patent, nor discovered to be so before
the plaintiffs and their predecessors occupied and improved the
lots for .the purpose of residence under the town-site patent.
Having decided that to be the state of facts at the time when
the town-site patent took effect -and assuming that the provision of the act of March 2,1867, that no title should be
acquired by a town-site patent "to any mine of gold, silver,
cinnabar, or copper," was not repealed by the provision of the
act of June 8, 1868, c. 53, that no title should be so acquired
to "any valid mining claim or possession held under the exist
ing laws of Congress," but stood with it, as in the reenactment
of both provisions in section 2392 of the Revised Statutesthe court decided, as matter of law, that land not known at

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the time to be valuable for minerals was not excepted from
the operation of a town-site patent, even if afterwards found
to contain minerals which might be profitably worked. The
defendants thereupon sued out this writ of error.
The only Federal question presented by the writ of error is
whether there was error in this decision in matter of law.
The proposition of law on which the plaintiffs in error rely
is thus stated in their brief: "When a quartz ledge, known to
be gold-bearing and to have been profitably worked prior to
the acquisition of a town-site patent in the year 1869, and not
then worked out, is situated within the exterior boundaries of
the patent," "the rights of the government and its mining
grantees are not limited to such actual mining or tunnel possession as may have existed before the town-site patent; or to
any continuance of a mining claim or possession by prior
locators or their grantees; but the government owns and can
grant the right to any quartz mine or gold-bearing ledge,
which was known to exist and to be valuable for minerals
before the town-site patent was obtained, and which was not
worked out, when the town-site patent was obtained; and the
rights of a subsequent locator under the government, by virtue
of its reservation of the mine, and of the mining acts of 1866
and 1872, include a reasonable quantity of surface for the convenient working of the ledge, not exceeding three hundred
feet on each side thereof."
The essential difference between this proposition and that
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State of California is
that the plaintiffs in error insist that if the ledge in question
was known to have been gold-bearing and to have been profitably worked before the acquisition of the town-site patent,
and had not in fact been worked out before the acquisition of
that patent, the right to that ledge was not included in the
patefit, but was reserved to the United States, and would pass
by a subsequent mining location; whereas the court held that
if the ledge was not known, at the time of the acquisition of
The town-site patent, to contain such an amount of minerals as
to be valuable for mining purposes, it was not excepted from
the operation of that patent.

DOWER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

There can be no doubt that the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State in this respect was correct. It is established
by former decisions of this court, that, under the acts of Congress which govern this case, in order to except mines or
mineral lands from the operation of a town-site patent, it is
not sufficient that the lands do in fact contain minerals, or
even valuable minerals, when the town-site patent takes effect;
but they must at that time be known to contain minerals of
such extent and value as to justify expenditures for the purpose of extracting them ; and if the lands are not known at
that time to be so valuable for mining purposes, the fact that
they have once been valuable, or are afterwards discovered to
be still valuable, for such purposes, does not defeat or impair
the title of persons claiming under the town-site patent.
Defebaek v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392; Davis v. Weibbold, 139
U. S. 507.
The principal ground on which the plaintiffs in error seek
to reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
that its decision in matter of fact was erroneous, and contrary
to the weight of the evidence in the case. But to review the
decision of the state court upon the question of fact is not
within the jurisdiction of this court.
In the legislation of Congress, from the foundation of the
government, a writ of error, which brings up matter of law
only, has always been distinguished from an appeal, which,
unless expressly restricted, brings up both law and fact. Fiscart v. Dauchy, 3 Dall. 321; United States v. Goodwin, I
Cranch, 108; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 410; Hernmenway v. Fisher,20 How. 255, 258; in re ifeagle, 135 U. S.
1, 42.
In the first Judiciary Act, the whole appellate jurisdiction
of this court was limited to matters of law. While an appeal
lay from the District Court to the Circuit Court in admiralty
cases, neither the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Court,
whether in law, equity or admiralty, nor judgments or decrees
of the highest court of a State, could be reviewed by this
court, except by writ of error. Act of September 24, 1789, c.
20, §§ 19, 22-25; 1 Stat. 83-86.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Under that act, it was held that a decree in admiralty could
not be reviewed by this court in matter of fact; and Chief
Justice Ellsworth, after laying down the rule that the appellate jurisdiction of this court could only be exercised within
the regulations prescribed by Congress, said: "It is to be considered, then, that the judicial statute of the United States
speaks of an appeal and of a writ of error; but it does not
confound the terms, nor use them promiscuously. They are
to be understood, when used, according to their ordinary acceptation, unless something appears in the act itself to control,
modify or change the fixed and technical sense which they
have previously borne. An appeal is a process of civil law
origin, and removes a cause entirely, subjecting the fact, as
well as the law, to a review and retrial; but a writ of error is
a process of common law origin, and it removes nothing for
reexamination but the law." Wiscart v. Dauchy, 3 Dall. 327;
The Perseverance,3 Dall. 336 ; The Charles Carter,4 Dall. 22.
In 1803, Congress substituted an appeal from the Circuit
Court to this court, instead of a writ of error, in cases in equity
and in admiralty; and upon such an appeal the facts as well
as the law were open to review in both those classes of cases
until 1875, when the appeal in admiralty was restricted to
questions of law. Act of March 3, 1803, c. 40; 2 Stat. 244;
The San Pedro, 2 Wheat. 132; The Baltimore, 8 Wall. 377;
Rev. Stat. § 692; Act of February 16, 1875, c. 77, § 1; 18 Stat.
315; The -FrancisIFright, 105 U. S.381.
Judgments of the Circuit Court in actions at law have remained reviewable by writ of error only. Jones v. La Flallette,
5 Wall. 579; Act of July 4, 1840, c. 43, § 3; 5 Stat. 393;
IRev. Stat. § 691. Upon such a writ of error, this court, as
is well settled, cannot review a decision of a question of fact,
even if by the local practice, as in Louisiana, the law and the
facts are tried together by the judge without a jury.
In such a case, Mr. Justice Story said: "We have no authority, as an appellate court, upon a writ of error, to revise the
evidence in the court below, in order to ascertain whether the
judge rightly interpreted the evidence or drew right conclusions from it. That is the Proper province of the jury; or of

DOWER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

the judge himself, if the trial by jury is waived, and it is submitted to his personal decision." H yde v. Booraem, 16 Pet.
169, 176.
In a petitory action, in the nature of ejectment, to recover land in Louisiana, the subject was fully explained by
Chief Justice Taney, who (according to the original opinion
on file, misprinted in some particulars in the official report)
said: "According to the laws of that State, unless one of the
parties demands a trial by jury, the court decides the fact as
well as the law; and if the judgment is removed to a higher
court for revision, the decision upon the fact as well as the
law is open for examination in the appellate court. The record transmitted to the superior court, therefore, in the state
practice necessarily contains all the evidence offered in the
inferior court. And as there is no distinction between courts
of law and courts of equity, the legal and equitable rights of
the parties are tried and decided in the same proceeding. In
the courts of the United States, however, the distinction between courts of law and of equity is preserved in Louisiana as
well as in the other States. And the removal of the case from
the Circuit Court to this court is regulated by act of Congress,
and not by the practice of Louisiana; and the writ of error,
by which alone a case can he removed from a Circuit Court
when sitting as a court of law, brings up for revision here
nothing but questions of law; and if the case has been tried
according to the Louisiana practice, without the intervention
of a jury, the decisions of the Circuit Court upon questions of
fact are as conclusive as if they had been found by the jury."
The Chief Justice stated that, upon the first argument of the
case at a former term, the court, its attention "not having
been drawn to the difference between an appeal in the state
practice, and the writ of error from this court," and being of
opinion that the weight of evidence was against the authenticity of an instrument under which one of the parties claimed
title, and which the Circuit Court had held to be authentic,
therefore reversed the judgment of that court; but*that this
court, upon reconsideration, was "unanimously of opinion that
the decision of the Circuit Court upon this question of fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

must, like the finding of a jury, be regarded as conclusive;
that the writ of error can bring up nothing but questions of
law; and that, in deciding the question of title in this court,
the paper referred to must be treated and considered as authentic and sufficiently proved;" and had therefore ordered
the case to be reargued. United States v. ZKing, 7 How. 833,
84, 8415. Upon the final argument, while four of the justices
dissented from the opinion of the court upon the principal
question of law presented by the record, none of them differed
from the Chief Justice on the question of practice; and Ir.
Justice Wayne, who delivered the principal dissenting opinion,
said: "No point has been more repeatedly and authoritatively
settled, than that this court will not, upon a writ of error,
revise or give judgment as to the facts, but takes them as found
by the court below, and as they are exhibited by the record."
7 How. 865. See also Parks v. Turner, 12 How. 39, 43;
Athurs v. Hart,17 How. 6, 12; lanfear v. Hunley, 4 Wall.
204, 209; Generes v. Carmpbell, 11 Wall. 193; Jeffries v. futual Ins. Co., 110 U. S. 305, 309.
-The only appellate jurisdiction which has ever been conferred by Congress upon this court to review the judgments
or decrees, at law or in equity, of the highest court of a State,
has been by writ of error. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264,
410; Verden v. Coleman, 22 How. 192; Act of September 24,
1789, c. 20, § 25; 1 Stat. 85; Act of February 5, 1867, c. 28,
§ 2; 14 Stat. 386; iRev. Stat. § 709; Act of March 3, 1891, c.
517, § 5; 26 Stat. 827.
Such a writ of error can be sustained only when the decision
of the state court is against a right claimed under the Constitution and laws of the United States. 2fontgomnery v. llernandez, 12 Wheat. 129; 3fissouri v. Andriano, 138 U. S.496.
And if the decision of the state court rests on an independent
ground of law, not involving any Federal question, this court
has no jurisdiction. -Yew Orleans Waterworks v. Louisiana
Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18; Eustis v. -Bolles, 150 U. S. 361;
California Powder Works v. Davis, ante, 389. The reasons
against its jurisdiction are as strong, if not stronger, when the
decision of the state court proceeds upon matter of fact only.

DOWER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

When, indeed, the question decided by the state court is not
merely of the weight or sufficiency of the evidence to prove a
fact, but of the competency and legal effect of the evidence as
bearing upon a question of Federal law, the decision may be
reviewed by this court. It was accordingly said by Mr. Justice Catron: "The powers of the Supreme Court are limited
in cases coming up from the state courts, under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act, to questions of law, where
the final judgment or decree draws in question the validity of
a treaty or statute of the United States, &c., or where their
construction is drawn in question, or an authority exercised
under them; and as the admission of evidence to establish the
mere fact of boundary in regard to the extent of grant cannot
raise a question involving either the validity or construction
of an act of Congress, etc., this court has no jurisdiction to
consider and revise the decision of a state court, however erroneous it may be in admitting the evidence to establish the fact.
But when evidence is admitted as competent for this purpose,
and it is sought to give it effect for other purposes which do
involve questions giving this court jurisdiction, then the decisions of state courts on the effect of such evidence may be fully
considered here, and their judgments reversed or affirmed, in a
similar manner as if a like question had arisen in a Supreme
Court of error of a State, when reversing the proceedings of
inferior courts of original jurisdiction." .Mackay v. Dillon, 4
How. 421, 44:7. The only questions of evidence considered in
that case arose upon a bill of exceptions to the legal competency of evidence relied on to prove a title under an act of
Congress.
Again, in Almonester v. .fenton, Mr. Justice Catron said:
"Now that this court has no jurisdiction, under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, to reexamine the
decision of a state court, which drew in question the mere fact
of where a dividing line between two tracts of land was, is
too plain for discussion. Had the decision of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana stopped here, then certainly jurisdiction
would be wantin." 9 How. 1, 1. And this court assumed
jurisdiction of that case solely because the state court had

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

gone further, and had given a construction to an act of
Congress.
So in Moreland v. Page, this court dismissed a writ of
error to review the judgment of a state court upon a question
of the proper boundary between two tracts of land, although
the owner of each claimed under a grant from the United
States; and Mr. Justice Grier in delivering judgment said:
"It is a question of fact, depending on monuments to be found
on the ground, documents in the land office, or the opinion of
experts or surveyors appointed by the court or the parties.
If the accident to the controversy that both parties claim title
under the United States should be considered as sufficient to
bring it within our jurisdiction, then every controversy involving the title to such lands, whether it involve the inheritance, partition, devise or sale of it, may, with equal propriety,
be subject to the examination of this court in all time to come."
20 How. 522, 523.
In Lytle v. Arkansas, in which the Supreme Court of
Arkansas had decided against a preemptive right claimed
under the laws of the United States, Mr. Justice Catron said:
"It is not material whether the invalidity of the title was
decreed in the Supreme Court of Arkansas upon a question of
fact or of law. The fact that the title was rejected in that
court authorizes this court to reexamine the decree." 22 How.
193, 203. Those observations must be taken as applied to the
case before the court, in which the decision of the question of
fact depended on the legal effect of acts of officers of the
United States regarding that title; and that it was not intended to enlarge the scope of the appellate jurisdiction of
this court is evident from the cases there cited. See also
.Magwirev. Tyler, 1 Black, 195, 203.
That this court, in an action at law, at least, has no jurisdiction to review the decision of the highest court of a State
upon a pure question of fact, although a Federal question
would or would not be presented according to the way in
which the question of fact was decided, is clearly settled by
a series of later decisions, some of them in cases very like the
one now before us.

DOWER v. RIOHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

In Lewis v. Caml)au, (1865,) 3 Wall. 106, a decision of the
state court as to the value of land conveyed by deed, upon which
depended the requisite amount of stamps under the revenue law
of the United States, was held not to be reviewable, although,
if the value of the land had been admitted, a Federal question
would have been presented. Hall v. Jordan,15 Wall. 393.
In Boggs v. .ining Co., (1865,) a right of possession for the
purpose of extracting gold from quartz rock was claimed "by
a license inferred from the general policy of the State or of
the United States, in relation to mines of gold and silver and
the lands containing them;" and a writ of error to review a
decision of the Supreme Court of California against the claim
was dismissed by this court, speaking by Chief Justice Chase,
for the following reasons: "We doubt whether such a claim,
even if made in the pleadings, would be such an allegation as
would give jurisdiction to this court. However that may be,
there was no decision of the court against the validity of such
a license. The decision was, that no such license existed; and
this was a finding by the court of a question of fact upon
the submission of the whole case by the parties, rather than
a judgment upon a question of law. It is the same case, in
principle, as would be made by an allegation, in defence to an
action of ejectment, of a patent from the United States, with
an averment of its loss or destruction, and a finding by the
jury that no such patent existed, and a consequent judgment
for the defendant. Such a judgment would deny, not the
validity, but the existence of the. patent. And this court
would have no jurisdiction to review it." 3 Wall. 304, 310.
In Ca'enter v. Williams, (1869,) it was held that this court
had no jurisdiction where the decision of the state court turned
upon the identity of the person to whom a recorder of land
titles confirmed, or intended to confirm, a lot of ground; and
Mr. Justice Miller in delivering judgment said: "It is a mistake to suppose that every suit for real estate, in which the
parties claiming under the Federal government are at issue as
to iyhich of them is entitled to the benefit of that title, necessarily raises a question of Federal cognizance. If this were
so, the title to all the vast domain, once vested in the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

States, could be brought from the state courts to this tribunal."
9 Wall. 785, 786.
In Cra-y v. 1evlin, (decided February 21, 1876,) in an action
to recover the price of alcohol sold, the defendants contended
that the sale was unlawful because of a violation of the internal revenue laws of the United States. The Court of Appeals
of New York gave judgment for the plaintiff, because no such
violation was proved; and this court dismissed the writ of
error, upon the authority of Boggs v. .3iningCo., above cited;
Chief Justice Waite saying: "There could have been no decision of the Court of Appeals against the validity of any
statute of the United States, because it was found that the
facts upon which the defendants below relied to bring their
case within the statute in question did not exist. The judgment did not deny the validity of the statute, but the existence
of the facts necessary to bring the case within its operation."
23 Lawyers C. P. Co.'s Rep. 510, 511,
In Republican River Biidge Co. v. .Tansas PacificRailway,
(decided a week later,) in an action at law concerning the title
to real estate, in which each party claimed under a grant from
Congress, a district court of the State of Kansas, to which the
case had been submitted without the intervention of a jury,
made findings of fact, upon which it declared the law to be
for the defendant; its judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, and the plaintiff sued out a writ of error
from this court. Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering the opinion,
said: "The finding by the district court was received by the
Supreme Court of the State as conclusive as to all facts in
issue, and it is equally conclusive upon us. Where a right is
set up under an act of' Congress in a state court, any matter
of law found in the record, decided by the highest court of
the State, bearing on the right so set up under the act of
Congtess, can be reexamined here. In cbancery cases, or in
any other class of cases where all the evidence becomes part
of the record in the highest court of the State, the same
record being brought here, this court can review the decision
of that court on both the law and the fact, so far as may be
necessary to determine the validity of the right set up under

DOWER v. RICHARDS.

0 671

Opinion of the Court.

the act of Congress. But in cases where the facts are submitted to a jury, and are passed upon by the verdict, in a
common law action, this court has the same inability to review
those facts in a case coming from a state court that it has in
a case coming from a Circuit Court of the United States. This
conclusiveness of the facts found extends to the finding by a
state court to whom they have been submitted by waiving a
jury, or to a referee, where they are so held by state laws, as
well as to the verdict of a jury." And Boggs v..Xining Co.,
and Crary v. Devlin, above cited, were referred to as supporting this conclusion. 92 U. S. 315-317; 23 Lawyers C. P.
Co.'s Rep. 515, 516.
Whether the suggestion in that opinion, as to the power of
this court in chancery cases to review the decision of a state
court on both the law and the fact, is to be limited to cases in
which the decree of that court is general upon the whole
record, without specifically passing upon any question of fact;
and whether the suggestion, especially if more broadly construed, can be reconciled with the earlier opinions of this
court, already cited, upon writs of error to the Circuit Court
of the United States in admiralty cases, or in cases tried
according to the law of Louisiana; neea not now be considered.
In .Martin v. Xlarks, (1877,) upon a writ of error to the
Supreme Court of Louisiana" in an action in the nature of
ejectment, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for this court, said
that the question whether a selection of swamp lands had
in fact been filed by the surveyor general of Louisiana in the
General Land Office was "not of that Federal character which
authorizes us to review the decision of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana upon it." 97 U. S. 345, 348.
In Henney, trustee, v. Lfinger, (1885,) this court dismissed
a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State
of Virginia., for reasons stated in the opinion delivered by Mr.
Justice Field as follows: "The writ of error brought by the
trustee raises no Federal question which we can consider.
Whether the bond of Effinger was or was not executed with
reference to Confederate notes is a question of fact for the
state court, and not one of law for this court." 115 U. S. 577.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In Quimby v. Boyd, (1888,) in which various errors were
assigned in a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
Colorado between two adverse claimants of a lode, this court,
speaking by the present Chief Justice, dismissed the writ of
error for want of jurisdiction, because some of the objections
made in this court had not been taken below, and "the other
alleged errors involved questions, either of fact, or of state and
not of Federal law." 128 U. S. 488, 489.
In California Powder Tforks v. Davis, ante, 389, in which
each party to a suit to quiet title claimed under a patent from
the United States confirming a Mexican grant, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of California rested on the proposition of fact that the grant under which the plaintiff in error
deraigned title was simulated and fraudulent, this court dismissed the writ of error for want of jurisdiction.
The case now before us is an action of ejectment, which was
submitted to the Supreme Court of the same State, according
to the local practice, upon findings of fact and a statement of
evidence by an inferior court of the State. From the foregoing reasons and authorities, it follows that this court cannot
review the decision of the state court upon the question of
fact whether the ledge, at the time when the town-site patent
took effect, was known to be valuable for mining purposes;
and the only question of Federal law in the case having been
rightly decided by that court, its judgment is
Aflrmed.
m. JUSTICE tHRLA-w concurred in the judgment of affirmance,
but not in all the reasoning of the opinion.

