TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. VOLK.
Statement of the Case.

7 Pet. 399; Todd v. Daniel, 16 Pet. 521, 523; .Masterson v.
Her'ndon, 10 Wall. 416; fardee v. Wilson, 146 U. S. 179.
Apeal dismised.

TEXAS

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY
VOLK.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 161. Argued and submitted December 13, 1893. -Decided

FOR THE

January 3, 1894.

In an action for personal injuries, exceptions to rulings upon exemplary
damages become immaterial if the court afterwards withdraws the claim
for such damages from the consideration of the jury, and a verdict is
returned for "actual damages" only.
The omission of the court to instruct the jury upon a point of law arising
in the case is not the subject of a bill of exceptions, unless an instruction
upon the point was requested by the excepting party.
In an action against a railroad company by one of several workmen employed by another corporation in unloading a railroad car, for personal
-injuries sustained by being thrown off the car by the running of an engine
and other cars against it, testimony of another of the workmen that they
were busy at their work, and did not think of the approach of the engine
until it struck the car, is competent evidence for the plaintiff upon the
issue of contributory negligence on his part.
In an action for personal injuries, brought against a railroad company by a
workman in the employ of another corporation, testimony that after his
injuries his employer "just kept him on, seeing he got hurt, so he could
make a living for his wife and family," is competent evidence upon the
question how far his capacity of earning a livelihood was impaired by
his injuries.
Judgment affirmed with additional damages under Rev. Stat. ยง 1010 and
Rule 23 of this court.

THIS was an action against a railroad corporation incorporated by act of Congress, to recover for personal injuries.
The petition alleged that while the plaintiff, a laborer
employed in the Fort Worth Iron Works, a corporation owning and carrying on a shop or foundry, was assisting in
unloading an iron boiler from a railroad car disconnected from

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

any engine and standing upon a side track or switch belonging
to or used by that corporation, close by its shop or foundry,
and connected with the defendant's line of railway, the
defendant, by its agents and servants, wilfully and with gross
negligence, caused an engine and cars to run against the car
upon which the plaintiff was at work, whereby he was knocked
down and thrown off the car, severely injured, disabled to
work, and put to expense for medicines and physicians' fees,
"all to his damage twenty-five thousand one hundred and
twenty-five dollars."
The petition further alleged that "said acts of negligence
have by the defendant railway company been ratified and
adopted in this, that said company has retained said reckless
and negligent servants in its employ after having been notified
of their said reckless and negligent acts and the injury inflicted
upon the plaintiff thereby, and in failing to in any way prevent or to take any steps to prevent the occurrence of such
accidents in future. By reason whereof the plaintiff says he
is entitled to the further sum of ten thousand dollars by way
of exemplary damages."
The defendant, by way of demurrer, excepted to the petition, because it did not appear therefrom that the plaintiff
was without fault or negligence in the premises; and excepted
also to the sufficiency of the allegations claiming exemplary
damages; and, by way of answer, denied all the allegations
of the petition, and pleaded not guilty; and, for special
answer, set up that, if the plaintiff was injured as alleged,
"said injuries were caused by the plaintiff's own contributory
negligence and want of care in failing to get off the car after
the danger was apparent, but before said car upon which the
plaintiff was at work had been struck."
The jury returned a verdict "for the plaintiff, and assess his
actual damages at eight thousand dollars." Judgment was
rendered on the verdict, and the defendant tendered a bill
of exceptions, so much of which as related to the points
argued in this court was as followsi
First. The court overruled the exception to the sufficiency
of the allegations in the petition claiming exemplary damages;

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. VOLK.

76

Statement of the Case.

"and allowed the plaintiff, over the defendant's objection, to
introduce evidence to the effect that the engineer and fireman
in charge of said engine had been retained in the defendant's
employment and had never been censured or reprimanded for
the accident in question. To all of which the defendant
excepted at the time. But the court, in its charge to the jury,
after hearing the argument upon the question of exemplary
damages, withdrew from their consideration the claim of
exemplary damages."
Second. The court overruled the exception that the petition
did not show that the plaintiff was without fault or negligence.
The defendant, thereupon, in support of the answer setting up
contributory negligence of the plaintiff, "introduced evidence
tending to show that at the'time of accident the plaintiff was
on top of the car from which he was thrown, and walking
upright with his face towards the approaching engine; and
further evidence tending to show that the car upon which
plaintiff was at work was separated from certain other cars on
said track by an open space of fifty or sixty feet, and that
the engine in motion ran against and struck certain other cars
on said side track, pushed them over this intervening space,
and ran them against the car upon which plaintiff had been
at work. But the court did not charge upon contributory
negligence; to which the defendant excepted."
Third. The plaintiff, in proving his case, introduced the
deposition of one Bauer, in which he testified that he was one
of those unloading the car upon which the plaintiff was at
work, and, "in answer to a question by the plaintiff, and over
the defendant's objection that the answer was incompetent,
was allowed to testify as follows: ' We didn't know what was
coming until she struck the car, for we were busy at work
and not thinking of the engine coming in, knowing that they
had no right to make any flying switch in there, anyhow.'
"To which ruling the defendant excepted."
Fourth. "In further proof of his case, the plaintiff introduced the witness Bauer to show the character of the work
performed by the plaintiff, both before and after the accident;
and, over the defendant's objection that it was irrelevant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

incompetent and misleading, said witness was allowed to
testify that now the iron foundry 'just keep him on, being he
got hurt (referring to the plaintiff), so he could make a living
for his wife and family.' To which ruling the defendant
excepted."
"To the action of the court in its rulings upon the exceptions
to the plaintiff's petition and the testimony in the case, as well
as the charge to the jury, the defendant excepted at the time;"
and, after the allowance of its bill of exceptions, sued out this
writ of error.
The defendant in error suggested that the writ of error had
been sued out merely for delay; and asked for damages, in
addition to interest on the judgment below, under section 1010
of the Revised Statutes and Rule 23 of this court.
.Mr. John F. .Dillon, (with whom were .Mr. Winslow S.
Pierce and MrM. fHarry Hubbard on the brief,) for plaintiff in
error.
I. The court erred in admitting evidence to the effect that
the engineer and fireman in charge of the engine which caused
the accident in question had been retained in defendant's
employment, and had never been censured or reprimanded for
the accident.
This point arises under the first exception. The facts which
this evidence tended to prove occurred after the accident in
question, and were wholly irrelevant. This evidence was
inadmissible, because it was irrelevant, and was calculated to
distract the minds of the jury from the real issue and to create
a prejudice against the defendant. This precise point has been
determined in a similar case in this court, in which this court
decided that testimony as to the conduct of a railway company after an accident occurred is irrelevant, and its admission
is error, for which the court will reverse the judgment. columbia Railroad Co. v. Iawthorne, 144: U. S. 202.
The error committed in permitting this evidence to go to
the jury, "distracting their minds from the real issue and
prejudicing them against the defendant," was not cured by

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. VOLK.
Opinion of the Court.

the fact that the court afterwards withdrew from their consideration the claim for exemplary damages.
II. The court erred in failing to charge the jury upon contributory negligence.
As there was no charge upon this point, of course none
could be set out in the bill of exceptions. The fact that the
defendant excepted to the court's failing to charge upon contributory negligence shows that this matter was expressly
called to the attention of the court, a request made to charge,
and that the court declined to charge upon this subject. This
action was taken by the court, notwithstanding the issue of
contributory negligence was before the jury, and there was
evidence on behalf of the defendant, as above stated, tending
to support this issue. This was clearly error. Rodrian v.
New York &o. Railroad,125 N. Y. 526; .Dublin, Wicklow
& Wexford Railway v. Slattery, 3 App. Cas. 1166.
In the case of Jones v. East Tennessee &c. Railroad, 128
U. S. 443, this court decided that the question of contributory
negligence should have been submitted to the jury under
proper instructions from the court. The failure of the court
to charge upon contributory negligence was therefore clearly
error for which the judgment should be reversed.
.Ar. A. I. Garland,for defendant in error, submitted on
his brief.
MR.. JUSTICE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The rulings as to the allegations and proof upon the subject
of exemplary damages became immaterial by the subsequent
instruction of the court withdrawing from the consideration
of the jury the claim of such damages, and by the return of a
verdict for actual damages only. Pennsylvania Co. v. Roy,
102 U. S. 451; Yew York, Lake Erie & TWestern Railroadv.
, Madison, 123 U. S. 524.
By the settled law of this court, not controverted at the bar,
contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff need not

OCTOBER TERML, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

be negatived or disproved by him, but the burden of proving
it is upon the defendant. Inland & Seaboard Co. v. Tolson,
139 U. S. 551, 557. The omission of the court to instruct the
jury upon the subject of the plaintiff's contributory negligence
is not open to exception, because the bill of exceptions does
not show that the defendant requested any instruction upon
that subject. In England, it is misdirection, and not nondirection, which is the subject of a bill of exceptions. Anderson v. Fitzgerald, 4 H. L. Gas. 484, 499. In this country, the
rule is somewhat more liberal; and the not giving an instruction upon a point in issue may be excepted to, if one was requested, but not otherwise. In a very early case, Chief Justice
Marshall said: "There can be no doubt of the right of a party
to require the opinion of the court on any point of law which
is pertinent to the issue, nor that the refusal of the court to
give such opinion furnishes cause for an exception." Smith v.
Carrington,4 Cranch, 62, 71. As afterwards more fully stated
by Mr. Justice Story, "it is no ground of reversal that the
court below omitted to give directions to the jury upon any
points of law which might arise in the cause, where it was not
requested by either party at the trial. It is sufficient for us
that the court has given no erroneous directions. If either
party deems any point presented by the evidence to be omitted
in the charge, it is competent for such party to require an
opinion from the court upon that point. If he does not, it is
a waiver of it." Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1, 15. See
also Express Co. v. Kountze, 8 Wall. 349, 353, 354; Skutte v.
Thompson, 15 Wall. 151, 164. A request for instructions,
being necessary to entitle the excepting party to avail himself
of an omission to instruct, cannot be presumed, but must
affirmatively appear in the bill of exceptions.
The testimony of one of the men who were working with
the plaintiff in unloading the car at the time of the injury,
that they were busy at their work and did not think of the
approach of the engine until it struck the car, related to facts
which might naturally be within his knowledge, and be apparent from the behavior of the workmen; and was competent, though perhaps not important, evidence upon the issue

AZTEC MINING CO. v. RIPLEY.
Syllabus.

of contributory negligence presented by the defendant's
answer.
The testimony as to the circumstances of the continuance of
the plaintiff in the employ of the iron works, after being
injured, was offered only "to show the character of the work
performed by the plaintiff, both before and after the accident;" and was competent evidence upon the question how
far his capacity of earning a livelihood had been impaired by
his injuries. JFicksburg&c. Railroad v. Putnam, 118 U. S.
545, 554; Richmond & .Danville Railroad v. Blliott, 149
U. S. 266, 268.
The writ of error appears to this court to have had no
plausible ground to support it, and to have been sued out
merely for delay. The motion of the defendant in error is
therefore granted, and the
Judgment affirmed, with interest, and ten per cent damages.

AZTEC MINING COMPANY v. RIPLEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 870. Submitted December 18, 1893. -Decided

January 3, 1894.

The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit has no jurisdiction in
error over a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico in a case not in admiralty, nor arising under the criminal,
revenue, or patent laws of the United States, nor between aliens and
citizens of the United States or between citizens of different States.
This court has jurisdiction to review decrees or judgments of the Supreme
Courts of the Territories except in cases which may be taken to the Circuit Courts of Appeals, or where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
does not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars.
Congress intended to confer upon this court jurisdiction to pass upon the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of Appeals in cases involving the
question of the finality of its judgment under section six of the act of
March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517.
MOTION

to dismiss or affirm.

