HrALLIDAY v. STUART.
Syllabus.

excuse is offered why the patentee did not discover the negligence and error of his solicitor in due time. On the contrary,
he assumed, without examination, that the specification and
claims of his patents were just what he had desired and intended
they should be, and rested quietly in ignorance of the error
and of his rights for nearly three years, and then did not discover them until after others had discovered that he had
lost the right to repair his error by his neglect to assert it
within a reasonable time."
In the case in hand the excuse put forward is that the
patentee followed the advice of his solicitor, and, therefore,
did not apply within due time. Manifestly this will not do.
Dobson v. Lees, 137 U. S. 258.
As the charge of infringement related to claims which were
expansions of the original claims and not covered by them,
lollensak v. ]?eiker, 115 U. S. 96, the demurrer was properly
sustained.
Decree afflrmed.

HALLIDAY v. STUART.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
THE EASTERN

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

DISTRICT, OF ARKANSAS.

No. 25. Argued October 12, 1893.-

Decided January 8, 1894.

The attorneys of record on both sides, in a suit in equity to enforce a lien
on real estate in which a decree for sale had been entered and an appeal
taken without a supersedeas, made and signed a written agreement that
the property might be sold under the decree pending the appeal, and that
the money might be paid into court in place of the property, to abide the
decision on the appeal. The property was sold under the decree, and
the money was paid into court. Held, that the agreement was one which
the attorneys had power to make in the exercise of their general authority, and as incidental to the management of the interests entrusted to
them, and that the principals should not be permitted to disregard it to
the injury of one who purchased, in good faith, at a judicial sale.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A..H. Garland,(with whom were .A&. D. I. Reynolds
and .21r. H.

T2fay on the brief,) for appellant.

.Xr. Mark Valen'tine and 2lr. Julian S. Jones for appellees.
MnI.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents a dispute as to the ownership of certain
lands in Chicot County, Arkansas. The appellant, who was
the plaintiff below, holds a commissioner's deed made by order
of the Circuit Court of that county in a foreclosure suit brought
by the personal representative of Junius W. Craig, while the
appellees hold a commissioner's deed made by order of the
same court, in the same cause, at a subsequent date. The relief
sought is a decree restraining the defendants from all- attempts
to take possession of the lands, or from obtaining a writ of
possession for them. The bill having been dismissed, the
present appeal has been prosecuted.
The transcript does not contain the pleadings in the suit in
which the lands were sold, but from various orders made in
that cause, copies of which are made exhibits to the bill in the
present suit, the following facts appear:
On the 2d day of February, 1878, the equity suit of Emma J.
TFrigkt, Executrix, v. Samuel Ri. Walker et al.* came on to be
heard in the Chicot Circuit Court on the answer and cross-bill
of John S. Whitaker, executor of the estate of Horace F.
Walworth, deceased, the motion to strike out a part of that
answer and cross-bill, and a demurrer to the remainder thereof,
the petition of Richard H. Stuart, and the motion to strike
out the same, and the original pleadings in the cause. These
motions and the demurrer were sustained, and it was adjudged
that there was a lien on the lands here in question to secure
the payment of a certain sum found to be due the plaintiff in
that suit. The lands were ordered to be sold at public auction,
in satisfaction of that amount, on the notice required in cases
of sales of land under execution, the terms being one-half cash
and the balance in eight months, with a lien retained to secure
the deferred payment. James R. Martin was appointed commissioner to make the sale. Whitaker, as executor of Wal-

HALLIDAY v. STUART.
Opinion of the Court.

worth, excepted to the decree, and prayed an appeal, which
was granted.
An order was entered, February 5, 1879, appointing R. M.
Gaines commissioner in the place of M:artin to make the sale.
On the 27th of February, 1879, a written agreement, signed
C. H. Carlton and W. W. Wilshire as "attorneys for Whitaker
et al.," and by D. H. Reynolds as "att'y for receiver," was
filed in the cause, and was as follows: "In the above-entitled
cause it is hereby agreed that the proceeds of any sale or sales
that may be made under any order or orders of sale or decree
of the court aforesaid shall be paid into said court by the
master or commissioner appointed by said court, sitting in
chancery or at chambers, for the sale of the property or any
part thereof ordered or decreed to be sold by said court in
said cause and held by said court until the disposition of an
appeal taken by said John S. Whitaker in said cause to the
Supreme Court of this State and now pending is disposed of,
and the mandate of said Supreme Court therein is filed in the
office of the clerk of said Circuit Court, and then only in pursuance of such mandate in the further proceedings in said
Circuit Court." Commissioner Gaines made his report July 15,
1879, showing a sale of the lands under the above decree, upon
due notice, on the 1st day of May, 1879, at which sale Halliday, being the highest and best bidder, became the purchaser
at the price of $1200, one-half of which was paid at the time
in cash. The commissioner brought the cash payment into
court, and reported for examination and approval a deed to
Halliday, retaining a lien for the deferred payment. The
court confirmed the sale in all things, and approved the deed,
directing its approval to be entered of record, endorsed on the
deed, and recorded with it.
From the exhibits attached to the answer the following
facts appear:
On the 30th day of October, 1880, the Supreme Court of
Arkansas, in the above case, on the appeal of John S. Whitaker, executor, made the following order: "This cause came
on to be heard upon the transcript of the record of the Circuit
Court of Chicot County, in chancery, and was argued by

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

solicitors; on consideration whereof it is the opinion of the
court that there is error in the proceedings and decree of said
Circuit Court in chancery in this cause, in this, that said Circuit Court in chancery erred in striking out a part of the
answer as stated in the opinion, and also in sustaining the demurrer to the cross-bill and in decreeing in favor of the complainant. It is therefore ordered and decreed by the court
that the decree of said Circuit Court in chancery in this cause
rendered be, and the same is hereby, for the error aforesaid,
reversed, annulled, and set aside, with costs, and that this cause
be remanded to said Circuit Court in chancery for further proceedings to be therein had, according to the principles of equity
and not inconsistent with the opinion herein delivered, with
instructions that an administrator de bonis non of J. W. Craig
may be appointed, if there is none, and that he be made a
party complainant."
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Arkansas, referred to
in that order, was rendered at the May term, 1880, of that
court, and is reported as TF7itaker v. WVright, 35 Arkansas,
511, 514. That case was first before the court at the May
term, 1875, (Wright v. Walker, 30 Arkansas, 44, 46,) upon the
appeal of Emma J. Wright, to whom letters of administration
upon the estate of Junius W. Craig had been granted, and who
had been substituted as plaintiff in place of Joshua M. Craig,
former administrator of the same estate. The same opinion
states that in Whitaker's cross-bill in the original cause it is
averred that Emma J. Wright, the plaintiff therein, "had
married and removed from the State, and so had ceased to be
executrix; and that she had previously, on the 15th day of
December, 1867, entered into an agreement in writing with
certain of the principal creditors of the estate, that the whole
assets of the estate should be placed in the hands of a receiver,
and to retire from the administration; in accordance with
which agreement, and upon her application, a receiver was
appointed, and he had taken possession and charge of the
same, and her connection with the estate, and authority in
respect to it, had from that time ceased." The court, among
other things, said: "We, therefore, think the court erred in

HALLIDAY v. STUART.
Opinion of the Court.

sustaining the demurrer to the appellant's cross-bill.

It also

erred in striking out of his answer the averment that the complainant had married and removed from the State, and so had
ceased to be executrix. Neither a married woman nor a nonresident of the State can be an executrix or administratrix.
Gantt's Digest, secs. 9, 1'(, 35. If the averment was true, the
complainant had no authority to further prosecute the suit,
and though the assets of the estate were in the hands of a receiver, as alleged, there was no representative of the estate
who might prosecute it; and it could not be further prosecuted
until an administrator, with the will annexed, was appointed."
The decree was, therefore, reversed, "and the cause remanded,
that an administrator, with the will annexed of Junius W.
Craig, may be appointed, if the complainant has ceased to be
executrix, and for further proceedings."
On the 30th day of January, 1882, Stuprt and Walker, as
executors, etc., and as defendants in the cause which was then
entitled " J oh n G. B. Sims, Admer de bonis non, &c. v. Samuel
B. TFalker & others," filed, by leave of the court, (but, so far
as the record discloses, without notice to Halliday,) a motion
to set aside the decree theretofore rendered, and the sale and
order of confirmation made under it. On the same day the
cause was heard on that motion, and on the mandate of the
Supreme Court of Arkansas, and it was ordered: "It appearing
that the decree of foreclosure and sale was rendered when there
was no representative of the estate of Junius W. Craig,
deceased, who could prosecute said suit, and that the sale was
made and confirmed when the cause was pending in the
Supreme Court on the appeal of John S. Whitaker, as executor of Horace F. Walworth, deceased, and this court had no
jurisdiction, etc., on consideration whereof the court doth
adjudge, order, and decree that said decree and sale and order
of confirmation are null and void, and that the same be set
aside." On the same day (Halliday not being before the court
in any form) that cause was finally heard, and the lands
ordered to be again sold to pay the claim of Craig's estate,
which was declared to be a lien on the lands, subject to certain
claims of Stuart, and of Whitaker as executor of Walworth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The last sale occurred on the 10th of July, 1882, Stuart and
Whitaker, as agents and attorneys of the heirs of Walworth,
becoming the purchasers at the price of $2000. That sum
was credited on their respective claims, which exceeded the
amount of their bid. The sale was confirmed, and a deed by
the commissioner to the purchasers was made, and approved
by the court.
Whitaker, as executor of Walworth, prosecuted his appeal
from the decree of February 2, 1878, without supersedeas, and
the point is much pressed by the present appellant, that, independently of the agreement of February 27, 1879, that appeal
did not prevent the sale of May 1, 1879, at which he purchased.
This contention is based upon sections 1293, 1294, and 1295 of
the statutes of Arkansas, by one of which sections it is provided that "an appeal or writ of error shall not stay proceedings on the judgment or order, unless a supersedeas is issued."
Mansfield's Dig. 1881, Title, Court-Supreme, p. 386. The
appellees insist -thatthese sections do not apply to judgments
or orders affecting the estates of decedents, and that by section
1387 in the chapter relating to appeals to the Circuit Courts,
from the judgments or orders of Probate Courts, administrators, executors, and guardians are relieved from giving bond,
on appeal, and "all orders against them as such shall be superseded by the appeal." Mansfield's Dig. 1884, Title, Courts of
Probate, p. 405.
In the view this court takes of the case it is not necessary to
determine this question of statutory construction. In our
opinion the appellees are estopped by the agreement of February 27, 1879, from questioning the validity of the sale at
which Halliday purchased, upon the ground of its having been
made pending the appeal by Whitaker, as executor of Walworth. That agreement is exhibited with the bill, and there
is no dispute that it was signed by the attorneys of the appellees after Whitaker had taken his appeal. It is true that, in
their answer, appellees "deny that pending said appeal an
agreement was entered into between these defendants and the
plaintiff in said suit by which these defendants agreed that
the proceeds of any sale of property under said decree should

HALLIDAY v. STUART.
Opinion of the Court.

be paid into court, and there held in place of the property to
abide the decision of the case on appeal." Upon comparing
the allegations of the bill and the answer, it is manifest that
the defendants purposely restricted their denial to those averments of the bill which stated what the plaintiffs supposed
was the legal effect of the agreement. It is not denied that
the signatures of Carlton and Wilshire are genuine, or that
they were the attorneys of appellees in the foreclosure suit.
Nor is it suggested or hinted that they acted, in the matter of
that agreement, without the authority, knowledge, or consent
of appellees. So that the answer only intended to make the
point that appellees themselves did not agree that the proceeds
of any sale should be held by the Circuit Court, "in place of
the property, to abide the decision of the case on appeal."
That is simply playing upon words. The agreement was made
after Whitaker asked and was allowed an appeal. And it
was one which the attorneys of appellees might well have made
in the exercise of their general authority, and as incidental to
the management of the interests entrusted to them. &aleski
v. Boyd, 32 Arkansas, 74; Holker v. Parker,T Cranch, 436,
452; Tefries v. fut. Life Ins. Co., 110 U. S. 305, 309; .Moultor v. Bowker, 115 Mass. 36, 40; Cox v. -Yew York Central
&c.Railroad,63 N. Y. 414,419. It was not, to use the words
of Chief Justice 'Marshall in Holker v. Parker,"so unreasonable in itself as to be exclaimed against by all, and to create
an impression that the judgment of the attorney has been imposed on or not fairly exercised in the case." It was simply
an arrangement by which a sale that all the parties desired to
take place at some time, should not be delayed by the pendency
of Whitaker's appeal. And those who were parties to it,
directly or indirectly, should not be permitted to disregard it
to the injury of one, who purchased, in good faith, at a judicial
sale.
If, as appellees now insist, the appeal itself, without supersedeas bond, stopped all proceedings under the decree, until it
was disposed of in the Supreme Court, the only possible object
of an agreement, declaring that the proceeds of any sale or
sales made under any order of the court "shall be paid into

OCTOBER TER,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

court," and held there until Whitaker's appeal was determined,
was to enable a sale - a real, effective sale - to take place
notwithstanding the appeal, leaving the parties to continue
their contest over the proceeds of sale, rather than over the
lands in suit. And if a sale took place under the decree pursuant to that agreement, it was intended, so far at least as the
parties to the agreement were concerned, that the purchaser
should take title to the lands if the sale was in conformity with
the decree, and was approved by the court. Under all the circumstances, it must be taken that the sale, at which Halliday
purchased, occurred with the assent of the appellees. Any
other interpretation of the agreement would impute, bad faith
to the parties by whom it was executed.
It is said the agreement was not effectual for any purpose,
because the only parties to it were the receiver of Craig's
estate and the counsel for Stuart and Whitaker. But it was
assumed by the parties to the agreement that if signed by
those attorneys and by the attorney of the receiver, it would
be sufficient for all the purposes therein expressed. If Craig's
estate was not then before the court, by a personal representative, competent to bind it, that fact was known to those who
were parties to the agreement. Appellees, in effect, said by
the agreement to all who might attend a sale under the decree
of 1878, that so far as they were concerned, and notwithstanding Whitaker's appeal, they would look to the proceeds
of the sale of the lands, and not to the lands. Halliday having
purchased at a sale that took place with their assent, if not by
their procurement, and his purchase having been confirmed by
the court, the appellees ought not be heard now to say that
they will look to the lands and not to the proceeds of sale.
The argument, in support of the opposite view, assumes that
it must be taken as true, as against lalliday, that Emma J.
Wright married and removed from Arkansas before the first
decree of sale was rendered, and, therefore, had ceased to be
the personal representative of Craig's estate. But no such
fact is established against Halliday in this case. It is true
that the order of January 30, 1882, recites that when the
original decree of foreclosure and sale was rendered "there

HALLIDAY v. STUART.
Opinion of the Court.

was no representative of the estate of Junius W. Craig, deceased, who could prosecute the suit," and that the Chicot
Circuit Court, at that date, "had no jurisdiction." But the
want of jurisdiction does not appear on the face of that decree. ]Nor does the answer in the present case allege that,
at the date of the original decree of foreclosure, the estate
of Craig was without a personal representative to prosecute
the suit by reason of the executrix having married and removed from the State. Upon this point the answer only says
that the Supreme Court of Arkansas reversed the decree for
the reason, among others, that "there was no party plaintiff
to said suit." But the Supreme Court did not say, in its
opinion or mandate, that such was the fact. It sent the cause
back with instructions "that an administrator de bonis non of
J. W. Craig may be appointed, if there is none, and that he
be made a party complainant." If the appellees desired to
make the point, as against Halliday, that Emma J. Wright,
executrix of Craig's estate, had married and removed from
the State, before the decree, under which he purchased, was
rendered, they should have alleged that fact in their answer
in this case, and established it by evidence, if it was not
admitted. But they did not adopt that course. They have
proceeded upon the ground that the mere recitals in the orders
of the Chicot Circuit Court, made long after Halliday received
his deed, and without notice to him, would establish, in thi'
case, the fact that the original decree of sale, which shows no
want of jurisdiction as to parties or subject-matter, was passed
when there was no personal representative of Craig's estate
entitled to prosecute the suit. But, as against Halliday, they
can take nothing under the proceedings in the Chicot Circuit
Court after the return of the original cause from the Supreme
Court of the State, and in virtue of which the second sale took
place. Of those proceedings, as already suggested, he had no
notice. No direct issue was made with him as to the validity
of the sale at which he purchased. Not even a rule was taken
against him to show cause why his deed should not be annulled.
The title he acquired was of record in the very cause in which
appellees obtained the order setting aside the decree under

OCTOBER TEIN, 1893.
Syllabus.

which he bought and the confirmation of his purchase, as well
as the order directing another sale of the lands. And yet he
was not notified that any steps were being taken to annul his
purchase and to cancel his deed. When appellees present a
decree of sale under which they purchased the lands, and, in
virtue of that decree and the sale had under it, claim the lands,
Halliday may well say, "Whatever may be the rights of
Craig's estate in respect to the lands, and whatever may be
your right to the proceeds of the sale at which I purchased,
you cannot claim the lands purchased by me under a former
decree, which sale occurred with your consent, and which
purchase was confirmed and a deed made to me without
objection from you." And this position is consistent with the
principles of equity.
As the decree of sale under which Halliday bought does
not appear to be void for want of jurisdiction in the court
which rendered it, and as, pending Whitaker's appeal, the sale
at which Halliday purchased took place with the assent of the
present appellees, and was confirmed by the court without
objection from them, the appellant should have been awarded,
as against them, the relief asked by him.
The decree is 'reversed and the cause remandedfor further
_proceedings consistent with this opinion.

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
ORIGINAL.
N0.5. Original.

Submitted December 11, 1893.-Decided January 15, 1894.

At October term, 1892, an order was made appointing commissioners "to
locate and mark the state line between the States of Iowa and Illinois,
pursuant to the opinion of this court in this cause," reported in 147
U. S. 1. At the same term the commissioners filed a report of their
doings, which was ordered to be confirmed, and it was further ordered
" that said commissioners proceed to determine and mark the boundary
line between said States throughout its extent, and report thereon to

