OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

appeals to lie from a judgment and from an ordergranting
or refusing a new trial, and for the purposes of this case have
treated the judgment of the Supreme Court, which not only
affirmed the order of the Superior Court overruling the motion,
but the judgment as well, as the last and final judgment in
affirmance of a final decree in equity in the court below.
Wpit of error dimissed.

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT CO RT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 759. Submitted October 19, 1893.- Decided January 22, 1894.
The provision in Rev. Stat. § 1024, that "when there are several charges
against any person for the same act or transaction, or for two or more
acts or transactions connected together, or for two or more acts or
transactions of the same class of crimes or offences, which may be
properly joined, instead of having several indictments, the whole may
be joined in one indictment, in separate counts; and if two or more
indictments are joined in such cases, the court may order them to be
consolidated," leaves the court to determine whether, in a given case,
a joinder of two or more offences in one indictment is consistent with
settled principles of criminal law, and also free to compel the prosecution to elect under which count it will proceed, when it appears from the
indictment or from the evidence, that the prisoner may be embarrassed
in his defence, if that course be not pursued.
When an indictment contains two counts charging the commission of two
murders, committed on the same day, in the same county and district,
and with the same kind of instrument, the court is justified in forbearing
at the beginning of the trial, and before the disclosure of the facts, to
compel an election by the prosecutor between the two charges.
When, in the case of such joinder, it is developed in the course of the trial
that the accused was not confounded in his defence by the union of the
two offences in the same indictment, and that his substantial rights will
not be prejudiced by the refusal of the court to compel the prosecutor
to elect upon which of the two he will proceed, the court is justified in
such refusal.
All the panel of jurors were examined as to their qualifications, and thirtyseven were found not liable to objection for cause. The defendant was

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
in court during this examination, was face to face with the jurors so
examined, and had an opportunity to participate in the examination
to such extent as was necessary for him to ascertain whether any of
them were liable to objection for cause, and was at liberty to strike from
the list of those thus found to be qualified the names of the persons, not
exceeding twenty, whom he did not wish to serve on the jury. Held,
that,the prisoner having been thus brought face to face with the jury
during these proceedings, the proceedings were regular.
Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 376, adhered to and distinguished from
this case.
The mode of designating and empanelling jurors for the trial of cases in
the courts of the United States is within the control of those courts,
subject only to the restrictions prescribed by Congress, and to such
limitations as are recognized by settled principles of criminal law to
be essential in securing impartial juries for the trial of offences.
A prisoner on trial in a Federal court under indictment for murder is not
entitled as of right to have the government make its peremptory challenges before he makes his, although it is within the discretion of the
court to direct it; and when the laws of the State in which the trial
takes place prescribe such a course, the court may pursue that method
or not as it pleases.
It is not indispensable to conviction for murder that the particular motive
for taking the life of a human being shall be established by proof to the
satisfaction of the jury.
When the record in a criminal case shows fully the crime for which the
prisoner was indicted and all the proceedings thereon, through trial and
verdict up to conviction and sentence, the failure in the sentence to name
the crime for which the prisoner is sentenced may be supplied by reference to the rest of the record.
Whether a court of the United States, in the absence of authority conferred
by statute, has the power, after passing sentence in a criminal case, to
suspend its execution indefinitely, and until the court in its discretion removes such suspension; Qucre.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M r. S. B. -axey
error.
-'.

and Ar. Jacob C. Hodges for plaintiff in

Assitant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in

error.
Mi . JusToiE lAtn"

delivered the opinion of the court.

At the February term, 1892, of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Arkansas, the grand

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

jury returned an indictment against John Pointer for the crime
of murder.
In the first count it was charged that the defendant, on the
25th of December, 1891, at the Choctaw Nation, in the Indian
country, within the above district, did, with an axe, feloniously,
wilfully, and of his malice aforethought, "strike, cut, penetrate,
and wound" upon the head one Samuel E. Vandiveer, a white
man and not an Indian, inflicting thereby a mortal wound,
from which death instantly ensued. The second count charged
the same offence, and differed from the first only in using the
words "beat, bruise," in place of "cut, penetrate."
In the third count the defendant was charged, in the words
of the first count, with having, in the same manner, on the
25th of December, 1891, feloniously, wilfully, and of his malice
aforethought, at the Chocktaw Nation, in the Indian country,
within the same district, killed and murdered one William D.
Bolding, a white man and not an Indian. The fourth count
differed from the third only as the second count differed from
the first.
The defendant pleaded not guilty. On a subsequent day of
the term he moved to quash the indictment upon various
grounds, one of which was that it charged two distinct felonies.
That motion was overruled.
The defendant called the attention of the court to the fact
that he had been served some time before with a list of thirtyseven jurors, and, subsequently, with an additional list. He
objected to that mode of serving lists of jurors by "piecemeal." To this the court replied: "In the first place, the list
of thirty-seven was served; and it always happens that some of
the original thirty-seven cannot serve, by reason of incompetency or sickness, and, out of abundance of precaution, we
had the additional list served on the defendant, so that there
will be a sufficient number served to go on with the trial of
the case, without waiting for two days' service on the defendant when the case is called for trial. It is not a service by
piecemeal, but service of additional talesmen."
The entire panel of the petit jury was called and the jurors
were examined as to their qualifications, and, the journal entry

POINTER* v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

states, thirty-seven in number were found to be generally
qualified under the law, that is, in the words of the bill of exceptions, "qualified to sit on this case." The defendant and
the government were then furnished, each, with a list of the
thirty-seven jurors thus selected, that they might make their
respective challenges, twenty by the defendant and five by the
government, the remaining first twelve names, not challenged,
to constitute the trial jury. The defendant at the time objected to this mode- of selecting a jury: "1st, because it was
not according to the rule prescribed by the laws of the State
of Arkansas; 2d, because it was not the rule practised by
common law courts; 3d, because the defendant could not
know the particular jurors before whom he would be tried
until after his challenges, as guaranteed by the statutes of the
United States, had been exhausted; 4th, because the government did not tender to the defendant the jury before whom he
was to be tried, but tendered seventeen men instead of twelve,
and made it impossible for defendant to know who the twelve
men before whom he was to be tried were until after his right
to challenge was ended."
At the time this objection was made the defendant's counsel
saved an exception to the mode pursued in forming the jury,
and said: "The point we make is, that the government must
offer us the twelve men they want to try the case." The
court observed: "They offered you thirty-seven." "We understand," counsel said, "but we want to save that point."
Before the case was opened to the jury for the government,
the defendant moved that the district attorney be required to
elect on which count of the indictment he would claim a conviction. That motion having been overruled, he was required
to go to trial upon all the counts.
Upon the conclusion of the evidence the defendant renewed
the motion that the government be required to elect upon
which count of the indictment it would prosecute him. This
motion was overruled. After an elaborate charge, by the
court, the jury retired to consider their verdict, and returned
into the court the following: "We, the jury, find the defendant Sohn Pointer guilty of murder as charged in the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

count of the indictment.

F. Mv. Barrick, Foreman.

We, the

jury, find the defendant John Pointer guilty of murder as
charged in the third count of the indictment. F. Mvi. Barrick,
Foreman."
A motion for a new trial was made and overruled, and on
the 30th of April, 1892, the court sentenced the defendant to
suffer the punishment of death.
1. The motion to quash the indictment and the motion to
require the government to elect upon which count it would
try the defendant, present the question whether two distinct
charges of murder can properly be embraced in one indictment.
It is provided by section 1024 of the Revised Statutesfollowing, substantially, the words of the act of February
26, 1853, c. 80, 10 Stat. 161, that "when there are several
charges against any person for the same act or transaction, or
for two or more acts or transactions connected together, or for
two or more acts or transactions of the same class of crimes
or offences, which may be properly joined, instead of having
several indictments, the whole may be joined in one indictment, in separate counts; and if two or more indictments
are joined in such cases, the court may order them to be
consolidated."
Although the two murders in question are alleged to have
been committed by the defendant on the same day, and in the
same county and district, it does not affirmatively appear from
the indictment that they were the result of one transaction, or
that they were "connected together." But the indictment
does show upon its face that the two offences are of the same
class or grade of crimes, and subject to the same punishment.
Could both crimes properly be joined in one indictment, in
separate counts? The statute does not solve this question, but
leaves the court to determine whether, in a given case, a
joinder of two or more offences in one indictment against the
same person is consistent with the settled principles of criminal law. If those principles permit the joinder of two or more
Vfelonies in the same indictment, in separate counts, then the
joinder in question here was proper.

PONTER v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court.

In People v. Gates, 13 Wend. 311, 322, 323, Chief Justice
Savage, speaking for the court, said: "The first question
arising upon the trial was whether the court should have compelled the district attorney to elect which count he would go
upon. In Young v. The Zing, 3 T. R. 106, Buller, Justice,
says that where different felonies are included in the same indictment, the judge may quash the indictment, lest it should
confound the prisoner in his defence; but these are only matters of prudence or discretion. This court has recently said in
the case of People v. Rynders, 12 Wend. 425, that there is no
impropriety in trying a prisoner for different offences, at the
same time, if the offences are charged in the same indictment
and are of the same grade, and subject to the same punishment." Substantially to the same general effect are the decisions of other American courts: United States v. O' Callahan,
6 McLean, 596; Jane v. People, 8 Wend. 203, 211; Calloway
v. Commonwealth, 5 Met. 532, 534; Commonwealth v. Gillespie, 7 S. & R. 469, 476; Commonwealth v. Hills, 10 Cush. 530,
533 ; Campbellv. State, 9 Yerger, 333, 335 ; Burk v. State, 2
H. & J. 426,429; Storrs v. State, 3 Missouri, 7; Baker v. State,
4 Pike, 56, 58 ; WV2ight v. State, 4 Humph. 194, 196; Johnson
v. State, 29 Alabama, 62, 67; TFeinzorpojn v. State, 7 Blackford, 186, 188; State v. Hazard, 2 R. I. 474, 482; ffoskins v.
State, 11 Georgia, 92, 95. See, also, Logan v. United States,
144 U. S. 263, 296.
The rule in England is not materially different. In I Chitty's
Criminal Law, 252, 253, it is said: "In cases of felony, no
more than one distinct offence or criminal transaction at one
time should- regularly be charged upon the prisoner in one indictment, because, if that should be shown to the court before
plea, they will quash the indictment lest it should confound
the prisoner in his defence, or prejudice him in his challenge
to the jury; for he might object to a juryman's trying one of
the charges, though he might have no reason so to do in the
other; and if they do not discover it until afterwards, they
may compel the prosecutor to elect on which charge he will
proceed." "But," the author adds, "this is only matter of
prudence and discretion which it rests with the judges to exvoL. cmr-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ercise."

The rule is thus stated by Archbold (Orim. P1. Pr.

95, c. 3, 8th ed.): "If different felonids or misdemeanors be
stated in several counts of an indictment, no objection can be
made to the indictment on that account in point of law. In
cases of felony, indeed, the judge, in his discretion, may require
the counsel for the prosecutor to select one of the felonies, and
confine himself to that. This is what is technically termed
putting the prosecutor to his election. But this practice has
never been extended to misdemeanors." In Roscoe's Criminal
Evidence, 8th Am. ed., 206, the author, after observing that
there was no objection in point of law to inserting, in separate
counts of the same indictment, several distinct felonies of the
same degree and committed by the same offender, and that
such joinder was not a ground for arrest of judgment, says:
"In practice, where a prisoner was charged with several felonies in one indictment, and the party had pleaded, or the
jury were charged, the court in its discretion would quash
the indictment, or if not found out till after the jury were
charged, would compel the prosecutor to elect on which charge
he would proceed."
The question of election between distinct charges has always
seemed to depend on the special circumstances of the case in
which it has arisen. For instance, in Regina v. Trueman, 8
Car. & P. 727, which was an indictment for arson, containing
five separate counts, each charging the firing of a house of a
different owner, it appeared from the opening by the prosecutor that the houses in question constituted a row of adjoining houses, and that the fire was communicated to four of them
from the one first set on fire. As the burning of each house
was a distinct felony, the prisoner asked that the prosecutor
be put to his election. Erskine, J., said: " As it is all one
transaction, we must hear the evidence, and I do not see
how, in the present stage of the proceedings, I can call
on the prosecutor to elect. I shall take care that, as the
case proceeds, the prisoner is not tried for more than one
felony. The application for a prosecutor to elect is an application to the discretion of the judge, founded on the supposition that the case extends to more than one charge, and

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

may, therefore, be likely to embarrass the prisoner in his
defence."
While recognizing as fundamental the principle that the
court must not permit the defendant to be embarrassed in
his defence by a multiplicity of charges embraced in one
indictment and to be tried by one jury, and while conceding
that regularly or usually an indictment should not include
more than one felony, the authorities concur in holding that
a joinder in one indictment, in separate counts, of different
felonies, at least of the same class or grade, and subject to the
same punishment, is not necessarily fatal to the indictment
upon demurrer or upon motion to quash or on motion in arrest
of judgment, and does not, in every case, by reason alone of
such joinder, make it the duty of the court, upon motion of
the accused, to compel the prosecutor to elect upon what one
of the charges he will go to trial. The court is invested with
such discretion as enables it to do justice between the government and the accused. If it be discovered at any time during
a trial that the substantial rights of the accused may be prejudiced by a submission to the same jury of more than one distinct charge of felony among two or more of the same class,
the court, according to the established principles of criminal
law, can compel an election by the prosecutor. That discretion has not been taken away by section 1024 of the Revised
Statutes. On the contrary, that section is consistent with the
settled rule that the court, in its discretion, may compel an
election when it appears from the indictment, or from the evidence, that the prisoner may be embarrassed in his defence, if
that course be not pursued.
In the present case, we cannot say from anything on the
face of the indictment that the court erred or abused its discretion in overruling the defendant's motion to quash the
indictment or his motions, for an election by the government
between the two charges of murder. The indictment showed
that the two murders were committed on the same day, in the
same county and district, and with the same kind of instrument. These facts alone justified the court in forbearing, at
the beginning of the trial, and before the facts were disclosed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to compel an election by the prosecutor between the two
charges of murder. When, however, the evidence was concluded- indeed, as soon as the defendant testified in his own
behalf - the wisdom of the course pursued by the court became
manifest; for it appeared that the two murders were committed at the same place, on the same occasion, and under
such circumstances, that the proof in respect to one necessarily
threw light upon the other. The accused and the two men
alleged to have been murdered were companions in travelling,
and were together, in camp, at the place where the killing
occurred. The killing of Vandiveer immediately preceded
that of Bolding. There was such close connection between the
two killings, in respect of time, place, and occasion, that it
was difficult, if not impossible, to separate the proof of one
charge from the proof of the other. It is, therefore, clear
that the accused was not confounded in his defence by the
union of the two offences of murder in the same indictment,
and that his substantial rights were not prejudiced by the
refusal of the court to compel the prosecutor to elect upon
which of the two charges he would proceed.
It is appropriate to say that we lay no stress upon the circumstance that the motions in question were not made until
after the defendant had pleaded not guilty. We have already
said that, if in the progress of the trial it appeared that the
accused might be embarrassed or confounded in his defence,
by reason of being compelled to meet both charges of murder
at the same time, and before the same jury, it was in the
power of the court, at any time before the trial was concluded,
to require the government to elect upon which charge it would
seek a verdict. It is, also, proper to say that we have not
regarded as part of the record that which appears in the brief
of counsel for the defendant purporting to be an order made
in the court below, on the 2d day of October, 1893, amendatory
and explanatory of the order of March 23, 1892, relating to the
empanelling of the jury that tried this case. The object of
this amendatory order was to show more fully, than was done
by the order of March 23, 1892, how the trial jury was
empanelled. The motion of defendant to strike from the

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

record a copy of that order was unnecessary, because the government has not moved that it be treated as part of the record,
and disclaims any purpose to ask that it shall be considered on
this writ of error. Under these circumstances we have not
considered whether the alleged order of October 2, 1893, was
within the power of the court to make, nor have we based our
conclusions upon anything contained in it.
2. The next question to be considered relates to the empanelling of the jury that tried the defendant. It is contended
that the action of the court below in that respect was substantially that condemned in Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 370.
But this contention cannot be sustained. The decision in that
case proceeded upon the ground that it did not appear affirmatively from the record that the prisoner, when required to
make his challenges, was brought face to face with the jurors
whose names appeared upon the list of thirty-seven qualified
jurymen that was furnished, by direction of the court, to the
accused and the government. This court said: "It does,
indeed, appear that the clerk called the entire panel of the
petit jury, but it does not appear that when the jury answered
to said call they were present so that they could be inspected
by the prisoner; and it is evident that the process of challenging did not begin until after said call had been made. We
do not think that the record affirmatively discloses that the
prisoner and the jury were brought face to face at the time
the challenges were made, but we think that a fair reading
of the record leads to the opposite conclusion, and that the
prisoner was not brought face to face with the jury until after
the challenge had been made, and the selected jurors were
brought into the box to be sworn. Thus reading the record,
and holding as we do that making of challenges was an essential part of the trial, and that it was one of the substantial
rights of the prisoner to be brought face to face with the jurors
at the time when the challenges were made, we are brought
to the conclusion that the record discloses an error for which
the judgment of the court must be reversed."
The record before us discloses a wholly different state of
facts. It shows that the jurors were all examined as to their

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

qualifications, and that thirty-seven were found to be qualified
to sit in the case, that is to say, not liable to objection for
cause; that the defendant was in court during this examination, was face to face with the jurors so examined, and had
an opportunity to participate in the examination to such extent
as was necessary to ascertain whether any of them were liable
to objection for cause; and that he was at liberty to strike
from the list of those thus found to be qualified the names of
those, not exceeding twenty, whom he did not wish to serve
on the jury. If it did not appear affirmatively from the record
of this case that the accused was, in fact, brought face to face
with all the jurors who were examined as to their qualifications,
and whose names were on the list of thirty-seven furnished to
him, or that he was not present during such examination, or
that they were not all in his presence when he exercised his
right of challenge, the judgment would be reversed for the
reasons stated in Lewis v. United States. We adhere to the
decision in that case, as based upon sound principle.
The objection that the jurors were not selected in the particular mode prescribed by the laws of Arkansas, cannot be
sustained. By section 800 of the IRevised Statutes of the
United States, it is provided, substantially, in the words of
the act of July 20, 1840, c. 47, 5 Stat. 394, that jurors to serve
in the courts of the United States, in the several States, shall
have the same qualifications -subject to the provisions contained in other sections, and which have no bearing upon this
case-and be entitled to the same exemptions, as jurors of
the highest courts of law in the respective States may have,
and be entitled to at the time when such jurors for service in
the courts of the United States are summoned; and they are
required to be "designated by ballot, lot, or otherwise, according to the mode of forming such juries then practised in such
state court, so far as such mode may be practicable by the
courts of the United States or the officers thereof. And for
this purpose the said courts may, by rule or order, conform
the designation and empanelling of juries, in substance, to
the laws and usages relating to juries in the state courts,
from time to time in such State." And by the act of June 30,

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

1879, c. 52, § 2, 21 Stat. 43, 44, all jurors, grand and. petit,
in any court of the United States, including those summoned during the session of the court, are required to be
publicly drawn from a box containing, at the time of each
drawing, the names of not less than three hundred persons,
possessing the qualifications prescribed in § 800 of the Revised
Statutes, which names shall have been placed in the box by
the clerk of court and a commissioner appointed by the judge,
who shall be a citizen of good standing, residing in the district
in which such court is held, and a well-known member of the
principal political party in the district in which the court is
held opposing that to which the clerk may belong, the clerk
and the commissioner each to place one name- in said box
alternately, without reference to party affiliations. That act
further provides that nothing contained in it shall be construed
to prevent any judge from ordering the names of jurors to be
drawn from the boxes used by the state authorities in selecting juries in the highest courts of the State, and that "no person shall serve as a petit juror more than one term in any one
year, and all juries to serve in courts after the passage of this
act shall be drawn in conformity herewith: Provided,That no
citizen possessing all other qualifications which are or may be
prescribed by law shall be disqualified for service as grand or
petit juror in any court of the United States on account of
race, color, or previous condition of servitude."
There is nothing in these provisions sustaining the objection
made to the mode in which the trial jury was formed. In
respect to the qualifications and exemptions of jurors to serve
in the courts of the United States, the state laws are controlling. But Congress has not made the laws and usages relating
to the designation and empanelling of jurors in the respective
state courts applicable to the courts of the United States,
except as the latter shall by general standing rule or by special
order in a particular case adopt the state practice in that
regard. United States v. Shackleford, 18 How. 588; United
States v. Richardson,28 Fed. Rep. 61, 69. In the absence of
such a rule or order, (and no such rule or order appears to
have been made by the court below,) the mode of designating

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and empanelling jurors for the trial of cases in the courts of
the United States is within the control of those courts, subject
only to the restrictions Congress has prescribed, and, also, to
such limitations as are recognized by the settled principles of
criminal law to be essential in securing impartial juries for the
trial of offences.
There is no claim, in the present case, that the jurors for
general service in the court below during the term at which
the defendant was tried were not selected in accordance with
law. The record shows that he was duly served with a full
and complete list of the petit jurors selected and drawn by
the jury commissioners of the court. Nor is it contended
that the jurors who were examined as to their qualifications
before the list of thirty-seven qualified jurors was furnished
were not properly selected for general service during the term.
The complaint by the accused is that the particular mode in
which the jury that tried him was empanelled was illegal. It
is true that mode was not in conformity with the statutes of
Arkansas. But that objection, -as already suggested, cannot
avail the accused. So that the inquiry must be whether the
jury was organized in violation of any settled principle of
criminal law relating to the subject of challenges.
The right to challenge a given number of jurors without
showing cause is one of the most important of the rights
secured to the accused. "The end of challenge," says Coke,
"is to have an indifferent trial, and which is required by law;
and to bar the party indicted of his lawful challenge is to bar
him of a principal matter concerning his trial." 3 Inst. 27,
c. 2. He may, if he chooses, peremptorily challenge "on his
own dislike, without showing any cause;" he may exercise
that right without reason or for no reason, arbitrarily and
capriciously. Co. Lit. 156 6; 4 Bl. Com. 353; _ewis v. United
States, 146 U. S. 376. Any system for the empanelling of
a jury that presents or embarrasses the full, unrestricted
exercise by the accused of that right, must be condemned.
And, therefore, he cannot be compelled to make a peremptory
challenge until he has been brought face to face, in the presence
of the court, with each proposed juror, and an opportunity

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

given for such inspection and examination of him as is required
for the due administration of justice.
Were his rights in these respects impaired or their exercise
embarrassed by what took place at the trial? We think not.
The jurors legally summoned for service on the petit jury
were, as we have seen, examined in his presence as to their
qualifications, and thirty-seven were ascertained, upon such
examination, to be qualified to sit in the case. Both the
accused and the government had ample opportunity, as this
examination progressed, to have any juror who was disqualified
rejected altogether for cause. A list of all those found to be
qualified under the law, and not subject to challenge for cause,
was furnished to the accused and to 'the government, each
side being required to make their challenges at the same time,
and having notice from the court that the first twelve unchallenged would constitute the jury for the trial of the case.
It is apparent, from the record, that the persons named in the
list so furnished were all brought face to face with the prisoner
before he was directed to make, and while he was making, his
peremptory challenges.
Was the prisoner entitled, of right, to have the government
make its peremptory challenges first, that he might be informed, before making his challenges, what names had been
stricken from the list by the prosecutor? In some jurisdictions it is required by statute that the challenge to the juror
shall be made by the State before he is passed to the defendant for rejection or acceptance. Such is the law of Arkansas,
and the court below was at liberty to pursue that method.
]Mansfield's Digest, § 2242. And such is regarded by some
courts as the better practice, even where no particular mode
of challenge is prescribed by statute. State v. Cummings, 5
La. Ann. 330, 332. But as no such provision is embodied in
any act of Congress, it was not bound by any settled rule
of criminal law to pursue the particular method required by
the local law.. The uniform practice in England, as appears
from the observations of Mr. Justice Abbott, afterwards Lord
Tenterden, in Brandeth's case, 32 Hlowell's St. Tr. 755, was
to require the accused to exercise his right of challenge before

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

calling upon the government. He said: " H aving attended,
I believe, more trials of this kind than any other of the judges,
I would state that the uniform practice has been that the
juryman was presented to the prisoner or his counsel, that
they might have a view of his person; then the officer of the
court looked first to the counsel for the prisoner to know
whether they wished to challenge him; he then turned to the
counsel for the crown to know. whether they challenged him."
p. 771. In the same case, Lord Chief Baron Richards said
that he conceived it to be clear that "it is according to the
practice of the courts that the prisoner should first declare his
resolution as to challenging." p. 774. Mr. Justice Dallas
expressed his concurrehce in those views. pp. 774, 775. But
the general rule is, that where the subject is not controlled
by statute, the order in which peremptory challenges shall
be exercised is in the discretion of the court. Commonwealth
v. Piper,120 Mass. 185; Turpin v. State, 55 Maryland, 464;
Jones v. State, 2 Blackford, 475; State v. Hays, 23 Missouri,
287; State v. Pike, 49 N. H. 406; State v. Shelledy, 8 Iowa,
477, 480, 504; State v. Boatwright, 10 Rich. (Law), 407;
Shujin v. State, 20 Ohio St. 233.
In some jurisdictions the mode pursued in the challenging
of jurors is for the accused and the government to make their
peremptory challenges as each juror, previously ascertained
to be qualified and not subject to be challenged for cause, is
presented for challenge or acceptance. But it is not essential
that this mode should be adopted. In Regina v. Frost, 9
Car. & P. 129, 137, (1839,) the names of jurors were taken
from the ballot-box, and each was sworn on the voir dire as
to his qualifications before being swornkto try. When the
government peremptorily challenged one who had been sworn
on the voir dire as to his qualifications, it was objected that
the challenge came too late, because the juror had taken the
book into his hand to be sworn to try. In disposing of this
objection Chief Justice Tindal said: "The rule is that
challenges must be made as the jurors come to the book and
before they are sworn. The moment the oath is begun it is
too late, and the .ath is begun by the juror taking the book,

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

having been directed by the officer of the court to do so. If
the juror takes the book without authority, neither party
wishing to challenge is to be prejudiced thereby."

These

observations, it is apparent, had reference only to the question
whether a peremptory challenge could be permitted after the

juror had, in fact, taken the book into his hand for the purpose of being sworn to try. At most, in connection with the
report of the case, they tend to show that the practice in
England, as in some of the States, was to have the question
of peremptory challenge as to each juror, sworn on his voir
dire and found to be free from legal objection, determined
as to him before another juror is examined as to his qualifications. But there is no suggestion by any of the judges in
Frost's case that that mode was the only one that could be
pursudd without embarrassing the accused in the exercise
of his right of challenge. The authority of the Circuit Courts
of the United States to deal with the subject of empanelling
juries in criminal cases, by rules of their own, was recognized
in Lewis v. United States, subject to the condition that such
rules must be adapted to secure all the rights of the accused.
146 U. S. 379.
We cannot say that the mode pursued in the court below,
although different from that prescribed by the laws of Arkansas, was in derogation of the right of peremptory challenge
belonging to the accused. He was given, by the statute, the
right of peremptorily challenging twenty jurors. That right
was accorded to him. Being required to make all of his peremptory challenges at one time, he was entitled to have a
full list of jurors upon which appeared the names of such as
bad been examined under the direction of the court and in his
presence, and found to be qualified to sit on the case. Such a
list was furnished to him, and he was at liberty to strike from
it the whole number allowed by the statute, with knowledge
that the first twelve on the list, not challenged by either side,
would constitute the jury. And after it was ascertained, in
this mode, who would constitute the trial jury, it was within
the discretion of the court to permit them to be again examined before being sworn to try. But no such course was sug-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

gested, and the record discloses no reason why a further
examination was necessary in order to secure an impartial
jury. The right of peremptory challenge, this court said, in
United States v. Mi-arehAant, 12 Wheat. 480, 482, and in Hayes
v. -issouri, 120 U. S. 68, 71, is not of itself a right to select,
but a right to reject, jurors.
It is true that, under the method pursued in this case, it
might occur that the defendant would strike from the list the
same persons stricken off by the government. But that circumstance does not change the fact that the accused was at
liberty to exclude from the jury all, to the number of twenty,
who, for any reason, or without reason, were objectionable to
him. No injury was done if the government united with him
in excluding particular persons from the jury. He was not
entitled, of right, to know, in advance, what jurors -would
be excluded by the government in the exercise of its right
of peremptory challenge. He was only entitled, of right, to
strike the names of twenty from the list of impartial jurymen
furnished him by the court. If upon that list appeared the
name of one who was subject to legal objection, the facts in
respect to that juror should have been presented in such form
that they could be passed upon by this court. But it does not
appear that any objection of that character was made, or could
have been made, to any of the thirty-seven jurors found, upon
examination, to be qualified.
Thus, in our opinion, the essential right of challenge to
which the defendant was entitled was fully recognized. And
there is no reason to suppose that he was noi tried by an impartial jury. The objection that the government should have
tendered to him the twelve jurors whom it wished to try the
case, or that he was entitled to know before making his challenges the names of the jurors by whom it was proposed to
try him, must mean that the government should have been
required to exhaust all of its peremptory challenges before he
peremptorily challenged any juror. This objection is unsupported by the authorities, and cannot be sustained upon any
sound principle.
3. We come now to examine some of the exceptions taken

P,0INTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion bf the Court.

by the defendant to the charge of the court. Among other
observations made by the court to the jury were these: "At
this point it becomes necessary for us to ascertain what is
meant by these expressions, wilfully and with malice aforethought, because they are the characteristics that enter into
the crime of murder; they must exist as a part of that crime;
there can be no crime of this kind without them. It is necessary, therefore, for us to understand correctly, and to understand with precision and accuracy, exactly what the law
means by them, because they have a legal meaning, they
have a meaning that is peculiar to the law, and it is by the
application of that meaning to the facts of the case, or the
truth of the case, that you, as intelligent, impartial, and dispassionate citizens, are able to arrive at a just and correct and
honest conclusion. In finding their existence, it is not necessary that the proof should show that a motive for the act
done existed."
The defendant insists that the reverse of this was the law;
that proof of malice ought always to show some motive for
the homicide. What was in the mind of the court, when the
above observations were made, is apparent by the following
clauses of the charge that immediately follow those to which
exception was taken: "There is always a motive for every
human act that is done by an individual who is sane, but
sometimes it is undiscoverable; sometimes it cannot be fathomed; sometimes because of its inadequate character, because
of its utter insignificant nature compared with a great offence
of that kind, honest men, whose minds and hearts have not
been corroded by the commission of crime, overlook it, they
pass it by. The law does not require impossibilities. The
law recognizes that the cause of the killing is sometimes so
hidden in the mind and breast of the party who killed, that it
cannot be fathomed, and as it does not require impossibilities,
it does not require the jury to find it. Yet, if they do find it,
it simply becomes an item of evidence in the case, which is
only evidentiary at best - that is, it is only an item of evidence going to show whether a particular party may have
committed an act, and sometimes going to show the character-

OCTOBER TERM~f, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

istics of that act; the law says, however, that wherever motive
can be found, though it is not required to be found, it is the
duty of the jury to find it, though when they do find it they
are not to expect that it will ever be adequate; that it will be
in proportion to the act done, because there is nothing on this
earth that is in proportion to the crime of wilfully and deliberately taking human life; there is no motive adequate to it;
there is nothing that can be weighed upon the one side of the
scale with the crime of deliberate and wicked murder upon
the other side of it, and be pronounced by honest men as equal
in weight to the crime committed. The law says that motive
need not be proportionate to the heinousness of the crime."
We do not perceive any substantial error of law in what the
court said upon the subject of motive. While, as stated, a
motive exists for every act done by a person of sound mind,
it is not indispensable to conviction that the particular motive
for taking the life of a human being shall be established by
proof to the satisfaction of the jury. The absence of evidence
suggesting a motive for the commission of the crime charged
is a circumstance in favor of the accused, to be given such
weight as the jury deems proper; but proof of motive is never
indispensable to conviction. 1 Bishop's Or.Pro. § 1107, and
authorities there cited. Malice may be presumed from the
mere fact of killing, nothing further being shown. Commonwealth v. York, 9 Met. 93, 114; Commonwealth v. .Hawkin.8,
3 Gray, 463; 1 Greenl. Ev.§ 34. The charge being murder,
if the facts constituting that offence were established beyond
a reasonable doubt, it was the duty of the jury to have found
the defendant guilty as charged, although it may have been
impossible to discover any adequate motive for the killing.
As said in Clifton v. State, 73 Alabama, 473: "The presence
or absence of a motive for the commission of the offence
charged is always a legitimate subject of inquiry, . . . but
it is not in any case indispensable to a conviction. It is not
an element of the burden of proof the law devolves upon the
prosecution whether the agency or connection of the accused
is manifested by direct and positive evidence or only by circumstantial evidence, that a motive or inducement to commit

POINTER v. -UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the offence should be proved. The criminal act and the con-nection of the accused with it being proved beyond a reasonable doubt, the act itself furnishes the evidence that to its
perpetration there was some cause or influence moving the
mind." So in _lcLain v. CommonweaZth, 99 Penn. St. 86, 99:
"It was further urged that no adequate motive was shown to
induce the accused to commit the crime charged. The court
well said the Commonwealth was not bound to establish an
adequate motive for the alleged crime, and declared, in the
words of this court, 'the fact of murder being established, the
inability to discover the motive does not disprove the crime.'
There was evidence before the jury tending to show that
the murders in question were committed in order that the
defendant might appropriate certain property of inconsiderable
value in the possession of the murdered men. Under the circumstances, the inquiry would naturally arise in the minds of
jurors whether murder would be committed for reasons so
trivial. The court, after observing that all persons were apt
to act on inadequate pnotives, and that the history of crime
-showed that murders were generally committed from motives
comparatively trivial, said: "So also for the smallest plunder
murders have been deliberately executed. We have an illustration of this in the trial of Muller, in England, in 1873, for
the murder of Briggs. Briggs' watch was seen by Muller in
a railway car; Briggs was asleep; the watch was exposed, and
Muller killed Briggs by a sudden attack and succeeded in
making his escape; he was afterwards arrested, convicted on
circumstantial evidence, and before execution confessed the
crime with the murder. Until the confession, the justice of
the conviction was largely criticised on the ground that the
.stealing of a watch was not a motive that could explain a
murder so bold, so cruel, and the chances of exposure so great."
But the court added in the same connection: "But the reply
to this is obvious. Crime is rarely logical. Under a government where the laws are executed with ordinary certainty, all
crime is a blunder, as well as a wrong. If we should hold that
no crime is to be punished except such as is rational, then there
would be no crime to be punished, for no crime can be found

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that is rational; the motive is never correlative to the crime,
never accurately proportioned to it. Nor does this apply solely
to the very poor; very rich men have been known to defraud

others even of trifles, to forge wills, to kidnap and kill so that
an inheritance might be theirs. When a powerful passion seeks
gratification it is no extenuation that the act is illogical, for
when passion is once allowed to operate, reason loosens its
restraints."
Reference was also made to a portion of a charge delivered
by a judge in New York upon the subject of motive for the
commission of crime, in which it was said that a small sum of
money, a word spoken in anger, an insult, wrongs, real or
imaginary, revenge, jealousy, hatred, envy, and malice, often
lead to the commission of the crime of murder. In that
connection, the court below said: "Therefore, in finding the
existence of these elements that go to characterize a killing so
as to make it murder, you may find their existence, though
you do not find any motive."
The defendant excepted to that part. of the charge referring
to the circumstances of the murder case in England as an
exaggerated statement of another case in a manner well
calculated to influence the minds of the jurors against the
prisoner and to convict without sufficient evidence and hope
for a confession from the prisoner to prove the correctness of
their verdict. We do not think the exception well founded.
Although the practice of alluding to the details of other cases
given in the books, while a jury is being charged upon the
facts of the particular case on trial, is by no means to be commended, we cannot say that the jury in this case were misled
by the reference made to what appeared, or was said by
judges, in other cases. It must be assumed, if the contrary
does not appear, that jurors understand that these allusions to
other cases are made only for purposes of illustration. It is
impracticable to prescribe the particular mode in which a
judge shall express to jurors his views of the case about to be
determined by their verdict. That must, of necessity, be left
to his discretion. If in charging a jury a judge chooses to
employ the words of others in order to convey the exact

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

thought in his own mind, or if he prefers, for purposes merely
of illustration, to read from the opinions or judgments of other

courts, we cannot hold that such practice, although not to
be encouraged, is, in the absence of a statute prescribing a
different rule, ground for the reversal of the judgment of the
trial court. If a judgment should in any case be reversed
upon such ground, it should only be where it appears that the
jury has been misled by the particular mode in which they
were charged to the prejudice of the substantial rights of the
accused.
4. It is said that the record fails to show that all things
were done in the court below that were necessary to be done
before the sentence of death was pronounced, in this: First,
the record nowhere states that the verdict was received and
recorded; second, there is no record of any judgment declaring
plaintiff in error to be guilty of murder.
In respect to the first of these objections it is sufficient to
say that it appears from the journal entries of the trial, as
well as from the bill of exceptions, that the verdicts of guilty on
the first and third counts, respectively, were returned into and
were recorded by the court, in the presence of the accused;
whereupon the jury were discharged from the further consideration of the case, and the defendant remanded to the custody
of the marshal to await the final sentence..
The second of the objections above stated is based upon the
following order, under the caption of the United States v. John
Pointer, Indictment for Murder, No. 37, and made April 30,
1892:
"On motion of William H. H. Clayton, Esq., attorney for
the Western District of Arkansas, the said defendant John
Pointer was brought to the bar of this court in custody of the
marshal of said district, and it being demanded of him what
he has to say or can say why the sentence of the law upon the
verdict of guilty, heretofore returned against him by the jury
in this cause on the 26th day of March, 1892, shall not now be
pronounced against him, he says he has nothing further or
other to say than he has heretofore said.
"Whereupon the premises being seen, and by the court well
VOL. cLI-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and sufficiently understood, it is considered by the court that
the said marshal of the district aforesaid cause the said John
Pointer to be taken hence and him, the said John Pointer,
safely and securely keep from the date hereof until Tuesday,
the 28th day of June, A.D. 1892, and on that day and between
the hours of nine o'clock in the forenoon and five o'clock in the
afternoon of said day, the said marshal cause the said John
Pointer to be taken to some convenient place within this district, to be appointed by said marshal, and then and there,
between the said hours of nine o'clock in the forenoon and five
o'clock in the afternoon, on Tuesday, the said [28th] day of
June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
ninety-two, cause the said John Pointer to be hanged by the
neck until he is dead.
"And it is further considered by the court that the United
States of America do have and recover all their costs in and
about this prosecution laid out and expended, and that they
have execution therefor.
"And the clerk of this court is hereby required to furnish
the marshal of this district with a duly certified copy of this
judgment, sentence, and order, which shall be returned by
said marshal with a full and true account of the execution of
the same."
The specific objection to the sentence is that it does not
state the offence of which the defendant was found guilty, or
that the defendant was guilty of any named crime. This
objection is technical, rather than substantial. The record of
the trial preceding the sentence shows an indictment returned
into court by grand jurors duly selected, empanelled, sworn,
and charged to inquire in and for the body of the Western
District of Arkansas, in which, in separate counts, they, upon
their oaths, charge the defendant with having within that district on a named day killed and murdered Samuel E. Vandiveer and William D. Bolding. The indictment itself is given,
and it appears that the defendant was brought into court upon
it; that he was arraigned and pleaded not guilty to the
charges contained in it; that he was tried upon the same
indictment before a petit jury lawfully empanelled and sworn;

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and that a verdict of guilty of murder as charged in the first
and third counts, respectively, of that indictment was returned
into court March 26, 1892, and was received and incorporated
into the record of the trial. When, therefore, the defendant
was brought into court and asked what he had to say "why
the sentence of the law upon the verdict of guilty, heretofore
returned against him by the jury in this cause, on the 26th
day of March, 1892, shall not now be pronounced against him,"
all doubt as to the offence of which he was found guilty, and
on account of which he was sentenced to be hanged, is removed.
The sentence itself is in the record, and the record shows everything necessary to justify the punishment inflicted. While
the record of a criminal case must state what will affirmatively
show the offence, the steps, without which the sentence cannot
be good, and the sentence itself, "all parts of the record are
to be interpreted together, effect being given to all, if possible,
and a deficiency at one place maybe supplied by what appears
in another." 1 Bishop's Or. Pro. §§ 1347, 1348. For these
reasons the objection last stated is not sustained.
5. Some reference should be made to an order entered on
the same day, but after the sentence was passed, in these
words: "Ordered by the court, that sentence be suspended
on the third count of the indictment, on which the defendant
was tried and convicted by the jury for the killing of William
D. Bolding." The record does not state the grounds upon
which this order was based. Its object, we suppose, was to
restrict the sentence to one of the two charges of murder
embraced in the indictment, although the defendant had been
tried and found guilty upon both. Be this as it may, that
order constitutes no reason in itself for the reversal of the
judgment. It did not prejudice the substantial rights of the
accused, because it did not prevent this court, upon the present
writ of error, from reversing the judgment in its application to
all the charges contained in the indictment. This 5ourt having
reached the conclusion that the judgment must b6 affirmed,
any question as to the propriety or legality of the order suspending the sentence as to the court charging the murder of
Bolding, is immaterial. It is necessary, however, in order to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

avoid any misapprehension, to say that this court must not be
understood as expressing any opinion upon the question suggested by the words of that order, whether a court of the
United States, in the absence of authority conferred by statute,
has the power, after passing sentence in a criminal case, to
suspend its execution indefinitely, and until the court in its
discretion removes such suspension. A decision of that question is not necessary to the disposition of this case upon its
merits.
There are assignments of error other than those above examined, but they are without merit, and, therefore, need not
be noticed in this opinion.
We perceive no error in the record to the prejudice of the
substantial rights of the plaintiff in error.

GARINER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK OF
PROVIDENCE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRIOT OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 43. Argued October 19, 1893. -Decided

January 22, 1894.

In Rhode Island a married woman holds the real and personal estate, owned
by her at the time of her marriage, to her sole and separate use after
marriage, and may permit her husband to manage it without affecting
that use; and if the husband, without her knowledge and consent, invests a part of her property in real estate, taking title in his own name,
and, on this coming to her knowledge after a lapse of time, she requires
it to be conveyed to her, and such conveyance is made after a further
lapse of time, the husband being at the time of the conveyance insolvent,
her equities in the estate may be regarded as superior to those of the
husband's creditors, if it does not further appear that the creditors were
induced to regard him as the owner of it, by reason of representations
to that effect, either by him or by her.

THIS appeal brings up for review a final decree dismissing
a bill filed to obtain an injunction against the appellees, the
Second National Bank, a national banking association having

