MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

673

Syllabus.

MARTIN'S ADMINISTRATOR v. BALTIMORE AND
OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 67. Argued November 6, 1893. -Decided

February 5, 1894.

Under the provision of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, authorizing an
action, brought in a court of a State between citizens of different States,
to be removed into the Circuit Court of the United States "by the defendant or defendants therein, being nonresidents of that State," a
defendant corporation must be created by the laws of another State
only, in order to entitle it to remove the action; and if it is such a corporation, and has not been also created a corporation by the laws of the
State in which an action is brought against it by a citizen thereof, it
may remove the action, even if it has been licensed by the laws of the
State to act within its territory, and is therefore subject to be sued in
its courts.
Statutes of a State, creating railroad corporations, or licensing them to
exercise their franchises within the State, if deemed by the courts of the
State public acts of which they take judicial notice without proof, must
be judicially noticed by the Circuit Court of the United States sitting
within the State, and by this court on writ of error to that court.
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company is a corporation of the State of
Maryland only, though licensed by the State of West Virginia to act
within its territory, and liable to be sued in its courts; and may therefore
remove into the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
West Virginia an action brought against it in a court of the State of
West Virginia by a citizen thereof.
Under the provision of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, by which a petition
for the removal of an action from a court of a State into the Circuit
Court of the United States is to be filed in the state court at or before the
time when the defendant is required by the laws of the State, or by rule
of the state court, "to answer or plead to the declaration or complaint of
the plaintiff," the petition should be filed as soon as the defendant is required to make any defence whatever, either in abatement or on the
merits, in that court.
The objection that the Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction of a case removed into it from a state court, because the petition
for removal was filed too late in the state court, is waived if not taken
until after the case has proceeded to trial in the Circuit Court of the
United States, and cannot be taken for the first time in this court on writ
of error to that court.
VOL. cLi-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
The question, whether a cause of action survives to the personal representative of a deceased person, is a question not of procedure, but of
right; and, when the cause of action does not arise under a law of tha
United States, depends upon the law of the State in which the suit is
0
brought.
By the law of West Virginia, an action for a personal injury abates by the
death of the person injured.
If, after verdict and judgment for the defendant in the Circuit Court of the
United States in an action the cause of which does not survive by law, and
pending a writ of error in this court upon the plaintiff's exceptions to
the rulings and instructions at the trial, the plaintiff dies, the action
abates and the writ of error must be dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Daniel B. Lucas for plaintiff in error.
.Ar. John MRa. JusTicE

Cowen for defendant in error.
GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of trespass on the case, brought March
1, 1888, in the circuit court of Berkeley County in the State of
West Virginia, by John W. Martin against the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Company, to recover damages in the sum of
$10,000 for personal injuries caused to the plaintiff by the
defendant's. negligence at Bayview in the State of Maryland
on May 22, 1887.
On April 12, 1888, the defendant filed in that court a petition, with proper affidavit and bond, for the removal of the
case into the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of West Virginia, upon the ground that at the commencement
of the suit and ever since the plaintiff was a citizen of West
Virginia and the defendant a corporation and citizen of Maryland. On April 24, 1888, the plaintiff was permitted by the
state court, against the defendant's objection, to file an answer
to the petition for removal, denying that the defendant was
a nonresident corporation, and alleging that it was, for all the
purposes of this suit, a resident of West Virginia, and therefore not entitled to remove the case; and the court, upon a
hearing on that petition and answer, "taking judicial notice

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

675

Opinion of the Court.

of the statutes incorporating the defendant in Virginia and in
this State, and being of opinion that said Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company is not a nonresident corporation," refused
to allow the removal.
But the Circuit Court of the United States, on June 11,
1888, upon the production by the defendant of a duly certified
copy of the record of the above proceedings, ordered the case
to be docketed in that court; and on July 23, 1888, ordered it
to be removed into that court.
On December 13, 1888, the plaintiff filed in that court a
plea (called in the record a plea in abatement) that it ought
not to take further cognizance of the action, because before
and at the time of the removal the defendant "was and is
now a resident of the District of West Virginia, and is therefore not entitled to remove said action" to that court. A
demurrer to that plea was filed by the defendant, and sustained by the court. "And thereupon," as the record stated,
"the plaintiff moved to remand this action to the circuit court
of Berkeley County, which motion the court overruled."
The defendant then pleaded not guilty. Upon the issue
joined on this' plea, the case was tried by a jury, the plaintiff
and other witnesses testified in his favor, a verdict was rendered for the defendant under instructions of the court, and
judgment was rendered upon the verdict.
The plaintiff duly excepted to those instructions, and sued
out this writ of error, which was entered in this court on
January 13, 1890, together with an assignment of errors, in
which the only error assigned to the sustaining of the demurrer to the plaintiff's plea, or to the denial of his motion to
remand, was as follows: "The Circuit Court erred in sustaining the demurrer of the said defendant in error to the plaintiff's plea in abatement, and in overruling the motion of the
plaintiff in error to remand the said cause to the state court
whence it had been removed to said Circuit Court of the
United States, thus deciding, both in sustaining said demurrer
and in overruling said motion, that the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company was a nonresident of West Virginia and
entitled to remove."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The other errors assigned were in rulings and instructions
at later stages of the case, which it will not be necessary to
consider.
At the present term of this court, the plaintiff's death was
suggested, and Gerling, his administrator, appointed by the
county court of Berkeley County in West Virginia, came in
to prosecute in his stead; and the defendant moved to dismiss
the writ of error, because an action for personal injuries abated
by the death of the plaintiff.
It was argued, in behalf of the administrator, that the removal from the state court gave the Circuit Court of the
United States no jurisdiction of this case, for two reasons:
1st. That the Baltimore and Ohio :Railroad Company was a
resident corporation of the State of West Virginia; 2d. That
the application to the state court for removal was not made
in time.
The consideration of this argument naturally takes precedence; because, if the courts of the United States never lawfully
acquired jurisdiction of the case, they have no rightful power
to determine any question of the liability of the defendant, or
of the right of the original plaintiff in his lifetime, or of his
administrator since his death, to maintain this action, but all
such questions can only be determined in the courts of the
State in which the action was brought; and, therefore, if the
Circuit Court of the United States had no jurisdiction of
the case, its judgment should be reversed for want of jurisdiction, with directions to remand the case to the state court,
without passing upon the right to maintain the action in a
competent tribunal.
1. The act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, which was in force at
the time of the removal of this case, authorized any civil action
brought in a court of a State between citizens of different
States, and in which the matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive
of interest and costs, the sum or value of $2000, to be removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States "by the defendant
or defendants therein, being nonresidents of that State." 24
Stat. 552. In order to be a "nonresident of that State,"
within the meaning of this statute, the defendant must be a

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

677

Opinion of the Court.

citizen of another State, or a corporation created by the laws
of another State. AMcCormick Co. v. Walthers, 134 U. S. 41;
Shaw v. Quincy Xining Co., 145 U. S. 444; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202; .Martin v. Snyder, 148 U. S.
663.
A railroad corporation, created by the laws of one State,
may carry on business in another, either by virtue of being
created a corporation by the laws of the latter State also, as
in Railroad Co. v. Vance, 96 U. S. 450; -lemyhis & Charleston Railroad v. Alabama, 107 U. S. 581; Clark v. Barnard,
108 U. S. 436; Stone v. Farmers' Co., 116 U. S. 307; and Graham v. Boston, Rarford & Erie Railroad, 118 U. S. 161; or
by virtue of a license, permission or authority, granted by the
laws of the latter State, to act in that State under its charter
from the former State. Railroad Co. v. Harris,12 Wall. 65;
Railroad Co. v. Xoontz, 104 U. S. 5; PennsylvaniaRailroad
v. St. Louis &c. Railroad, 118 U. S.290; Goodlett v. louisville & Nashville Railroad,122 U. S. 391; farye v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,127 U. S. 117. In the first alternative,
it cannot remove into the Circuit Court of the United States
a suit brought against it in a court of the latter State by a
citizen of that State, because it is a citizen of the same State
with him. .Memphis & Charleston Railroad v. Alabama,
above cited. In the second alternative, it can remove such a
suit, because it is a citizen of a different State from the plaintiff. Railroad Co. v. Eoontz, above cited.
Whether the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company had
the right to remove into the Circuit Court of the United
States this action, brought against it by a citizen of West
Virginia in a court of that State, therefore depends upon the
question whether this company was a corporation created by
the laws of Maryland only, or by the laws of West Virginia
also.
This company, as is admitted, was originally incorporated
by the statute of Maryland of February 28, 1827, (1826, c.
123,) entitled "An act to incorporate the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company," by which subscriptions to its capital
stock were to be received by commissioners therein appointed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

rights to subscribe for certain amounts of stock were-reserved
to the State of Maryland and to the city of Baltimore, and, as
soon as a certain amount had been subscribed for, it was to
become a corporation by the name of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company, capable of purchasing, holding and selling
real and personal property, and of suing and being sued by
that name, and to enjoy all the powers, rights and privileges
of a corporation; its general meetings were to be held and
directors chosen annually in Baltimore, and the president
chosen by the directors; and the president and directors were
authorized to increase the capital stock, to declare dividends,
and to construct and maintain a railroad from the city of
Baltimore to the Ohio River, and to purchase or take property
for this purpose, making compensation to the owners.
In support of the proposition that this company bad no
right to remove the case into the Circuit Court of the United
States, several legislative scts and judicial decisions of Virginia
and West Virginia were relied on, which require examination.
In West Virginia, statutes of that State, or of the parent
State of Virginia, creating railroad corporations, or licensing
and authorizing them to exercise their franchises within the
State, are deemed public acts, of which the courts of the State
take judicial notice, without proof. Hart v. Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad,6 W. Va. 336, 349-358; AMahaney v. KYephart,
15 W. Va. 609, 624; Elenen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,
17 W. Va. 881, 899 ; -NorthwesternBank v. Alachir, 18 W. Va.
271. Doubtless, therefore, such statutes must be judicially
noticed by the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting
within the State of West Virginia and administering its laws,
and by this court on writ of error to that court. Covington
Drawbridgev. Shepherd, 20 How. 227, 232.
By the statute of Virginia of March 8, 1827, c. 74, entitled
"An act to confirm a law, passed at the present session of the
general assembly of Maryland, entitled 'An act to incorporate
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,'" and reciting
that act in full, it was enacted that "the same rights and
privileges shall be and are hereby granted to the aforesaid

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

679

Opinion of the Court.

company within the territory of Virginia, as are granted to
them within the territory of Maryland; the said company
shall be subject to the same pains, penalties and obligations,
as are imposed by said act; and the same rights, privileges
and immunities which are reserved to the State of Maryland,
or to the citizens thereof, are hereby reserved to the State of
Virginia and her citizens;" excepting as to the location of the
railroad in Virginia, and the property to be taken for its construction; and excepting also that any injury at any time done
to the road within the limits of Virginia should be punished
according to its laws in force for the protection of its public
works.
By the statute of Virginia of March 6, 1847, c. 99, it was
enacted that "the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company be
and they are hereby authorized to complete their road through
the territory of this Commonwealth" to Wheeling in Virginia,
upon certain conditions, including the following:
By section 6, "said company shall be subject to the provisions of" the statute of Virginia of March 11, 1837, c. 118,
"with respect to that portion of their road or other improvements now or hereafter to be constructed within this Commonwealth, so far as the same are properly applicable."
By section 7, "the stock, property and profits of said company, so far as the same may be or accrue within this Commonwealth, shall be subject to general taxation in like manner
and on the same footing with other similar companies within
this State: Provided, however, that said taxing power shall
not be exercised until and unless the net income of the said
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad shall exceed six per centum per
annum upon their capital invested."
By section 8, "the general assembly hereby reserves to itself
the power of hereafter altering, amending or modifying any
or any part of the provisions of this act: Provided, that the
rights of property and franchises acquired under this act, and
the free use and enjoyment of their rights and privileges, as
granted by this or any other former act now in force, shall
not be taken away or impaired by any such further act of
legislation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The statute of Virginia of March 11, 1837, c. 118, (referred
to in section 6 of the statute of 1817, above cited,) was entitled "An act prescribing certain regulations for the incorporation of railroad companies;" and began by enacting that
" whenever it shall be deemed necessary by the general
assembly to grant a charter for the incorporation of a company to construct a railroad, the following general provisions
shall be deemed and taken to be a part of the said charter or
act of incorporation, to the same effect as if the same were
expressly reenacted in reference to any such charter or act,
except so far as such charter or act may otherwise expressly
provide." Those general provisions related to the exercise of
the right of eminent domain, and the payment of compensation for property taken or injured; the time of completing
the works of a company so incorporated; the annulling of its
charter by the State of Virginia in case it should afterwards
fail to keep its road in repair, and to afford the intended accommodation to the public, for three successive years; the
right and duty of transporting persons and property; and
other matters not necessary to be specified.
Upon the division of the State of Virginia, and the admission of West Virginia into the Union as a State, that part of
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, which had been within the
State of Virginia, came within the State of West Virginia.
See Act of Congress of December 31, 1862, c. 6; 12 Stat. 633;
Tirginia v. IVest Vi'ginia, 11 Wall. 39. But the general
statutes of West Virginia, cited for the plaintiff, do not appear
to have any important bearing upon this part of the case.
The statutes of West Virginia of 1872, c. 227, § 16, and
1882, c. 97, § 30, by which all railroad corporations, "doing
business in this State under charters granted and laws passed
by the State of Virginia or this State," are declared to be
domestic corporations, were evidently aimed at those companies which had been made corporations by either State,
whether under special charters or general laws; and were
probably intended to make sure that corporations, created by
Virginia before the separation of West Virginia, and doing
business within the territory of the latter, should be consid-

MARTIN v. BALTIMIORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

681

Opinion of the. Court.

ered corporations of this State; and cannot reasonably be
construed as including corporations created by some other
State only.
Section 30 of chapter 54: of the code of West Virginia
authorizes any corporation, duly incorporated by the laws of
any other State, to hold property and transact business in
West Virginia, "upon complying with the requirements of
this section, and not otherwise." These requirements are that
every such corporation shall file with the Secretary of State a
copy of its charter, or of its articles of association and of the
law under which it is incorporated, and shall receive from him.
a certificate of the fact, and file this certificate with the clerk
of a county in which its business is conducted. By a further
provision of this section, "every railroad corporation, doing
business in this State under the provisions of this section, or
under charters granted or laws passed by the State of Virginia,
or this State, is hereby declared to be, as to its works, property, operations, transactions and business in this State, a
domestic corporation, and shall be so held and treated in all
suits and legal proceedings which may be commenced or carried on by or against any such railroad corporation, as well as
in all other matters relating to such corporation." It then
prohibits, under penalties, any "railroad corporation, which
has a charter or any corporate authority from any other
State," to do business or to bring any action in the State, until
it has filed with the Secretary of State a writing under its
corporate seal accepting the provisions of this section. This
section does not make any corporation of another State, which
has neither complied with its requirements, nor been previously made a corporation by special charter or general law of
Virginia or of West Virginia, a domestic corporation of West
Virginia. It has not been proved or suggested that the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company ever complied with the requirements of this section. Nor, as has been seen, had it been
previously made a corporation by any statute of West Virginia.
The question under consideration, therefore, turns upon the
construction and effect of the statutes of Virginia, above referred to.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.
The position that, by force of those statutes of Virginia, the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company became a corporation
of Virginia, and consequently of West Virginia, is sought to
be maintained by expressions of opinion to that effect by the
Court of Appeals of Virginia in Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
v. Gallahue, (1855,) 12 Grattan, 655, and by the Supreme Court
of Appeals of West Virginia in Goshorn v. Supervisors, (1865,)
1 W. Va. 308, and in Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Squervisors, (1869,) 3 V. Va. 319. But in the first case the point
decided was that the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
was liable to be sued in Virginia; the second case concerned
the validity of a county subscription to stock of a railroad
company incorporated in Pennsylvania, and authorized by a
statute of Virginia to construct a railroad therein; and the
third case involved only the right of the State of West
Virginia to tax the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.
On, the -other hand, this court, in Railroad Co. v. Harris,
(1870,) 12 Wall. 65, upon great consideration, and with those
cases before it, was clearly of opinion that neither the statutes
of Virginia, nor a similar act of Congress as to the District of
Columbia, made the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
a new corporation; and this for cogent and satisfactory reasons, which were stated by Mr. Justice Swayne in delivering
judgment as follows: "In both the original Maryland act of
incorporation is referred to, but neither expressly or by implication create a new corporation. The company was chartered
to construct a road in Virginia, as well as in Maryland. The
latter [a mistake for 'former,' as it evidently means in Virginia] could not be done without the consent of Virginia.
That consent was given upon the terms which she thought
proper to prescribe. With a few exceptions, not material to
the question before us, they were the same as to powers, privileges, obligations, restrictions and liabilities as those contained
in the original charter. The permission was broad and comprehensive in its scope, but it was a license and nothing more.
It was given to the Maryland corporation as such, and that
body was the same in all its elements and in its identity after-

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

683

Opinion of the Court.

wards as before. In its name, locality, capital stock, the election and power of its officers, in the mode of declaring dividends, and doing all its business, its unity was unchanged.
Only the sphere of its operations was enlarged." 12 Wall. 81.
This court then expressed its concurrence in the -view taken in
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Gallahue, 12 Grattan, 655, that
the company was suable in Virginia, and decided that it was
likewise suable in the District of Columbia, concluding its discussion of the subject by saying, "Looking at the statute
alone, and reading it by its own light, we entertain no doubt
that it made the company liable to suit, where this suit was
brought, in all respects as if it bad been an independent corporation of the same locality." 12 Wall. 83, 84.
In Baltimore & Ohio Railroadv. Pittsburg &c. Railroad,
(1881,) 17 W. Va. 812, a petition of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company, for the removal into the Circuit Court of
the United States of a proceeding for the taking of some of
its land for the railroad of a West Virginia corporation, was
denied by the courts of West Virginia, upon the ground that
the Federal courts could under no circumstances have jurisdiction of such cases. 17 W. Va. 866, 867. That decision is
inconsistent with the decisions of this court. Boom Co. v.
-Patterson, 98 U. S. 403, 407; Union Pacific Railway v.
Kansas City, 115 U. S. 1, 19; Searl v. School District, 124
U. S. 197. But (which directly bears upon the question now
before us) the highest court of West Virginia, in that case,
after referring to the cases in 12 Grattan and in 1 and 3 West
Virginia, and quoting at length from the opinion of this court
in Railroad Co. v. Harris,including the passages above cited,
said: "If this be true, we need not differ as to whether the
act of Virginia was a charter to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, or a license of the character described; the
result would be the same in either case; the effect would be
to make it, 'uoadall its bearings [business?], contracts, etc., in
West Virginia, liable to suit here, the same as if it were a
corporation of West Virginia." 17 W. Va. 875. The decisions
in Henem v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,17 W. Va. 881, and
Quarrier v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 20 W. Va. 424,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

simply follow that case; and we have been referred to no
later decision of that court upon the subject.
There does not appear, therefore, to be such a settled course
of adjudication in the courts of West Virginia that the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company has been made by the
statutes of Virginia a corporation of that State and of the
State of West Virginia, as should induce this court, when
the question arises under an act of Congress defining the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, to surrender
its own opinion, and to reverse the conclusion at which it
deliberately arrived in Railroad Co. v. Harris,and which it
has since repeatedly approved. Railway Co. v. Whitton, 13
Wall. 270, 285; E 2arte Schiollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, 376;
Railroad Co. v. Tance, 96 U. S. 450, 458; Railroad Co. v.
Xoontz, 104 U. S. 5, 9, 13; Goodlett v. Louisville & Nfa&hville
Railroad,122 U. S. 391, 402, 403.
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, not being a
corporation of West Virginia, but only a corporation of Maryland, licensed by West Virginia to act as such within its territory, and liable to be sued in its courts, had the right under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, when so sued
by a citizen of this State, to remove the suit into the Circuit
Court of the United States; and could not have been deprived
of that right by any provision in the statutes of the State.
Insurance Co. v. -Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Barron v. Burnside,
121 U. S.186; Southern Pacifie Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S.202,
207.
2. The other objection taken in argument to the validity of
the removal of the case into the Circuit Court of the United
States is that the petition for removal was not seasonably filed
in the state court under the provision of the act of Congress
of 1887, by which any party, entitled to remove such a suit
from a state court into the Circuit Court of the United States,
"may make and file a petition in such suit in such state court
at the time, or any time before, the defendant is required by.
the laws of the State, or the rule of the state court in which
such suit is brought, to answer or plead to the declaration or
complaint of the plaintiff." 24 Stat. 554.

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

685

Opinion of the Court.

The original summons in this case was issued by the state
court on March 3, 1888, returnable at the rules to be held on
the fii;st Monday of March, 1888, which was March 5, and
was served, as appeared by the officer's return, at 11 A.M. of
March 5, the statutes of the State providing that "any process
may be executed on or before the return day thereof." W. Va.
Code of 1884, c. 124, § 2.
On the record of that court were the following minutes:
"March rules, 1888: Declaration filed and common order.
April rules, 1888: Common order confirmed and W. E."
The meaning of these minutes is that the plaintiff, having
filed his declaration at the rule day on which the summons
was returnable, and the defendant having failed to appear on
that day, there was thereupon entered in the clerk's office, as
authorized by the statutes of the State, a conditional judgment, or judgment nisi, known as the "common order," that
judgment be entered for the plaintiff unless the defendant
should appear and plead at the next rules; and at April rules,
the defendant continuing in default, the clerk entered, pursuant
to those statutes, an office judgment, confirming the former
one, with an order or writ of enquiry of damages. W. Va.
Code, c. 125, §§ 1, 6; 4: Minor's Institutes, 599, 601.
By the statutes and practice of the State, this office judgment would, if not set aside, become a final judgment on, and
not before, the last day of the next succeeding term. But the
defendant might, at any time before the end of that term,
"appear and plead to issue," that is to say, answer to the
merits of the action, either by plea in bar, or by demurrer;
and, if he did so appear and plead within that time, the office
judgment, not having been entered up in court, nor the writ
or order of enquiry executed, would be set aside as of course,
and the case stand for trial upon the merits. In short, either
judgment in the clerk's office was merely a formal judgment
of default, not affecting the defendant's absolute right to
interpose any defence upon the merits. But at a subsequent
term, or if the office judgment had been confirmed by the
court, or the writ of enquiry executed, he could not, without
leave of court, file any plea whatever. A plea to the juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

diction, or in abatement, if it could have been filed after the
common order or conditional judgment in the clerk's office,
certainly could not be filed, without special leave of the court,
after the office judgment confirming that order; and therefore, in this case, upon the most liberal construction possible,
not after the April rules. W. Va. Code, c. 125, §§ 16, 46, 47;
4 Minor's Institutes, 601, 605; Resler v. S1hehee, 1 Cranch, 110;
Furniss v. Ellis, 2 Brook. 14; Hinton v. -Ballard,3 W. Va.
582; Delaplai v. Armstrong, 21 W. Va. 211.
The defendant's petition for the removal of the case into
the Circuit Court of the United States was not filed at the
rules, either in March or in April. But it was afterwards
filed in and heard by the state court before the end of the
April term. It was therefore filed at or before the time at
which the defendant was required by the laws of the State to
answer or plead to the merits of the case, but after the time at
which he was required to plead to the jurisdiction of the court,
or in abatement of the writ.
Was this a compliance with the provision of the act of Congress of 1887 which defines the time of filing a petition for
removal in the state court? We are of opinion that it was
not, for more than one reason. This provision allows the petition for removal to be filed at or before the time when the
defendant is required by the local law or rule of court "to
answer or plead to the declaration or complaint." These
words make no distinction between different kinds of answers
or pleas; and all pleas or answers of the defendant, whether
in matter of law by demurrer, or in matter of fact, either by
dilatory plea to the jurisdiction of the court or in suspension
or abatement of the particular suit, or by plea in bar of the
whole right of action, are said, in the standard books on pleading, to "oppose or answer" the declaration or complaint
which the defendant is summoned to meet. Stephen on
Pleading, (1st Am. ed.,) 60, 62, 63, 70, 71, 239; Lawes on
Pleading, 36. The Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c.
20, § 12, required a petition for removal of a case from a state
court into the Circuit Court of the United States to be filed
by the defendant "at the time of entering his appearance in

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

687

Opinion of the Court.

such state court." 1 Stat. 79. The recent acts of Congress
have tended more and more to contract the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States, which bad been enlarged by intermediate acts, and to restrict it more nearly within the limits
of the earliest statute. Pullman Car Co. v. Speck, 113 U. S.
84; Smitk v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, 320; In re Pennsylvania
Co., 137 U. S. 451, 454; Fisk v. lenarie,142 U. S.459, 467;
Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 44, 449.
Construing the provision now in question, having regard to
the natural meaning of its language, and to the history of the
legislation upon this subject, the only reasonable inference is
that Congress contemplated that the petition for removal
should be filed in the state court as soon as the defendant was
required to make any defence whatever in that court, so that,
if the case should be removed, the validity of any and all of
his defences should be tried and determined in the Circuit
Court of the United States.
As the petition for the removal of this case into the Circuit
Court of the United States was not filed in the state court
within the time mentioned in the act of Congress, it would
follow that, if a motion to remand upon that ground had been
made promptly and denied, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of the United States must have been reversed, with directions
to remand the case to the state court. Edrington v. Jeferson, 111 U. S. 770; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Burns, 124
U. S.165.
3. But the record, as appears by the statement of the material parts thereof at the beginning of this opinion, not only
does not show that any such objection to the removal was
made, either in the state court or in the Circuit Court of the
United States, but clearly implies that it was not, and that the
only objection made in either court to the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of the United States was that the defendant, as well as the plaintiff, was a citizen of West Virginia;
and the assignment of error in this respect is expressly so
limited.
The question therefore arises whether the objection to the
time of filing the petition for removal can be raised for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

first time in this court, or must be held to have been waived
by not taking it below.
The time of filing a petition for the removal of a case from
a state court into the Circuit Court of the United States for
trial is not a fact in its nature essential to the jurisdiction of
the national court under the Constitution of the United States,
like the fundamental condition of a controversy between citizens of different States. But the direction as to the time of
filing the petition is more analogous to the direction that a
civil suit within the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of the United States shall be brought in a certain district, a
non-compliance with which is w ived by a defendant who does
not seasonably object that the suit is brought in the wrong
district. Gracie v. Palmer, 8 ,Theat. 699; Taylor v. Longworth, 14 Pet. 172, 1'74; St. Louis & San _Francisco Railway
v. lcBride, 141 U. S. 127; Texas & Pacifc Railway v. Cox,
145 U. S. 593; Central Trust Co. v. IfecGeorge, 151 U. S. 129.
That the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States over a case removed into it from a state court cannot
be defeated upon the ground that the petition for removal was
filed too late, if the objection is not taken until after the case
'has proceeded to trial in the Circuit Court of the United States,
has been distinctly decided by this court.
&
In ]French v. Hlay, 22 Wall. 238, the case had been removed
under the act of March 2, 1867, c. 196, (14 Stat. 558,) reenacted
in Rev. Stat. § 639, cl. 3, which required the petition to be
filed "before the final hearing or trial" in the state court; the
Circuit Court of the United States denied a motion to remand,
made, as the report states, because the act, "had not been
complied with in respect to time and several other important
particulars ;" and this court, on appeal, approved its action,
and, speaking by Mr. Justice Swayne, said: "The objection
made in the court below touching the removal of the case
from the state court, and which objection has been renewed
here, was not made in the court below until the testimony was
all taken, the case was ready for hearing, and nearly three
years had elapsed since the transfer was made. The objection
came too late. Under the circumstances it must be held to

MARTIIN v. BALTI.MORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

689

Opinion of the Court.

have been conclusively waived." And Taylor v. Zongworth,
above cited, was referred to as in point. 22 Wall. 244, 245.
The reasons in support of this conclusion were stated at
length in Ayers v. Watson, 113 U. S. 594, which was brought
up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United
States, into which the case had been removed under the act
of March 3, 1875, c. 137, since amended by the act of 1887 in
no material respect bearing upon the present inquiry, except
in fixing an earlier time for filing the petition for removal in
the state court, by requiring it to be filed at or before the time
when the defendant is required to answer or plead, instead of
(as it was in the act of 1875) "before or at the term at which
such cause could be first tried and before the trial thereof."
The two acts are printed side by side in 120 U. S. 786-794.
In Ayers v. Watson, Mr. Tustice Bradley, speaking for the
whole court, after observing that "the application for removal
was beyond question too late according to the act of 1875,"
which governed the case, and that the court was therefore
compelled to examine the effect of the act of 1875 when the
application was made at a later period of time than was
allowed by that act, and stating the substance of section 2
of that act, defining the classes of cases which might be removed into the Circuit Court of the United States, said:
"This is the fundamental section, based on the constitutional
grant of judicial power. The succeeding sections relate to
the forms of proceeding to effect the desired removal." "The
second section defines the cases in which a removal may be
made; the third prescribes the mode of obtaining it, and the
time within which it should be applied for. In the nature of
things, the second section is jurisdictional, and the third is but
modal and formal. The conditions of the second section are
indispensable, and must be shown by the record; the directions of the third, though obligatory, may to a certain extent
be waived. Diverse state citizenship of the parties, or some
other jurisdictional fact prescribed by the second section, is
absolutely essential, and cannot be waived, and the want of
it will be error at any stage of the cause, even though assigned
fansfield
by the party at whose instance it was committed.
VOL. cu-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

& Coldwater Railway Co. v. Swan, Il1 U. S. 379. Application in due time, and the proffer of a proper bond, as required
in the third section, are also essential if insisted on, but, according to the ordinary principles which govern such cases,
may be waived, either expressly or by implication. We see
no reason, for example, why the other party may not waive
the required bond, or any informalities in it, or informalities
in the petition, provided it states the jurisdictional facts; and
if these are not properly stated, there is no good reason why
an amendment should not be allowed, so that they may be
properly stated. So, as it seems to us, there is no good reason
why the other party may not also waive the objection as to
the time within which the application for removal is made.
It does not belong to the essence of the thing; it is not, in its
nature, a jurisdictional matter, but a mere rule of limitation.
In some of the older cases the word jurisdiction is often used
somewhat loosely, and no doubt cases may be found in which
this matter of time is spoken of as affecting the jurisdiction of
the court. We do not so regard it. And since the removal
was effected at the instance of the party who now makes the
objection, we think that he is estopped." 113 U. S.597-599.
In that case, it is true, it was the party who had removed the
case into the Circuit Court of the United States, who afterwards objected to the jurisdiction of that court because the
removal was not in time, and was held to be estopped to do
so. But if due time of removal had been made by the act of
Congress a jurisdictional fact, neither party could waive, or be
estopped to set up, the want of it; but, as observed by Mr.
Justice Bradley in the passage above quoted, and directly
adjudged in 3fansfteld d Coldwater Railway Co. v. Swan,
cited by him, the fact would be absolutely essential, and the
want of it would be error at any stage of the cause, even
though assigned by the party at whose instance it was committed. His whole course of reasoning leads up to the conclusion that the time of removal, not being a jurisdictional
and essential fact, is a subject of waiver and of estoppel alike.
The incidental suggestion, in that opinion, that the petition
for removal might be amended in the Circuit Court as to the

MARlTIN

. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

691

Opinion of the Court.

form of stating the jurisdictional facts, assumes that those
facts are already substantially stated therein; and accords
with later decisions, by which such amendments may be
allowed when, and only when, the petition, as presented to
the state court, shows upon its face sufficient ground for
removal. Carson v. Dunham, 121 U. S. 421, 427; Crehore
v. Ohio & Mississippi Railroad, 131 U. S. 240; Jackson v.
Allen, 132 U. S. 27.
The decision in Ayers v. Matson, as to the waiver in the
Circuit Court of the United States of the objection that the
petition for removal had not been seasonably filed in the state
court, has never been doubted or qualified. In Kansas City
1ailroad v. Daughtry, 138 U. S. 298, cited by the plaintiff in
the present case, the writ of error was not to the Circuit Court
of the United States, after the case had been removed into
that court and tried and determined there; but it was to the
state court, which had refused to allow the removal, and the
decision of this court was that there was no error in that refusal if the petition for removal -had not been filed in time to
make it the duty of that court to surrender its jurisdiction.
The result is, that an objection to the exercise by the Circuit Court of the United States of jurisdiction over a case,
otherwise removable, upon the ground that the petition for
removal was filed too late, is an objection which may be waived,
and that it has been waived in the case at bar.
4. There being no error, of which advantage can be taken
at this stage of the case, affecting the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States, the next matter to be considered is the defendant's motion to dismiss the writ of error,
as having abated by the death of the original plaintiff, because
it was an action to recover damages for a personal injury.
By the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 31,
(1 Stat. 90,) following the statute of 8 & 9 Will. 3, c. 11, §§ 6,
'7, and since embodied as follows in the Revised Statutes,
"when either of the parties, whether plaintiff or petitioner, or
defendant, in any suit in any court of the United States, dies
before final judgment, the executor or administrator of such
deceased party may, in case the cause of action survives by

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

law, prosecute or defend any such suit to final judgment," and
upon seire facies judgment may be rendered for or against
him; and "if there are two or more plaintiffs or defendants,
in a suit where the cause of action survives to the surviving
plaintiff, or against the surviving defendant, and one or more
of them dies, the writ or action shall not be thereby abated,
but, such death being suggested upon the record, the action
shall proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintiff against the
surviving defendant." Rev. Stat. §§ 955, 956.
These statutes authorize the executor or administrator to
prosecute or defend in those cases only in which the cause of
action survives by law, and do not undertake to define what
those cases are.
The question whether a particular cause of action is of a
kind that survives for or against the personal representative of
a deceased person is a question not of procedure, but of right.
As was said by Chief Justice Waite, speaking for this court:
"The personal representatives of a deceased party to a suit
cannot prosecute or defend th6 suit after his death, unless the
cause of action, on account of which the suit was brought, is
one that survives by law. Rev. Stat. § 955." "The right to
proceed against the representatives of a deceased person depends not on forms and modes of proceeding in a suit, but on
the nature of the cause of action for which the suit is brought.
If the cause of action survives, the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of the State may
be resorted to in the courts of the United States for the purpose of keeping the suit alive and bringing in the proper
parties. Rev. Stat. § 911. But if the cause of action dies
with the person, the suit abates and cannot be revived.
Whether an action survives depends on the substance of the
cause of the action, not on the forms of proceeding to enforce
it." Schreiber v. Shaqpless, 110 U. S. 76, 80. In that case,
the right in question being of an action for a penalty under a
statute of the United States, the question whether it survived
was governed by the laws of the United States. But in the
case at bar, the question whether the administrator has a right
of action depends upon the law of West Virginia, where the

AARTITN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

693

Opinion of the Court.

action was brought and the administrator appointed. Rev.
Stat. § 721; ilenshaw v. Miller, 17 How. 212. The mode of
bringing in the representative, if the cause of action survived,
would also be governed by the law of the State, except so far
as Congress has regulated the subject.
The provisions of the Code of West Virginia, which have
been supposed in argument to have any bearing upon this subject, are copied in the margin.'
1 CHAPTER LXXXV.
OF PERSONAL

REPRESENTATIVES;

THEIR POWERS

AND

DUTIES AS TO PER-

sONAL ASSETS.
SEC. 19. A personal representative may sue or be sued upon any judgment for or against, or any contract of or with, his decedent.
SEC. 20. An action of trespass, or trespass on the case, may be maintained by or against a personal representative for the taking or carrying
away of any goods, or for the waste or destruction of, or damage to, any
estate of or by his decedent.
CHAPTER CIII.
OF ACTIONS FOR INJURIES.

SEC. 5. Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by wrongful
act, neglect, or default, and the act, neglect, or default is such as would, if
death had not ensued, have entitled the party injured to maintain an action
to recover damages in respect thereof; then, and in every such case, the
person who, or the corporation which, would have been liable if death had
not ensued, shall be liable to an action for damages, notwithstanding the
death of the person injured, and although the death shall have been caused
under such circumstances as to amount in .law to murder in the first or
second degree, or manslaughter.
SEC. 6. Every such action shall be brought by and in the name of the
personal representative of such deceased person; and the amount recovered
in every such action shall be distributed to the parties and in the proportions provided by law in relation to the distribution of personal estates left
by persons dying intestate. In every such action, the jury may give such
damages as they shall deem fair and just, not exceeding ten thousand dollars, and the amount so recovered shall not be subject to any debts or
liabilities of the deceased: Provided, that every such action shall be commenced within two years after the death of such deceased person.
CHAPTER CIV.
LIrITATION OF SUITS.

SEC. 12. Every personal action, for which no limitation is otherwise
prescribed, shall be brought within five years next after the right to bring.

'

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Chapter 85, entitled "Of personal representatives; their
powers and duties as to personal assets," authorizes actions,
the same shall have accrued, if it be for a matter of such nature that, in
case a party die, it can be brought by or against his representative; and, if
it be for a matter not of such nature, shall be brought within one year next
after the right to bring the same shall have accrued, and not after.
[The only limitations of personal actions, otherwise prescribed in the
code, are of actions for injuries causing death, in c. 103, § 6, above quoted;
of actions on recognizances, in c. 104, § 11; on judgments, in c. 104, § 13,
and c. 139, §§ 10, 11; on other contracts and awards, in c. 104, §§ 6, 7; and
of proceedings to avoid voluntary gifts, in c. 104, § 14.]
CHAPTER CXXVII.
OF THE DEATH OR CHANGE OF PARTIES, AND

THE DISCONTINUANCE

OF

CAUSES NOT PROSECUTED.
SEC. 1. Where a party dies, or becones convict of felony, or insane, or
the powers of a party who is a personal representative or committee cease,
if such fact occur after verdict, judgment may be entered as if it had not
occurred.
SEC. 2. Where such fact occurs in any stage of a cause, whether it be
in a court of original or appellate jurisdiction, if it occur as to any of
several plaintiffs or defendants, the suit may proceed for or against the
others, if the cause of suit survive to or against them. If a plaintiff or
defendant die pending any action, whether the cause of action would survive at common law or not, the same may be revived and prosecuted to
judgment and execution in the same manner as if it were for a cause of
action arising out of contract.
SEC. 3. If, in any case of appeal, writ of error or supersedeas, which is
now or may hereafter be pending, there be at any time in an appellate court
suggested or relied on, in abatement, the death of the party, or any other
fact which, if it had occurred after the verdict in an action, would not
have prevented judgment being entered as if it had not occurred, the
appellate court may, in its discretion, enter judgment or decree in such
case as if the said fact had not occurred.
SEC. 4. In any stage of any case, a scire facias may be sued out for or
against the committee of any party who is insane or a convict; or for or
against a party before insane, the powers of whose committee have ceased;
or for or against the personal representative of the decedent who, or whose
personal representative, was a party; or for or against the heirs or devisees
of a decedent who was a party; or for the assignee or beneficiary party;
to show cause why the suit should not proceed in the name of him or them.
Or where the party dying, or whose powers cease, or such insane person or
convict, is plaintiff or appellant, the person or persons for whom such scire
facias might be sued out may, without notice or scirefacias,move that the

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

695

Opinion of the Court.

which might have been brought by or against a person in his
lifetime, to be brought after his death by or against his personal representative, in no other cases but those of judgments
or contracts, or of taking or injuring personal property.
These provisions are copied from the Code of Virginia of
1849, c. 130, §§ 19, 20, and approximately, though not exactly,
adopt the rule of the common law that a personal action dies
with the person, as modified by the English statutes of 4 Edw.
3, c. 7, and 3 & 4 Will. 4, c. 42, § 2. Williams on Executors,
pt. 2, bk. 3, c. 1, sec. 1. In Virginia and West Virginia, except as specified in their own statutes, no action of tort can be
maintained by or against the executor or administrator of the
person to or by whom the wrong was done. Henshaw v.
. iller, 17 How. 212; Harris v. Crenshaw, 3 Rand. 14;
Curry v. lMannington, 23 W. Va. 14, 18.
The only case of a personal injury, for which an action
might have been brought by a person in his lifetime, in which
the Code of West Virginia authorizes an action to be brought
by his personal representative, is that of a wrongful act,
neglect, or default causing death, in which case chapter 103,
entitled "Of actions for injuries," provides in sections 5 and 6,
following the English statute of 9 & 10 Vict. c. 93, §§ 1, 2,
(commonly known as Lord Campbell's Act,) that the person or
corporation, who would have been liable if death had not
ensued, shall be liable to an action by the personal representasuit proceed in his or their name. In the former case, after service of the
scire facias, or in the latter case, on such motion if no sufficient cause be
shown against it, an order shall be entered that the suit proceed according
to such scire facias or motion. Any such new party, except in an appellate
court, may have a continuance of the case at the term at which such order
is entered; and the court may allow him to plead anew, or amend the pleadings, as far as it deems reasonable; but in other respects the case shall
proceed to final judgment or decree for or against him, in like manner as
if the case had been pending for or against him before such scire facias or
motion.
SEC. 5. The clerk of the court in which the case is may issue such scire
facias at any time, and an order may be entered at rules for the case to
proceed in the name of the proper party, although the case be on the court
docket.
[The subsequent sections as to discontinuance are not material.]

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tive of the deceased person. The right of action thus given,
although for the same act or neglect for which the person
injured would have had a right of action in his lifetime,
differs from an action brought by him, both in the ground on
which it proceeds, and in the award of damages. It is not
a common law action to recover damages for the injuries
suffered by him while he lived, but it is an action given by
statute for causing his death. The damages recovered cannot
exceed $10,000; and are no part of the estate of the deceased,
and cannot pass by his will, or be reached by his creditors;
but, by the express terms of the statute, are to be distributed
to his next of kin as if he died intestate, and are not subject
to his debts. These sections, therefore, authorizing the personal representative to bring such an action after the death of
'the person injured, have no tendency to show an intention of
the legislature that the representative may prosecute a common law action brought by that person in his lifetime.
The statute action must be brought within two years after
the death. All other actions for personal injuries come within
the general provision of the statute of limitations, chapter
104, § 12, of the Code of West Virginia, (corresponding to
chapter 149, § 11, of the Code of Virginia,) by which the period
of limitation of every personal action, for which no other limitation is prescribed, is fixed at five years, or at one year, depending upon the question whether "it be for a mattet of such
a nature that, in case a party dies, it can be brought by or
against his personal representative."
It is hardly contended that by the law of West Virginia this
action could have been begun by an executor or administrator.
But it is argued that, having been begun by the person injured,
it may be prosecuted by his administrator since his death,
under the provisions of chapter 127 of the Code of West Virginia, and especially by virtue of the last clause of § 2 of this
chapter.
The chapter is entitled "Of the death or change of parties,
and the discontinuance of causes not prosecuted," and all its
provisions relate rather to matters of procedure than of substantial right.

MARTIN1 v. BALTIM11ORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

697

Opinion of the Court.

By the rule of the common law, actio personalismoriturcum
persona, the death of the sole plaintiff or of the sole defendant
before final judgment abated any personal action, except that,
if the death occurred in vacation after verdict, judgment
might be entered as of the preceding term. Hfatch v. Eustis,
1 Gallison, 160, 162; Green v. Watkins, 6 Wheat. 260, 262.
The rule has been modified in England and in this country by
various statutes, with the object of avoiding the necessity of
bringing a new action when the cause of action survives to the
personal representative, but not always limited to that object.
Chapter 127 of the Code of West Virginia reenacts, with
some modifications, chapter 173 of the Code of Virginia. After
reenacting the provision of § 1 that when a party dies after
verdict judgment may be entered as if the death had not
occurred, and the provision of § 2 that in case of the death of
any of several plaintiffs or defendants "the suit may proceed
for or against the others, if the cause of action survive to or
against them," it adds to this section this clause: "If a plaintiff or defendant die pending any action, whether the cause of
action would survive at common law or not, the same may be
revived and prosecuted to judgment and execution in the same
manner as if it were for a cause of action arising out of
contract."
It is argued that, by virtue of this clause, all actions of tort,
including libel and slander and all actions for injury to the
person, may, in case of the death of either party, be prosecuted
by or against his personal representative.
However plausible that argument might be if this clause
stood alone, and were to be construed by itself, and according
to the literal meaning of the words, the clause assumes a different aspect upon considering the connection in which it
stands, and the provisions of previous chapters, already mentioned, relating to the survivorship of causes of action.
It would be hardly consistent with the legislative intent,
apparent from the objects and the limits of those provisions,
to give the clause relied on the effect of allowing all actions of
tort whatever to be prosecuted after the death of the original
plaintiff by his personal representative; and to give it that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.

effect would permit the prosecution, after the death of a sole
plaintiff or defendant, of an action which, by the first clause
of the same section, if there had been several plaintiffs or de-

fendants and one only had died, could not have proceeded for
or against the others.

Moreover, by the final clause of § 4 of the same chapter,
after the personal representative of either party dying has
been brought in by scire facias or motion, "the case shall
proceed to final judgment or decree for or against him, in like
manner as if the case had been pending for or against him before such scire facias or motion." But if an action for a
personal injury had been pending for or against the personal
representative after the death of the person who suffered or
committed the injury, the final judgment would have been
that the action was alated by the death.
The reasonable inference is that the clause relied on, like the
rest of the chapter, is intended only to prescribe the mode of
procedure in actions the cause of which survives, either at
common law, or by virtue of other chapters of the Code; and
that its whole effect is to avoid the necessity of bringing a new
action when the right of action so survives ; and not to give a
new right of action, which did not exist before.
This is the view that has been taken by the highest court
of the State whenever the matter has been brought before it.
In Cunningham v. Sayre, 21 W. Va. 440, that court, after
observing that, at common law, "actions grounded in tort
generally died with the person, and actions founded on contract
generally survived," went on to say: "When the legislature,
in the statute above referred to, used the language, that ' if a
plaintiff or defendant die pending any action, whether the
cause of action would survive at common law or not, the same
may be revived and prosecuted to judgment and execution in
the same manner as if it were a cause of action arising out of
contract,' it is evident that it referred in the last clause of the
section to the general common law rule that ' actions founded
on contracts survived.' It was found that great inconvenience
arose in following the technical rule of the common law in
abating actions, when the personal representative, his heir or

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

699

Opinion of the Court.

devisee, might bring another suit to accomplish substantially
the same object had in view by the ancestor in bringing the
original suit, and the manifest object of the statute was to enlarge the remedy so that the suit might be revived. It was
not the object of the statute to create any new right, and give
an action to the heir, devisee, or representative, which he had
not at common law; but where the representative, heir, etc.,
had a right, by suit, to accomplish the same object, substantially, as the ancestor had in view in bringing the suit, that
for convenience it should not abate on the ancestor's death,
but might be revived." And it was upon that construction of
the statute, that the court grounded its decision that an action
of unlawful entry and detainer survived, upon the death of
the plaintiff, to his heir, saying: "The suit which the ancestor
brought was sufficient to acquire the possession, and the statute intended, in case of his death, that his heirs or devisees,
who took his place with reference to that right, may revive
the suit and prosecute it." 21 W. Va. 444, 445.
In Curry v. Atanningon, 23 W. Va. 14, the question
whether a right of action of tort for a personal injury, not
causing death, would survive to the personal representative of
the person injured, was directly presented for adjudication by
a plea of the statute of limitations to an action against a town
for a personal injury caused by a defect in a highway, and
was decided in the negative, the court saying that, "under
the common law, the rule was that all personal actions died
with the person, according to the maxim, actio personalis
moritur cumperson;" that by successive statutes in England
and in this country, and by chapter 85, § 20, of the Code, the
personal representative might sue for an injury to the personal estate of the decedent in his lifetime; that, "in the
cases, however, of injuries to the person, and not to theproperty or estate of the decedent, whether by assault, battery,
false imprisonment, slander, negligence or otherwise, if either
the party who received or he who committed the injury die,
the maxim applies rigidly, and no action can be supported
either by or against his representative;" and that the only
exception to this rule, known to the court, was in chapter 103,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

§§ 5, 6, of the Code, "embracing what is known as Lord Campbell's Act, giving a right of action to the representative against
any party wrongfully causing the death of his decedent." 23
W. Va. 18.
In Gainer v. Gainer, 30 W. Va. 390, 398, whether a suit
could be revived by the personal representative under chapter
127, was treated as depending upon the question whether, by
other laws of the State, the cause of action survived.
A like view was taken by the Court of Appeals of Maryland
of similar statutes of that State, published in 2 Kilty's Laws
of Maryland. By the act of 1785, c. 80, § 1, it was enacted
"that no action, brought or to be brought, in any court of
law in this State, shall abate by the death of either of the
parties to such action; but upon the death of any defendant,
in a case where the action by such death would have abated
before this act, the action shall be continued," and, in a real
action, "the heir or devisee of the deceased, or tenant in possession, or other proper person to defend in such action," and,
in an action "to recover personal chattels, debt or damages,"
the executor or administrator or other proper person to defend,
might appear or be summoned in; "and in case the plaintiff
or plaintiffs, in any action aforesaid, shall die before the same
may be tried and judgment given, and such death would abate
the actioh before this act, the appearance of the heir, devisee,
executor or administrator, as the case may require, or other
proper person to prosecute such suits, shall be admitted to be
entered to the same." And the act of 1798, chapter 101, subchapter 14, § 4, provided that "no personal action shall abate
by the death of either party, but executors and administrators
shall notice and conform to the directions of the act of 1785,
chapter 80, respecting their prosecution or defence of such
action." Notwithstanding the broad terms of those statutes,
the Court of Appeals held that an action against a railroad
company for a personal injury was abated by the death of
the plaintiff, saying: "Suits for injuries to the person or character die with the person, and cannot be maintained by the
representatives of the deceased party. Before the acts of 1785,
chapter 80, and 1798, chapter 101, sub-chapter 14, § 4, all per-

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

701

Opinion of the Court.

sonal actions abated by the death of a party, and it was necessary for his representatives to commence the action anew;
and the object of those acts was to prevent this inconvenience
and delay, and to enable the representatives of deceased parties
to prosecute such actions as had been instituted by their decedents, during their lives, and which did not die with the
person. Those apts never were intended, however, to prevent
the abatement of actions which died with the person." Baltimore c& Oio Railroad v. Ritchie, 31 'Maryland, 191, 198, 199.
In an action for a personal injury, a similar decision was
made in England under the Common Law Procedure Act of
1852, Stat. 15 & 16 Vict. c. 76, which provided, in § 135, that
"the death of a plaintiff or defendant shall not cause the
action to abate, but it may be continued as hereinafter mentioned ;" in § 136, that when one of two or more plaintiffs or
defendants should die, the action should proceed, if the cause
of action survived to or against the others; in § 137, that "in
case. of the death of a sole plaintiff or sole surviving plaintiff,
the legal representative of such plaintiff may, by leave of the
court or a. judge, enter a suggestion of the death, and that he
is such legal representative, and the action shall thereupon
proceed," "and such judgment shall follow upon the verdict
in favor of or against the person making such suggestion, as
if such person were originally the plaintiff;" and in § 138,
that "in case of the death of a sole defendant or sole surviving defendant, where the action survives," the plaintiff might
suggest the death and proceed with the action. It was argued
for the plaintiff that § 135, which was not restricted to actions
the cause of which survived, was quite large enough in its
terms to include the case. But the court held that the section
was not intended to give any new right of action, but only to
prevent the proceedings abating by the death of the plaintiff,
and to permit the personal representative to continue them,
when he could have brought an action; Mr. Justice Crompton
saying, "It would be a strange thing to hold that these sections, which relate merely to matters of procedure, had the
effect of doing away with the ancidnt common law ruleactio personalis moritur c un. persona." -Flinnv. Perkins, 32

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Law Journal (N. S.) Q. B. 10, 11; S.

. 8 Jurist, (NT. S.)

1177.
That case does not appear to have ever been overruled or
questioned, although it was cited by counsel in Kramer v.
V'aymark, L. R. 1 Ex. 241; S. . 4 H. & N. 427; and again
in Hemming v. Batchelor, L. R. 10 Ex. 54:; S. C. 44: Law
Journal (N. S.) Exch. 54.
In -ramer v. WVaymark, the point decided was that § 139
of the Common Law Procedure Act, reenacting the general
provision of the statute of 17 Car. 2, c. 8, § 1, that the death
of either party between verdict and judgment should not be
alleged for error, if judgment should be entered within two
terms after the verdict, included an action for a personal
injury. Such an entry of judgment upon a verdict which has
established the rights of the parties is equivalent, in substance
and effect, to the ordinary entry of judgment nuno pro tunc
upon such a verdict; and is quite a different thing from permitting a litigation to be prosecuted by or against an executor
or administrator.
In -Hemmingv. Batchelor, on the other hand, where the
plaintiff, in ar action for a personal injury, had been nonsuited, with leave to move for a new trial at the next term,
and died before that term, the court held that the action
abated by the death, and, while declining to enter judgment
for the defendant on the nonsuit, held that it had no authority
to grant a new trial.
In Green v. Watkins, 6 Wheat. 260, 262, it was said by Mr.
Justice Story, following Tidd's Practice, 1096, that a writ of
error in a personal action would not abate if the plaintiff in
error died after assignment of errors. But the case before the
court was a real action, in which, as he observed, the right
descended to the heir. And there is nothing in Tidd's Practice, or in the authorities there cited, which countenances the
theory that a writ of error in an action, the cause of which
would not survive, either to heirs or to personal representatives, would not be abated by the death of the only person
who could maintain the action. Section 956 of the Revised
Statutes, like the statute of 8 & 9 Will. 3, c. 11, § 7, by which

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

703

Opinion of the Court.

the death of one of several plaintiffs or defendants does not
abate an action which survives to or against the survivor of
them, has been held to extend to writs of error, because, as
said by Lord Ellenborough, and repeated by Chief Justice
Waite: "The proceeding is an action which is commenced by
a writ, and the cause of the action is the damage sustained by
the parties from the error in the previous judgment, and this
damage equally attaches on the survivor in this as in any
other action." Carke v. Pippon,I B. & Ald. 586; _Xoses v.
W~ooster, 115 U. S. 285; ]Ielinney v. Carroll, 12 Pet. 66.
Equally applicable to writs of error is section 955 of the Revised Statutes, (following section 6 of the statute of Will. 3,)
by which, as observed by Chief Justice Waite in Schreiber v.
Sharpless, before cited, "the personal representatives of a
deceased party to a suit cannot prosecute or defend the suit
after his death, unless the cause of action on account of which
the suit is brought survives by law." 110 U. S. 76, 80.
The result is, that by the law of Virginia the administrator
has no right to maintain this action, and that by the statutes
of the United States regulating the proceedings in this court
he is not authorized to come in to prosecute this writ of error.
The only verdict and judgment below were in favor of the
defendant, who is not moving to have that judgment affirmed
or set aside. The original plaintiff never recovered a verdict,
judgment upon which might be entered or affirmed nunopro
tune in his favor. If the judgment below against him should
now, upon the application of his administrator, be reversed
and the verdict set aside for error in the instructions to the
jury, or, according to the old phrase, a venire do novo be
awarded, no new trial could be had, because the action has
abated by his death. Hemming v. Batchelor, above cited;
Bowker v. Evans, 15 Q. B. D. 565; Salding v. Congdon, 18
Wend. 543; Corbett v. Twenty-third Street Railway, 114
N. Y. 579; -Harrisv. Crenshaw, 3 Rand. 14, 24; Cummings
v. Bird, 115 Mass. 346.
The necessary conclusion is that, the action having abated
by the plaintiff's death, the entry must be
WVrit of error dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Harlan, J., Dissenting.

MR. JUSTI E HARLAN dissenting.

I cannot agree that this action abates or that the writ of
error should be dismissed because of the death of the original
plaintiff.
In the discussion at the bar of the question whether the
action had abated by the death of the plaintiff, reference was
made to chapter 103 of the Code of West Virginia, giving to
the personal representative of one whose death has been caused
by the wrongful act, neglect, or default of any person or corporation, a right of action for damages against such person or
corporation. The right to bring such action is limited to two
years, and the damages recovered cannot be subjected to the
payment of the debts and liabilities of the decedent, but must
be distributed to the parties and in the proportion provided by
law in relation to the personal estate of those who die intestate. In my judgment, those provisions are of no consequence
in the present inquiry. This suit was brought by the person
alleged to have been injured to recover compensation for such
injuries as he sustained. It is not claimed that his death, since
this writ of error was sued out, was caused by those injuries.
And the question is whether this personal action was abated
by his death. Its determination, it is agreed, depends upon
the law of West Virginia.
By the Code of West Virginia, c. 127, it is provided:
"SEoc. 1. Where a party dies, or becomes convict of felony,
or insane, or the powers of a party who is a personal representative or committee cease, if such fact occur after verdict,
judgment may be entered as if it had not occurred.
"S~c. 2. Where such fact occurs in any stage of a cause,
whether it be in a court of original or appellate jurisdiction,
if it occur as to any of several plaintiffs or defendants, the
suit may proceed for or against the others, if the cause of suit
survive to or against them. If a plaintiff or defendant die
pending any action, whether the cause of action would survive
at common law or not, the same may be revived and prosecuted to judgment and execution in the same manner as if it
were for a cause of action arising out of contract.

MARTII

v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

705

Harlan, J., Dissenting.

"SEc. 3. If, in any case of appeal, writ of error or szTersedea8 which is now or may hereafter be pending, there be at
any time in an appellate court suggested or relied on, in abatement, the death of the party, or any other fact which, if it
had occurred after the verdict in an action, would not have
prevented judgment being entered as if it had not occurred,
the appellate court may, in its discretion, enter judgment or
decree in such case as if the said fact had not occurred."
Under the first section above quoted judgment could be
entered without reviving the action if the party died after
verdict. That section is substantially like section 1 of the
statute of 17 Car. 2, c. 8, § 1. The object of the first clause
of the second section of chapter 127 of the Code of West
Virginia was to dispense with the necessity of reviving an
action in which there were several plaintiffs or defendants,
one of whom had died pending the action, provided the cause
of suit was one which, according to the settled principles of
the common law, survived to or against the other parties.
This clause had the same object as the sixth and seventh
These
sections of the statutes of 8 and 9 Will. 3, c. 2.
English statutes were examined in Eramer v. Jfaymark, L. R.
1 Ex. 241, 243, in which an infant plaintiff sued by next friend
to recover damages for injuries sustained through the negligence of the defendant. The child died after verdict and
before judgment was signed. Upon a rule to show cause why
the judgment should not be set aside, on the ground of the
death of the plaintiff before judgment, the court discharged
the rule, saying that the proceedings could not be stayed in
face of Palmer v. Cohen, 2 B. & Ad. 966. In the latter case,
which was an action for libel, the plaintiff died after verdict
and before judgment was entered by his executor at the next
term. The court refused to set aside the judgment, holding
that the death of the plaintiff, after verdict, did not prevent
his executor from entering judgment. In the same case, the
court referred to the Common Law Procedure Act, 1852,
§ 139, which provided that "in all actions, personal, real, or
mixed, the death of either party between the verdict and the
judgment shall not hereafter be alleged for error, so as such
VOL. cLi-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Harlan, J., Dissenting.

judgment be entered within two terms after such verdict,"
(15 & 16 Vict. c. 76, § 139,) and said that it was stronger than
the statute of Car. 2, and applied "to all actions, whether
they would have survived to an executor or not." See Gaines
v. Conn's Heirs, 2 Dana, 232.
The principal difference between the West Virginia statute,
before it was amended in 1868, and the statutes of 17 Car. 2
and 8 and 9 Will. 3, §§ 6, 7, was that the latter did not
apply to real actions, whereas the former embraced all actions
real, mixed, and personal. The first clause of section 2 of
chapter 127 of the West Virginia Code is important in the
present discussion, because the words "if the cause of suit
survive to or against" any one of several plaintiffs or defendants, show that even when that section was adopted the legislature had in mind the distinction aV common law between
actions that survived and those that did not survive. And in
1868, with this distinction still in view, the legislature added
the second clause of the second section, providing that "if a
plaintiff or defendant die pending any action, whether the cause
of actio would survive at common law or not, the same may
be revived and prosecuted to judgment and execution in the
same manner as if it were for a cause of action arising out of
contract."
If the second clause of section 2 of chapter 127 had never
been adopted, an action in tort would not have abated in West
Virginia by reason of the death of the plaintiff after verdict,
but judgment could have been entered upon the verdict. This,
according to Kramer v. Waymark, above cited, was the construction placed on the English statute, upon which the first
section and the first clause of the second section of chapter
127 of the Code of West Virginia were evidently based. But
the second clause of the second section of that chapter was
a step in advance. It seems to me clear that the legislature
intended, by that clause and under the circumstances stated in
it, to permit any action, whatever its nature, and at every
stage of it, to be revived and prosecuted to judgment and
execution without reference to the question whether the cause
of action would or would not survive at common law. The

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

707

Harlan, J., Dissenting.

purpose was to remove from the jurisprudence of West Virginia the distinction existing at common law between causes
of action that survived and those that did not survive. Martin
sued to recover compensation for the injury alleged to have
been done to him through the negligence of the railroad company. This cause of action would not have survived at common law where death occurred before verdict. But that fact
became immaterial under the legislation of 1868, which expressly provided that, whether the cause of action would
survive at common law or not, the case could be revived and
proceed to judgment precisely as it might do in cases of contracts. The decision now rendered makes the statute mean
just what it would mean, if it did not contain the words
"whether the cause of action would survive at common law
or not." The court holds that an action cannot be revived
and prosecuted to judgment and execution if the cause of
action be one that would not have survived at common law;
and this, notwithstanding the statute, in plain words, says that
the inquiry "whether the cause of action would survive at
common law or not," is immaterial.
. It is said that this conclusion cannot be sustained with due
regard to the decisions of the Supreme Court of Appeals of
West Virginia. The case particularly relied on in support of
this contention is Cunningham v. Sayre, 21 W. Va. 440, 444.
There death occurred before the verdict, and the question was
whether an action for unlawful entry and detainer abated
upon the death of the plaintiff. The court held that the
action did not abate, and its decision of that point is expressed
in the syllabus. As the constitution of the State makes it the
duty of the court "to -repare a syllabus of the points adjudicated in each caee," the profession in that State look only to the
syllabus to ascertain the points in judgment. When, however,
we turn to the opinion of the court, nothing, I submit, is found
in it justifying the conclusion this court has reached. Referring to the last clause of section 2 of chapter 127 of the Code,
the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia said: "It
was not the object of the statute to create any new right, and
give an action to the heir, devisee, or representative which he

OCTOBER TERM:, 1893.
Harlan, J., Dissenting.

had not at common law." No one supposes that that clause
gives a personal representative the right of action to sue for
personal injuries to the decedent. The personal representative
can bring an original action only where death is caused by the
wrongful act or default of the defendant. He does not bring
an action where one, rightfully brought by the decedent, is
revived in his name as personal representative. But the
Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia proceeds: "But
where the representative, heir, etc., had a right, by suit, to
accomplish the same object substantially as the ancestor had
in view in bringing the suit, that for convenience it should not
abate on the ancestor's death, but might be revived." Even
this principle, the statement of which was not at all necessary
to the decision, is sufficient to embrace the present case; for,
as the suit of Martin was to recover compensation for the
injuries he received, a revivor of it, in the name of his personal
representative, and its prosecution to judgment and execution,
would accomplish substantially the same object the decedent
had in view, namely, to compel the railroad company to pay
for the injury inflicted upon him as the result of its negligence.
Another case referred to in support of the contention that
the action abated by the death of the plaintiff is Curry v.
Afannington, 23 W. Va. 14, 18. But that case did not involve
any question in reference to the revivor of an action for personal injuries received by the plaintiff. It was a suit against
a municipal corporation for injuries, alleged to have been
received through the neglect of the defendant to keep its
streets and walks in repair. It is true that the court, in that
case, said: "In the cases, however, of injuries to the person
and not to the pro2erty or estate of the decedent, whether by
assault, battery, false imprisonment, slander, negligence, or
otherwise, if either the party who received or he who committed the injury die, the maxim applies rigidly, and no action
can be supported either by or against his representative.
3 Bl. Com. 302. In this State the only exception to this rule,
so far as I have been able to discover, is the provision of our
statute, embracing what is known as Lord Campbell's Act,

MARTIN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

709

Harlan, J., Dissenting.

giving a right of action to the representative against any party
wrongfully causing the death of his decedent. §§ 5 and 6, c.
103, Code, p. 545." But it is plain from the context that this
language had reference to the meaning of a particular statute
of limitations of personal actions, that used the words "if
they be for matters of a nature that in case of the deatk of the
party, they could not be brought by or against his representative." In effect, the court was considering the question as to
whether a personal representative could bring an original
action for personal injury received by his decedent. That is
an entirely different question from the one here presented,
which is, whether an action for the recovery of money duly
brought by the person injured could, upon his death, be revived in the name of his personal representative, and be prosecuted by the latter to judgment and execution. There is not a
hint, much less a distinct statement, either in the syllabus or
in the opinion in Curry v. -Mannington, in respect to any such
question.
Suppose Martin had obtained a judgment for ten thousand
dollars in damages and had died after the case was brought
here by the railroad company. Could it not have been revived in this court against his personal representative? And
if this court had reversed such a judgment and remanded the
cause for a new trial, could the railroad company have prevented another trial in the court below by the suggestion of
record that, pending the writ of error in this court, the plaintiff had died? In my opinion, this question should be answered
in the negative, if any effect whatever be given to the local
statute. A different rule should not be applied when the case
is here upon writ of error sued by the plaintiff.
Reference has been made to the case of Flin v. Perkins,
32 Law Journal, (N. S.) Q. B. 10, 11; S. C. 8 Jurist, (N. S.)
1177. That was an action to recover damages for a personal
injury. The plaintiff died before verdict, and the effort was
to have it revived in the name of the personal representative.
It was held that the Common Law Procedure Act did not
permit the revivor under such circumstances. But that case
differs from this in two important particulars: 1, there was

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Harlan, J., Dissenting.

a verdict and judgment in this case before the plaintiff died;
_ 2, there was no provision in the English statute, as there is
in the West Virginia Code, giving the right of revivor, where
the plaintiff or defendant dies pending the action, "whether
the cause of action would survive at common law or not."
But if I am wrong in my interpretation of the Code of West
Virginia, there is still another view of this question which, in
my judgment, is important. Martin's death occurred after
the assignment of errors was filed and made part of the record.
In Tidd's Practice, 1163, it is said: "A writ of error may
abate by the act of God, the act of law, or the act of the
party. If theplaintii in error die before errors assigned, the
writ abates, and the defendant in error may thereupon sue
out a ecire facias quare eecutionem non to recover the judg-

ment against the executors or administrators of the plaintiff
in error. But if the plaintiff in error die after errors assigned,
it does not abate the writ. In such case the defendant, having
joined in error, may proceed to get the judgment affirmed, if
not erroneous, but must then revive it against the executors
or administrators of the plaintiff in error." And so it was
adjudged by this court in Green v. Watkins, 6 Wheat. 260,
262, in which Mr. Justice Story, speaking for the court, and
after referring to the rules that controlled the question of
abatement, whether in real or personal actions, where the
party died before judgment, said: "But in cases of writs of
error upon judgments already rendered a different rule prevails. In personal actions, if the plaintiff in error dies before
assignment of error, it is said that by the course of proceedings
at common law the writ abates; but if after assignment of
errors, it is otherwise." These authorities, I submit, indicate
that the writ of error should not be dismissed after there has
been an assignment of errors.
Being of opinion that the action has not abated by the death
of the plaintiff, I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of the court.

