WOLLENSAK v. SARGENT.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs concurred in the
result, because the only ruling in matter of law requested or
made at the trial on the question whether the defendant was
entitled to a verdict, by reason of contributory negligence of
the plaintiff, was upon a motion made at the close of the plaintiff's evidence and before the defendant had rested its case, and
therefore, by the settled rule, could not be the subject of exceptions or error; Columbia Railroad v. Hawthorne, 144 U. S.
202, 206; Bogk v. Gassert, 149 U. S. 17, 23; and because the
instructions given and duly excepted to were sufficiently favorable tQ the defendant.

WOLLENSAK v. SARGENT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE INITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 150. Argued December 7, 1893. -Decided January 8, 1894.

Reissued letters patent No. 9307, granted July 20, 1880, to John F. Wollensak
for new and useful improvements in transom lifters and locks, on the surrender of the original letters patent No. 136,801, dated March 11, 1873,
are void for want of patentable novelty in the invention described and
claimed in them.
Reissued letters patent No. 10,264, granted December 26, 1882, to John F.
Wollensak for a new and useful improvement in transom lifters, on the
surrender of the original letters patent, dated March 10, 1874, are void as
to the claims sued on, by reason of laches in the application for a reissue.
The fact that the patentee followed the advice of his solicitor in delaying to
apply for the reissue within due time does not justify the delay.

Tis was a consolidated bill in equity founded on two reissued patents granted to appellant for improvement in transom
lifters as follows: No. 9307, July 20, 1880, original patent
No. 136,801, March 11, 1873, and No. 10,264, December 26,
1882, original patent No. 148,538, March 10, 1874. Appellee
was charged with the infringement of the third claim of the
reissued patent No. 9307, and the third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
and ninth claims of reissue No. 10,264.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court, on pleadings and proofs, held reissue
No. 9307 invalid for want of patentable novelty, and, on
demurrer, reissue No. 10,264: void as to the claims relied on,
for laches apparent on the record and not sufficiently explained
by the allegations of the bill.
The opinion of Judge Shipman on motion for preliminary
injunction is reported in 33 Fed. Rep. 840, and that on final
hearing in 41 Fed. Rep. 53.
-Mr. Epkraim Banning, (with whom was MP. Toma8 A.
Banning on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. John Ki4nberlq Beach for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
1. The specification and claims of reissue No. 9307 are as
follows:
"Transom lifters have heretofore been constructed with a
long upright rod or handle jointed at its upper end to a lifting
arm which extends to and is connected with the side or edge
of the transom sash, the sash being opened or closed by a
vertical movement of the long rod. When thus constructed
the upright rod is liable to be bent by the weight of the transom, owing to the want of support at or near the point of
junction between the long rod and the lifting arm.
"The object of my invention is to remedy this difficulty;
and to such end it consists in providing the proper support or
support and guide for the upper end of the lifting rod during
its vertical movements and while at rest.
"This may be accomplished in a variety of ways, one of
which I will now proceed to describe in detail, although I
wish it clearly understood that I do not limit my invention to
this construction, but regard it as covering broadly any construction, combination, or arrangement of parts which shall
support the long or operating rod and prevent it from being
bent or displaced by the weight of the transom.

WOLLENSAK v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the drawings, D is the door; T, the transom sash,
pivoted at top, bottom, or middle, as preferred; A, the lifting
arm that connects the sash to the upright rod; U, the upright
rod, passing through two guides, GG', one above and one
below the point of junction with the lifting arm; 1R, a friction
roller secured to the lifting rod so as to bear against the wall
and support said rod at its point of junction with the lifting
arm; nn, notches cut in the upright rod to receive the end of
the set screw; and s, a set screw arranged, in connection with
the lower guide and the rod U, so as to be convenient of
operation for the purpose of fixing the transom at any required
angle. The upright rod is thus supported at three points, to
wit, above, below, and at the joint where it sustains the weight
of the transom. It can also be adjusted and securely fastened
so as to open the sash as much or as little as may be desired,
and to lock it in that position.
"Having thus described my invention, what I claim as new
is" 1. The combination, with a transom, its lifting arm and
operating rod, of a guide for the upper end of the operating
rod, to prevent it from being bent or displaced by the 'veight
of the transom.
"2. The roller R, arranged at the junction of the lifting
arm A and upright rod U in a transom lifter, substantially as
and for the purpose described.
"3. The guide G', arranged above the junction of the lifting arm and upright rod, in combination with the prolonged
rod U, the guide G, and arm A, substantially as and for the
purpose specified."
In the matter of the action of the Patent Office upon this
reissue, it appeared from the file wrapper and contents that
the claims were rejected by the examiner on reference to the
patent of Bayley and M,cOluskey, No. 79,541, July 7, 1868,
and that his decision was reversed on appeal by the examinersin-chief, who held, among other things, that "Wollensak's
device is, in the first place, a Ilifter' designed for raising
against gravity a transom, hinged and swinging horizontally.
The improvement covered by the claim consists simply in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

furnishing the vertical operating rod with a guide above the
lever connection, as well as below, to prevent the rod from
being bent and displaced and thus impaired for operating, as
occurs with the old form." In the statement of the case and
the points relied on in support of the appeal, it was said :
"Prior to Wollensak's invention, transom lifters had been
composed of a long vertical rod arranged to move through
guides on the door casing, its upper end projecting a considerable distance above the upper guide and jointed to the transom by a pivoted connecting rod. An example of the lifter is
shown on the transoms of the examiners-in-chief's rooms.
"The upper projecting end of the lifting rod has no lateral
support, and, being made of a small iron rod, is liable to be
easily bent.
"The function ot the rod is to sustain the weight of the
transom in opening and closing, and as the end of the connecting rod pivoted thereto moves in the arc of a circle while
sustaining the weight of the transom, such weight is transmitted to the long upper end of the operating rod in a lateral
direction, and has the effect of bending it to such an extent as
to prevent it from moving freely through the guide. The
bends are either permanent and destroy the rod for practical
use, or the rod vibrates above the guide and thus binds
therein. To overcome these defects, Wollensak provides a
guide for the upper end of the rod, by which its movements
are steadied and the lateral bends prevented. Many expedients may be resorted to for guiding the end of the rod, one of
which he shows and describes.
"The rejected claims cover this guide in combination with
the rod and transom, and the rod, transom, and lifting arm."
The reissue was before this court in Wollensak v. Reiher,
115 U. S. 87, 94, and the case disposed of on the ground of
non-infringement. And the court there said: "The specification of the complainant's patent undertakes broadly to describe
the invention, intended to be embraced in it, as ' any construction, combination, or arrangement of parts which shall support
the long or operating rod and prevent it from being bent or
displaced by the weight of the transom.' But, having refer-

WOLLENSAK v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

ence to the state of the art at the date of the alleged invention, and the claims of the patent, the patentee must be
limited to the combination, with a transom, its lifting arm
and operating rod, of a guide for the upper end of the operating rod, prolonged beyond the junction with the lifting arm
so as to prevent the operating rod from being bent or displaced by the weight of the transom. Putting by the question
whether this is a patentable invention in view of the existing
state of the art, the claim must be regarded as a narrow one,
and limited to the particular combination described." After
this decision was announced, the first claim was disclaimed,
and the patent limited to the second and third claims.
The Circuit Court rightly held that the guide above the
junction and the prolongation of the rod constituted the
improvement. It is now insisted that the third claim embraced the elements of the transom window T, the lifting arm
and bracket A, the upright rod U, the guide G' near the upper
end, the guide G, including set screw s near the lower end,
and an intermediate guide not lettered. This adds to the
specific elements of the claim, the set screw s, an intermediate
guide and a bracket A. The argument is that the third claim
is a specific combination claim and includes the elements, expressed and implied, of a transom window, swinging vertically; a bracket on the window projecting outwardly;
a lifting arm hinged to the bracket ; an upright rod jointed to
the lifting arm; a guide and support G'; a guide and support
G near the lower end of the upright rod and provided with a
set screw to lock it; a third guide and support located between G and G'; and it is assigned as error that the Circuit
Court erred "in not construing the third claim of reissue No.
9307 to be for the specific form of transom lifter shown and
described; and in not holding that various features were
sufficient, separately, or together, to impart novelty and
patentability to the construction as a whole." But the reissued patent cannot be treated as covering a claim for the
whole transom lifter as improved. What the patentee declared
his invention to consist in was in providing "the proper
support or support and guide for the upper end of the lifting
VOL. CL-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

rod." And we do not regard ourselves as justified in importing into the claim elements that would operate to so enlarge
its scope as to cover an invention not indicated upon its face.
Day v. FairHaven & Westville Railway, 132 U. S. 98, 102.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the inventor naturally extended his rod beyond the junction with the lifting
arm, and provided a support for the end of the prolonged
rod, and that this did not seem to have a patentable character,
but to be the obvious suggestion which would occur to any
mechanic. The patent itself declared that "transom lifters
have heretofore been constructed with a long upright rod
or handle jointed at its upper end to a lifting arm which
extends to and is connected with the side or edge of the transom sash, the sash being opened or closed by a vertical movement of the long rod;" and there can be no doubt that they
were common contrivances for opening and closing apertures
at a distance from the hand of the operator. Aron v. Manhattan Railway, 132 U. S. 84. The conclusion that the prolongation of the rod and its confinement within an additional
metallic loop, thereby providing a support where it was needed,
lacked patentable novelty, appears to us unavoidable on comparison with the Bayley and McCluskey patent of July 7,
1868.
In that patent an invention was described for the opening
and closing of a series of passenger car ventilators or transoms,
which consisted of a long rod sliding horizontally in a series of
guides, past a series of windows, and connected with each
window by a separate arm, so that by sliding the rod backward or forward the windows would be opened or shut. If
this device were turned into a vertical position, it would present the combination of the third claim under consideration.
The parts of the device would coperate in the same way
whether used horizontally or vertically, and the window
would swing outward or inward according to whether it was
hinged at one end or the other. The complainant's expert
testified that it was of the essence of the third claim that it
should be used in a vertical position, and that if the defendant's transom lifter were used horizontally, so as to open a

WOLLENSAK v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

transom swung sideways, it would not then be described by
the language of the third claim, because it would not be
a transom lifter. But if the mechanical identity with the
Bayley and McCluskey device be admitted, as it was in substance by complainant's expert, it cannot be distinguished
by importing additional elements into the claim not described
in the patent as the invention of the patentee, or upon the
suggested distinction between a transom lifter and a transom
opener. The novelty must be a novelty in the means or
mechanical device, and not in the use to which the combination is put. Rhapp v. .Morss, 150 U. S. 221.
2. Reissue No. 10,264 was under consideration in IWollensak
v..Reiker, 115 U. S. 96, and it was held that the delay in the
application invalidated it in the absence of special circumstances showing that such delay was reasonable. The original
of this reissue was dated March 10, 1874, and the application
for the reissue was filed Mfay 31, 1882, so that a lapse of eight
years was to be accounted for. The bill averred that, upon
discovering the mistake in his original patent, complainant
wrote to his solicitors, but at what date does not appear. It
was further alleged that some considerable delay was occasioned by the illness of his solicitor, but the first date given is
April 9, 1878, that of a letter from the solicitor advising him
not to apply for a reissue of No. 148,538, but for a reissue
of No. 136,801, which he did, and obtained reissue No. 9307.
A second period of four years elapsed before the application
for reissue 10,264 was filed. The bill stated that after complainant had obtained his reissue No. 9307, which was dated
July 20, 1880, he filed a bill in equity against Reiher in the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois to restrain
him from infringing the same, which suit was decided by Judge
Drummond on April 25, 1882, against complainant; that he
had previously prepared an application for a reissue in No.
148,538, which was executed by him August 21, 1880, but for
some reason unknown to complainant was never filed in the
Patent Office, and his solicitor, to whom he forwarded it, died
about January, 1881; that he afterwards employed other
counsel, who advised him that inasmuch as he had a patent in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

terms broad enough to cover the invention, he had better
delay the filing of the application until the infringement suit
could be heard and determined; "that the delay in applying
for a reissue of said patent after your orator became aware of
the defect in the original patent, No. 148,538, was because of
the advice aforesaid, and that the delay that occurred before
that time was due to the fact that your orator was young and
inexperienced in such matters, never before having had occasion to take out a reissued patent or otherwise become familiar
with the law in relation to, reissues, and to the further fact
that your orator was then struggling to build up his business
and unable to incur or assume any more expense in the obtaining of patents than was considered actually necessary for the
protection of his business." The bill then referred to the
action of the examiners-in-chief in his favor.
We fail to find in this such excuse or explanation of the
lapse of time as can properly be recognized as sufficient. Complainant elected not to apply for a reissue until at least four
years after he discovered the alleged mistake, and could not retain his right to correct the mistake while he speculated on the
chances of including the omitted claims in a reissue of patent
No. 136,801. Nor can he be regarded as occupying any different position upon the averment that he would have seasonably applied but for the advice of his counsel.

In I.ves v. Sargent, 119 U. S. 652, 661, 662, Wollensae v.
Peiher, 115" U. S. 96, and -Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354,
are cited with approval, and it is declared to be settled that
while no invariable rule can be laid down as to what is a
reasonable time in which the patentee should seek for the correction of a claim which he considers too narrow, a delay of
two years, by analogy to the law of public use, before an
application for a patent, should be construed equally favorably
to the public, and that excuse for any further delay than that
should be made manifest by the special circumstances of the
case, and it is said: "In the present case no special circumstances in excuse for the delay are alleged. The excuse profferred is simply an attempt to shift the responsibility of the
mistake made, from the patentee to his solicitor; but no

HrALLIDAY v. STUART.
Syllabus.

excuse is offered why the patentee did not discover the negligence and error of his solicitor in due time. On the contrary,
he assumed, without examination, that the specification and
claims of his patents were just what he had desired and intended
they should be, and rested quietly in ignorance of the error
and of his rights for nearly three years, and then did not discover them until after others had discovered that he had
lost the right to repair his error by his neglect to assert it
within a reasonable time."
In the case in hand the excuse put forward is that the
patentee followed the advice of his solicitor, and, therefore,
did not apply within due time. Manifestly this will not do.
Dobson v. Lees, 137 U. S. 258.
As the charge of infringement related to claims which were
expansions of the original claims and not covered by them,
lollensak v. ]?eiker, 115 U. S. 96, the demurrer was properly
sustained.
Decree afflrmed.

HALLIDAY v. STUART.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
THE EASTERN

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

DISTRICT, OF ARKANSAS.

No. 25. Argued October 12, 1893.-

Decided January 8, 1894.

The attorneys of record on both sides, in a suit in equity to enforce a lien
on real estate in which a decree for sale had been entered and an appeal
taken without a supersedeas, made and signed a written agreement that
the property might be sold under the decree pending the appeal, and that
the money might be paid into court in place of the property, to abide the
decision on the appeal. The property was sold under the decree, and
the money was paid into court. Held, that the agreement was one which
the attorneys had power to make in the exercise of their general authority, and as incidental to the management of the interests entrusted to
them, and that the principals should not be permitted to disregard it to
the injury of one who purchased, in good faith, at a judicial sale.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

