OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

in question was between brothers. If that fact induced them,
under the instructions, - as it might properly have done, - to
carefully scrutinize the evidence, it must be assumed that they
performed their duty without forgetting the injunction that
the law presumed the sale, despite the fact of the near relationship of the parties, to have been made in good faith, if
accompanied by immediate delivery and followed by actual,
continued change of possession.
We are of opinion that it was not error for the jury to be
told that the relations of the parties to the transaction made
it necessary to carefully scrutinize the facts, but that their
determination must, at last, depend upon the inquiry whether
the transaction was honest and bonafide.
We perceive no ground to doubt that the case was well
tried. The jury were fully and properly instructed in respect
to every aspect of the case, and we have no authority to set
aside their verdict, even if it does not appear to be justified by
the evidence. Railroad Co. v. .F'alof,100 U. S. 24, 31;
Lincoln v. Power, ante, 436.
Judgment afrmed.

BUCKSTAFF v. IRUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 207. Argued and submitted January 17, 1894. -Decided

February 5, 1894.

Where in an action on a contract a counter claim to the amount of $10,000
is interposed by the defendant, and judgment is given for plaintiff for
less than $5000, this court has jurisdiction to review that judgment when
brought here by defendant below.
When one party contracts to set up a machine for another party, and the
other party contracts to pay for it, one-third when the machine is steamed
up ready to run, and the balance at a future time, with interest, and it is
mutually agreed that the buyer shall satisfy himself before payments are
due that the machine works to his satisfaction, and if it does not, that
the seller shall within 60 days after notice, comply with the terms

BUCKSTAFF v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.
of his contract or the buyer may declare it paid in full, the proper
remedy of the seller, after delivery of the machine and refusal of the
buyer to accept it, is an action on the contract to recover the contract
price, and not an action for breach of the contract by refusal to accept
the machine.
The requirement that an assignment of error, based upon the admission or
rejection of evidence, must, in the case of a deposition, excluded in whole
or in part, state the full substance of the evidence so admitted or rejected, does not apply where the witness testifies in person, and where
the question propounded to him is not only proper in form, but is so
framed as to clearly admit of an answer favorable to the claim or defence of the party producing him.
When the court in such case does not require the party, in whose behalf
the question is put, to state the facts proposed to be proved by the
answer, the rejection of the answer will be deemed error or not, according as the question, upon its face, if proper in form, may or may not
clearly admit of an answer favorable to the party in whose behalf it is
propounded.
When objection is made to a question to a witness as incompetent, irrelevant, and immaterial, and the objection is sustained, the court may or
may not, within its discretion require the party, in whose behalf the
question is put, to state the facts proposed to be proved by the answer.

Tins was an action in contract. Judgment for plaintiff to
which defendant sued out thi writ of error. The case is stated
in the opinion.
Air. John I Ames, for plaintiffs in error, submitted on his
brief.
MiLr. T. Al. Atarguit for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicn. HsALA

delivered the opinion of the court.

1. It is suggested that the amount in dispute is less than
five thousand dollars. This point is not well taken. The
amount for which Russell & Co. sued in their original petition
was $4206.07, with interest from October 9, 1888. That
amount was increased by the supplemental petition to
$5882.20. The plaintiffs in error, who were defendants below,
denied their liability in any sum, and, by way of counter claim,
in accordance with the practice in Nebraska, asked for judg-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ment against Russell & Co. in the sum of $10,000. The verdict and judgment were in favor of the plaintiff and for the
sum of $4450. That sum, and the amount sued for in the
counter claim, are in dispute upon this writ of error. This
court, therefore, has jurisdiction.

2. By an agreement in writing, made June 22, 1888, between Russell & Co., a corporation, and Buckstaff and Utt,
the former agreed to furnish and deliver to the latter on cars
at Lincoln, Nebraska, three boilers, 60 inch x 14 feet; one
automatic cut-off engine, 125 horse power; one automatic cutoff engine, 50 horse power; one Gordon Maxwell duplex
pump; one Garfield injector; one heater, and any necessary
fittings of sufficient size and dimension to properly run such
plant; also two smoke-stacks 32 inch diameter, 60 feet long,
made of No. 12 iron, with fancy tops, guy rods and stays.
For those articles Buckstaff, and Utt agreed to pay four thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars, as follows: One-third
cash when the machinery was "steamed up ready to run, the
balance in six and twelve months, with interest at the rate of
seven per cent per annum from time of erection in Lincoln, providing that, with proper and careful management, said engines,
boilers, and pumps are hereby guaranteed to work, and that
said engines do give the amount of horse power as herein
specified, and to be as economical of fuel and as durable as a
Corliss non-condensing engine." "It is also understood and
agreed," the contract proceeded, "that said Buckstaff and Utt
shall use fair and honorable means to satisfy themselves before
payments are due, that said engines, boilers, and pumps are
working to their entire satisfaction, and should they not be,
then, in that event, the said Buckstaff and Utt are to notify
said Russell & Co., and said Russell & Co. must at once comply with the terms of this contract within sixty days, and in
the event they do not, the said Buckstaff and Utt may declare
this contract paid in full, or said Russell & Co. shall pay back
to said Buckstaff and Utt all money paid to them, and said
Russell & Co. shall pay said Buckstaff and Utt such damages
as shall be declared fair by competent judges, and after paying such damages may remove said machinery without cost to

BUCKSTAFF v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

said Buckstaff and Utt. It is hereby agreed that Russell &
Co. shall ship said machinery not later than July 15, 1888."
Attached to and made part of the contract are certain proposals from Russell & Co. to Buckstaff and Utt. One of them
is a proposal to furnish three eighty horse power boilers, fully
described, and contains this stipulation: "All boilers tested to
150 pounds hydraulic pressure; workmanship and material
guaranteed to be first class; plans for setting boilers to be
furnished without expense to purchaser." Another is a proposal to furnish one right-hand automatic cut-off engine, fully
described, and contains this stipulation: "We guarantee the
above engine to be well made, of first class material, and in
operation to work as economically as any similar engine in the
market." A third is a proposal for another right-hand automatic cut-off engine, accompanied by a similar guaranty.
In the first count of the petition it was alleged that all the
machinery covered by the contract was delivered by the plaintiff to the defendants in strict accordance with its terms; that
the defendants were to pay for it the sum of four thousand
nine hundred and fifty dollars, one-third in cash when the
machinery was steamed up ready to run, one-third in six
months, and the remaining one-third in twelve months, with
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum from the time
of the erection of said machinery; that all of the machinery
had been delivered, was set up, put in operation," and commenced running on the 9th day of October, 1888, at which
time one-third of the four thousand nine hundred and fifty
dollars became due; that another one-third became due on the
9th day of April, 1889; that neither of those amounts nor any
part thereof have been paid by the defendants; and that they
have refused and neglected to pay the same or any part
thereof, although often requested so to do. The second count
was for piping and other machinery of the value of $392.86,
and the third for grate bars, of the value of. $450, alleged to
have been sold and delivered by Russell & Co. to the defendants. By a supplemental petition the plaintiff enlarged its
claim so as to embrace the last instalment of the $4950 for
which the contract stipulated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

At the trial below the defendants objected to the introduction of any evidence in support of the first count of the petition, on the ground that it did not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. This objection was overruled,
and to that ruling the defendants excepted.
In support of this exception it is said that if it bad been
alleged, or indeed proven, that the plaintiff did not "use fair
and honorable means to satisfy themselves," before payment
was due, that the machinery was "working to their entire
satisfaction," or that the refusal to accept was fraudulent, still
no action could have been properly maintained for the sale and
delivery of the property, because, at all events, there would
have been no acceptance, and, in its absence, the contract
would have remained executory; consequently, it is argued,
the only action maintainable, if any, would have been one to
recover damages for fraudulently refusing to accept the machinery and articles furnished. The counsel for the defendants refer to numerous cases which, it is insisted, sustain the
construction of the contract upon which this exception is
founded. It may be well to refer to some of those cases.
In .Mansfeld Mtachine 1fors v. The Village of Lowell, 62
Michigan, 5416, 552, which was a suit upon a contract with a
village for the sale of a steam engine and attachments, and
which contract provided that a named sum should be paid
"when engine and hose are accepted, balance in equal payments - first, on or before six months; second, on or before
eighteen months, with interest at six per cent from date of
acceptance," it was held that the contract fairly construed,
did not provide for the payment for the engine and machinery
until they were tried and accepted; that under its terms the
property remained in the vendor until acceptance and after
trial of it, the village never becoming the owner of it; and
that the remedy of the plaintiff, if any, would be a suit for a
breach of the contract and refusal to accept on the part of the
defendant.
In Zaleski v. Cla'k, 44 Connecticut, 218, 223, which was a
suit for the price agreed to be paid for a plaster bust of the
deceased husband of the defendant- the agreement being

BUCKSTA.FF v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

that she was not bound to take it unless she was satisfied with
it- the question was as to the liability of the defendant upon
proof that the bust was not only a fine piece of work, and a
correct copy of a photograph furnished by the defendant, but
that it accurately portrayed the features of the deceased. The
court said: "In this case, the plaintiff undertook to make a
bust which should be satisfactory to the defendant. The case
shows that she was not satisfied with it. The plaintiff has not
yet, then,fulfilled his contract. It is not enough to say that
she ought to be satisfied with it, and that her dissatisfaction is
unreasonable. She, and not the court, is entitled to judge of
that. The contract was not to make one that she ought to be
satisfied with, but to make one that she would be satisfied with.
iNor is it sufficient to say that the bust was the very best thing
of the kind that could possibly be produced. Such an article
might not be satisfactory to the defendant, while one of inferior workmanship might be entirely satisfactory. A contract
to produce a bust perfect in every respect, and one with which
the defendant ought to be satisfied, is one thing; and undertaking to make one with which she will be satisfied is quite
another thing. The former can only be determined by experts,
or those whose education and habits of life qualify them to
judge of such matters. The latter can only be determined by
the defendant herself. It may have been unwise in the plaintiff
to make such a contract, but having made it, he is bound to it."
In Brown v. Foster, 113 Mass. 136, 138, which was an
acti6n to recover the price of a suit of clothes which it was
agreed should be satisfactory to the purchaser, but with which
he was not satisfied and for which he refused to pay, the court
said: "If the plaintiff saw fit to do work upon articles for the
defendant and to furnish materials therefor, contracting that
the articls when manufactured should be satisfactory to the
defendant, he can recover only upon the contract as it was
made; and even if the articles furnished by him were such
that the other party ought to have been satisfied with them,
it was yet in the power of the other to reject them as unsatisfactory. It is not for any one else to decide whether a refusal
to accept is or is not reasonable, when the contract permits

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant to decide himself whether the articleg furnished
are to his satisfaction. Although the compensation of the
plaintiff for valuable service and materials may thus be dependent upon the caprice of another who unreasonably refuses
to accept the articles manufactured, yet he cannot be relieved
from the contract into which he has voluntarily entered."
Among many other cases of the same class are Singerly v.
Thayer, 108 Penn. St. 291; Goodrich v. Tan _lortwice, 43
Illinois, 445; X eCarren, v. MlaNulty, 7 Gray, 139; Cole v.
The Common Council of Homer, 53 Michigan, 438; Gibson
v. Cranage,39 Michigan, 49; -Yrumb v. M ersher, 116 Penn.
St. 17; Ellis v. ifortimer,4 Bos. & Pul. (1 N. R.) 257.
These authorities do not control the determination of the
present case. There is no provision in the contract of June
22, 1888, which either expressly or by necessary implication
justified the defendants in withholding payment for the articles
furnished on the ground alone that they were not satisfied
with them. They agreed to pay in cash one-third of the stipulated price when the machinery was "steamed up, ready to
run," the balance in six and twelve months with interest at
seven per cent "from time of erection in Lincoln." If, after
using fair and honorable means, before the payments became
due, to test their efficiency, the engines, boilers, and pumps
did not work to their entire satisfaction, then Buckstaff and
Utt were entitled to notify Russell & Co. to comply with the
contract within sixty days, in default of which, but in that
event only, they could have declared the contract "paid in
full," or Russell & Co. could have been required to pay back
all money paid to them, and, in addition, such damage as was
declared fair by competent judges-Russell & Co. having
the right to remove the machinery after paying such damage.
The plaintiff was entitled to recover the price ttipulated,
unless it appeared that such means had been used, and that
the engines, boilers, and pumps were, in that way, ascertained
not to work to the entire satisfaction of the defendants; that
due notice thereof was given to the plaintiff; and that plaintiff did not comply with the contract within due time after
receiving such notice. But these were matters to be disclosed

BUCKSTAFF v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

in the defence of the action, and need not have been made the
subject of specific allegations in the petition. It was not
necessary to allege in the petition that the engine, boilers, and
pumps were ascertained by the defendants to work to their
entire satisfaction. It was sufficient to allege the delivery of
the articles, and the expiration of the time limited in the contract for the payments.
In respect to the guaranty of the plaintiff that the engines,
boilers, and pumps would work, and that the engines would furnish the stipulated amount of horse power, and be as economical of fuel and as durable as a Corliss non-condensing engine,
it need only be said that those were, also, matters to be alleged
and proved by defendants in support of their counter claim.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the court properly
overruled the motion of defendants to exclude all evidence in
support of the first count of the petition.
3. The defendants in their answer deny the material allegations of the petition; and by way of counter claim allege that
on or about the twenty-second day of June, 1888, the defendants, as the plaintiff then well knew, were the owners of all
the capital stock of the Lincoln Paper Manufacturing Company, a corporation duly organized under the laws of Nebraska
for the purpose of manufacturing paper in the city of Lincoln,
in that State; and that on" or about that date the plaintiff
entered into the contract with the defendants, set forth in the
first count of the petition, for the furnishing of boilers, engines,
and machinery to generate and apply the power with which
to drive the machinery to be used by them in said mill for the
manufacture of wrapping and straw building board; that the
plaintiff then well knew that, if said boilers, engines and
machinery were not of the capacity and efficiency specified
in the contract, then the defects and inefficiency of such
machinery would of necessity cause the defendants great
injury, cost, and damage in and about their manufacturing
business, by reducing the quantity and degrading the quality
of the paper to be manufactured at their mill, and by putting
them to great cost and expense for loss of time and for labor,
fuel, and material used, lost, and expended above such as

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

would be required with the use of boilers, engines, and machinery of the kind, power, effectiveness and economy specified in the contract; that the defendants entered into the
contract in the expressed confidence, assurance and belief
that the plaintiff would furnish for use in their mill boilers,
engines, and machinery of the kind, quality, power, and description in the contract set forth; yet the plaintiff, in pretended compliance with the contract, furnished and erected in
said mill three boilers of a capacity not exceeding sixty-five
horse power each, and one engine of one hundred and twentyfive, and one of fifty horse power, and that said engines and
boilers have at all times and still do consume in the performance of the work of which they are capable not less than fifty
per cent more fuel than would be consumed in the performance
of the same work by a non-condensing Corliss engine; and
that plaintiff furnished with said boilers and engines defective
and insufficient grates, fixtures, and appliances therefor, so
that the same were for a long time less capable and effective
than they would otherwise have been.
The defendants further alleged in their counter claim that,
at the request of plaintiff, they allowed it, after the date of
the erection of said machinery, to consume a lohg time in the
attempt or pretended attempt to adjust the boilers, engines,
and machinery, and supply them' with grates and fittings so
that the same would meet the requirements and descriptions
of the contract, all of which attempts, or pretended attempts,
have wholly and completely failed; that thereupon, on or
about the eleventh day of January, 1889, and the eleventh
and twenty-fifth days of February of said year, they duly
notified the plaintiff, by letters properly transmitted through
the United States mails, that such boilers, engines, and machinery were wholly inadequate, inefficient, and wasteful of
fuel as compared with the requirements and descriptions of
the contract, and demanded of it to remove the same from
said mill and pay defendants the amount of money, to wit,
$690.68, paid by them to and for the use of plaintiff under the
contract and the damages suffered by reason of the premises,
as by the contract it had undertaken to do, with which request

BUCKSTAFF v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff has at all times neglected, and still wholly neglects
and refuses to comply; and that by reason of the premises, of
the wasteful consumption of fuel and lack of power, said boilers, engines, and machinery, and the consequent loss of time
and labor, and the diminution in quantity and deterioration in
quality of the output of said mill resulting from the non-compliance by plaintiff with the contract in the respects and
particulars set forth, and in the purchase and supplying new
grate bars and heater fittings and fixtures for such boilers and
engines, the defendants have been damaged in the sum of ten
thousand dollars. An account of the moneys so alleged to
have been paid was annexed to the counter claim.
The plaintiff, in reply, denies that the machinery, etc., furnished by it, under the contract, was defective, and charges
that their inefficiency, if they became inefficient, was due entirely to the unskilful and incompetent management of the
defendants, their agents, and servants. While it denies that
the defendants were the owners of "all" the capital stock ok
the Lincoln Paper Manufacturing Company, it does not deny
that the machinery, etc., was purchased to be used in the mill
of that company.
The defendant Utt was sworn as a witness for the defence,
and, as we infer, in support of the counter claim. Having
stated that he and Buckstaff, in April, 1888, first commenced
negotiations for the purchase of the boilers with Mr. Giddings,
representing Russell & Co., the following questions were put,
successively, to him: 1. "What conversation did you have
with him, if any, about the purpose for which the machine
must be used and the necessity for steam capacity in the boilers?" 2. "You may state in what your damages consisted,
and the amount in consequence of the defective construction
and the failure of this machinery to perform its labor, and the
labor required of it by the terms of the contract from the time
of its erection up to the first day of March." 3. "You may
state what damage you sustained in consequence of the failure
of this machinery to do the work at the paper mill." 4.
"You may state what loss you suffered in consequence of the
defective construction and failure in the machinery." 5. "In

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

what particular did you and the defendant Buckstaff sustain
loss by reason of the defects in the construction and the failure
of this machinery?"
Each of these questions was objected to upon the ground
that it was incompetent, irrelevant, and immaterial. No one
of them was objected to upon the ground that it was a leading question.
In the case of Shauer v. Alterton, ante, 607, just decided, it
was held to be the settled construction of the twenty-first rule
of this court that an assignment of error, based upon the exclusion of an answer to a particular question in the deposition
of a witness, would be disregarded here, unless the record sets
forth the answer or its full substance. Packet Company v.
Clough, 20 Wall. 528, 542; Railroad Co. v. Smith, 21 Wall.
255, 262; Thompson v. First Nlational Bank of Toledo, 111
U. S. 529, 535-6. Our rule, thus construed, is one to which
parties can easily conform. Having access to the deposition
containing the answer of the witness to the interrogatory,
parties, as well as the trial court, are informed of the precise
nature of the evidence offered. The requirement that an
assignment of error, based upon the admission or rejection of
evidence, must, in the case of a deposition, excluded in whole
or in part, state the full substance of the evidence so admitted
or rejected, means that the record must show, in appropriate
form, the nature of such evidence, in order that this court may
determine whether or not error has been committed to the
prejudice of the party bringing the case here for review.
But this rule does not apply where the witness testifies in
person, and where the question propounded to him is not only
proper in form, but is so framed as to clearly admit of an
answer favorable to the claim or defence of the party producing him. It might be very inconvenient in practice if a party,
in order to take advantage of the rulings of the trial court in
not allowing questions, proper in form and manifestly relevant
to the issues, were required to accompany each question with
a statement of the facts expected to be established by the
answer to the particular question propounded. Besides, and
this is a consideration of some weight, such a statement, in

BUCKSTAFF v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

open court, and in the presence of the witness, would often be
the means of leading or instructing him as to the answer desired by the party calling him. If the question is in proper
form and clearly admits of an answer relevant to the issues
and favorable to the party on whose side the witness is called,
it will be error to exclude it. Of course, the court, in its discretion, or on motion, may require the party, in whose behalf
the question is put, to state the facts proposed to be proved by
the answer. But if that be not done, the rejection of the
answer will be deemed error or not, according as the question,
upon its face, if proper in form, may or may not clearly admit
of an answer favorable to the party in whose behalf it is propounded.
Tested by these views, the court below erred in not permitting the defendant Utt to answer the above questions. Each
one of them was relevant to the counter claim, and each admitted of an answer that tended to support it.
After the court below refused to allow the defendant Utt to
answer the above questions, he was asked: "You may state
in what manner your industry was affected by the failure of
this machinery." The witness answered: "When our mill
was erected, we made contracts with different parties to put in
certain machinery. In cutting straw there is a large amount
of steam required. We purchased from Neill patent boilers at
an expense of five thousand dollars, to be cooked with steam
coming from the boilers. That was the proper way to do it.
A lack of steam in the plant that we purchased made it impossible for us to cook this straw in these boilers, so after trying six or eight weeks to do this with this steam and succeeding
very poorly, we took steam from the escape system that we
had made in connection with the big engine, and since that
time we have been using that steam, but it does not cook the
straw well because the water condenses in these globe bleachers and has to be let out, and with them the liquor passes out
that the straw is cooked in, and it makes an uneven cooking
of the straw; it is not uniform. The straw is frequently
tough, so that we take it over to the grinding machine, where
it is ground up. Instead of grinding it up in two hours and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

half to three hours, it takes from four to four and a half to get
it in proper shape."
To this question the plaintiff objected, and moved to strike
out the answer as incompetent and irrelevant. The objection
and motion were sustained by the court, and the defendants
excepted. As we are informed by the bill of exceptions -what
were the facts intended to be elicited by the question and
which, after being detailed, were excluded from the jury, it is
competent for this court to inquire whether those facts were
competent under the issues in the case, and whether the defendants were prejudiced by their exclusion from the jury.
But, as the judgment below must be reversed for the errors
already stated, we deem it unnecessary at this time to express
any opinion as to the competency of this evidence. We adopt
this course because it is not entirely clear that the matters
referred to by the defendant Utt in his answer to this question
had any connection, in fact, with the counter claim, or that
they referred to any defects in the machinery covered by the
written guaranty of Russell & Co. This difficulty may be
removed at the next trial of the case.
In the brief of counsel for Russell & Co. there is some discussion as to the measure of damages, in the event it was
found that the defendants were entitled to recover upon their
counter claim. No question of that kind arises upon this writ
of error. The only questions now presented for determination
are those to which we have referred.
For the error indicated in this opinion, the judgment must
be
Reversed and the cause remandedfor a new trial.

