NEWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Syllabus.

the case establish that a verdict should have been directed for
the defendant.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore, reversed, and
the case remandedfor furtherproceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER did not hear the argument in this case,
and took no part in the decision of the court.

NEWPORT LIGHT COMPANY v. NEWPORT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 1022. Submitted January 22, 1894.-

Decided February 5, 1894.

This court must, when its jurisdiction is invoked to review a decision of
the highest court of a State, determine for itself whether the suit involves
such a Federal question as can be reviewed here under Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
A gas company contracted with a municipal corporation in a State, to
furnish gas in the streets of the municipality, to the exclusion of all
others. Before the expiration of the term, the municipal corporation
made a similar contract with another company. The first company,
by means of a suit in equity against the municipality, begun in the court
below and carried by appeal to the highest court of the State, obtained
a decree restraining the municipality from carrying the second contract
into execution, and enjoining it from contracting with any other person
for lighting the streets with gas during the lifetime of the first contract.
The municipality then, the first contract being still in full force and
unexpired, contracted with an Electric Light Company to light the streets
by electricity. Thereupon the first company procured a rule, in the suit
in equity, against the municipality and its officers to show cause why
they should not be punished for contempt of court for the violation of
the decree. On the pleadings to this rule the trial court held that the
injunction had been violated, and gave judgment accordingly. On appeal
to the highest court of the State, that court reversed the decree below,
and directed the lower court to discharge the rule. The case being
brought here by writ of error, Held,
(1) That the decision of the state court of appeal, which construed the
original decree granting the injunction, neither raised nor presented any Federal question whatever;

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
(2)

That the act of that court in ordering the court below to discharge
the rule for contempt was not subject to review here;
(3) Whether such an order was the final judgment of the highest court
of the State, qucere.
When the highest court of a State, construing one of its own judgments,
holds that a party thereto is not guilty of contempt, no Federal question
is presented, so far as any decision of this court goes, which confers
jurisdiction on this crourt to reexamine or reverse the decision.

Tnis case came before the court on motion of defendants in
error to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction.
In 1880 the board of councilmen of the city of Newport,
State of Kentucky, entered into a contract with the Newport
Light Company to light the streets and public places of that
city with gas for a term of twenty-five years to the exclusion
of all others, and it was agreed that the company should also
have the exclusive privilege of using the streets and public
places for the purpose of laying pipes in which to convey
the gas.
In 1885, while the Newport Light Company was in the
actual performance of its contract, the city of Newport
entered into another contract with the Dueber Light Company, by which the latter corporation agreed to undertake to
furnish gas for lighting the city of Newport for a designated
period. Before this latter contract was carried into execution, the Newport Light Company instituted suit in the Louisville Law and Equity Court against the city of Newport and
the Dueber Light Company to restrain the city, its officers
and agents, from carrying into effect the contract with the
Dueber Light Company during the existence of the contract
between the Newport Light Company and the city of Newport. The court rendered a judgment, which, in substance,
enjoined the city from making or carrying into execution a
contract with any person for lighting the streets, alleys, public buildings, and public places of the city with gas during
the continuance of its contract with the Newport Light Company. The case was carried to the Court of Appeals of the
State of Kentucky, and in May, 1886, the judgment of the
lower court was affirmed. 89 Kentucky, 454.
In March, 1887, the city of Newport and the Newport

NEWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Statement of the Case. -

Light Company entered into a compromise agreement for the
settlement of differences between them, one of the provisions
of which was that "the amount of gas consumed to be paid
for by metre measurement, and that when the city shall determine that a gas post shall be removed from one point to
another, or is to be discontinued, the gas company shall remove
the same at the expense of the city, and if discontinued, the
same, including the requisite fixtures for the posts, shall be
purchased by said city at their original cost." The compromise, however, was not to be understood as in any way waiving any existing rights or privileges granted the Newport
Light Company by the existing contract.
By an act of the legislature, passed in 1890, the Suburban
Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company, of Newport, Kentucky, was incorporated. Among other provisions
of the incorporating act it was provided:
"SEc. 7. The general nature of the business of the corporation shall be the erecting, operating, and maintaining a
general system of electrical dynamos and other apparatus
for the purpose of generating, furnishing and selling electricity for light, heat, and power, and for any other purpose that
the electric current may be applied in the city of Newport,
and furnishing and supplying said city and its inhabitants, and
other persons and corporations, and municipal corporations,
located in or near said city, with light, heat, and power by the
electric current.
"1SEC. 8. Said corporation is authorized, subject to the same
regulations and restrictions imposed by the city authorities of
Newport upon other corporations in said city, to run its wires
and conduits for electric power, lighting, and heating, in,
under, on, and over the streets, alleys, and by-ways of said
city and adjacent thereto: Provided, It shall in no way permanently obstruct the use of the same to the public or any
individual; and it is hereby required to place in repair any
street or highway under which it may lay its conduits, or in
which it may erect its poles, or do such other work consistent
with the general nature of the business of the corporation;
but it may temporarily obstruct the same."
VOL. cLI-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
' Statement of the Case.

On April 17, 1890, the legislature amended the charter of
the city of Newport as follows:
"The board of councilmen are hereby authorized to contract
for lighting the city of Newport and [supplying] its inhabitants
in any mode now known or which may hereafter be discovered, and in so doing grant the use of the public places and of
the streets of the city for such purposes: Provided,That said
contract shall not interfere with any existing right 'or contract.
"SEO. 7. All acts in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.
"SEc. 8. This act shall take effect from and after its
passage."
It was assumed by the city of Newport that the act incorporating the Electric Illuminating Company, and the act
amending the charter of the city, in connection with the
modification of the original contract between the city and
the Newport Light Company, operated to suspend or abrogate
the injunction granted in the suit of the Newport Light Company against the city of Newport and the Dueber Company;
and, acting upon this theory, the city of Newport, after
proper resolution had been passed in April, 1891, by its board
of councilmen, entered into a contract with the Suburban
Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company for furnishing the city with electric lights. In connection with this
contract the board of councilmen resolved "that the city discontinue the use of the lamp posts now in use for both gas
and gasoline, and the gas light thereby furnished, on July 1,
1891, and the city clerk is directed to notify the Newport
Light Company thereof, and request that it send the city a
statement of the original cost of the lamp posts, including the
requisite fixtures thereof."
Thereafter, on July 7, 1891, the Newport Light Company
procured a rule from the Louisville Law and Equity Court to
issue against the city of Newport and its board of councilmen to show cause why they should not be punished for contempt of court for a violation of the decree in the former
suit of the _Vewport Light Comjany v. City of NYewport and
the Dueber Company.

NEWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Statement of the Case.

The affidavit of the president of the Newport Light Company, upon which the rule issued, set forth that the contract
entered into by the city of Newport with the Suburban Electric lluminating, Heating and Power Company to light the
city of Newport by electricity for the term of fifteen years,
which went into effect on July 1, 1891, and at which time the
Electric Illuminating Company commenced to furnish electric
light under the contract, was an attempt on the part of the
city of Newport to annul and set aside the contract made
June 3, 1880, between the city and the Newport Light Company; and that this, with all other acts attending the making
of the contract with the Electric Illuminating Company, was
a violation on the part of the city of the injunction granted
in the former suit of the ]fewport Light Company v. City of
2-ewpo 't and the Dueler Company, and in contempt of the
authority of the court.
To this affidavit, on which the rule was issued, a demurrer
was interposed by the defendants iu error, which was overruled, and a response was then filed thereto, in which it was
claimed that by the compromise of 1887 it was agreed that
when the city should determine that a gas post was to be discontinued, the same, including the requisite fixtures for the post,
should be purchased by the city at their original cost, and that
this new modified contract was in force from that date until the
doing of the several acts complained of, and was in lieu of the
original contract, wherein the injunction was granted, and was
a novation of the rights between the said parties as to the lighting and discontinuance of the lamp posts, gas, and gas lights.
The response further stated that, after the decree granting
the injunction had been rendered, the general assembly,
by an act passed in 1890, had invested the city of Newport
with full power to provide for the lighting of its streets and
public places with improved lights, and that the Suburban
Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company was by
the general assembly invested with full power to enter the
streets of the city of Newport for the purpose of supplying
electric lights to all such persons and corporations, including
the city of Newport, as might contract for the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

It also averred that the city entered into its contract with
the Electric Illuminating Company under the authority conferred by these two acts of the legislature.
The Newport Light Company interposed its demurrer and
exceptions to the response, which were sustained by the court,
its ruling being that "the said response is adjudged insufficient,
to which said respondents except, and, the respondents to the
rule failing to make further response, it is adjudged that the
acts set forth in the affidavit herein constitute a violation of
the injunction heretofore granted in these causes, to which
said respondents except; and the said respondents are allowed
until the twenty-fourth day of July, eighteen hundred and
ninety-one, to purge themselves of their contempt herein by
setting aside and annulling the contract with the Suburban
Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company, dated
April 23, 1891, and ceasing to light or have lighted the
streets, lanes, alleys, public buildings, or places of the city
of Newport under said contract; and the said respondents
are hereby ordered to rescind and set aside, before the said
twenty-fourth day of July, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,
the resolution passed on the twenty-third day of April, 1891,
to discontinue the lamp posts and the light furnished thereby
by the Newport Light Company, to which said respondents
except; and the city of Newport is ordered to continue to
take gas from the said company for the lighting of the places
aforesaid as may be required for that purpose according to
the contract between said city of Newport and the said
company, dated June third, 1880, to which said respondents
except."
From this judgment the respondents below appealed to the
Court of Appeals of the State, which court on March 4, 1893,
rendered a decision reversing the judgment of the Louisville
Law and Equity Court. The grounds on which the Court
of Appeals rested its reversal of the action of the lower court
were that the contract between the Newport Light Company
and the city of Newport, which was construed and sustained
in 1885, in the suit between those parties, did not preclude
the city from making a contract for lighting its streets and

NEWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Statement of the Case.

public places with electricity, as long as the contract for
furnishing it with gas remained in force; that the legislative
enactments, authorizing the city to contract with the Electric
Illuminating Company for electric light, did not authorize
the violation of the contract between the city and the Newport Light Company, as those acts provided that existing
contracts should not be interfered with; that while the Newport Light Company, under its contract, had the right to
supply the city with gas, to which alone its contract had
reference, it had no unlimited power over the streets for the
purpose of lighting them, and had no right to restrict the
city in the use of other and superior lights; that its contract
with the city authorized it to furnish gas or other light
equally as good; that it could not be required to furnish,
or the city to receive from it, electric light because its contract had reference to gas only, and could not have been construed in any other way by the court below, or by the Court
of Appeals in the suit between the Newport Light Company
and the city of Newport, decided in 1886 ; that the contention
between the two corporations in that litigation was as to
which gas light company should furnish the gas, the Dueber
Light Company or the Newport Light Company; that that
decision did not go to the extent of adjudging that no other
company should furnish light of a different character, when,
in the judgment of the city, the public interest required it.
It was also held that the original decree under which the
injunction was made perpetual was in reference to the supply
of gas alone, and could only be considered in that light, and
the word "otherwise," used in the restraining order, could not
be construed as giving the Newport Light Company the
absolute right to furnish gas or any other light during the
existence of its contract with the city; that the Newport
Light Company had its legal remedy, and must resort to that
,remedy if it shall have sustained damages by reason of* the
refusal of the city to have its streets and public places lighted
by gas.
It was accordingly held by the Court of Appeals "that a
court of equity will not interfere to prevent the city from

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument against the Motion.

lighting the streets and public places with electric lights,"
and that the defendants in error had not violated the injunction in the original suit of the Newport Light Company
against the city of Newport and the Dueber Company, and
was not guilty of contempt. The court therefore directed the
lower court to discharge the rule against the defendants in
error.
At the request of the Newport Light Company, the Court
of Appeals certified "that on the trial and hearing of this
suit and case in this court the validity of said act of the general assembly incorporating the said Suburban Electric
Illuminating, Heating and Power Company, and the authority
exercised under the same in making said contract between
said appellant and said last-named company as aforesaid, was
drawn in question on the ground that the same impaired the
obligation of the contract between the appellant and the
appellee, before mentioned, and was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and that the decision of this
the highest court of law and equity of this State in which a
decision of this suit could be had was in favor of the validity
of said last-mentioned act of the said general assembly and
of the authority exercised thereunder by said appellant in
making said contract with said Suburban Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company."
A -writ of error having been sued out from this court to the
Court of Appeals, a motion was made by the defendants in
error to dismiss that writ on the ground that the case presented no Federal question.
i&r. William Lindsay and .Mr.Charles J. Helm for the
motion.
.Mr.
William Stone Abert, .Xr. R. F lYelson, 31r. E. A.
.Ferguson,.Mr. Lucius Desha, and -ir. J. B. -Forakeropposing.
This proceeding is a suit within the meaning of the act of
Congress.
A suit is a proceeding in a court of justice,
whereby a plaintiff seeks from a defendant a remedy for the
enforcement of a right or the redress of a wrong.

NEWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Argument against the Motion.

In Weston v. The City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449,
464, by an ordinance passed by the city council of Charleston,
stock of the United States was, among other things, made
taxable. The plaintiffs, as owners of such stock, applied to
the Court of Common Pleas for a writ of prohibition to restrain the city council from taxing that stock, on the ground
that the tax would be inconsistent with the Constitution of the
United States. The writ of prohibition was granted. The
proceedings were removed to the -constitutional court, which
held that the tax was valid, and reversed the order of prohibition; whereupon a writ of error was brought. One question in
the case was, "Is a writ of prohibition a suit?" The court said:
"The term is certainly a very comprehensive one, and is understood to apply to any proceeding in a court of justice by which
an individual pursues that remedy which the law affords him.
The modes of proceeding may be various, but if a right is litigated between the parties in a court of justice, the proceeding
by which the decision of the court is sought is a suit."
Every court of equity has the inherent power to enforce
obedience to its orders and judgments by process of contempt.
That is the law in Kentucky. .Kaye v. Kean, 18 B. Mon. 839,
844, and Gorham v. Lucett, 6 B. Mon. 146.
-MfcJfie n v. Perin, 20 How. 133, and Callan v. MWay, 2
Black, 541, two cases cited by counsel for defendants in error,
are clearly distinguishable from the case at bar, in this, that
they were appeals from judgments of United States courts,
taken by persons seeking to interfere with the execution of
mandates of this court, and involving no new question which
could be properly tried between the same parties; while the
plaintiff in error in this proceeding is seeking to enforce
obedience to a decree; and the controversy between the
parties is as to whether the acts charged constitute violations
of the order of injunction, and if so, whether the defendants
should be compelled to obey the same; their excuse being,
that subsequent legislation authorized the interference with
the execution of the decree. See Daniels v. Tearnney, 102
U. S. 415, 417; Eureka Zake Co. v. Yuba County, 116 U. S.
410; Uphsur County v. Rick, 135 U. S. 467, 474.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The record shows that the defendants in error in their response to the rule to show cause set up and relied upon the
act of the legislature of Kentucky, incorporating the Suburban Electric flluminating, Heating and Power Company and
the sixth section of the act amending the charter of Newport,
which authorizes the board of councilmen "to contract for
lighting the city of Newport and its inhabitants in any mode
now known or which may hereafter be discovered," etc., as
authorizing them (the defendants) to violate the terms of the
injunction, by making the contract with the Electric Company for lighting the streets of the city with electricity, and
by passing the resolution to discontinue the taking of gas from
the plaintiff. The validity of these two acts, and of the resolution, was drawn in question on the ground of their being
repugnant to the Constitution, by plaintiff's demurrer to said
response.
The lower court held that these acts of the legislature and
the resolution of the city council were invalid, and did not
justify the violation of the injunction, and that its judgment
should be obeyed. The Court of Appeals decided in favor
of the validity of said acts and resolution, and denied to the
plaintiff the only remedy which it had for the enforcement
of the rights adjudged to it.
The Court of Appeals could not have decided as it did,
without deciding in favor of the validity of said acts of the
legislature and of the resolution of the city council. The
effect of the decision was to impair the obligation of the contract - to take away the remedy which plaintiff would have
had but for said acts of the legislature.
M .. JUsTicE JAcKsoN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The above certificate of the Chief Justice of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, while entitled to respectful consideration, does not in itself establish the existence of a Federal
question in this case, and confer jurisdiction upon this court
to reexamine the judgment complained of. This court must

EWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

determine for itself whether the suit really involves any
Federal question which will entitle it to review the judgment
of the state court under section 109 of the Revised Statutes.
Parmele v. Lawrence, 11 Wall. 36; Brown v. Atwell, 92
U. S. 327; Gross v. United States .Mortgage Co., 108 U. S.
477; Felix v. Scharnweber, 125 U. S. 54; Roby v. Colehour,
146 U. S. 153; Powell et al. v. Brunswick County, 150
U. S. 433.
Looking, therefore, as we must, to the record in the cause
to ascertain whether any Federal question is really involved,
we are clearly of opinion that no such question is presented,
and that the writ of error should be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction in this court to review the judgment complained of.
It is shown by the record that this was a proceeding in
contempt, and the sole question presented in the Louisville
Law and Equity Court, as well as in the Court of Appeals,
was whether the defendants in error were in contempt for
violating the injunction granted in the suit of the Newport
Light Company against the city of Newport and the Dueber
Company. The judgment in that suit enjoined and restrained
the city of Newport, its officers and agents, "from making or
entering into any contract with any person, company, partnership, or corporation, for the lighting of the streets, lanes,
alleys, public buildings, or places of the city with gas or
otherwise, and from discontinuing the taking of gas from the
Newport Light Company for the lighting of said places in
such quantities as may be required for that purpose until the
further orders of the court."
The contract entered into by the city with the Suburban
Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company for lighting the city with electric lights was held by the Louisville
Law and Equity Court to be a violation of the original injunction of that court, and so the city, its mayor, and board
of councilmen were adjudged to be in contempt. The Court
of Appeals of Kentucky reversed this order and remanded the
cause to the lower court, with directions to discharge the rule.
In making this order the Court of Appeals placed a construe-

OCTOBER TERAf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion upon the original decree granting the injunction, which
limited its operation to a restraint upon the city against
entering into any contract with other parties for the lighting
of the city with gas, and held that the word "otherwise,"
used in the restraining order, could not be construed as giving
to the Newport Light Company the absolute right to furnish

gas and any other light during the existence of its contract
with the city.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky had an undoubted right
to construe its own decision rendered in the case of the Newport Light Company against the city of Newport and the
Dueber Company, and to declare what the judgment rendered
therein really meant, and to define the scope thereof. This
neither raised nor presented any Federal question whatever.
The contention on the part of the plaintiff in error really
comes to this: That the state Court of Appeals erred in
ordering the Louisville Law and Equity Court to discharge the
rule for contempt. This is, in fact, the only question presented in the case. The reasons assigned by the Court of
Appeals for reversing the action of the lower court did not
of themselves present any Federal question; nor are they
subject to review here. If this court could hold that the
plaintiff in error was entitled to reverse the judgment of the
Court of Appeals, the result would be that its mandate would
issue to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, directing that
court to set aside its judgment of reversal, and thereby affirm
the order of the Louisville Law and Equity Court, which
would have the effect of holding the defendants in error
guilty of contempt, and subject them to punishment as
directed by that court.
This court has never gone to the extent of holding that
such an order, as is here sought to be reviewed, was either a
final judgment of the highest court of a State, or presented
a Federal question, such as would entitle a party to have the
judgment reexamined here. The case presented both in the
lower court and the appellate court of Kentucky was simply
whether the acts of the defendants in error could be properly

NEWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

considered a violation of the injunction granted in the original
cause.
In -foMicken v. Perin, 20 How. 133, the plaintiff in error
was attached for contempt in refusing to make a conveyance
after a tender and deposit of money incourt had been made
in compliance with a mandate of this court. He appealed to
this court, and it was held that the proceedings incontempt
involved no new question or decision, but were the ordinary
means of enforcing the original decree, and in no sense was
it a final decree upon which an appeal could be sustained. It
was, in effect, the same as ordering an execution on a judgment of law which had been affirmed on error and remanded
for execution to the Circuit Court.
In ilayes v. Fischer, 102 U. S. 121, 122, an injunction was
granted. Complaint was made against Hayes for a violation
thereof, and proceedings were instituted against him for contempt, which resulted in an order by the court that he pay a
certain fine, and stand committed until the order was obeyed.
To reverse this order, Hayes sued out a writ of error to this
court, which the defendant in error moved to dismiss, on the
ground that such proceedings in the Circuit Court could not
be reexamined by this court. The court, speaking by -Mr.
Chief Justice Waite, said: "If the order complained of is to
be treated as part of what was done in the original suit, it
cannot be brought here for review by writ of error. Errors
in equity suits can only be corrected in this court on appeal,
and that after a final decree. This order, if part of the proceedings in the suit, was interlocutory only. If the proceeding below, being for contempt, was independent of and
separate from the original suit, it cannot be refxamined here
either by writ of error or appeal. This was decided more
than fifty years ago in E parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38, and
the rule then established was followed as late as New Orleans
v. Steamship Company, 20 Wall. 387., The court held that
it had no jurisdiction, and dismissed the writ of error.
No decision of this court has gone so far as to hold that the
construction which the highest court of a State places upon
its own judgment, and under which construction it holds that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

a party thereto has not been guilty of contempt, presents a.
Federal question, such as would confer jurisdiction upon this.
court to redxamine or reverse such a judgment.
Again, if we look to the grounds upon which the Court of
Appeals reversed the action of the lower court in the matter,
of contempt, we find that they involve no Federal question.
That court held that the amendment of the city's charter did
not authorize the violation of its contract with the Newport
Light Company. While it was held that the city could contract for electric lights in addition to gas, if it chose to pay
for both, it could not dispense with the use of the gas under
iti contract with the Newport Light Company without violating its contract with that company; and, further, that if
the contract for lighting the city by means of electricity had
the effect of displacing the use of gas, the city would be responsible in damages for any breach of its contract with the
Newport Light Company, just as it would be if it were to
discontinue the use of gas without adopting any other means
or method for lighting the city. It is clear that no such
breach of the city's contract with the Newport Light Company would in any way bring the case within the operation
of the Federal Constitution relating to the impairment of the
obligation of contracts. It would be simply a violation of
contract obligations, such as involved no Federal question
whatever.
Furthermore, it is not and cannot be questioned that the
legislature of Kentucky had authority to incorporate the
Suburban Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company,
and to authorize it to contract with the city of Newport to
light that city by electricity. It is equally clear that the
legislature had the right, in amending the charter of the city
of Newport, to authorize it to make a contract with the
Electric Illuminating Company to light the city by electricity,
providing that such contract should not interfere with the
rights covered by any existing contract.
Under these two acts the city proposed to make a contract
with the Electric Illuminating Company, not in lieu of itscontract with the Newport Light Company, but in addition

NEWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

thereto. Now, whether that contract violated the existing
one between the city and the Newport Light Company was
a question which could not be decided without the presence
of the Suburban Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power
Company, and that company was in no sense a party to the
original suit, nor to the contempt proceedings had thereon;
and the validity of its contract with the city was in no way
involved in the contempt proceedings.
Again, the Court of Appeals construed the contract between
the city and the Newport Light Company to mean that the
latter had the right to supply the city with gas alone, and
possessed no exclusive privilege of supplying other and different lights; and, further, that the city was not confined or
restricted by that contract to the use of gas for lighting purposes, but had the authority, particularly under the legislation
of 1890, to adopt electric lights, that it might, therefore, lawfully contract for the latter description of lights, and that
such a contract for a different mode of lighting from that of
gas would not, in and of itself, violate its contract with the
Newport Light Company. But if that were otherwise, the
Newport Light Company would have its claim against
the city for damages for adopting such electric lights if they
effected the discontinuation of the use of gas. In other words,
if the adoption of the electric lights involved a breach of the
city's contract with the Newport Light Company, that company had its remedy at law by an action for damages.
It was further held by the Court of Appeals that there was
nothing in the legislation of 1890, amending the charter of
the city, or incorporating the Suburban Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company, which in any way violated
the contract between the Newport Light Company and the
city, and that if any contract entered into between the city
and the Electric Illuminating Company had the effect of
abrogating or violating the contract between the city and the
Newport Light Company, it did not arise from the legislation
of the State, but from the act of the city, which act, at most,
could not be anything more than a breach of its contract with
the Newport Light Company, for which the latter had its

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

appropriate remedy by way of damages; that the subjectmatter of the two contracts on the part of the city (one with
the Newport Light Company and the other with the Suburban Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company)
related to two different methods of lighting the city; and
that the latter contract was not covered by the gas contract.
This court is not called upon to review the correctness or
incorrectness of this reasoning on which the Court of Appeals
reached its conclusion that the order of the lower court was
erroneous. The judgment of the Court of Appeals, whatever
may have been the reasons assigned therefor, merely reversed
the action of the lower court, declaring that the defendants
in error were in contempt, and directed that court to discharge the rule against them.
For the foiegoing reasons we think no Federal question is
presented by the writ of error, and it is hereby

.D~zissed.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHINS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 729. Submitted January 8, 1894.-Decided February 5, 1894.

A naval officer, travelling under orders from San Francisco to New York
by way of the Isthmus of Panama, is to be considered, under the statutes
applicable to the case, as travelling under orders in the United States,
and as entitled to eight cents per mile, measured by the nearest travelled
route.

THis was a petition for mileage from the navy-yard at Mare
Island, in the harbor of San Francisco, to New York.
The Court of Claims found the following to be the facts:
(1) The claimant is an officer in the navy, to wit, a lieutenantcommander. He was serving as such on the 22d day of May,
1890, when he was ordered to proceed by steamer from San
Francisco to New York via the Isthmus of Panama, in charge
of a detachment of men.

