OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

impeach his finding in that particular, and no objection or
exception taken to the want of proof upon this point. There
would appear to have been, from a memorandum we find in
the testimony, a mechanic's lien introduced in evidence as an
exhibit; but as it is not attached to the record, it is impossible to say that it does not bear out the finding of the master.
The statute of Alabama requires a statement in writing,
claiming a lien, to be filed in the office of the judge of probate
within six months after the indebtedness to the lien holder has
accrued, and as it appears that the work in this case was
finished on August 8, 1888, and accepted August 18, that the
unpaid residue of the consideration was not due for several
months thereafter, and that suit was begun on February
11, 1889, there seems to be nothing in the objection that
proceedings were not taken within the time required by
law.
Upon the whole, we think the decree of the court below was
correct, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

FORT WORTH CITY COMPANY v. SMITH BRIDGE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TRE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 565. Submitted January 3,1894.-

Decided January 15, 1894.

This court cannot take notice of a stipulation of counsel as to evidence
bearing on a finding of the court below in an action brought here by
writ of error.
Time was not of the essence of the contract upon which this action is
founded.
A corporation created for the purpose of dealing in lands, and to which
the powers to purchase, to subdivide, to sell, and to make any contract
essential to the transaction of its business are expressly granted, possesses, as fairly incidental, the power to incur liability in respect of
securing better facilities for transit to and from the lots or lands which
it is its business to acquire and dispose of.

FORT WORTH CITY CO. v. SMITH BRIDGE CO. 295
Statement of the Case.
It being within the power of such a corporation to enter into such a contract,
the provisions of the constitution of Texas, touching the issue of bonds
by corporations formed under its laws, will not prevent its becoming
liable to perform its agreements therein, after receiving benefits under
it at the expense of the other contracting party.

THE Smith Bridge Company, a private corporation, incorporated under the laws of Ohio, and having its domicil in the
city of Toledo in that State, brought this action against the
Fort Worth City Company, incorporated under the laws of,
and having its domicil in, the city of Fort Worth in the State
of Texas, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas, and alleged that on May 19, 1888,
the parties entered into a certain contract whereby the bridge
company, for the consideration of $8166.66 to be paid to it by
the defendant company, agreed to build for the latter a bridge
across the Trinity River near Fort Worth, at a point just north
of the public square in that city to be designated by the city
engineer, and in accordance with specifications furnished by
him. It was further averred that the contract price of the
bridge was $24,500, and that the city of Firt Worth and the
county of Tarrant had agreed with the bridge company, each
to pay one-third of the cost, and had done so; that the bridge
company constructed the bridge according to the contract;
that the consideration to be paid by the Fort Worth City
Company was contracted to be paid in the first mortgage
bonds of that company and the North Side Street Railway
Company, and that the defendant had failed and refused to
deliver the bonds, which were of the face value of $8166.66.
The defendant company answered by way of demurrer and
special exception that the petition did not disclose the purposes for which the two corporations were incorporated; nor
any power or authority in the defendant to use its funds and
property for the purpose of constructing the bridge; general
denial; and also that the contract sued on was without authority on the part of the board of directors and officers of the
Fort Worth City Company, which was organized "for the
purchase, subdivision, and sale of land in cities, towns, and
villages," under the provisions of title twenty of the Revised

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Statutes of Texas; that the bridge was to be and was built for
the use and benefit of the general public on one of the public
streets of the city; and was not under defendant's control or
owned by it; that defendant company was not to have and
did not have any property in the same or other right to
use the same than such as the public in general had; that,
therefore, the contract was illegal and unauthorized; and
that the contract was also void in providing that the defendant should deliver to the plaintiff bonds executed by itself
and by the North Side Street Railway Company, the latter
being a separate and independent corporation; and that it
could not and did not obligate itself to deliver any bonds
executed by any other corporation, and was not authorized to
legally acquire the bonds of any other corporation. Defendant further stated "that the sole and only benefit it ever
expected to derive from the construction of said bridge was
the enhancement of its property by making it more convenient
of access and so more readily salable; that the contract made
by the plaintiff with the city of Fort Worth required the
completion of the, bridge by the first day of November, 1888,
and with reference to this stipulation, the contract here sued
on was entered into; that the value of the bridge to the
defendant depended on its early completion;" that the bridge
was not completed until at least six months after the time
stated in the contract with the city, and defendant had been
greatly damaged by the failure to complete it, "for that at
the time the said contract was made there was an active
demand for real estate in Fort Worth and its suburbs, which
defendant expected would continue to the time, and for a
long time after the date when the bridge was to be completed;" and that had the bridge been completed, a considerable amount of its property could have been sold at a profit.
Plaintiff thereupon filed its supplemental petition in reply,
excepting to the special answers of the defendant, and alleging
that, at the time of making the contract with the defendant,
the latter owned a large tract of land lying on the north side
of the Trinity River, over which river the bridge was built,
which land it had subdivided into lots, and was offering them

FORT WORTH CITY CO. v. SIITH BRIDGE CO. 297
Statement of the Case.

for sale; that the river separated the land from the city of
Fort Worth; that it was necessary, in order to accomplish a
ready sale of the lands, that the company have a ready means
of access from the city thereto, and that the company had this
object in view when it made the contract sued on with the
plaintiff; that the erection of the bridge afforded such means
of access from the city to the lands, and immediately upon
the completion of the bridge the North Side Street Railway
Company constructed'across the bridge a railway connecting
the city of Fort Worth with the lands. It was further alleged
that the latter company was organized in the interest of the
defendant for the purpose of bringing its lots into the market;
that the stockholders of both companies were for the most
part the same; that by reason of the erection of the bridge
and the operation of the street railway the value of the lots
was greatly enhanced and the sale thereof was promoted; and
that the defendant made this contract for the purpose of promoting its business, and expected to use the same in the transaction thereof after its construction by the plaintiff under the
contract; and that the defendant, having contracted with plaintiff to construct the bridge, and having accepted and used it,
was estopped from denying the validity of the contract on the
ground of want of power in the defendant to make the same.
The case coming on to be tried, the exceptions to plaintiff's
petition and to defendant's answer were overruled, and a jury
having been waived by written stipulation, the cause was submitted to the court for trial, whereupon it found the law and
facts for the plaintiff and entered judgment in its favor for the
sum of 09633.02, with interest and costs; and findings of fact
and conclusions of law were made and filed as follows:
"The court makes the following special. findings of fact on
the issues made in the case:
"1. The defendant, the Fort Worth City Company, was at
the time of making the contract with the plaintiff here sued
on and is now a private corporation created and organized for
the purchase, subdivision, and sale of land in cities, towns, and
villages under the general laws of the State of Texas relating
to private corporations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"2. That on the 16th day of May, 1888, the City of Fort
Worth, a municipal corporation of the State of Texas, entered
into a contract with the plaintiff herein, for the construction
of a certain bridge on one of the streets of said city where it
crosses the Trinity River in said city, it being provided in the
said contract that one-third of the contract price of said bridge
-that is, eight thousand one hundred and sixty-six dollars
and sixty-six and two-thirds cents- should be paid by the
defendant herein, and a like amount by Tarrant County, which
is also a municipal corporation of said State, the bridge to be
completed on or before the first day of November, 1888, the
plaintiff being required to give a bond within twenty days
from the 16th day of May, 1888, payable to said city, in the
sum of ten thousand dollars, for the completion of said bridge
on or before November 1, 1888, in accordance with certain
specifications, said bond to be made part of the contract with
the said city.
"3. That on the 19th day of May, 1888, the president and
secretary of the defendant corporation, owning together eightyeight per cent of its stock, executed a contract in its name,
obligating it to pay said sum of $8166.662 cents in the joint
first mortgage bonds of the defendant and the North Side
Railway Company, another separate and distinct corporation,
in which said president and secretary owned likewise said per
cent of stock, said bonds secured on the lands, franchises, and
possessions of both corporations, the said bonds to be delivered
on the building of said bridge according to the terms of said
contract between plaintiff and defendant and the said contract
between plaintiff and the city of Fort Worth to the acceptance
of the street and alley committee and the city engineer of said
city, and the turning of the same over to said city completed
in accordance with the above-mentioned contracts and the
contract between plaintiff and Tarrant County.
"c4. That the bridge was not completed and turned over to
the city of Fort Worth until the 19th day of March, 1889, but
the delay was caused neither by the plaintiff nor the defendant
herein, but altogether by the city of Fort Worth, and time
was not of the essence of the contract.

FORT WORTH CITY CO. v. SMITH BRIDGE CO. 299
Opinion of the Court.
"5. That the said bridge was to be and is a part of a public
street of the incorporated city of Fort Worth, and the defendant was not to have nor has it ever had any property interest
in or control over the same or use of it, except as a part of the
general public.
"6. The defendant was not damaged by the delay in the
completion of the bridge.
"i7. That the bridge when completed and turned over to
the said city was in substantial compliance with the contracts
mentioned herein.
"8. That a proper demand was made by the plaintiff on the
defendant for the delivery of the said bonds, and the defendant refused to deliver the same on said demand.
"9. That Tarrant County and Fort Worth paid their proportional part of the sum of "10. That the bridge was expected to enhance the value of
the property owned by the defendant by furnishing another
mode of access thereto from the city of Fort Worth.
"And on the findings of fact the conclusions of law are as
follows:
"1. That the defendant had the power to make the contract
here sued on, and that the same is therefore legal, valid, and
binding upon it.
"2. That the plaintiff is entitled to judgment in this court
for the sum of eight thousand one hundred and sixty-six dollars and sixty-six and two-thirds cents, with eight per cent
interest from the 19th day of March, 1889."
Thereupon this writ of error was brought.
.Xr. fThomas P. .a

'tin for plaintiff in error.

-Mr. -2f. L. Crawford for defendant in error.
MR. CRIEF JusTcn, FuLERn

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case having been tried by the court under the statute,
we can only inquire whether the facts found in the special

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

findings, considered in connection with the pleadings, are
sufficient to sustain the judgment, and whether any error was
committed upon rulings on matters of law properly preserved
by bill of exceptions. Two bills of exception were taken, but
they simply present the same questions as the special findings
of fact and the conclusions of law deduced therefrom.
A
stipulation of counsel as to the evidence bearing on the tenth
finding appears in the record; but of that we cannot take
notice. Tyre & Sipring TForks Co. v. Spalding, 116 U. S. 541.
Of the five erfors assigned in the brief of the counsel, the
first, second, fourth, and fifth present the question in various
aspects of the power of the Fort Worth City Company to
make the contract sued on, or incur the liability for which
recovery was had, and the third relates to the failure of the
bridge company to complete the bridge within the time stipulated in its contract with the city of Fort Worth.
The court found that the bridge was to be completed on or
before November 1, 1888, and that bond was required to be
given to the city to secure that result; that it was not completed and turned over until March 19, 1889, but that the delay
was caused not by the plaintiff or defendant, but altogether
by the city; that time was not of the essence of the contract,
and that the defendant was not damaged by the delay. The
contract between these parties is attached to the petition, and
refers to the contracts by the bridge company with the city
and the county, the defendant agreeing to pay the stipulated
sum in consideration of the building and construction of the
bridge in accordance with the specifications and to the acceptance of the city engineer and the city, and the turning of the
bridge over to the city, completed in accordance with this and
the other contracts; but as we agree with the court that time
was not of the essence, and as the court has found as matter
of fact that plaintiff was not in default, and that the defendant was not injured by the delay, the result necessarily follows
that the third error assigned is not well taken.
The Fort Worth City Company was organized under the
provisions of title twenty of the Revised Statutes of the State
of Texas relating to private corporations and the amendments

FORT WORTH CITY CO. v. SM[ITH BRIDGE CO.

301

Opinion of the Court.

thereto, "for the purchase, subdivision and sale of land in
cities, towns, and villages," as authorized by article 566 of
those statutes, (one of the articles under title twenty,) as
amended by chapter 61 of the Laws of 1885. Sayle's Tex.
Civ. Stat. 212; Laws Tex. 1885, 59, c. 61.
The general rule is that corporations have only such powers
as are granted and the powers incidental thereto, and in arriving at a conclusion as to the powers of this corporation the
applicable provisions of the title under which it was organized
must be considered; legislation which will be found to be in
harmony with the common law.
Article 575 provided that every private corporation as such
has power "to enter into any obligation or contract essential
to the transaction of its authorized business;" and article
589, that "no corporation created under the provisions of this
title shall employ its stock, means, assets, or other property,
directly or indirectly, for any other purpose whatever than to
accomplish the legitimate objects of its creation." Sayle's
Tex. Stat. 217, 219.
In Green Bay & Minnesotc Railroad v. Union Steamboat
Co., 107 U. S. 98, 100, it was said: "The charter of a corporation, read in connection with the general laws applicable to
it, is the measure of its powers, and a contract manifestly
beyond those powers will not sustain an action against the
corporation. But whatever, under the charter and other
general laws, reasonably construed, may fairly be regarded as
incidental to the objects for which the corporation is created, is
not to be taken as prohibited."
This corporation was formed under a general law containing, in addition to the provision for the creation of such a corporation, the other provisions we have quoted.
The question of power is reduced, therefore, to this: Whether
a corporation created for the purpose of dealing in lands, and
to which the powers to purchase, to subdivide, and to sell, and
to make any contract essential to the transaction of its business, are expressly granted, possesses as fairly incidental, the
power to incur liability in respect of securing better facilities
for transit to and from the lots or lands, which it is its busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ness to acquire and dispose of? We entertain no doubt that
under these findings the defendant company possessed the
power to enter into the contract in question, and that the
contract having been fully performed by the bridge company,
and the defendant company having the full benefit thereof,
the latter cannot now be allowed to say that the power was
not properly exercised.
The object of the creation of the corporation was the acquisition and sale of lands on subdivision, and it cannot successfully be denied that that object would be directly promoted
by the use of legitimate business methods to render the lands
accessible. This involved the expenditure of money or the
assumption of liability, but there is no element in this case of
any unreasonable excess in that regard, or of the pursuit of
any abnormal and extraordinary method. The result sought
was in accomplishment of the legitimate objects of the corporation and essential to the transaction of its authorized
business, and the power to make the contract was fairly incidental if not expressly granted.
Reference is made to section 6 of article 12 of the Constitution of Texas, which provides: "No corporation shall
issue stock or bonds except for money paid, labor done, or
property actually received, and all fictitious increase of stock or
indebtedness shall be void." But if this section be in any way
applicable and could be regarded as invalidating so much of
the contract as provided that the consideration should be paid
in bonds, which is not to be conceded, the company "having
received benefits at the expense of the other contracting party,
cannot object that it was not empowered to perform what it
promised in return, in the mode in which it promised to perform," and would still remain liable on its contract, otherwise
within its lawful powers. Ritchcock v. Galveston, 96 U. S.
341, 351; Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman Co., 139
U. S. 24, 58.
Judgment affirmed.

