OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

United States within the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution. Much more is that the case where it appears that
the Indian was but temporarily a resident of a State, the
length of his residence not being shown, and that he had
done nothing to indicate his intention to sever his tribal
relations.
Upon the testimony in this case, we think the defendant
was entitled to an instruction that the court had no jurisdiction, and its judgment must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside

the verdict, and for further proceedings in conforrity
with this opinion.

WILSON v. OSWEGO TOWNSHIP.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 175. Argued and submitted December 20, 1893. -Decided

January 3, 1894.

A township in Kansas delivered twenty-two of its bonds to a railroad company to aid in the construction of the company's road. The company
contracted with B. to construct the road, and to receive these bonds in
part payment. The bonds were delivered during the progress of the
work to B., and to M., a non-resident of Missouri, as trustee, jointly,
and were by them deposited in a Missouri savings institution in St.
Louis to remain there until the completion of the work, and then to be
delivered to B. upon the demand of himself and M1.. B., claiming that he
had performed all the work under his contract, demanded the bonds.
The association refused to deliver them except upon the joint order of
B. and Al.. B. brought suit in St. Louis to recover them, making the association and the company defendants and serving process upon them, and
making M. a defendant and serving upon him by publication. The
township on its own motion intervened and was made party defendant..
The savings association, 21., and the township each answered separately.
The railroad company was not served with process and made no answer.
MI. and the township then petitioned for the removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States, setting forth that they were citizens
of Kansas, that the plaintiff was a citizen of Missouri, and that the savings association had no interest in the result of the controversy. The
prayer of the petition was granted, the cause was removed, and it
proceeded to judgment in the Circuit Court. Held,

WILSON v. OSWEGO TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.
(1)

That the savings association was a necessary and indispensable party
to the relief sought for, and as that defendant was a citizen of the
same State with the plaintiff there was no right of removal on the
ground that it was a formal, unnecessary, or nominal party;
(2) That the removal could not be sustained on the ground that the
controversy was a separable controversy between the plaintiff and the
parties applying for and securing the removal.

TEE case is stated in the opinion.
Air. FrederickH. Bacon for the appellant.
-Mr. John O'Day for appellees submitted on his brief.
MR. JUsTIcE JAoKsoN delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, as the assignee of Edward Burgess, on
August 10, 1886, filed his petition in the Circuit Court of the
city of St. Louis, Missouri, against the Union Savings Association of that city, the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern
Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Missouri, C. Montague, a non-resident of the
State of Missouri, and certain unknown persons, to recover
possession of twenty-two bonds of Oswego township, State of
Kansas, of the value of $500 each, held by the Union Savings
Association as bailee or trustee.
The petition alleged that the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company was empowered to construct, maintain, and operate a railroad in the States of Missouri and
Kansas, through the township of Oswego, a political subdivision of the county of Labette, in the State of Kansas; that
said township was authorized and empowered to vote, grant,
and issue to the railroad company its bonds to aid in the construction of the railroad through the county of Labette; that
after due proceedings had been had the township of Oswego
voted, issued, executed, and delivered to the railroad company
twenty-two of its bonds of the value of $500 each, with interest coupons attached, bearing date September 2, 1872, numbered from 27 to 48, both inclusive; that the railroad
corporation had previously entered into a contract with

OCTOBER TERM, 189&
Opinion of the Court.

Edward Burgess to construct a portion of its road, and that
Burgess under this contract engaged in the execution of a large
amount of such construction work on the railroad; that the
railroad company, under its contract with Burgess, was to pay
for the work and labor performed and to be performed with
the bonds of the township, including the bonds in question;
that on September 17, 1873, the company was indebted to
Burgess in a large sum of money for work and labor performed
on the railroad under his contract, which Burgess was still
engaged in carrying out; that the railroad company, at the
request of Burgess, and in consideration of the work performed
and to be performed by him, delivered to him, and to the
defendant, 0. Montague, trustee, jointly, said twenty-two bonds
upon the agreement and understanding between the railroad
company, Burgess, and Montague that on the completion of
the work then in progress on the railroad, up to the amount
of the value of the twenty-two bonds, Montague would relinquish for himself, and for all others, these bonds to Burgess,
which would then become the absolute property of the latter;
and that to carry out this agreement the bonds, with all the
coupons thereto attached, were placed by Burgess and Montague, jointly, in the custody of the defendant, the Union
Savings Association, as trustee or bailee, where they were to
remain until the completion of the work on the railroad by
Burgess, when they were to be delivered by the Union Savings
Association to him or his assigns on the demand of himself
and Montague.
It was further set out in the petition that Burgess duly performed his work upon the railroad, under and in accordance
with his contract, and became thereby entitled to the bonds,
and that Montague ceased to have any right, interest, or claim
thereto, either for himself or for any other person, and that
the bonds became the absolute property of Burgess, who
thereafter, for a valuable consideration, sold and assigned the
bonds in controversy, with all his right, title, and interest
therein and claim thereto to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff also stated that after the sale and assignment
of the bonds to himself he notified the defendant, the Union
I

WILSON v. OSWEGO TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

Savings Association, of his ownership thereof, and demanded
them, which the defendant refused to deliver without the
assent of Montague.
The petitioner further alleged that he was informed and
believed that certain persons, to him unknown, claimed an
interest in these bonds and coupons, but that he could not
state the nature of their interest nor the residence of the
claimants.
The prayer of the petition was that the defendant, the
Union Savings Association, be ordered to deliver the bonds
and coupons in controversy to the plaintiff; that said unknown
persons claiming an interest therein be duly notified by publication of the pendency of the suit, and be required to answer
the same, and that the plaintiff have all such further relief as
might be proper.
Upon the filing of this petition a summons was issued to the
sheriff of the city of St. Louis, whose return thereon shows
that the same was duly served upon the Union Savings Association in August, 1886, and upon the Memphis, Carthage and
Northwestern Railroad Company on October 1, 1886. It
farther appears 'that publication was duly made for the
defendant, 0. Montague, and the unknown parties having an
interest in the bonds in controversy.
On October 11, 1886, the Oswego township, on its own
motion, intervened in the cause, and was made a party defendant thereto.
At the October term, 1886, the Union Savings Association
filed its answer to the petition, in which, after stating its want
of knowledge or information as to the incorporation of the
Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company, and
the delivery to that company of the bonds in question, and
other general allegations of the petition, denied that the bonds
described, or any bonds, were placed by Burgess and Montague, jointly, in its custody, there to remain until Burgess
had completed the work on the railroad, when they were to
be delivered to him or his assigns on demand; but admitted
that on December 17, 1873, Edward Burgess and C. Montague,
trustee, deposited with it bonds which it believed to be the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

same referred to in the plaintiff's petition, and that it issued
and delivered a receipt therefor to Burgess and Montague at
their request, which was in words and~figures as follows:
"Received, St. Louis, Dec'r 17th, 1873, of Edward Burgess
and 0. Montague, trustees, ten thousand five hundred dollars
of Oswego township, Labette Co., Kansas bonds, issued to the
Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company, the
numbers being twenty-eight to forty-eight, inclusive (also bond
No. 27, of which [$300 worth] is to be held for same parties
under same terms, in all $10,800 bonds), each bond for $500,
due 20 years after date, dated Sept. 2nd, 1872, annual interest
at ten per cent, represented by the nineteen coupons attached
to each bond, all of such ten thousand eight hundred dollars
of bonds subject to the joint order of said C. Montague,
trustee, or his successors or successor in office, and the said
Edward Burgess, upon the return of this receipt duly endorsed.
"(Signed)
JA-Es B. LovE, Ca8hier."
.

The defendant further answered that it had no knowledge
that Burgess had completed the work on the railroad, nor of
his having become the owner of the bonds, nor of his assignment to the plaintiff ; and further, that before the commencement of the suit, Montague, trustee, acting in the premises
on behalf of the Oswego township, had notified defendant
that Burgess was not entitled to the bonds.
The defendant also stated that it was ready and willing to
surrender the bonds to the party or parties legally entitled
thereto, whenever it was settled in such manner as to protect
defendant from further responsibility, and prayed that all
claimants and the parties in interest might be brought into
court and interplead for the bonds; and that it might be
allowed a reasonable compensation for the custody thereof
since the year 1873, and also a reasonable allowance for
attorney's fees.
Montague and the Oswego township filed separate answers,
in which they denied that the bonds in question had ever been
delivered to the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad

WILSON v. OSWEGO TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

Company under any legal authority; alleged that the bonds
were void because they were never lawfully issued under any
authorized election and vote of the people of the township to
the railroad company; that they were never, in fact, delivered
to that railroad company, but that they were delivered to the
Union Savings Association to secure the payment by Burgess
of all debts, liabilities, and obligations which might be contracted by him in the prosecution of the work upon the railroad through the township and county; that he had never
performed this work, according to his contract with the railroad company, and if the bonds had ever been regularly issued
he had never acquired a title thereto. The Oswego township,
therefore, claimed that the bonds should be surrendered to it
for cancellation.
The M,emphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company failed to answer the petition, and made default thereto.
On December 4, 1886, Montague and the Oswego township
filed their petition to have the cause removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States on the ground that at the commencement of the suit, and at the time of the motion, they
were citizens of the State of Kansas, while the plaintiff was a
citizen of the State of Xissouri; that the Union Savings
Association, though a citizen of the State of Missouri, was only
trustee of the bonds, and had no interest in the result of the
controversy, and that the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company, named as a party defendant, had never
been served with process or entered its appearance in the
suit.
On this petition, and proper bond tendered therewith, the
suit was removed into the United States Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Missouri. After such removal was effected
the plaintiff moved the court to remand the cause to the Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis on the grounds, first, that
the application was not made under the second paragraph of
section 639 of the Revised Statutes; second, that the cause
was not one in which there could be any final determination
of the controversy as to the parties applying for the removal
without the presence of the other defendants; third, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

suit was not one between citizens of different States, but was
one in which the plaintiff and the defendant, the Union Savings
Association, and the XMemphis, Carthage and Northwestern
Railroad Company, were citizens of Missouri, while Montague
and Oswego township were citizens of the State of Kansas;
fourth, that the suit was not one in which there was a separable controversy between citizens of different States, and that
the sheriff's return, as set out in the record, showed that the
defendant, the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad
Company, had been duly served and brought before the court
prior to the filing of the petition for the removal of the cause.
The motion to remand was, however, overruled, and thereafter various amended pleadings were filed in the Circuit
Court, including a cross-bill on the part of the Oswego township to have the bonds in controversy declared void and
returned to it for cancellation.
Upon the hearing of the cause the court entered a final
decree holding that the bonds in question were issued without
authority of law, and that the same should be delivered by
the Union Savings Association to the Oswego township for
cancellation; and, it further appearing that bond No. 27,
referred to in the pleadings, had been appropriated by the
Union Savings Association, and was no longer in its possession, a decree was entered against it for the value of the
missing bond, subject to a deduction for the amount of compensation allowed it as custodian of the bonds. From the
final decree the present appeal is prosecuted.
The question first presented for our consideration by the
appellant is that the cause was improperly removed from the
state court to the United States Circuit Court, and that his
motion to remand the same to the state court should have
been sustained for the reason that the defendants, the Union
Savings Association and the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company, were citizens of the same State as
the plaintiff, and that the suit could not be finally disposed of
without the presence of these defendants, both of whom were
proper, if not necessary, parties.
Against this position it is urged, on behalf of the appellees,

WILSON v. OSWEGO TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

that the real controversy in the case was wholly between the
plaintiff, and the Oswego township, and C. Montague, and
could be fully determined between them without reference to
the other defendants; that the railroad company and the
Union Savings Association were, at the most, only nominal or
formal parties.
The removal in this case was had under the second section
of the act of 1875, but under which clause of that section does
not distinctly appear. The first clause of the section relates
to removals of controversies that are not separable, and in
which all the parties on one side of the suit are citizens of
different States from those on the other side, which is a necessary condition to enable the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction
of the entire suit. Under this clause, all of the plaintiffs, if
there are more than one, or all the defendants, there being
more than one, must, in order to remove the suit, unite in the
petition therefor; and it is settled by the authorities that to
enable a suit to be removed under this first clause of the section, when the ground for removal is diversity of citizenship,
the party to the suit on the one side, whether consisting of
one or more persons, must have a state citizenship different
from that of the party on the other side, whether consisting
of one or more persons; and that, for the purpose of removing
the suit, these parties may be placed "on different sides of the
matter in dispute according to the facts," so that all those on
one side will be "citizens of different States from those on the
other," and that this being done, those on either side may
remove the suit, provided that all unite in the petition therefor.
The situation of the parties in this case, in connection with
the relief sought by the petition, does not admit of placing
the parties on different sides of the matter in dispute, so that
those on one side will be citizens of different States from those
on the 6ther, for the purpose of removing the suit, unless it
can be held that both the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company, which was made a party defendant, and duly served, and the Union Savings Association,
were merely nominal, formal, and unnecessary parties, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

these corporations were citizens of the same State as the
plaintiff.
It is settled that the jurisdiction of the Federal courts will
not be defeated by the mere joinder or non-joinder of formal
parties. Trormley v. MIrmley, 8 Wheat. 421, 451.
In Tood v. Davis, IS How. 467, 470, where formal or
nominal parties were united with the real parties to the litigation, it was held that such joinder would not oust the
jurisdiction of the Federal court, if the citizenship of the real
parties was such as to confer it, but, in speaking for the court,
Mr. Justice Nelson said, in that case: "This is not a case of
a stakeholder, or the holder of a deed as an escrow, where a
trust has been created by the parties, which is sought to be
enforced by one of them. In all such cases the trustee may
be a proper party, as he has a duty to perform, and which the
court may enforce, if improperly neglected or refused."
In Bacon v. 1?ives, 106 U. S. 99, where the complainants
were citizens of the State in which the suit was originally
brought, and the defendant, the real party to the controversy,
against whom relief was sought, was a citizen of another State,
his right to remove the suit to the Circuit Court of the United
States was held not to be defeated upon the ground that
the citizenship of another defendant, who was a stranger to
that controversy, and who occupied substantially the position
of a mere garnishee, was the same as that of the complainant.
In that case, however, the relief sought was against a nonresident defendant, as the real party to the controversy. In
the present case no relief is sought against the removing
parties.
These authorities do not control in this case, for the reason
that the relief sought by the plaintiff in his bill, or petition,
was the recovery of the possession of the bonds held by the
Union Savings Association. He sought no active or affirmative relief against any other defendant to the suit.' He did
not even make the Oswego township a party defendant. By
his petition he raised no question whatever as to the validity
of the bonds or the regularity of their issue. He alleged that.
they were regularly issued by the township of Oswego to the

WILSON v. OSWEGO TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company,
and that by an arrangement between the railroad company
and C. Montague, trustee, and Edward Burgess, they were
placed in the possession of the Union Savings Association
until Burgess should complete his contract with the railroad
company, when the bonds were to be delivered to Burgess, or
his assignee. The plaintiff, as his assignee, claimed that
Burgess had complied with and completed his contract,
thereby becoming the owner of the bonds, and entitled to
their possession; and that thereafter he assigned his right,
title, and interest in the same to the plaintiff, who by his
petition only sought to recover possession of the bonds. The
Union Savings Association, being the bailee or trustee of the
bonds, was a necessary and indispensable party to the relief
sought by the petition, and that defendant, being a citizen of
the same State with the plaintiff, there was no right of removal on the part of Montague, or of the intervening defendant, the Oswego township, on the ground that the Union
Savings Association was a formal, unnecessary, or nominal
party.
Furthermore, under the allegations of the petition that the
bonds had been issued to the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern Railroad Company by the Oswego township, by
authority of law, and that it had contracted with Burgess
to pay him the bonds in question for work and labor performed and to be performed by him in the construction of its
line of railroad, the railroad company was a proper, if not a
necessary party, as it had an interest in the question whether
Burgess had performed his contract and earned the bonds.
Considering the nature of the suit and the relief sought
thereby, these defendants cannot be treated and regarded as
purely formal and unnecessary parties. The character of the
relief sought made the Union Savings Association, which
occupied the position of a bailee or trustee, a necessary and
indispensable party.
But can the removal be sustained under the second clause of
the second section of the act of 1875, on the ground that the
suit presented a separable controversy between the plaintiff
VOL. cm-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and the parties applying for and securing the removal?

We

think not. The question whether there is a separable controversy warranting a removal to the Circuit Court of the
United States must be determined by the state of the pleadings and the record of the case at the time of the application
for removal, and not by the allegations of the petition therefor, or the subsequent proceedings which may be had in the
Circuit Court. Barney v. -Latham, 103 U. S. 205.
The original petition, in the present case, filed in the state
court, and the relief sought thereunder, did not present a controversy which was wholly between citizens of different States,
or one that could be finally determined as between the plaintiff and the removing parties, without the presence of the
Union Savings Association, and could not, therefore, be
removed separately or jointly by either Montague or the town-

ship of Oswego.
The fact that the Memphis, Carthage and Northwestern
Railroad Company did not answer, but made default, is

unimportant, and placed the parties in no different position
with reference to a removal of the cause than they would
have occupied if that company had answered, and either
admitted or denied the rights of the plaintiffs. Putnam v.
Ingraham, 114 U. S. 57, 59.
The petition filed in the state court did not present several
causes of action, some of which were against the resident
defendants and others against the non-resident defendants, but
embraced a single cause of action and a single ground of
relief. It did not, therefore, come within the authorities
which allow a removal on the ground of a separable controversy such as entitled the non-resident defendants to remove the cause.
Without reviewing the authorities on the subject of removal
of causes on the ground of separable controversies, within the
meaning of the second clause of the second section of the act
of 1875, we deem it sufficient to cite the following cases as
fully sustaining the conclusion to which the court has arrived, that the pleadings in the case under consideration present no ground on which to base the right of removal. Brooks

WILSON v. OSWEGO TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Clark, 119 U. S. 502, 511; Br'own v. Trousdale, 138 U. S.
389, 396; Torrence v. Shedd, 144 U. S. 527, 530.
In this last cited case Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the
court, sums up the authorities on the subject as follows: "But
in order to justify such removal on the ground of a separate
controversy between citizens of different States there must,
by the very terms of the statute, be a controversy 'which can
be fully determined as between them;' and by the settled
construction of this section the whole subject-matter of the
suit must be capable of being finally determined as between
them, and complete relief afforded as to the separate cause of
action, without the presence of others originally made parties
to the suit."
Considering the character of the relief sought by the original
bill, and the situation of the parties, it cannot be properly said
that the whole subject-matter of the suit was capable of being
finally determined between the plaintiff, on the one side, and
Montague and the Oswego township, on the other, without
the presence of the Union Savings Association, so as to warrant the removal as a separable controversy.
The cases of Thayer v. -Life Association, 112 U. S. 717, St.
Zouis 6 San FranciscoRailway v. Wilson, 114 U. S. 60, and
Crump v. Thurber, 115 U. S. 56, are not distinguishable in
principle from the present case. In the former case the situation of the parties was substantially the same as in the case
under consideration, and it was held that the resident corporation, as the holder of the stock which the complainant
sought to have transferred to himself, was such an indispensable party as would prevent the removal of the cause from the
state to the Circuit Court.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the cause was wrongfully
removed and that the motion to remand should have been
sustained. The decree below is
Reversed with costs, and the cause 'emanded to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Pastern -Districtof
.Missouri with directions to remand the suit to the state
courtfrom which, it was originally removed.

