OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

appropriate remedy by way of damages; that the subjectmatter of the two contracts on the part of the city (one with
the Newport Light Company and the other with the Suburban Electric Illuminating, Heating and Power Company)
related to two different methods of lighting the city; and
that the latter contract was not covered by the gas contract.
This court is not called upon to review the correctness or
incorrectness of this reasoning on which the Court of Appeals
reached its conclusion that the order of the lower court was
erroneous. The judgment of the Court of Appeals, whatever
may have been the reasons assigned therefor, merely reversed
the action of the lower court, declaring that the defendants
in error were in contempt, and directed that court to discharge the rule against them.
For the foiegoing reasons we think no Federal question is
presented by the writ of error, and it is hereby

.D~zissed.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHINS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 729. Submitted January 8, 1894.-Decided February 5, 1894.

A naval officer, travelling under orders from San Francisco to New York
by way of the Isthmus of Panama, is to be considered, under the statutes
applicable to the case, as travelling under orders in the United States,
and as entitled to eight cents per mile, measured by the nearest travelled
route.

THis was a petition for mileage from the navy-yard at Mare
Island, in the harbor of San Francisco, to New York.
The Court of Claims found the following to be the facts:
(1) The claimant is an officer in the navy, to wit, a lieutenantcommander. He was serving as such on the 22d day of May,
1890, when he was ordered to proceed by steamer from San
Francisco to New York via the Isthmus of Panama, in charge
of a detachment of men.

UNITED STATES v. HUTCHINS.
Opinion of the Court.

(2) He did so proceed from San Francisco to New York, a
distance of 6186 miles, and paid his own transportation and
expenses, which were afterwards refunded to him, in the sum
of ninety-seven dollars ($97), but he was not allowed or paid
anything on account of mileage.
(3) The distance from San Francisco to New York by the
shortest usually travelled route is 3266 miles.
Upon the foregoing facts, the court held as matter of law
that claimant was entitled to recover mileage at the rate of
eight (8) cents a mile for 3266 miles, deducting therefrom the
sum of $97 paid to him for expenses; and a judgment was
accordingly rendered in his favor for the sum of $162.28, and
the United States appealed.
MIr. Assztant Attorney General Dodge and .Mr. Charles C.
Binney for appellants.
Mr.John Paul Jones, for appellee, submitted on the opinion
of the Court of Claims.
]n.JusnTic BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
By lRev. Stat. ยง 1566, "An allowance of ten cents" (subsequently reduced to eight cents, act of June 30, 1876, c. 159,
19 Stat. 65) "a mile may be made to officers in the naval
service,

.

.

.

for travelling expenses when under orders,"

but by the act of August 5, 1882, c. 391, 22 Stat. 286, "officers
of the navy travelling abroad under orders

.

.

.

shall

receive, in lieu of the mileage now allowed by law, only their
actual and reasonable expenses," etc. The same act and every subsequent navy appropriation
act provided for the travelling expenses of naval officers
under orders in the following words: "For mileage to officers
while travelling under orders in the United States, and for
actual personal expenses of officers while travelling abroad
under orders."
The sole question presented in this case is whether a naval

OCTOBER TERME, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

officer travelling under orders from San Francisco to New
York, by the way of the Isthmus of Panama, is to be considered under the acts above cited as travelling abroad, for
which he is to be entitled only to his actual expenses, or as
travelling under orders in the United States, for which he is
entitled to eight cents per mile. Why officers are allowed by
Congress mileage in one case and not in the other is not
altogether clear, but probably the view suggested by the court
below is correct, viz., that travelling at home is ordinarily for
such short distances, and the disbursements therefor are generally for such petty amounts, that to save the necessity of
the officer keeping a minute account of each outlay and the
accounting officers of the Treasury passing upon the reasonableness of every small item, it was thought better to allow
the officer a fixed mileage by the shortest travelled route,
leaving him at liberty, under certain circumstances, and where
his orders are not to proceed by a particular route, to choose
his own. For instance, if he were ordered from Boston to
New Orleans, and for his own purposes he elected to travel
by way of Chicago, it might be difficult for him to determine
what his expenses would have been if he had taken the direct
route, whereas the computation of mileage by such route would
be an easy matter.
We think the Court of Claims was correct in its conclusion
that the question whether travel is abroad or within the
United States should be determined by the termini of the
journey rather than by the route actually taken. Instances
are frequent where an officer ordered from one place to
another within the United States is obliged to perform the
whole or a substantial part of his journey either upon the high
seas or upon foreign soil. If, for example, he were ordered
from Buffalo to Detroit, or from New York to Galveston by
sea, it would be sticking in the bark to speak of either as
"travel abroad," because in one case the most direct route lies
through Canada, and in the other the voyage is made upon
the high seas. While the voyage in question was not literally
"in the United States," it was such within the intent and
spirit of the enactment. An officer is to be understood as

LEWIS V. MONSO1N.
Syllabus.

travelling abroad when he goes to a foreign port or place
under orders to proceed to that place, or from one foreign
port to another, or from a foreign port to a home port. But
where he is ordered to proceed from one place in the United
States to another, and the government for its own purpose
requires him to proceed by sea rather than by land, he ought
not thereby to be disentitled to his mileage by the nearest
travelled route. It may be conceded in this case that, if the
petitioner had been ordered to Panama, and upon arrival
there had found orders awaiting him to proceed to INew York,
he would have been entitled only to his expenses; bat where
he is ordered from San Francisco to New York by way of
Panama, he should be considered as making but a single journey, and that within the United States. Whether, if his
actual expenses in such case had exceeded his mileage by the
nearest route, he would have been entitled to such expenses, is
not presented by the record in this case, and we express no
opinion upon the point.
There was no error in the judgment of the court below, and
it is, therefore,
Affrmed.

LEWIS v. MONSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 386.

Submitted January 22, 1894.-Decided February 5,1894.

The Federal courts universally follow the rulings of the state courts in matters of local law, arising under tax laws, unless it is claimed that some
right, protected by the Federal Constitution, has been invaded.
When a person acquires tracts of land in Mississippi, designated by numbers upon an official map, which tracts are from year to year assessed
according to those numbers, and the taxes paid as assessed, and a new
official map is filed without his knowledge, with different divisions and
a different numeration, he is not bound as matter of law to take notice of
the new map; and if, after its filing, he pays his taxes under a mistake,
intending in good faith to pay all his taxes, but falls to pay on a tract by
VOL. CLi-35

