CALIFORNIA POWDER WORKS v. DAVIS.

389

Syllabus.

still more difficult to understand how the compress company,
or the fire insuranoe companies, could avail themselves of the
arrangement, even regarding it as illegal, between the agent
of the railroad company and Jones Brothers & Company.
They were not parties to it, and they were not affected by it
in any way, shape, or form.
There is nothing in the interstate commerce law which
vitiates bills of lading, or which, by reason of such allowance
to Jones Brothers & Company, if actually made, would invalidate the contract of affreightment or exempt the railroad
company from liability on its bills of lading.
The principles laid down in Interstate Oommerce Commis8'on v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 145 U. S. 263, fall far
short of establishing that the alleged allowance of rebate to
Jones Brothers & Company would render the railroad company's bills of lading invalid and defeat the right of the
marine insurance companies, who had paid the losses, to subrogation against the railroad company on bills of lading issued
*tothe owners or consignees of the cotton, who are not shown
to have known of, or consented to, the railroad company's
agent giving such rebates.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Federal questions
presented by the assignments of error were not well taken and
are not sustained, and that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of Tennessee in all of the cases mfust be

Affirmed.

CALIFORNIA POWDER WORKS v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 301. Submitted January 8,1894. -Decided

January 22,1894.

Two parties claiming title to the same land in California, each under
a Mexican grant made prior to the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and
each under a patent from the United States, one of them filed a bill in
equity against the other in a District Court in San Francisco to quiet

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
title. The cause was transferred to the Superior Court for that city and
county, and being heard there, it was decreed that the defendant's title
was procured by fraud, and the relief sought for was granted. On
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment was affirmed,
the court saying that the question of the genuineness of each original
grant was a legitimate subject of inquiry, when the issue was made by
the pleadings, and that on the evidence in the case the finding against
the genuineness of the defendant's grant would not be disturbed on
appeal. Held, that this ruling presented no Federal question for the
consideration of this court.
What is necessary to give this court jurisdiction on writ of error to the
highest court of a State again stated.
This court does not deem it necessary to examine the question raised under
the practice in California, allowing separate appeals to lie from a judgment and from an order granting or refusing a new trial.

THIs was a suit in equity brought by Isaac E. Davis, for
whom his administrator, Willis E. Davis, was duly substituted,
and Henry Cowell, against the California Powder Works in
the District Court of the Fifteenth Judicial District of California in and for the city and county of San Francisco, and
subsequently transferred to the Superior Court of said city
and county, to quiet plaintiffs' title to certain lands in Santa
Cruz County, California. Both parties claimed title under
patent from the United States; plaintiffs, through Pedro
Sainsevain, patentee of the rancho Cafiada del lincon en el
Rio San Lorenzo; defendant, through William Bocle, patentee
of the tract called La Carbonera.
The case having been heard, the Superior Court made
special findings of fact, and found as a conclusion of law that
the plaintiffs were entitled to a decree according to the prayer
of the bill.
From the findings it appeared that Sainsevain's patent was
based on a concession of July 10, 1843, the grant being duly
approved June 10, 1846; that the archives of the IMexican
government contained a full record of the proceedings; that
the claim was confirmed January 17, 1854, by the land commissioners of the United States, duly organized under acts of
Congress in that behalf, and their decree made final by the
dismissal of an appeal therefrom by the District Court of the
United States for the District of California; that a survey

CALIFORNIA POWDER WORKS v. DAVIS.

391

Statement of the Case.

was duly had, and that the patent issued June 4, 1858. As
to Boole's patent, it appeared that the grant to him bore date
February 3, 1838; that it was confirmed January 23, 1855,
and that a patent subsequently issued, (July 7', 187-3,) but it
was found that the grant had been falsely antedated, and that
it was made in the year 1848 ; that "there is not and never
has been any paper, document, writing, or entry in any book
or record in the Mexican archives pertaining to California
relating to said alleged grant or concession to said Boole; nor
is the same noted in a book called the Jimeno's Index, nor
has said purported grant any map or disefio attached to it,
nor is any such map or disefio referred to. And at the said
date, the 3d of February, 1838, said Boole was not a naturalized citizen of Mexico, but was a subject of the Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland;" that the decree of confirmation
by the land commissioners of the alleged grant to Bode was
obtained by fraud, "the said fraud consisting of the fact that
no such grant was made to said Bole for said land, and said
paper purporting to be such grant was false, simulated and
fabricated, and made after the conquest of California by the
United States from the Republic of Mexico, and in or about
the year 1848, and was fraudulently imposed upon said board
of land commissioners as valid and genuine. And the dismissal of the appeal therefrom to the United States District
Court was likewise procured by the same fraud and by the
concealment of said facts of the fabrication of said pretended
grant from the United States authorities acting in that behalf.
And said land commissioners and said authorities were each and
all ignorant of any such fraud, and of the fact that said alleged
grant was false and simulated, and were misled and deceived
by the false allegations of the said Bole in that behalf."
A decree in-plaintiffs' favor having been entered, defendant
moved for a new trial, which was denied, and an appeal was
thereupon taken to the Supreme Court of California from the
order denying said motion, by which that order and the
judgment were affirmed.
The Supreme Court of California, (84 California, 617,) ampng
other things, held: "Where both parties to an action to quiet

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

title claim the land in dispute under patents confirming Mexican
grants, thequestion of the genuineness of each original grant
is a legitimate subject of inquiry in the action, provided such
inquiry is admissible under the pleadings; and it may be shown
in such case that the grant bearing the oldest date was not
made during the term of office of the Mexican governor whose
signature it bears, and that it was fraudulently antedated.
When the evidence in such action shows that there is no
official paper appertaining to an alleged Mexican grant, nor
any record or trace thereof, which appears anywhere in the
archives of California when a part of Mexican territory, a
strong presumption arises against the genuineness of the grant,
which can only be overcome by the clearest proof of its genuineness; and when the oral testimony of witnesses, offered in
support of such genuineness, is of an inconclusive or suspicious
character, a finding against the genuineness of the grant will
not be disturbed upon appeal."
Application for a rehearing was made and overruled, and
thereupon a petition for the allowance of a writ of error from
this court was presented in which it was set forth that petitioner claimed the land in controversy under the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, and under a certain statute of the United
States entitled "An act to ascertain and settle private land
claims," approved March 3, 1851; that such lands were ceded
to the grantor of petitioner by the Republic of Mexico in 1838;
that such concession was confirmed by the government of the
United States, and a patent therefor issued to the petitioner's
grantor under the laws of the United States; that such concession and the patent thereon issued were attacked by the
bill in equity alleging that the concession was not actually
made until 1848; that on issue joined on that allegation, trial
was had and plaintiffs below secured the entry of a judgment
that theirs was the better title; that the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State of California in the cause, was
and is against a title and right claimed by petitioner under
the treaty and the statute of the United States, approved
March 3, 1851. The writ of error was allowed and the case
came on on a motion to dismiss.

CALIFORNIA POWDER WORKS v. DAVIS.

393

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. T. Britton, Mr. A. B. Browne, MIfr. J. I. MoKune,
and -Mr.W. F. George in support of the motion.
Mr. John Garber, -Mr.John ff. Boalt, and Mr. Thomas B.
Bishop opposing.

1MR. CH=EF JusTIcE FuLLR, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It is axiomatic that, in order to give this court jurisdiction
on writ of error to the highest court of a State in which a
decision in the suit could be had, it must appear affirmatively
not only that a Federal question was presented for decision by
the highest court of the State having jurisdiction, but that its
decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and
that it was actually decided or that the judgment as rendered
could not have been given without deciding it. And where
the decision complained of rests on an independent ground,
not involving a Federal question and broad enough to maintain
the judgment, the writ of error will be dismissed by this court
without considering any Federal question that may also have
been presented. .Eustisv. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361. It is equally
well settled that where our jurisdiction depends upon the denial
by a state court of a title, right, privilege, or immunity claimed
under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of the United
States, it must appear on the record that such title, right,
privilege, or immunity was specially set up or claimed at the
proper time and in the proper way, and that the decision was
against the right so set up. or claimed. Schuyler Bank v.
Bollong, 150 U. S. 85, 88. We cannot find that the title or
right referred to in argument was specially set up or claimed
prior to its assertion in the petition for the writ of error,
which forms no part of the record of the court below. Clark?
v. Pennsylvania,128 U. S. 395.
But such special claim, if duly made, would have been
unavailing, as the judgment rested upon the proposition that
the grant under which the plaintiff in error deraigned title
was simulated, and this was a ground sufficient to sustain it

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

involving no Federal question. The parties claimed under
separate private land claims, originating, as alleged, under the
Republic of Mexico, and separately confirmed, surveyed, and
patented by the authorized officers of the United States.
The eighth article of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo,
9 Stat. 922, 929, provided: "In the said territories, property
of every kind, now belonging to Mexicans not established
there, shall be inviolably respected. The present owners, the
heirs of these, and all Mexicans who may hereafter acquire
said property by contract, shall enjoy with respect to it guaranties equally ample as if the same belonged to citizens of the
United States."
Upon the acquisition of the country, the rights of the
inhabitants to their property were retained, and they were
entitled by the law of nations to protection in them to the
same extent as under the former government, which protection the treaty also secured. As remarked by Mr. Justice
Field in Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478, 492, "the obligation,
to which the United States thus succeeded, was of course
political in its character, and to be discharged in such a manner and on such terms as they might judge expedient. By
the act of March 3, 1851, c. 41, they have declared the manner and the terms on which they will discharge this obligation." This act created a special tribunal for the investigation
of claims to land and the determination of their validity as
respected the United States. 9 Stat. 631, 634. By section
fifteen it was enacted: "That the final decrees rendered by
the said commissioners, or by the District or Supreme Court
of the United States, or any patent to be issued under this act,
shall be conclusive between the United States and the said
claimants only, and shall not affect the interests of third
persons."
While the confirmation of these claims might be conclusive
as against the United States and those claiming under them,
such confirmation and patent could have no effect upon the
interests of third persons in respect of grants to them from
the former sovereign.
The state courts were open for the
determination between individuals of the priority or validity

CALIFORNIA POWDER WORKS v. DAVIS.

395

Opinion of the Court.

of conflicting titles under different grants from the same antecedent source, and the issue as to whether one of the two grants
was forged or obtained by fraud did not involve the denial of
a right or title set up under the treaty or the statute. The
treaty extended no protection to a fraudulent claim, nor did
proceedings under the statute to which each was respectively
not a party or privy determine any such question as between
these private parties, neither of whom claimed under the
United States by title subsequent, but both of whom claimed
under patents based upon Mexican grants. Lynch v. Bernal,
9 Wall. 315, 323. The case was the ordinary one of a contest
in respect of a forged or fraudulent deed. In Phillips v.
Mound City Association, 124 U. S. 605, 610, it was ruled that
the adjudication by the highest court of a State that certain
proceedings before a Mexican tribunal, prior to the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, was insufficient to affect the partition of
a tract of land before that time granted by the Mexican government, which grant was confirmed under the act of March
3, 1851, presented no Federal question; and Mr. Chief Justice
Waite, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "Article
VII of the treaty protected all existing property rights
within the limits of the ceded territory, but it neither created
the rights nor defined them. Their existence was not made to
depend on the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United
States. There was nothing done but to provide that if they
did in fact exist under Mexican law, or by reason of the action
of Mexican authorities, they should be protected. Neither
was any provision made as to the way of determining their
existence. All that was left by implication to the ordinary
judicial tribunals. Any court, whether state or national, having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject-matter of
the action, was free to act in the premises." The case is in
point and is decisive.
artin v. HTunter, 1 Wheat. 304, is not
to the contrary, for there the plaintiff claimed under the treaty
of 1783, and the state court decided against the title thus
set up.
We have not deemed it necessary to examine the question
raised under the practice in California allowing separate

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

appeals to lie from a judgment and from an ordergranting
or refusing a new trial, and for the purposes of this case have
treated the judgment of the Supreme Court, which not only
affirmed the order of the Superior Court overruling the motion,
but the judgment as well, as the last and final judgment in
affirmance of a final decree in equity in the court below.
Wpit of error dimissed.

POINTER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT CO RT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 759. Submitted October 19, 1893.- Decided January 22, 1894.
The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 1024, that "when there are several charges
against any person for the same act or transaction, or for two or more
acts or transactions connected together, or for two or more acts or
transactions of the same class of crimes or offences, which may be
properly joined, instead of having several indictments, the whole may
be joined in one indictment, in separate counts; and if two or more
indictments are joined in such cases, the court may order them to be
consolidated," leaves the court to determine whether, in a given case,
a joinder of two or more offences in one indictment is consistent with
settled principles of criminal law, and also free to compel the prosecution to elect under which count it will proceed, when it appears from the
indictment or from the evidence, that the prisoner may be embarrassed
in his defence, if that course be not pursued.
When an indictment contains two counts charging the commission of two
murders, committed on the same day, in the same county and district,
and with the same kind of instrument, the court is justified in forbearing
at the beginning of the trial, and before the disclosure of the facts, to
compel an election by the prosecutor between the two charges.
When, in the case of such joinder, it is developed in the course of the trial
that the accused was not confounded in his defence by the union of the
two offences in the same indictment, and that his substantial rights will
not be prejudiced by the refusal of the court to compel the prosecutor
to elect upon which of the two he will proceed, the court is justified in
such refusal.
All the panel of jurors were examined as to their qualifications, and thirtyseven were found not liable to objection for cause. The defendant was

