OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

such a defence, either expressly or by failing to plead the
statute, but the government has not expressly or by implication conferred authority upon any of its officers to waive the
linitation imposed by the statute upon suits against the United
States in the Court of Claims." Finn v. United States, 123
U. S. 227, 232, 233.
The claimant cannot avail himself of the saving clause in
the statute suspending its operation in favor of idiots, lunatics,
insane persons, and persons beyond the seas, because such
suspension is only in favor of those laboring under the specified
disabilities at the time the claim accrued; and it is conceded
that plaintiff's mental incapacity did not begin until after his
°
claim bad accrued.
Nor can it be successfully claimed that a disability subsequently arising would suspend the operation of the statute.
See Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 647, and cases therein
cited.
In no view that we can take of this case can we find any
just foundation for a claim against the government, and the
judgment of the court below, dismissing the claimant's petition,
is accordingly
fflrmed.

_________

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG AND SAN ANTONIO
IRAILWAY COMPANY v. GONZALES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 158. Argued December 11, 1893. -Decided

January 29, 1894.

A domestic corporation, incorporated under the laws of Texas, a State
divided into more than one Federal district, is, under the State law, and
the Federal laws as to the bringing of suits and actions in Federal courts,
a citizen and inhabitant of that district in the State within which the
general business of the corporation is done, and where It has its headquarters and general offices.
A railway company, incorporated under the laws.of Texas in which there
is more than one Federal district, and having its headquarters and prin-

GALVESTON &C. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

497

Statement of the Case.
cipal offices in one of those districts, is an inhabitant of that district, and
cannot be said to be an inhabitant of the other Federal district in the
State, although it operates its line of railroad through it, and maintains
freight and ticket offices and stations in it.
If an alien desires to commence an action or bring a suit against a citizen
of the United States, he must resort to the domicil of the defendant in
order to bring it.
In re Hohorst, 150 U. S. 653, distinguished from this case.
Southern Pacific Company v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, and Mfexican Central
Railway v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194, followed in holding that a statute of a
State which makes an appearance in behalf of a defendant, although in
terms limited to the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction of the court,
a waiver of immunity from jurisdiction by reason of non-residence, is not
applicable, under Rev. Stat. § 914, to actions in a Circuit Court of the
United States held within the State.

Tais was an action at law instituted in the Circuit Court for
the Western District of Texas at El Paso by the defendant in
error, Victor Gonzales, alleged to be "a citizen of the State of
Chihuahua, in the Republic of Mexico," against the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company, to recover damages to the amount of $4999 for personal injuries.
Th6epetition alleged the plaintiff to be "a citizen of the State
of Chihuahua, in the Republic of Mexico, and that the defendant is a corporation duly incorporated under the laws of the
State of Texas and is a citizen thereof, operating and running
cars on the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio railway
track from the city of Houston to the city of El Paso in the
State of Texas, and is a common carrier of freight and passengers for hire, . . . and has and keeps an office and an
agent in the said city of El Paso, Texas, for the transaction of
its business, with W. E. Jesup as its local agent in said El
Paso." The petition further alleged that "on and prior to
the 29th day of July, 1889, and ever since that time, the defendant has been engaged in propelling trains and cars on said
railway track for the transportation of freight and passengers
for hire, as aforesaid, from the city of Houston, in the State of
Texas, into and through the county of Jeff Davis, in said
State, and through the county of El Paso into the city of El
Paso, Texas." The petition further alleged as the cause of
plaintiff's action that after having paid his fare to an agent
VOL. cLi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

of the defendant, and entered as a passenger on its train from
Valentine station to El Paso, he was forcibly and violently
ejected from the train while moving at the rate of fifteen miles
an hour, thereby causing him to fall to the ground with such
force that his leg was broken, and he was thereby crippled for
life; for which he prayed judgment in the sum of $4999.
Defendant appeared specially for the purpose of objecting
to the jurisdiction of the court, and pleaded in abatement
"that nevertheless, while it admits that defendant operates a
line of railway through the county where this suit is pending,
and maintains a ticket and freight office and depot, and has an
agent on whom process, under the laws of Texas, may be
served there, the said defendant is not an inhabitant of the
judicial district in which the suit is pending; that it is a corporation duly incorporated and existing under the laws of
Texas, having its principal office, habitat, and domicil in the
city of Houston, Harris County, Texas, and beyond and not
within this judicial district, but within the Eastern District of
Texas." Wherefore the defendant prayed judgment whether
the court had jurisdiction, etc.
Plaintiff demurred to this plea, setting up that the defendant
was an inhabitant of the Eastern District of Texas.
The case came on to be heard upon this plea in abatement
and demurrer, and the court, being of the opinion that the
law was for the plaintiff, and that the court had jurisdiction,
sustained the demurrer, proceeded to a trial of the case upon
the merits, and submitted it to a jury, who rendered a verdict
for the plaintiff in the sum of $900.
Defendant sued out this writ of error under the authority
of the act of February 25, 1889, c. 236, 25 Stat. 693, authorizing this court to review questions of jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court without reference to amount.
Mr. J. Hubley Ashton, (with whom was MT. CharZes Hf.
Tweed on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

499

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTIcE BRowN',
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

This case raises the question whether a railway company,
incorporated under the laws of a certain State, and having its
principal offices within one district of such State, can be said
to be an inhabitant of another district of the same State,
through which it operates its line of road and in which it
maintains freight and ticket offices and depots.
We have no doubt of our authority under the act of February 25, 1889, to review the decision of the court below
sustaining its jurisdiction over the case; and we have already
held that the provision of the Texas statute which gives to
a special appearance, made to challenge the court's jurisdiction,
the force and effect of a general appearance, so as to confer
jurisdiction over the person of the defendant, is not binding
upon the Federal courts in that State. Souhern Pacific
Railway v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202; Mlexican Central Railway
v. Pinhkney, 149 U. S. 194.
By section 1 of the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat.
433, revising the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, it is enacted
that "no civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts
against any person by any original process or proceeding in
any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, but
where the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the
action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be
brought only in the district of the residence of either the
plaintiff or the defendant;" and by Rev. Stat. § '740, "when
a State contains more than one district, every suit not of a
local nature, in the Circuit or District Courts thereof, against
a single defendant, inhabitant of such State, must be brought
in the district where he resides." The above provision of the
act of 1888 is manifestly a restriction upon the jurisdiction
conferred by the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470,
which contained a similar provision, but with the additional
privilege of bringing such suit within any district "in which
he," the defendant, "shall be found at the time of serving
such process or commencing such proceeding."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

It will be noticed that in this as well as in prior acts regulating the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, a distinction is
made between citizens of States and inhabitants of districts.
This distinction has been carefully observed in all the principal
adjudications upon the construction of these statutes, and, for
the purpose of determining the habitancy of a railway corporation, it is pertinent to refer to some of these cases. In one
of the earliest, viz., Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason, 35, 46, a suit
was begun by trustee process or writ of garnishment sued out
by an alien against a defendant, described as "now commorant
of the city of Paris in the kingdom of France, of the city of
Boston in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, one of the
United States of America, and a citizen of the said United
States." The process was served by the attachment of a lot
of land in Boston belonging to the defendant, and by summoning his agent to appear and show cause. The defendant
never appeared as a party to the suit; and it was contended
that the plaintiff was entitled to consider him in default, and
to have judgment. It was held, however, by Mr. Justice
Story, that where a party defendant was a citizen of the
United States, but resident in a foreign country, having no
inhabitancy in any State of the Union, the Circuit Courts had
no jurisdiction over him in a suit brought by an alien, though
his property were attached in the district. The case involved
the construction of that clause of the eleventh section of the
Judiciary Act of September 21, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. '73, 78, which
provided that "no civil suit shall be brought before either of
said courts against an inhabitant of the United States, by any
original process in any other district than that whereof he is
an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of
serving the writ." It will be noticed that the words used are
"inhabitant of the United States," not "inhabitant of a district," and, in speaking of these words, Mr. Justice Story said:
"I lay no particular stress upon the word 'inhabitant,' and
deem it a mere equivalent description of ' citizen' and 'alien'
in the general clause conferring jurisdiction over parties."
That he meant the word "inhabitant" as "inhabitant of the
United States" is evident from what follows: "A person

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

501

Opinion of the Court.

might be an inhabitant, without being a citizen; and a citizen
might not be an inhabitant, though he retain his citizenship.
Alienage or citizenship is one thing; and inhabitancy, by.
which I understand local residence, animo manendi, quite
another. I read, then, the clause thus: 'INo civil suit shall
be brought before either of said courts against an alien or a
citizen, by any original process, in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found, at
the time of serving the writ.' It cannot be presumed that
Congress meant to say, that if an alien or a citizen were not
an inhabitant of, or commorant in, the United States, a suit
might be maintained against him in any district, and process
served abroad upon him, or judgment given against him
without any notice or process served upon him." There is
nothing here which indicates that Mr. Justice Story confounded
citizenship of a State with inhabitancy of a district.
In Shaw v. Quincy .Xining Company, 145 U. S. 444, a citizen of Massachusetts sought to maintain a bill in equity in the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York against
the Quincy Mining Company, a corporation organized under the
laws of Michigan, and having a usual place of business in
the city of New York, and the question arose whether the
court had jurisdiction over such a suit. It was held that it
did not. In the opinion of the court it was said that the word
"inhabitant" in the act of 1789 was apparently used, not in
any larger meaning than "citizen," but to avoid the incongruity of speaking of a citizen of anything less than a State,
when the intention was to cover not only a district which included a whole State, but also two districts in one State.
In construing the acts of 1887 and 1888 it was held that
they could not be considered as giving jurisdiction to a Circuit
Court held in a State of which neither party was a citizen,
and that "in the case of a corporation, the reasons are, to say
the least, quite as strong for holding that it can sue and be
sued only in the State and district in which it has been incorporated, or in the State of which the other party is a citizen."
It was further held that the domicil, the home, the habitat,
the residence, the citizenship of a corporation, could only be in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the State by which it was created, although it might do business in other States whose laws permitted it; and it was finally
decided that under these acts of Congress "a corporation incorporated in one State only, cannot be compelled to answer,
in a Circuit Court of the United States held in another State
in which it has a usual place of business, to a civil suit, at law
or in equity, brought by a citizen of a different State."
In the Souther, Pacific Company v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202,
it was further held that a citizen of Texas, and a resident of
the Eastern District of Texas, could not maintain a suit in the
Western District of Texas against a railroad incorporated
under the laws of the State of Kentucky. It was said to have
been long settled that an allegation that a party is a "resident"
does not show that he is a "citizen" within the meaning of
the Judiciary Acts, and to hold otherwise in this case would be
to construe the petition as alleging that the defendant was a
citizen of the same State as the plaintiff, and thus utterly defeat the jurisdiction. The case was held to be covered by the
decision in the case of Shaw v. Quincy Mining Company. It
was contended that the railroad company had consented to be
sued in the Western District of Texas by doing business and
appointing an agent there, under a statute requiring foreign
corporations desiring to transact business in Texas to file with
the Secretary of State a certified copy of its articles of incorporation, and authorizing service of process to be made upon
any of its officers and agents engaged in transacting its business. This act also forfeited any permit issued to a foreign
corporation to transact business which should remove a case
into a Federal court on account of its non-residency. It was
held, however, that this statute requiring a corporation to surrender a right and privilege secured to it by the Constitution
and laws of the United States was unconstitutional and void,
and could give no validity or effect to any agreement made by
the corporation in obedience to its provisions. The ruling in
this case was that the plaintiff should have brought his suit
either in Kentucky, of which defendant was a citizen, or in the
Eastern District of Texas, of which he, the plaintiff, was a
resident; and the fact that the defendant was operating a road

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

503

Opinion of the Court.

-

and doing business and having agents in the Western District
of Texas was insufficient to authorize a suit to be begun
against it there, in the Federal court, although under the laws
of the State such action might have been maintained.
In the Case qf ltohorst, 150 U. S. 653, decided at the present
term, it was held that the clause in question, that no civil suit
should be brought against any person in any other district
than that whereof he was an inhabitant, was manifestly inapplicable to a suit brought by a citizen of one of the United
States against an alien, and that the words of the provision
evidently looked to those persons, and those persons only, who
were inhabitants of some district within the United States.
"Their object is to distribute among the particular districts
the general jurisdiction fully and clearly granted in the early
part of the same section; and not to wholly annul or defeat
that jurisdiction over any case comprehended in the grant.
To construe the provision as applicable to all suits between a
citizen and an alien would leave the courts of the United States
open to aliens against citizens, and close them to citizens
against aliens. Such a construction is not required by the
language of the provision, and would be inconsistent with the
general intent of the section as a whole." And hence that an
alien or foreign corporation might be sued by a citizen of a
State in any district in which valid service could be made
upon the defendant. It was further held that a service upon
the financial agent of a foreign corporation in the city of New
York was a sufficient service upon the corporation.
Neither this case nor any other to which our attention has
been called makes any distinction between cases where citizens
and aliens are plaintifs, though in Hohorst's case, to prevent a
manifest failure of justice, in the inability to sue any foreign
corporation whatever, it was held that where an alien corporation was defendant, it might be sued in any district wherein
it might be found. These cases must be regarded as establishing the doctrine that a domestic corporation is both a citizen
and an inhabitant of the State in which it is incorporated; but
in none of them is there any intimation that, where a State is
divided into two districts, a corporation shall be treated as an

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

inhabitant of every district of such State, or of every district
in which it does business, or, indeed, of any district other
than that in which it has its headquarters, or such offices as
answer in the case of a corporation to the dwelling of an individual.
We are, therefore, compelled to determine the question of
the domicil of a corporation either by a resort to general
principles of law, or to local statutes fixing such domicil. An
individual is almost universally held to be an inhabitant of the
place in which he dwells, and though he do business for a long
time in another place, he will not be regarded as changing
his domicil so long as the animnus 'evertencdi continues. Thus
in Jopp v. Wood, 34 Beavan, 88; S. C. 4 De G., J. & S. 616,
it was held that-a Scotchman engaged in business in India for
twenty-five years did not thereby change his domicil. And in
In Pe Caydevielle, 2 H. & C. 985, it was similarly held with
regard to a Frenchman who had resided and engaged in business in England for twenty-nine years. In the case of a
corporation the question of inhabitancy must be determined,
not by the residence of any particular officer, but by the
principal offices of the corporation, where its books are kept
and its corporate business is transacted, even though it may
transact its most important business in another place. It is
but a corollary of the proposition laid down in the three cases
above referred to, that if the corporation be created by the
laws of a State in which there are two judicial districts, it
should be considered an inhabitant of that district in-which its
general offices are situated, and in which its general business,
as distinguished from its local business, is done.
If there were any doubt upon this subject, it would be
removed by reference to the following provisions of the Texas
statutes upon the domicil of railway corporations:
"ART. 4115. Every railroad corporation shall have and maintain apublic qifice at some place upon the line of its road in
this State. (Const. Art. 10, sec. 3; Act August 15, 1876.)
"14115a. SEC. 1. Every railroad or other corporation organ- "
ized or doing business in this State under the laws or authority
thereof, shall have and maintain a public office in the locality

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

505

Opinion of the Court.

where its principal business is carried on in this State for the
transaction of its business, where transfers of stock shall be
made, where the auditor, treasurer, general traffic manager,
and general superintendent of such roads, or where an agent
of such corporation, duly authorized to adjust and settle all
claims against such corporation for damages, shall have their
respective offices, and where shall be kept for the inspection
of stockholders of such corporation books in which shall be
recorded:
"1st. The amount of capital stock subscribed;
"2d. The names of the owners of the stock, and the amounts
owned by them respectively;
"6th. The names and places of residence of each of its
officers; provided, that a railroad corporation shall be required
to keep such office at some place on the line of its road in this
State."
"ART. 4116. All meetings of stockholders and directors of
such corporation shall be held at such public office, and all
transfers of stQck in such corporation shall be made at such
office, and the general business of such corporation shall be
transacted at such office."
"A.T.4118. Every railroad corporation may change at its
pleasure its public office by publishing a notice of such change
in some newspaper published on the line of its road, if any
there be, and if not, then in some newspaper in the State, and
having a general circulation in the State, for four successive
weeks prior to such change.
"ART. 4119. Every railroad corporation shall, also, as soon
as it has in the first instance established its public office, give
notice of such establishment by a like publication, as required
in the preceding article.
"AnT. 4120. The public office of a railroad corporation
shall be considered the domicil of such corporation." (2 Sayles'
Texas Civil Statutes, articles 4115, 4116, 4118, 4120.)
Language stronger than that used in the last article could
scarcely have been chosen to express the idea that a railway.
corporation should be considered an inhabitant of the place in
which its public office is located, and of no other. It is true

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that article 1195 provides that "suits against a railroad corporation, or against any assignee, trustee, or receiver operating
its railway, may be brought in any county through or into
which the railway of such corporation extends or is operated;"
but it is manifest that, so far as the Federal courts are concerned, this provision is subordinate to the first section of the
act of 1888, requiring civil suits to be brought within the district of which the defendant is an inhabitant. There are
doubtless reasons of convenience for saying that a corporation
should be considered an inhabitant of every district in which
it does business, and so the statutes of the several States
generally provide; but the law contemplates that every person or corporation shall have but one domicil, and in the
case of the latter, it shall be in that State by whose laws it
was created, and in that district where its general offices are
located.
This court having held, in the cases heretofore referred to,
that a corporation cannot be considered an inhabitant of any
State in which it is not incorporated, by reason of the fact
that it does business, or in the case of a railroad, that it runs
its road through such State, it would seem inconsistent to hold
that it is an inhabitant of a district by reason of the same
facts, unless the distinction between citizenship and inhabitancy is to be wholly abolished. As said by Mr. Justice Story
in Picquet v. Swan, alienage or citizenship is one thing, and
inhabitancy quite another. In the Constitution and laws of
the United States citizenship is affirmed of a State, or of the
United States; inhabitancy may be affirmed either of the
United States, a State, or a subordinate locality. Nor in our
view does it make any difference that the plaint&i is an alien
instead of a citizen. The provision that no civil suit shall be
brought against any person in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, is of universal application, except,
that, if the plaintiff be also a citizen, he may bring it in his
own district, if he can obtain service upon the defendant in
that district. The purpose of this is, that the plaintiff may
have the same advantage of litigation in his own district that
the defendant has. An alien, however, is assumed not to re-

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

507

Opinion of the Court.

side in the United States, and hence must resort to the domicil
of the defendant. On the other hand, if the suit be against
the alien, he may doubtless, under -Hohorst'sease, be sued in
any district wherein he is found. It was not meant or intimated, however, in that case that the clause in question had
no application to cases where an alien was plaintiff, but only
where he was defendant.
On the contrary, both the decision and the reasoning in
that case were carefully limited to a suit brought by a citizen
againstan alien. At the conclusion of the discussion of that
question, the point decided was stated to be "that the provision of the existing statute, which prohibits suit to be brought
against any person 'in any other district than that whereof
he is an inhabitant,' is inapplicable to an alien or a foreign
corporation sued here, and especially in a suit for the infringeinent of a patent right; and that, consequently, such a person
or corporation may be sued by a citizen of a State of the
Union in any district in which valid service can be made upon
the defendant." The provision in terms relates to defendants
only; and the reasoning that it could not include an alien
defendant, because he was not an inhabitant of any district
in the United States, has no application to a defendant citizen,
who is confessedly and necessarily an inhabitant of some one
of those districts.
Irrespective of any statute, such as that of Texas above referred to, the rulings of the state courts generally favor the
position that a corporation can only be considered as resident
in the jurisdiction in which its principal offices are located,
though it may run a railway and have local agents in other
jurisdictions. Thus in Thorn v. Central Railroad Company,
2 Dutcher, (26 N. J. Law,) 121, 123, it was held that in a suit
brought against a railroad corporation the venue should be
laid in the county where its principal office was located, that
being considered its place of residence within the meaning of
the statutes. In that case the corporation ran its railway and
exercised its franchises both in Essex County and Somerset
County, but its principal office was in the former, while the
suit was brought in the latter; and upon a motion to change

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the venue the court held that the corporation must be deemed
to be a resident of Essex County, and the venue should be
changed to that county. "The only question," said the court,
"is whether a railroad corporation can be said to reside,within
the meaning of the act of the legislature, in as many counties.
as it happens to traverse with its road, or whether, if it can be
properly said to have any residence, that residence is not to
be taken to be in the county where it keeps its principal office
of business. . . . The course of legislation on the subject
of corporations would indicate that they are to be considered
as having a residence where their office or place of business is
located."
In the case of the Connecticut & Passumpsic Rivers Railroad Co. v. Cooper, 30 Vermont, 476, it was declared that,
where a corporation is not located by the terms of its charter,
its residence and location are regarded as being in the place
where it keeps its principal office and does its corporate business. The fact that the railway ran through another county
was regarded as unimportant and not constituting a residence
of the corporation. In the case of the Western Transportation Company v. Scheu, 19 N. Y. 408, a corporation organized
to navigate the lakes was declared to have its domicil, for the
purposes of taxation, in the city or town in which the principal office for managing the affairs of the company was located,
as evidenced by its certificate of organization, although it had
an office elsewhere, employing the services of twenty times asmany agents, and where a much larger proportion of its
moneys was received and disbursed, and where its principal
officers resided during the business season. See also Pelton v.
Transportation Co., 37 Ohio St. 450; Jenkins v. California
Stage Co., 22 California, 537; Sangamon & iMorgan RailroadT
v. .Morgan Co., 14 Illinois, 163; and to the contrary, Sherwood
v. Saratoga& Washington Railroad, 15 Barb. 650; Bristol v.
Chicago & Aurora Railroad Co., 15 Illinois, 436; Slavens v.
South Pacift Railroad, 51 Missouri, 308.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded for furtherproceedingsin
conformity to this opinion.

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.
Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.
MR. JUSTICE JAcKsoN,

with whom concurred Mr.

JUSTIcE

HL
&nN, dissenting.
I cannot concur in the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case. The jurisdictional averments set out in the petition
are that the plaintiff below was a citizen of the State of
Chihuahua, in the Republic of Mexico, and that the defendant
was a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State
of Texas, and was a citizen thereof, with its railway, on which
its cars were run and operated, extending from the city of
Houston to the city of El Paso, in that State. These averments brought the case directly within the fifth class of civil
suits described in the first section of the acts of March 3, 1887,
c. 373, 2-4 Stat. 552, and August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433,
of "a controversy between citizens of a State and foreign
States, citizens, or subjects," the matter in dispute being in
excess of $2000, exclusive of interest and costs.
The defendant appeared specially and interposed the following plea in abatement:
"That, nevertheless, while it admits that the defendant
opdrates a line of railroad through the county where this suit
is pending, and maintains a ticket and freight office and depot,
and has an agent on whom process, under the law of Texas,
may be served there, the said defendant is not an inhabitant
of the judicial district in which the suit is pending; that it is a
corporation duly incorporated and existing under the laws of
Texas, having its principal office, habitat, and domicil in the
city of Houston, Harris County, Texas, and beyond and not
within this judicial district, but within the Eastern District of
Texas."
This presents the question whether the fact that the defendant's principal office is located at Houston in the Eastern
District of Texas prevents the railway company from being
sued by an alien in the United States Circuit Court for the
Western District of that State, held at El Paso, the western
terminus of the railroad. The opinion of the court answers
this question affirmatively, upon the ground that the location
of the company's principal office fixes the domicil or residence

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, J.

of the corporation, so that it cannot be treated or regarded as
an inhabitant of any other district in the State of its creation,
although by the laws of that State it is liable and subject to
be sued in every county through which its lines extend.
This conclusion is rested upon the doctrine announced in
Shaw v. Quincy JkMining Co., 145 U. S. 444, and Southern
Pacic 0o. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, that a corporation, incorporated in one State only and doing business in another
State, was not an inhabitant of the latter within the meaning
of the Judiciary Acts, and liable to be sued in the Circuit
Courts of the United States held therein, if objection is properly made.
The present case is clearly distinguishable from these authorities in two respects: first, that the defendant corporation
is a citizen of the State of Texas in which it is sued; and,
second, that the parties to the controversy are not citizens of
different States of the Union, as was the case in those decisions.
In other words, Shaw v. Quincy Xining Co., 145 U. S.444,
and Southern Pacic Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S.202, dealt with
cases where the controversy was between citizens of different
States, while the present case involves a controversy between
an alien and a citizen, and presents the question whether the
citizenship of the defendant corporation is coextensive with
the line of its road, and the actual exercise of its franchise
within the State of its creation, or is limited and restricted to
the place where its chief office is located.
Neither the plea in abatement nor the opinion of the court
question the fact that the railway company was and is a citizen of the State of Texas, for purposes of Federal jurisdiction
at the suit of an alien, but the opinion, in effect, if not in
express terms, restricts and confines that citizenship to the
county or place in which the principal office of the company
is located. There are two serious objections to this conclusion
of the court. First, there is no warrant for giving the railway
company a domicil or residence confined to one of its termini
in the State of its creation; and, second, the present case is
not controlled by that provision of the Judiciary Acts of 1887
and 1888, which provide that "where the jurisdiction is

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

511

Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

founded only on the fact that the action is between citizens of
different States, suits shall be brought only in the district of
the residence of either the plaintiff or defendant."
In respect to the first objection: While the statute of Texas,
Art. 4120, referred to in the opinion, provides that the principal office of a railway company shall be considered the
domicil of such corporation, it is also provided by article 1198,
subdivision 21, that suits against any private corporation may
be commenced in any county where the cause of action ai~ose,
or in which such corporation has an agent or representative,
and that "suits against a railroad corporation may also be
brought- in any county through or into which its railroad
extends."
In St. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. T'raweek, 84
Texas, 65, the Supreme Court of Texas, in considering this
provision of the Revised Statutes, held that a railway company was a private corporation, within the meaning of the
act, and that it could be sued in any county through which
the road extended, or in which it had an agent for the transaction of its business, thus extending the residence of the corporation and its liability to be sued beyond the place of its
principal office.
In Bristol v. Chicago andAurora Railroad,15 Illinois, 436,
437, it was held that "the residence.of a corporation, if it can
be said to have a residence, is necessarily where it exercises
corporate functions. It dwells in the place where its business
is done. It is located where its franchises are exercised. It
is present where it is engaged in the prosecution of the corporate enterprise. This corporation has a legal residence in
any county in which it operates the road or exercises corporate
powers and privileges. In legal contemplation, it resides in
the counties through which its road passes, and in which it
transacts its business."

The same principle was announced in Slavens v. South Pacifo Railroad, 51 Missouri, 308, 310, where it was held that

"a residence of a railroad corporation is in any county through
, which its line of road passes, and in which it has an agent
upon whom process can be served."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

So, in Locomotive Safety Truck Co. v. Erie Railway, 10
Blatchford, 292, 306, it was held that a corporation, if it can
be properly said to reside at all, resides in all of the districts
of the State creating it, and that the legal existence of the
defendant railroad company under its incorporation by the
State of New York was coextensive with the territorial limits
of that State.
In Davis v. Central Railroad and panking Co., 17 Georgia,
323, the same question was presented in a somewhat different
form. The constitution of Georgia provided that "the inferior courts shall have also concurrent jurisdiction in all civil
cases, excepting cases respecting titles to lands, which shall be
tried in the county where the defendant resides." By an act
passed in 1854, railroad companies of the State were subject
to suit in the counties in which injuries to stock, etc., may
have been committed. The plaintiff in that case, under this
act of 1854, sued the railroad company in the county in which
the injury was committed, and the railroad company filed a
plea to the jurisdiction, on the ground that the corporation
had its principal office and residence in a different county, and
was not, therefore, under the constitution, suable in any other
county. But, after a full consideration of the question, the
Supreme Court of Georgia held that the railroad company
was a resident of every county through which its line of railroad extended.
The statute of Texas, however, even if it gave to the defendant
corporation in this case a residence confined to the locality of
its principal office, does not control the question here presented.
The opinion proceeds upon the theory that the question of
jurisdiction depends upon the residence of the defendant corporation, and is controlled by the first section of the act of
1887, providing that "where the jurisdiction is founded only
on the fact that the action is between citizens of different
States, suits shall be brought only in the district of the
residence of either the plaintiff or defendant."
This, however, is a misapprehension of the statute. That
clause of the act relates alone to suits between citizens of
different States of the Union, and has no application to a case

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

513

Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

like the present, where the suit is between an alien and a
citizen. Suits of the latter character are controlled by the
previous portion of the section, as this court has declared in
one or more cases.
Thus in -cCormick v. TFalthers, 13 U. S. 41, 43, where
the court had under consideration that portion of the first
section of the acts of 1887 and 1888 which provides, "but no
person shall be arrested in one district for trial in another in
any .civil action before a Circuit or District Court; and no
civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts against
any person by any original process or proceeding in any other
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, but where the
jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is
between citizens of different States suit shall be brought only
in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the
defendant," gave to the provision the following construction:
"The jurisdiction common to all the Circuit Courts of the
United States in respect to the subject-matter of the suit and
the character of the parties who might sustain suits in those
courts, is described in the section, while the foregoing clause
relates to the district in which a suit may be originally brought.
Where the jurisdiction is founded upon any of the causes mentioned in this section, except the citizenship of the parties, it
must be brought in the district of which the defendant is an
inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded solely upon
the fact that the parties are citizens of different States, the
suit may be brought in the district in which either the plaintiff
or the defendant resides."
This construction, thus placed upon these clauses of the act,
was recognized and reaffirmed in Shaw v. Quincy Xining Co.,
145 U. S.444.
In the recent case In re L'ohoret, 150 U. S.653, where the
suit was between a citizen and a foreign corporation, (decided
at the present term of this court,) it was expressly held that
of the two provisions above quoted, "the latter relates only to
suits between citizens of different States of the Union, and is,
therefore, manifestly inapplicable to a suit brought by a citizen
of one of these States against an alien; and the former of
VOL. cx-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

these two cannot reasonably be construed to apply to such a
suit." In that case jurisdiction was maintained against the
foreign corporation, which was brought before the court by
service upon a resident agent of the State of :New York.
Following the provision of the Constitution in reference to
the extent of the judicial power of the Federal courts, the acts
of 1887 and 1888 conferred upon the Circuit Courts of the
United States original cognizance, concurrent with the courts
of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature at common
law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive
of interest and costs, the sum or value of $2000 in certain
enumerated cases, the fifth class of such cases being "a controversy between citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens, or subjects." This jurisdiction, based upon the alienage
of one party and the citizenship of the other, was not intended
to be restricted by the subsequent provisions of the act above
referred to. This is clearly announced in the Hohorst case,
which went so far as to declare that the subsequent provision
of the statute, providing that "no civil suit shall be brought
before either of said courts against any person by any original
process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof
he is an inhabitant," had no application to a suit between a
citizen and an alien.
It cannot be doubted that the first section of the acts of
1887 and 1888, standing alone, gave jurisdiction to the Circuit
Courts of a controversy between a citizen of a State and an
alien, and that such jurisdiction may be exercised whether the
suit is by or against any alien in any Circuit Court of the
United States, sitting in any district thereof, before which
the defendant may be legally brought by service or process.
Jurisdiction of the pending suit of an alien against the Texas
railroad corporation cannot be. restricted by the laws of Texas
to the Circuit Court of the district in which the defendant's
principal office is located, unless the last clause of section one,
referring to suits between citizens of different States of the
Union, is applicable to such a case. But, as already shown,
that clause is not applicable, because it has reference only to
suits between citizens of different States of the Union.

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

515

Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

The reasoning on which the opinion in the present case
proceeds cannot be reconciled with the ffohorst case, because
the grounds on which the alien is denied the right to maintain
this suit against the Texas corporation must govern and control when the suit is against the alien.
If, as held in .ohorst's case, the clause that "no civil suit
shall be brought before either of said courts against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district
than that whereof he is an inhabitant," has no application to
controversies between a citizen and an alien, it is impossible to
escape the conclusion that the plea in abatement in the present case presented no valid objection to the jurisdiction of the
United States Circuit Court for the Western District of
Texas; for the service upon the defendant in the county of
El Paso was a valid service, which brought the corporation
before the court in a district of the State whereof it was a
citizen, within the meaning of the Judiciary Acts; and, being
a citizen of the State in which suit was brought by the alien,
the Circuit Court for the Western District acquired jurisdiction over the person of the defendant, just as effectually as
jurisdiction was acquired over the foreign corporation in
Hohonst's case at the suit of a citizen.
The opinion of the court attempts to distinguish this from
.ohorst's case, on the ground that in the latter the suit was
by a citizen against an alien, while here the suit is by an alien
against a citizen. This is making a purely arbitrary distinction without any substantial difference. The provision of the
Constitution and the laws enacted for carrying the grant of
judicial power into effect makes no distinction as to the position, whether as plaintiffs or defendants, which may be occupied by either the citizen or the alien. The jurisdiction is
given where the alien is a party on one side of the controversy
and a citizen of some one State of the Union is on the other
side, without regard to which may be plaintiff or defendant.
It was never before held or suggested that if the citizen was
plaintiff and the alien defendant the jurisdiction would attach,
but that if the position of the parties was changed so that the
alien would be the plaintiff and the citizen the defendant, the
jurisdiction would be defeated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

If the railroad company, in the present case, were an alien
corporation, with its line extending from El Paso, in the
Western District of the State of Texas, to Houston in the
Eastern District of that State, and with its principal office at
the latter place, a citizen of that State could have sued the
corporation in the Circuit Court of the United States in either
the Western or the Eastern District of that State.
So, too, if the position of the parties in this case were
changed and the railroad company had sued the alien in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Texas, and had obtained personal service on him, no question
could have been raised as to the jurisdiction of the court.
The corporation having a localized existence and citizenship in
the Western District of the State, is equally liable to the suit
of an alien in that district. It cannot properly be held that
the principle which applies to a suit against an alien does not
apply to a suit by an alien.
The Xudiciary Act, in declaring that Circuit Courts of the
United States shall have original cognizance, concurrent with
the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature,
at common law or in equity, between citizens of a State and
foreign States, citizens, or subjects, when the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum of $2000,
means, as I understand its language, that the Circuit Courts
of the United States shall have the same jurisdiction as the
state courts, otherwise it could not be concurrent. Now, the
state court at El Paso would have had undoubted jurisdiction
of the present suit, and although the United States Circuit
Court, held at the same place, has concurrent (the same jurisdiction) over the subject-matter and the parties, the result of
the court's opinion is to deny the jurisdiction of the Federal
court. Postmaster General v. Barly, 12 Wheat. 136, 14r',
148.
It cannot be questioned that under the authorities of this
court, commencing with -Louisville,Cincinnati & Charleston
Railroad v. Letson, 2 How. 497, a corporation for the purposes of Federal jurisdiction is not merely a resident, but a
citizen of the State of its creation, and such citizenship sub-

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

517

Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

jects it to the jurisdiction of the Federal courts in the State of
its creation at the suit of an alien.
Corporations have been gradually brought within the provision which extends the judicial power to controversies "between citizens of different States." The ground originally
taken by the court was that the corporation's citizenship depended upon, and was determined by, the citizenship of the
members of the individual corporators, and while that rule
prevailed it was necessary to aver this citizenship of the members on the record.
Thus, as late as Ohio & -MississippiRailroadv. Theeler, 1
Black, 286, it was said by this court that "a corporation exists only in contemplation of law, and by force of law, and can
have no legal existence beyond the bounds of the sovereignty
by which it was created, and it must dwell in the place of its
creation." And further, that "a corporation is not a citizen
within the meaning of the Constitution, and cannot maintain
a suit in the courts of the United States against a citizen of a
different State from that by which it was created, unless the
personm who composed the eorporate body are all citizens of that
State. In such cases they (the citizen corporators) may sue by
their corporate name, averring the citizenship of all the members, and such a suit would be regarded as a joint suit of individual persons, united together in a corporate body, and acting
under the authority conferred upon them for the more convenient transaction of business, and consequently entitled to
maintain a suit in the courts of the United States against the
citizens of another State."
In the subsequent case of .Afuller v. Dows, 94 U. S. 444, it
was held that where a corporation is created by the laws of a
State, the legal presumption is that its members are citizens of
the State in which alone the corporate body has a legal existence.
It was further said in that case that a suit by or against a corporation, in its corporate name, may be presumed to be a suit
by or against citizens of the State which created the corporate
body, and no averment or denial is admissible for the purpose
of withdrawing the suit from the jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States. This is now the established rule on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

subject in respect to jurisdiction in suits by or against corporations in the Federal courts.
The laws of Texas, requiring a railroad corporation to have
a principal office where its books shall be kept, can in no way
affect the jurisdiction of the Federal courts over such corporate
body, founded as it is upon the conclusive presumption that
the members of such corporation are citizens of the State
which created the body corporate. Having a principal office
does not restrict the citizenship of the corporation, or of its
members, to the particular locality where such office is kept.
N~either does it raise any presumption, prima facie or conclusive, that the members of such corporation, citizens of the
State, reside at that particular place.
The members of a corporation, created by a State, being
conclusively presumed to be citizens of the same State, so as to
confer upon the Federal courts the jurisdiction to entertain
suits by or against the corporate body, upon what theory or
principle heretofore ever suggested can it be maintained that
the state citizenship of the members of such corporation is to
be confined or restricted to the locality of the principal office
of the corporate body? There is no presumption that this
citizenship, "united together in a corporate body, and acting
under the authority conferred upon them for the more convenient transaction of business, and consequently entitled to
maintain suits in the courts of the United States," has its
separate, or aggregate, residence in the particular locality or
place where the corporate body keeps its principal office.
The opinion of the court, while compelled to recognize the
presumption of the citizenship of the members of the corporate
body, on which the jurisdiction of the court over the corporation rests, or upon which it depends, in effect confines that
citizenship to a particular locality within the State creating
the corporation, when there is no presumption, either of fact
or law, that the citizenship composing the corporate body is so
restricted. In other words, the legal presumption that the
members of the corporation are citizens of the State under
which the corporate body is created, is, by the opinion of the
court, restricted, so as to give that citizenship a legal residence

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. GONZALES.

519

Dissenting Opinion: Jackson, Harlan, JJ.

confined to the place where the corporate body has its principal office. I know of no authority or principle upon which
this can be done.
But suppose the clause that "no civil suit shall be brought
before either of said courts against any person by any original
process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof
he is an inhabitant," can have no application to the suit of an
alien against a citizen, or of a citizen against an alien, what is
the meaning of the word "inhabitant," as used in that clause
of the act? The word has, of course, a great variety of meanings, dependent upon the connection in which it is used. It
is not used in the Judiciary Acts of 1887 and 1888, or in any
previous judiciary act, in a sense that was intended to limit
and restrict the jurisdiction conferred by the previous clause
of section one. Congress did not mean to broadly confer
jurisdiction of a controversy between an alien and a citizen in
the first clause of the act, and then in the subsequent clause
restrict that jurisdiction by the word "inhabitant," so as to
limit such jurisdiction to the residence of the alien or of the
citizen. The meaning of the word, as used in the Judiciary
Act, is to be taken in the sense of "citizen" or "alien."
This was the meaning given to the word as it was used ia
the eleventh section of the act of 1789. Thus in Picuet v.
Swan, 5 Mason, 35, 46, Mr. Justice Story had occasion to
construe the meaning of the word "inhabitant," as used in
the first judiciary act, and said: " But I lay no particular
stress upon the word 'inhabitant,' and deem it a mere equivalent description of ' citizen' and ' alien' in the general clause
conferring jurisdiction over parties."
In i-&aw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444, Mr. Justice
Gray, speaking for the court, said in effect that the word
"inhabitant" in the act of 1887 was apparently used in no
larger or different meaning than "citizen."
If, as already shown, the latter clause of the first section of
the act of 1887, declaring that "where the jurisdiction is
founded only on the fact that the action is between citizens
of different States, suit shall be brought only in the district of
the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant," has no

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

application to the present suit; and, if the prior clause, containing the word "inhabitant," is inapplicable to suits between
an alien and a citizen, as held in Hohorsst' ceae, or if the word
"inhabitant" is used in the sense of "citizen," or "alien," then
it is clear that the plea in abatement, interposed in the present
case by the Texas corporation, is not a valid objection to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The opinion of the court, holding to the contrary, rests upon
grounds which have no application to this case.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

concurs in this dissent.

REDDEN v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 212. Argued January25, 1894. -Decided

February 5,1894.

Woven cotton cloth, the groundwork of which was uniform, and upon
which were figures or patterns, woven into it by means of a Jacquard
attachment contemporaneously with the weaving of the fabric, and which
was known as Madras mull, being imported into the United States in 1886,
became subject to the specific duties imposed by Schedule I (paragraphs
319, 320, 321 in the customs enumeration) of the tariff act of March 3,
1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, estimated by the number of threads to the
square inch, and not to the ad valorem duty imposed by the same schedule
on manufactures of cotton not specially enumerated.

Tnis was an action at law against the collector at the port
of New York, to recover duties alleged to have been illegally
imposed upon importations of cotton cloth. Under direction
of the court the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, on
which judgment was entered. To that judgment the defendant sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opinion.
.Mfr. Assiotant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.

