OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Per Curiam

BUTLER

ET AL.

425 U. S.

V. DEXTER

ON APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

No. 75-623.

Decided April 19, 1976

This Court has no jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1253 over an
appeal from a three-judge District Court's order enjoining appellants from prosecuting appellee theater operator on the felony
charge that his motion picture projector used to exhibit an allegedly obscene film was a "criminal instrument" under § 16.01 of
the Texas Penal Code. The ground for the injunction was not
that § 16.01 was unconstitutional but that the local officials had
acted in bad faith and unconstitutionally in using that statute
(which the District Court found could "by no stretch of the imagination" be read as applying) as a pretext for forcing appellee to
stop exhibiting the film, without any design to convict him on the
felony charge. Since a three-judge court was therefore not required, the appeal should have been taken to the Court of Appeals.
404 F. Supp. 33, vacated and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

This is an appeal under 28 U. S. C. § 1253 from an
order of a three-judge District Court enjoining the appellants from prosecuting the appellee on the felony
charge that his motion picture projector is a "criminal
instrument" under § 16.01 of the Texas Penal Code.'
1 Texas Penal Code Ann. § 16.01 (1974):
"Unlawful Use of Criminal Instrument
"(a) A person commits an offense if:
"(1) he possesses a criminal instrument with intent to use it
in the commission of an offense; or
"(2) with knowledge of its character and with intent to use or
aid or permit another to use in the commission of an offense, he
manufactures, adapts, sells, installs, or sets up a criminal instrument.
"(b) For purposes of this section, 'criminal instrument' means
anything that is specially designed, made, or adapted for the commission of an offense.
"(c) An offense under this section is a felony of the third degree."

BUTLER v. DEXTER
262

Per Curiam

Since no substantial question about the constitutionality
of § 16.01 has been raised, we dismiss the appeal for want
of jurisdiction in this Court.
The facts of this case are relatively simple. The appellee, Richard Dexter, ran the Fiesta Theatre in San
Antonio, Tex., which in June and July 1974 was exhibiting the film "Deep Throat." On three I separate
occasions, an officer of the San Antonio police force paid
for admission, entered the theater, and viewed the film.
The officer, on each occasion, then wrote out a "Motion
for Adversary Hearing" to determine whether there was
probable cause to seize the film for violating the Texas
obscenity laws. Each time, a magistrate held a short
"hearing" in the lobby of the theater, at which he heard
the testimony of the police officer, then viewed the film.
Each time, the magistrate then issued a warrant to seize
the film and to seize the projector as a "criminal instrument" under § 16.01 of the Texas Penal Code. Appellee was then arrested and charged with "commercial
obscenity" in violation of Texas Penal Code, § 43.23, and
"use of a criminal instrument" in violation of § 16.01.
The charge of commercial obscenity is a Class B misdemeanor, carrying a fine not to exceed $1,000, confinement
not to exceed 180 days, or both.' Appellee did not, according to the trial court, pursue any complaint about
these charges in the federal court. He was brought to
trial on these charges in the state courts and they are not
in issue here. His challenge, rather, was against the
prosecutor's charging him with violations of the criminal
Although the appellee has not moved to dismiss the appeal, this
Court must take notice on its own motion where jurisdiction does
not appear. Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U. S. 294, 306
(1962).
3 There was another occasion where substantially the same events
occurred, but appellee was not arrested, although a theater employee
named William Walker was.
4
Tex. Penal Code Ann. § 12.22 (1974).
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Per Curiam

425 U. S.

instruments statute for his possession of ordinary 16-mm.
movie projectors. Violation of that statute is a thirddegree felony, and carries a penalty of from 2 to 10
years' confinement and a fine not to exceed $5,000.' Although the felony complaints were lodged and appellee
was forced to post some $31,000 in bonds, these charges
were never presented to the grand jury.0
A "criminal instrument," for purposes of the Texas
statute, is anything "specially designed, made, or adapted
for the commission of an offense." ' From an examination of the "clear language of the statute" and from an
examination of the unofficial "practice commentary" to
the statute, the District Court concluded that "[b]y no
stretch of the imagination could this statute be used to
cover the plaintiff's actions or the possession of an ordinary portable 16 millimeter motion picture projector
with removable interchangeable reels." 8
From its conclusion as to the obvious inapplicability of
the statute, and from the prosecutor's failure to present
the charges to the grand jury, the District Court found
that "[c]harging the plaintiff with a § 16.01 violation ...
cannot have been undertaken with any design to actually
convict the plaintiff of the crime ....

Such a blatant use

of an inappropriate statute, which bootstrapped the misdemeanor offense into a felony was effective in requirTex. Penal Code Ann. § 12.34 (1974).
0 Appellants argued below that the District Attorney believed he
was precluded from pursuing those charges by the restraining order
issued by the federal court. However, the restraining order specifically provided that "no pending state criminal prosecutions are
enjoined and the State is free to bring to trial and try any such
cases." The District Judge also informed the appellants on at
least two occasions during the hearings that the restraining order
did not bar the bringing of indictments on any pending charges.
7 See n. 1, supra.
8 Universal Amusement Co. v. Vance, 404 F. Supp. 33, 48, 51 (SD
Tex. 1975).

BUTLER v. DEXTER
262

Per Curiam

ing that bail for a felony offense be set, not once but
several times. The authorities could not believe, however, that Dexter would ultimately be convicted." '
Appellants present several contentions regarding the
jurisdiction of the District Court and the correctness of
its decision. We do not reach these questions, however,
as we have concluded that we have no jurisdiction to
consider this case on direct appeal. Jurisdiction is predicated on 28 U. S. C. § 1253, granting the right of direct
appeal from an order "granting an . . . injunction in any
civil action . . .required by any Act of Congress to be

heard and determined by a district court of three judges."
Title 28 U. S. C. § 2281 provides that "[a] n . .. injunc-

tion restraining the enforcement, operation or execution
of any State statute by restraining the action of any officer of such State in the enforcement or execution of such
statute . . . shall not be granted .. . upon the ground

of the unconstitutionality of such statute unless the
application therefor is heard and determined by a district court of three judges .

. . ."

Under this statute a

three-judge court is required if "a complaint seeks to
enjoin a state statute on substantial grounds of federal
unconstitutionality, . . . even though nonconstitutional
grounds of attack are also alleged . . . ." Florida Lime

Growers v. Jacobsen, 362 U. S.73, 85 (1960). However,
in this case the District Court ruled that the actions of
the appellants were not taken in the enforcement of the
statute and thus no serious question about the constitutionality of the statute was presented.
As noted above, the District Court found that the
felony "criminal instruments" charges were made in
bad faith and without any design actually to convict appellee on those charges. Rather, the felony charges were
made as part of a pattern of harassment by the San
9Id., at 48.

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Per Curiam

425 U. S.

Antonio police designed to force appellee to stop exhibiting "Deep Throat." But the arrests and the charges
were not made in any attempt to enforce § 16.01.1° Nor
was the injunction granted on the ground that § 16.01
was unconstitutional; rather, it was granted on the
ground that the local officials had acted unconstitutionally in using that statute as a pretext for arrest and the
setting of felony bonds when they knew that the statute
was inapplicable and that no conviction could ever be
obtained. Since no substantial question concerning the
constitutionality of § 16.01 was presented to the District
Court, a three-judge court was not required.11 Cf. Bailey
v. Patterson,369 U. S. 31 (1962).
A somewhat better argument might be made that the
prosecutor's actions were part of an effort to enforce the
commercial obscenity statute, albeit in a somewhat irregular manner. However, it could not be contended that
the District Court grounded its injunction in any way
on the unconstitutionality of the commercial obscenity
10 Cf. Phillips v. United States, 312 U. S. 246, 252 (1941): "But
an attack on lawless exercise of authority in a particular ease is not
an attack upon the constitutionality of a statute conferring the
authority . . . . It is significant that the United States in its complaint did not charge the enabling acts of Oklahoma with unconstitutionality, but assailed merely the Governor's action as exceeding
the bounds of law." This situation is, of course, to be distinguished
from an attack on a statute said to be unconstitutional "as applied."
See also Ex parte Bransford, 310 U. S. 354 (1940).
11We have no occasion to consider whether the District Court
was correct in deciding that § 16.01 did not--and that appellants
knew it did not-authorize appellants' actions. Nor do we consider
whether, having so decided, the court was empowered to grant
appellee relief enjoining the State from prosecuting him on the
pending felony charges purportedly filed pursuant to that section.
We hold only that by having made that decision, the court removed
from the case any possibility that the statute might be enjoined on
the grounds of its unconstitutionality.

BUTLER v. DEXTER
Per Curiam

statute; the constitutionality of that statute was not
even considered in this case.2

Since a three-judge court was not required in this case,
the appeal should have been taken to the Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Since the time for appeal
may have passed, we vacate the judgment and remand
to the District Court so that it may enter a fresh decree
from which a timely appeal can, if desired, be taken.
Gonzalez v. Automatic Employees Credit Union, 419
U. S. 90 (1974); Moody v. Flowers, 387 U. S. 97 (1967).
It is so ordered.

12 This case was consolidated in the District Court with several
other cases, at least some of which did bring into question the
constitutionality of a state statute. Each case before this Court,
however, must be considered separately to determine whether or
not this Court has jurisdiction to consider its merits.

