MARINO v. RAGEN.

561

Opinion of the Court.

MARINO v. RAGEN, WARDEN.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF WINNEBAGO COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

No. 93. Decided December 22, 1947.
1. Where an inferior state court quashes a writ of habeas corpus
sought to review an alleged denial of rights under the Federal
Constitution and its order cannot be reviewed by any higher state
court, a petition for a writ of certiorari to obtain review of that
order is properly addressed to this Court. P. 561.
2. Whether, upon the facts of this case, habeas corpus is an appropriate remedy in the state court to correct a denial of due process
is a question of state law upon which this Court accepts the conces-.
sion of the State's Attorney General. P. 562.
3. On the facts recited in the opinion and confession of error by the
State's Attorney General, this Court concludes that in his trial
for murder petitioner was denied due process of law contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 562.
Certiorari granted; judgment vacated and remanded.

Petitioner pro se.
George F. Barrett,Attorney General of Illinois, William
C. Wines and James C. Murray, Assistant Attorneys General, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner sought a writ of habeas corpus in the Circuit
Court of Winnebago County, Illinois, alleging that his
conviction in 1925 on a charge of murder was the result
of a denial of his rights under the Federal Constitution.
That court, after a hearing, quashed the writ; and as its
order cannot be reviewed by any higher Illinois court
under Illinois practice, this petition for a writ of certiorari
is

properly addressed

to

this Court.

See

Woods v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Nierstheimer, 328 U. S. 211; 15 U. of Chic. L. Rev. 118,
122.
The facts conceded by respondent are as follows:
The common-law record recites that petitioner was arraigned in open court and advised through interpreters
of the meaning and effect of a plea of guilty and that petitioner signed a statement waiving jury trial and pleading
guilty. He was sentenced to life imprisonment. It does
not appear, however, that an attorney was appointed to
represent him. The waiver was not in fact signed by him,
and no plea of guilty was entered at the trial. He was
18 ye.i:s old at that time and had been in this country only
two years. He did not understand the English language
and it is doubtful that he understood American trial court
procedure . The arresting officer served as an interpreter
for petitioner at the original trial.
The State of Illinois speaking through the Attorney
General admits the foregoing facts, confesses error, and
consents to a reversal of the judgment below. He states
that the writ of habeas corpus is a proper remedy in Illinois in this case because the facts, which he concedes to
be a denial of due process of law under the decisions of
this Court, were known to the court at the time of the
original trial, though they were not a matter of record
at the trial. Whether or not on this showing habeas
corpus is an appropriate remedy in the court to correct
a denial of due process is a question of state law as
to which we accept the concession of the State's Attorney
General.
In light of the confession of error (see Young v United
States, 315 U. S. 257; Bozza v. United States, 330 U. S.
-160; cf. Baltzer v. United States, 248 U. S.593) and the
undisputed facts, we conclude that petitioner was denied
the due process of law which the Fourteenth Amendment
requires.

MARINO v. RAGEN.
561

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

Permission to proceed in forma pauperis is granted.
The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted and the
judgment below is vacated and remanded to the Circuit
Court.
So ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE, RUTLEDGE,

with whom MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join, concurring.

This case sharply points up a much larger problem, of
growing concern to this Court, than merely the disposition
to be made of Marino's petition in view of the state's
confession of error. I agree that relief is due him, and
I join in the Court's opinion. But I' do not find his case
different, except in one respect, from many others which
have come regularly to this Court from Illinois in recent
years,- in which relief has been as regularly denied. The
only substantial difference, in my judgment, is that here
the state has confessed error. That confession raises, in
my opinion, the question of the course this Court should
follow in the future concerning the disposition of similar
petitions from Illinois.
During the last three terms we have been flooded with
petitions from Illinois alleging deprivations of due process
and other constitutional rights. Thus in the 1944 term,
out of a total of 339 petitions filed in forma pauperis,
almost all by prisoners, 141 came from Illinois; in the
1945 term, 175 out of 393 were from Illinois; and in the
1946 term, 322 out of 528 came from that state.1 With
mechanical regularity petitions for certiorari to review
I This increasing volume no doubt is due in part to the assiduity
with which prisoners seek relief either from prison or from the tedium
of prison life. But that not all of it can be attributed to that factor
seems clear from the fact that no other state presents anything
approaching such a volume of petitions or so complicated a procedure
for finally disposing of the questions raised.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

Illinois' refusals to grant relief, often even to grant a
hearing, have been denied. 2 We have adhered consistently to the practice of not entertaining such a petition
when it seemed to appear that the applicant had not
sought the appropriate state remedy. Woods v. Nierstheimer, 328 U. S. 211. And, as a corollary of this practice, we have insisted that the federal courts deny a hearing to an applicant for habeas corpus who has not
exhausted his state remedies. Ex parte Hawk, 32i U. S.
114; Ex parte Abernathy, 320 U. S. 219 and cases cited.
This rule, requiring exhaustion of state remedies as a
condition precedent to federal relief, has been firmly established by repeated decisions of this Court. Even in
extreme situations its application has been justified by
sound administrative reasons. See Mooney v. Holohan,
294 U. S. 103, 115. But it has always been clear that the
rule may be applied only on the assumption that an adequate state remedy is actually available. Carter v. Illinois, 329 U. S. 173, 176; Woods v. Nierstheimer, supra
at 217; Ex parte Hawk, supra at 118. And it would be
nothing less than abdication of our constitutional duty
and function to rebuff petitioners with this mechanical
formula whenever it may become clear that the alleged
state remedy is nothing but a procedural morass offering
no substantial hope of relief. Experience has convinced
me that this is true of Illinois.
This case presents a flagrant example of deprivation of
due process. In 1925 petitioner was convicted of murder.
and sentenced to life imprisonment. He was then eighteen years old and unable to speak English, having arrived
in the United States from Italy less than two years before.
2 Of the 322 petitions filed in the 1946 term, only two were granted.
In Foster v. Illinois, 332 U. S. 134, the narrow scope of review by
writ of error in Illinois precluded relief here.; in McLaren v, Nierstheimer, 329 U. S. 685, the judgment was iacated and the case remanded after the state confessed error.

MARINO v. RAGEN.
561

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

The police officer who arrested him served as one of the
two interpreters at his trial. He was not represented by
counsel nor, as far as can be determined, was his right to
counsel explained to him. See Fosterv. Illinois, 332 U. S.
134, dissenting opinion 141. Although the record shows
that petitioner signed a written Waiver of jury trial, which
stated that he had entered a plea of guilty, in fact he did
not sign any such waiver, and no guilty plea appears to
have been entered. His sentence was imposed one week
after the indictment.
. Twenty-two years later these facts were established at
a hearing in the Circuit Court of Winnebago County, It.linois, on petitioner's application for habeas corpus.
Nevertheless, the writ was denied without assignment of
any ground.' Petitioner sought certiorari in this Court,
and when called upon for a response, Illinois confessed
error. While I concur in the Court's judgment, the light
which the confession of error sheds on the Illinois procedural labyrinth confirms the growing conviction that
Illinois offers no adequate remedy to prisoners situatedas is the present petitioner.
The trouble with Illinois is not that it offers no procedure. It is that it offers too many, and makes them so
intricate and ineffective that in practical effect they
amount to none, The possibility of securing effective
determination on the merits is substantially foreclosed by
the probability, indeed the all but mathematical certainty,
that .the case will go off on the procedural ruling that.
the wrong one of several possible remedies has been
followed.'
3But for the state's confession of error, our usual practice in these
cases would lead us to assume that the denial had been on the ground
that habeas corpus was not the appropriate state remedy. See
note 4.
' Since the petitions more often than. otherwise are disposed of
by mere denial without assignment of grounds, it is seldom possible

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

Thus, our understanding of Illinois law at the time of
Woods v. Nierstheimer, supra, was that habeas corpus
would not lie in such a case as this because petitioner
neither challenged the jurisdiction of the court which convicted him, nor alleged any subsequent events having the
effect of voiding that conviction. 328 U. S. 211, 215.
Hence we assumed that coram nobis would be the appropriate remedy. But Illinois now suggests that we have
oversimplified the situation. That habeas corpus is appropriate here is explained by the state's attorney general
as follows:
"In order to keep Illinois' position constant and consistent before this court, we venture to point out that
although the present Attorney General has prevailed
upon this court to recognize that coram nobis is a
remedy in Illinois exclusive of habeas corpus, where
the facts constituting denial of due process but dehors
the record were not known to the. trial court at the
time of the imposition of sentence, we have always
conceded that where, as in the instant case, those facts
although not a matter of record at the trial were
nevertheless known to the trial court, habeas corpus
may be available in proper cases. We deem habeas
corpus to be clearly appropriate under the Illinois law
in this case. We do not concede, however, that there
are no cases in which writ of error, as distinct from
either coram nobis or habeas corpus, would be the
proper remedy."
Notwithstanding the explanation; the extent of the
applicability of this expanded scope of habeas corpus "in
for this Court to know whether the Illinois court has acted on the
merits or on the state ground that the wrong remedy has been followed. It is therefore always possible to assume here that the ruling
was of the latter type and this would seem to be true, if not of every
such determination, at least of all until the last conceivably possible
route has been followed.

MARINO v. RAGEN.
561

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

proper cases" is by no means clear. Perhaps it is limited
to a case where over twenty years have elapsed since the
conviction, and hence neither writ of error nor coram
nobis is available; perhaps it would be available any time
after the five-year statute of limitations on coram nobis
had run.' Possibly the rule is general for cases of deprivation of constitutional rights whenever the judge responsible for the deprivation had knowledge of the facts. I
can only indulge in speculation, because I am aware of
nothing in the Illinois statutes or decisions which defines
these novel limitations on the use of habeas corpus or
supports the attorney general's position. Nor do I know
whether the lower Illinois courts accept this position in
view of the limited area to which the writ has been confined by the state supreme court decisions. See e. g.,
Thompson v. Nierstheimer, 39&, Ill. 572; Barrett v. Bradley, 391 Ill. 169.
In short, the effect of the state's confession of error
in this case is not to clarify, it is rather to confuse further,
a situation already so muddled that only one rational
conclusion may be drawn. It is that the Illinois procedural labyrinth is- made up entirely of blind alleys, each
of which is useful only as a means of convincing the federal
courts that the state road which the petitioner has taken
was the wrong one. If the only state remedy is the possibility that the attorney general will confess error when
he determines that a flagrant case will not survive scrutiny by this Court,' it is hardly necessary to point out
that the federal courts should be open to a petitioner
even though he has not made his way through several
LIll. Rev. Stat. (1947)

c. 110, ยง 196. This five-year limitation

period applies to "all coram nobis proceedings." People v. Touhy, 397
Ill.
19, 26; People v. Rave, 392 Ill.
435. Writ of error is governed
by a common-law limitation period of twenty years. People v. Chapman, 392 Ill. 168; People v. Murphy, 296111. 532.
6 See McLaren v. Nieratheimer,329 U. S. 685.

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

courts applying for habeas corpus, then writ of error, and
finally coram nobis.'
Moreover, even though there may be an avenue of
escape through the state courts in a rare case, the situation
is no different as long as the technical distinctions between
the various remedies are so fine that only an oracle could
point out the jroper procedural road. The exhaustionof-state-remedies rule should not be stretched to the
absurdity of requiring the exhaustion of three separate
remedies when at the outset a petitioner cannot intelligently select the proper way, and in conclusion he may
find only that none of the three is appropriate or effective.
That each is severely restricted is clear.8 That any one
7 "Under present procedures,
it is nearly impossible to secure
adjudication of the merits of alleged constitutional defects in judgments of conviction in Illinois courts; yet petitioners must present
their applications for consideration seven to twelve times in order
to escape the procedural maze of the state courts and to secure their
initial hearings on the truth of their allegations in the federal courts."
Note, A Study of the Illinois Supreme Court, 15 U. of Chi. L. Rev.
107, 120.
8Review by writ of error in Illinois is limited to matters in the
common-law record where no bill of exceptions is filed. Carter v.
Illinois, 329 U. S. 173; Foster v. Illinois, 332 U. S. 134; People v.
Owens, 397 Ill. 166. The bill of exceptions must be preserved within
fifty days after judgment was entered unless an extension is granted
during that time. Ill. Rev. Stat., c. 110, ยง 259.70A. Habeas corpus
has been thought to be available only to challenge jurisdiction in
the narrow sense of jurisdiction over the person or the subject matter,
or to show events subsequent to the trial which render the original
conviction void. Woods v. Nierstheimer, 328 U. S. 211; Thompson
v. Nierstheimer,395 Ill'. 572; Barrett v. Bradley, 391 Ili. 169. Coram

nobis is available only to present factual questions of a certain kind,
People v. Drysch, 311 Ill. 342, 349, which were not known to the trial
court, People v. Schuedter, 336 Ill. 244, which do not conflict with
jury findings, and which petitioner failed to raise because of excusable
mistake rather than negligence on. his, or his attorney's part, see
People v. Rave, 392 Ill. 435, 440. See Comment, Collateral Relief
from Convictions in Violation of Due Process in Illinois, 42 Ill. L.
Rev. 329.

MARINO v. RAGEN.
561

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

is available as a matter of right is by no means clear.'
And even if each has a limited function exclusive of the
other two, it may well be that no one is adequate in a case
where the petitioner must show a combination of facts
to establish a violation of his constitutional rights."
The Illinois scheme affords a theoretical system of remedies. In my judgment it is hardly more than theoretical.
Experience has shown beyond all doubt that, in any
practical sense, the remedies available there are inadequate. 1 Whether this is true because in fact no remedy
Ot is questionable whether Illinois affords a remedy for a man
deprived of his right to counsel. See Foster v. Illinois, 332 U. S. 134,
dissenting opinion 141; People v. Evans, 397 Ill. 430. The trial
judge would surely know that he had refused to appoint counsel and
would be presunied to be familiar with the record, see People v. Rave,
392 Ill. 435, 440; hence coram nobis would not lie. Assuming that the
clerk makes the routine entry to the effect that the accused was
apprised of his rights, which he promptly waived, see People v. Green,
355 Ill. 468, writ of error would afford inadequate review. See Carter
v. Illinois,' 329 U. S: 173. Only if the attorney general's view of
habeas corpus would extend to such a case would a remedy be available. There may even be doubt whether an allegation that a confession was obtained by coercion would warrant review, see People v.
Drysch, 311 Ill. 342; People v. Schuedter, 336 Ill. 244.
10
For example, petitioner might allege that he had inadequate time
to prepare his defense, that the trial court denied him counsel, and
that a forced confession was used as evidence at the trial. The first
allegation could be made only by writ of error because the crucial
dates would be a mAtter of record; the second only by habeas corpus,
if at all, because the trial court is presumed to know What is in the
record and he would certainly know that he had refused to appoint
counsel; and the third allegation only by coram nobis because the
facts would be unknown to the trial court. Perhaps none of the
allegations considered separately would establish a deprivation of
due process, yet with the whole picture before the court a violation
of constitutional rights would be apparent.
" See note 1 and text- also note 2. "[The] inevitable conclusion
must be reached that the state of Illinois provides no satisfactory or
adequate method for post-conviction hearings .

. . ."

Note, A Study

of the Illinois Supreme dourt, 15 U. of Chi. L. Rev. 107, 128.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

exists, or because every remedy is so limited as to be inadequate, or because the procedural problem of selecting
the proper one is so difficult, is beside the point. If the
federal guarantee of due process in a criminal trial is
to have real significance ii Illinois, it is imperative that
men convicted in violation of their constitutional rights
have an adequate opportunity to be heard in court. This
opportunity is not adequate so long as they are required
to ride the Illinois merry-go-round of habeas corpus,
coram nobis, and writ of error before getting a hearing
in a federal court.
Consequently, as far as I am concerned, the Illinois
remedies are exhausted here, apart from the state's confession of error. I also think that, until that state affords
a reasonably clear and adequate means for presenting and
disposing of such questions as Marino's case involves, this
Court should no longer require exhaustion of its present
scheme of ineffective and inadequate remedies before permitting resort to the federal district courts sitting in Illinois. 2 We should neither delay nor deny justice, nor
clog its administration, with so useless and harmful a
procedural strangling of federal constitutional rights.

This Court has frequently recognized that the policy underlying
the exhaustion-of-remedies doctrine does not require the exhaustion
ot inadequate remedies. Hillsborough Twp. v. Cromwell, 326 U. S.
620; White v. Ragen, 324 U. S. 760; Driscoll v. Edison Co., 307 U. S.
104; Mountain States Co. v. Comm'n, 299 U. S. 167; Corporation
Comm'n v. Cary, 296 U. S. 452; Pacific Tel. Co. v. Kuykendall, 265
U. S. 196; Okla. Gas Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290; Moore v. Dempsey,
261 U. S. 86; Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66.
12

