PATTON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Syllabus.

PATTON v. MISSISSIPPI.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 122.

Argued November 21, 24, 1947.-Decided December
8, 1947.

1. Petitioner, a Negro, was indicted for murder by an all-white grand
jury and convicted by an all-white petit jury, notwithstanding a
timely motion to quash the indictment. Although there were
12,511 adult Negroes in the county out of a total adult population
of 34,821 and there were at least 25 Negro qualified male electors
eligible for jury service, the venires for the term from which the
grand and petit juries were selected did not contain the name of a
single Negro and no Negro had served on a grand or petit criminal
court jury in the county for 30 years. Held: The record sustains
petitioner's claim of a systematic, purposeful, administrative exclusion of Negroes from jury duty contrary to the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment; the conviction is
reversed; and the case is remanded for further proceedings.
Pp. 465-469.
2. Whether there has been systematic racial discrimination by administrative officials in the selection of jurors is a question to be
determined from the facts in each particular case. P. 466.
3. The fact that no Negro had served on a criminal court grand
or petit jury for a period of 30 years created a strong presumption
that Negroes were systematically excluded from jury service because
of race; and it became the State's duty to justify such an exclusion
as having been brought about for some reason other than racial
discrimination. P. 466.
4. Such a presumption was not overcome by an attempt to disprove
systematic racial discrimination in the selection of jurors by percentage calculations applied to the composition of a single venire.
P. 468.
5. When a jury selection plan operates in such a way as always to
result in the complete and long-continued exclusion of any representative at all from a large group of Negroes, or any other racial
group, indictments and verdicts returned against them by juries
thus selected cannot stand. P. 469.
201 Miss. 410,29 So. 2d 96,,reversed.
. The Supreme Court of Mississippi affirmed a state trial
court's denial of a motion to quash an indictment for

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

murder because of systematic racial discrimination in the
selection of jurors contrary to the Fourteenth Amendnient. 201 Miss. 410, 29 So. 2d 96. This Court granted
certiorari. 33f U. S. 804. Reversedt and remanded,
p. 469.
Thurgood Marshall argued the cause for. petitioner.
With him on the brief Was Andrew Weinberger.
George H. Ethridge, Assistant Attorney General of
Mississippi, argued the cause for respondent. With him
on the brief was,Greek L. Rice, Attorney General.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner, a Negro, was indicted in the Circuit
Court of Lauderdalp County, Mississippi, by an all-white
grand jury, charged with the murder of a white man. He
was convicted by an all-white petit jury and sentenced
to death by electrocution. He had filed a timely motion
to quash the indictment alleging that, although there
were Negroes in the county tualified for jury service, the
venires for the term from which the grand and petit juries
were selected did not contain the name of a single Negro.
Failure to have any Negroes on the venires, he alleged,
was due to the fact that for a great number of years previously and during the then term of court there had been
in the county a "systematic, intentional, deliberate and
invariable practice on the part of administrative officers
to exclude negroes from the jury lists, jury boxes and
jury service, and that such practice has resulted and does
now result in the denial of the equal protection of the laws
to this defendant as guaranteed by the 14th amendment
to the U. S. Constitution." In support of his motion
petitioner introduced evidence which showed without
contradiction that no Negro had served on the grand or
. petit criminal court juries for thirty years or more.
There was evidence that a single Negro had once been:

PATTON v. MISSISSIPPI.
463

Opinion of the Court.

summoned during that period but for some undisclosed
reason he had not served, nor had he even appeared.
And there was also evidence from one jury supervisor
that he had, at some indefinite time, placed &n the jury
lists the names of "two or three" unidentified Negroes.
In 1940 the adult colored population of Lauderdale
County, according to the United States Census,.was 12,511
out of a total adult population of-34,821.
In the face of the foregoing the trial court overruled the
motion to quash. The Supreme Court of Mississippi
affirmed over petitioner's renewed insistence that he had
been denied the equal protection of the laws by the deliberate exclusion of Negroes from the grand jury that indicted and the petit jury that convicted him. 201 Miss.
410, 29 So. 2d 96. We granted certioraH to review this
serious contention.1 331 U. S.804.
Sixty-seven years ago this Court held that state exclusion of Negroes from grand and petit juries solely because.
of their racedehied Negro defendants in criminal cases the
equal protection of the laws required by the Fourteenth
Amendment.

Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S.303

(1880). A long and unbroken line of our decisions since
then has reiterated thit principle, regardless of whether
the discrimination was embodied in statute 2 or was apparent from the administrative practices of state jury
selection officials,3 and regardless of whether the system
1 Petitioner also argued that his conviction was based solely on an

extorted confession; that use of this extorted confession denied him
due process of law; and that the case should be reversed for that
reason. The view we take as to the systematic exclusion of Negro
jurors makes it unnecessary to pass on the alleged extorted confession.
.2Bush v. Kentucky, 107 U. S.110, 122.
a Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. B. 339; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.
370; Carterv. Texas, 177 U. S. 442; Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226;
Norris'v. Alabama; 294 U. S. 587; Hollins v. Oklahoma, 295 U. S. 394;
Hale v. Kentucky, 303 U. S. 613; Pierre v. Louisiana, 306 U: S. 354;
Smith v. Texas, 311 U. S. 128; Hill v. Texai, 316 U. S. 400.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

for depriving defendants of their rights was "ingenious or
ingenuous."
Whether ther-2 has been systematic racial discrimination
by administrative 'officials in the selection of jurors is a
question to be determined from the facts in each particular
case. In this case the Mississippi Supreme Court concluded that petitioner had failed to prove systematic racial
discrimination in the selection of jurors, but in so concluding it erroneously considered only the fact that no
Negroes were on the particular venire lists from which the
juries were drawn that indicted and convicted petitioner.'
It regarded as irrelevant the key fact that for thirty years
or more no Negro had served on the grand or petit juries.
This omission seriously detracts from the weight and
respect that we would otherwise give to its conclusion in
reviewing the facts, as we must in a constitutional question
like this.'
It is to be noted at once that the indisputable fact
that no Negro had served on a criminal court grand or
petit jury for a period of thirty years created a very strong
showing that during that period Negroes were' systematically excluded from jury service because'of race." When
such a showing was made, it became a duty of the State'
to try to justify such an exclusion as having been brought
about for some reason other than racial discrimination.
The Mississippi Supreme Court did not conclude, the
State did not offer Any evidence, and in fact did not make
any claim, that its officials had abandoned their old jury
selection practices. The State Supreme Court's conclu'Smith v. Texas, 311 U. S. 128, 132.
5
Akins v. Texas, 325 U. S. 398, 403.
6Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 590; Pierre v. Louisiana, 306
U. S.354, 358; Akins v. Texas, 325 U. S. 398, 402; Fay v. New York,
332 U. S. 261, 272.
7Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, 397; Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S.
587, 591; Pierrev. Louisiana,306 U. S. 354, 361.

PATTON v. MISSISSIPPI.
463

Opinion of the Court.

sion of justification rested upon the following reasoning.
Section 1762 of the Mississippi Code enumerates the qualifications for jury service, the most important of which
apparently are that one must be a male citizen and "a
qualified elector." Sections 241, 242, 243 and 244 of the
State Constitution set forth the prerequisites for qualified
electors. Among other things, these provisions require
that each elector shall pay an annual poll tax, produce satisfactory proof of such payment, and be able to read any
section of the State Constitution, or to understand the
same when read to him, or to give a reasonable interpretation thereof. The evidence showed that a very small
number of Negro male citizens (the court estimated about
25), as compared with white male citizens, had met the
requirements for qualified, electors, and thereby become
eligible to be considered under additional tests for jury
service. On this subject the State Supreme Court said:
"Of the 25 qualified negro male electors there
would be left, therefore, as those not exempt, 12 or 13
available male negro electors as compared with 5,500
to 6,000 male white electors as to whom, after deducting 500 to 1,000 exempt, would leave a proportion of
5,000 nonexempt white jurors to 12 or 13 nonexempt
negro jurors, or about one-fourth of one per cent
negro jurors,--400 to 1. . . . For the reasons already heretofore stated there was only a chance of
1 in 400 that a negro would appear on such a venire
and as this venire was of one hundred jurors, the
sheriff, had he brought in a negro, would have had
to discriminate against white jurors, not against
negroes,-he could not be expected to bring in onefourth of one negro."
Although this latter statement was made with particular reference
to the special venire from which the petit jury was drawn, the reasoning of the court applied also to its grounds for holding that there was
no discrimination in excluding Negroes from the grand jury.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

The above statement of the Mississippi Supreme Court
illustrates the unwisdom of attempting to disprove systematic racial discrimination in the selection of jurors by
percentage calculations applied to the composition of a
single venire1
The petitioner here points out certain legislative record
evidence " of which it is claimed we can take judicial
notice, and which it is asserted establishes that the reason
why there are so few qualified Negro electors in Mississifgpi is because of discrimination against them in making
up the registration lists. But we need not consider that
question in this case. For it is clear from the evidence
in the record that there were some Negroes in Lauderdale
County on the registration list. In fact, in 1945, the circuit clerk of the county, who is himself charged with
duties in administering the jury system, sent the names
of eight Negroes to the jury commissioner of the Federal
District Court as citizens of Lauderdale County qualified
for federal jury service. Moreover, there was evidence
that the names of from thirty to several hundred qualified
Negro electors were on the registration lists. But whatever the precise number of qualified colored electors'in the
county, there were some; and if it can possibly be conceived that all of them were disqualified for jury service
by reason of the commission of crime, habitual drunkenness, gambling, inability to read and write, or to meet
any other or all of the statutory tests, we do not doubt
that the State could have proved it. 1
We hold that the State wholly failed to meet the very
strong evidence of purposeful racial discrimination made
out by the petitioner upon the uncontradicted showing
that for thirty years or more no Negro had served as a juror
9

Akins v. Texas, 325 U. S. 398,403.
Hearings before Special Committee to Investigate Senatorial
Campaign Expenditures, 1946, 79th Cong., 2d Sess. (1947).
2"Hill v. Texas, 316 U. S. 400, 404-405.
10

SILESIAN-AMERICAN CORP. v. CLARK.
463

469

Syllabus.

in the criminal courts of Lauderdale County. When a
jury selection plan, whatever it is, operates in such way
as always to result in, the complete and long-continued exclusion of any representative at all from a large group
of Negroes, or any other racial group, indictments and
verdicts returned against them by juries thus selected
cannot stand. As we pointed out in Hill v. Texas, 316
U. S. 400, 406, our holding does not mean that a guilty
defendant must go free. For indictments can be returned
'and convictions can be obtained by juries selected as the
Constitution commands.
The judgment of the Mississippi Supreme Court is reversed and the case is remanded for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

SILESIAN-AMERICAN

CORP. ET AL. v. CLARK,
ATTORNEY GENERAL, AS SUCCESSOR TO THE
ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 6.

Argued May 1, 1947.-Reargued November 12, 1947.Decided December 8,1947.

1. Pursuant to the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended by
the First War Powers Act of 1941, and Executive Order 9095,
as amended, the Alien Property Custodian issued an order vesting
in himself title to certain shares of stock in petitioner, a Delaware
corporation, and directing petitioner to cancel the certificates for
such stock outstanding on its books and to issue new certificates
to the Custodian. The order contained a finding that, although
prior to August 31, 1939, the shares stood on the books of petitioner in the name of a Swiss corporation, they were held for the
benefit of a German corporation, and constituted property belonging to a national of Germany. It was contended that the shares
were pledged to certain Swiss banks as collateral for a loan.
Held: The Custodian's order is valid and must be complied with.
Pp. 474-479.

