OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

LEE v. MISSISSIPPI.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 91.

Argued November 21, 1947.-Decided January 19,1948.

1. A defendant in a criminal prosecution in a state court, who testified that he had not i fact confessed, is not thereby precluded
from raising the issue that an alleged confession offered as evidence

was coerced and that a conviction obtAined by the use thereof
denied him due piocess of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 742-746.
2. The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment invalidates
a state court conviction grounded in whole or in part upon a confession which is the product of other than reasoned and voluntary
choice. P. 745.
3. Foreclosing the right to complain of the use of an allegedly coerced
confession because of inconsistent testimony as to the confession
would itself be a denial of due process of law. Pp. 745-746.
201 Miss. 423, 30 So. 2d 74, reversed.

Petitioner's conviction in a criminal prosecution in a

state court, claimed to have denied his rights under the
Fourteenth Amendment, was affirmed by the State Supreme Court. 201 Miss. 423, 30 So. 2d 74. This Court
granted certiorari. 331 U. S. 795. Reversed, p. 746.
Forrest B. Jackson argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Richard Olney Arrington, Assistant Attorney General
of Mississippi, argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief was Greek L. Rice, Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves a question of procedure under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the United States Constitution. Does a defendant in a

LEE v. MISSISSIPPI.
742

Opinion of the Court.

state criminal proceeding lose. the right to contend that
a confession was coerced because of his testimony that the
confession was in fact never made?
Petitioner, a 17-year-old Negro, was indicted by a
grand jury in Mississippi on a charge of assault with
intent to ravish a female of previous chaste character.
During the course of the trial, the state offered the testimony of two city detectives as to an alleged oral confession
obtained by them from petitioner. Objection was made
that this confession had been .secured as the result of
duress, threats and violence inflicted upon petitioner by
two unidentified police officers several hours prior to the
confession. The jury retired and a preliminary hearing
was held before the trial judge as to the voluntariness
of this confession. After various witnesses appeared, including the petitioner himself, the judge concluded that
the confession was voluntary and that the testimony in
relation thereto was admissible. This testimony proved
to be the crucial element leading to the jury's conviction
of petitioner. His sentence was fixed at 18 years. in
prison.
The Mississippi Supreme Court affirmed the conviction
on appeal, rejecting petitioner's contention that the
introduction of the testimony in question contravened
his rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. It stated
that the conduct of the two unidentified officers alleged
to have struck and threatened petitioner was, if true,
indefensible and warranted condemnation. But it felt
that "the issue of fact as well as credibility was for the
trial judge upon such preliminary qualification, and we
are not willing to disturb his conclusion." 201 Miss. 423,
432, 29 So. 2d 211, 212.
This constitutional contention was treated quite differently by the court on the filing of a suggestion of error.
It found that petitioner's testimony at the preliminary
hearing that he had been threatened prior to making the

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

confession was entirely undisputed in the record. But
it also found that petitioner had steadfastly testified, both
at the preliminary hearing and at the trial on the merits
before the jury, that he did not in fact admit to the city
detectives that he had committed the crime. The court
then stated: "If the accused had not denied having made
any confession at all, we would feel constrained to reverse
the conviction herein because of the fact that his testimony as to the threat made to him during the forenoon
by the plain clothes men is wholly undisputed, the jailer
not having been. asked about this threat, and having
testified only that he was not struck by anyone in his
presence after his arrest for this crime. But, we think
that one accused of crime cannot be heard to say that
he did not make a confession at all, and at the same time
contend that an alleged confession was made under the
inducement of fear." 201 Miss. 423, 435, 30 So. 2d 74, 75.
The suggestion of error was accordingly overruled.
The incomplete record before us precludes our determination of whether petitioner did deny in the trial
court that he had confessed the crime.1 But assuming
that he did so testify, we cannot agree with the court
below that he was thereby estopped from asserting his
constitutional right to due process of law. The important fact is that the oral confession was intrcduced,
admitted and used as evidence of petitioner's guilt. Not
I The transcript of the trial on the merits is not before us. At
the prelimin. ry hearing on the voluntariness of the confession, the
transcript of which is before us, petitioner stated in regard to the
alleged confession: "I don't know what all he asked and all I said,
but I didn't admit I did it." He also denied having confessed various
details of the crime. Such testimony, however, might be construed
as nothing more than a layman's inexact way of stating that his
answers did not amount to a voluntary confession. But in the
absence of the complete record,' we express no opinion on t e
matter.

LEE v. MISSISSIPPI.
742

Opinion of the Court.

only may this confession have been influential in indtkcing
the jury's verdict, but it formed an essential part of the
evidentiary basis of the conviction now under review.
His alleged denial of the confession went only to the
original issue of whether-he actually made the confession,
an issue that is no longer open. That question was at
most a disputed one; but the jury resolved the matter
against petitioner and, like the court below, we accept
that determination. The sole concern now is with the
validity of the conviction based upon the use of the oral
confession.
The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
invalidates a state court conviction grounded in whole
or in part upon a confession which is the product of other
than reasoned and voluntary choice. 2 A conviction resulting from such use of a coerced confession,.,however, is
no less void because the accused testified at some point
in the proceeding that he had never in fact confessed,
voluntarily or involuntarily. Testimony of that nature
can hardly legalize a procedure which conflicts with the
accepted principles of due process. And since our constitutional system permits a conviction to be sanctioned only
if in conformity with those principles, inconsistent testimony as to the confession should not and cannot preclude
the accused from raising the due process issue in'an appropriate manner. White v. Texas, 310 U. S. 530, 531-532.
Indeed, such a foreclosure of the right to complain "of a
2 Brown

v. Mississippi, 297 U. S. 278; Chambers v. Florida, 309

U. S.227; Canty v. Alabama, 309 U. S.629; White v. Texas, 309
U. S. 631, 310 U. S.530; Lomax v. Texas, 313 U. S. 544; Vernon
v. Alabama, 313 U. S. 547; Lisenba v. California, 314 U. S. 219;
Ward v. Texas, 316 U. S.547; Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143,
327 U. S.274; Lyons v: Oklahoma, 322 U. S.596; Mdlipski v. New
York, 324 U. S.401; Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596.
See, in general, B.6skey and Pickering, "Federal Restrictions on
State Criminal Procedure," 13 U. of Chi. L. Rev. 266, 282-295.

746

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

wrong so fundamental that it made the whole proceeding
a mere pretense of a trial and rendered the conviction and
sentence wholly void," Brown v. Mississippi,297 U. S. 278,
286, would itself be a denial of due process of law.
The judgment below must be reversed. Since the Mississippi Supreme Court upheld the conviction solely because it thought petitioner was not entitled to raise the
constitutional issue, we remand the case to that court
so that it may definitively express its views on that
issue.
Reversed.

