OCTOBER TEAM, 1947.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

adopted instead the policy recognizing such sales as lawful
sales conditioned upon payment to the Government of
the charges here being considered. Financial burdens
which may be postponed without the payment of interest
are much less burdensome than those that are not postponable or that are subject to the accrual of interest
during their postponement. The omission of the usual
interest charge on postponed marketing penalties therefore decreases the force of the Act as a deterring factor
and runs counter to the special purpose of the Act.
For these reasons, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, affirming that of the District Court allowing
interest from the date of default, should have been
affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE joins in this dissent.

FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORP. v. MERRILL
ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS

MERRILL BROS.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IDAHO.

No. 45.

Argued October 16, 1947.-Decided November 10, 1947.

1. The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, a wholly governmentowned corporation created by the Federal Crop Insurance Act to
insure producers of wheat against crop losses due to unavoidable
causes, including drought, promulgated and published in the Federal Register regulations specifying the conditions on which it
would insure wheat crops, including a provision making "spring
wheat which has been reseeded on winter wheat acreage" ineligible
for insurance., Without actual knowledge of this provision, a wheat
grower applied to the Corporation's local agent for insurance on

his wheat crop, informing the local agent that most of it was being
reseeded on winter wheat acreage; but this information was not
included in the written application. The Corporation accepted the
application subject to the terms 'of its regulations. Most of the
crop on the reseeded acreage was destroyed by drought. Held:
The Corporation is not liable for the loss on the reseeded acreage.
Pp. 381-386.

FEDERAL CROP INS. CORP. v. MERRILL.
380

381

Opinion of the Court.

2. Having been published in the Federal Register, the Wheat Crop
Insurance Regulations are binding on all who seek to come within
the Federal Crop Insurance Act, regardless of la,'.,
of actual knowl,
edge of the regulations. P. 385.
67 Idaho 196, 174 P. 2d 834, reversed.

The Supreme Court of Idaho affirmed a judgment
against the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation for loss
of a wheat crop which had been reseeded on winter wheat
acreage. 67 Idaho 196,174 P. 2d 834. This Court granted
certiorari. 331 U. S.798. Reversed, p. 386.
Harry I. Rand argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were SolicitorGeneral Perlman,Assistant
Attorney General Fordand PaulA. Sweeney.
A. A. Merrill argued the cause for respondent.
him on the brief was 0. A. Johannesen.

With

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We brought this case here because it involves a question
of importance in the administration of the Federal Crop
Insurance Act. 331 U. S.798.
The relevant facts may be briefly stated. Petitioner
(hereinafter called the Corporation) is a wholly Government-owned enterprise, created by the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as an "agency of and within the Department
of Agriculture." Sec. 503 of Chapter 30, Act of February
16, 1938, 52 Stat. 72, 7 U. S. C. § 1503, as amended. To
carry out the purposes of the Act, the Corporation,
"Commencing with the wheat . . . crops planted for
harvest in 1945" is empowered "to insure, upon such
terms and conditions not inconsistent with the provisions
of this title as it may determine, producers of wheat
... against loss in yields due to unavoidable causes,
including drought . . ."
52 Stat. 74, § 508 (a) as

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

amended, 55 Stat. 255, in turn amended by the Act of
December 23, 1944, Chapter 713, 58 Stat. 918, 7 U. S. C.
(Supp. V, 1946), § 1508 (a). - In pursuance of its authority, the Corporation on February 5, 1945, promulgated its
Wheat Crop Insurance Regulations, which were duly
published in the Federal Register on February 7, 1945.
10 Fed. Reg. 1586.
On March 26, 1945, respondents applied locally for
insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act to cover
wheat farming operations in Bonneville County, Idaho.
Respondents informed the Bonneville County Agricultural Conservation Committee, acting as agent for the
Corporation, that they were planting 460 acres of spring
wheat and that on 400 of these acres they were reseeding
on winter wheat acreage. The Committee advised respondents that the entire crop was insurable, and recommended to the Corporation's Denver Branch Office acceptance of' the application. (The formal application
itself did 'not disclose that any part of the insured crop
was reseeded.) On May 28, 1945, the Corporation
accepted the application.
In July, 1945, most of the respondents' crop was destroyed by drought. Upon being notified, the Corporation, after discovering that the destroyed acreage had
been reseeded, refused to pay the loss, and this litigation
was appropriately begun in one of the lower courts of
Idaho. The trial court rejected the Corporation's contention, presented by a demurrer to the complaint, that
the Wheat Crop Insurance Regulations barred recovery
as a matter of law. Evidence was thereupon permitted
to go to the jury to the effect that the respondents
had no actual knowledge of the Regulations, insofar as
they precluded insurance for reseeded wheat, and that
they had, in fact been misled by petitioner's agent into
believing that spring wheat feseeded on winter wheat
ane. aae wa§ insurable by the Corporation. The jury

FEDERAL CROP INS. CORP. v. MERRILL.
380

383

Opinion of the Court.

returned a verdict for the loss on all the 460 acres and
the Supreme Court of Idaho affirmed the resulting judgment. 67 Idaho 196, 174 P. 2d 834. That court in effect
adopted the theory of the trial judge, that since the
knowledge of the agent of a private insurance company,
under the circumstances of this case, would be attributed
to, and thereby bind, a private insurance company, the
Corporation is equally bound.
The case no doubt presents phases of hardship. We
take for granted that, on the basis of what they were told
by the Corporation's local agent, the respondents reasonably believed that their entire crop was covered by petitioner's insurance. And so we assume that recovery could
be had against a private insurance company. But the
Corporation is not a private insurance company. It is
too late in the day to urge that the Government is just
another private litigant, for purposes of charging it with
liability, whenever it takes over a business theretofore
conducted by private enterprise or engages in competition
with private ventures.' Government is not partly public
or partly private, depending upon the governmental
pedigree of the type of a particular activity or the man' Judging from the legislative history of the Act, the Government
engaged in crop insurance as a pioneer. Private insurance companies
apparently. deemed all-risk crop insurance too great a commercial
hazard. See Report and Recommendations of the President's Committee on Crop Insurance, H. Doc. No. 150, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pp. 2-4, 11-12; H. R. Rep. No. 1479, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2; 81
Cong. Rec. 2866, 2867, 2887, 2891, 2893, 2895; Hearings before a
Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry
on S. 1397, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 125, 185. But this does not affect
the legal issues. It merely underscores the fact that the undertaking
by the Government is not an ordinary commercial undertaking, and
thereby reenforces the conclusion that the rules of law whereby private
insurance companies are rendered liable for the acts of their agents are
not bodily applicable to a Government agency like the Corporation,
unless Congress has so provided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

ner in which the Government conducts it. The Government may carry on its operations through conventional executive agencies or through corporate forms
especially created for defined ends. See Keifer &
Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp., 306 U. S. 381,
390. Whatever the form in which the Government functions, anyone entering into an arrangement with the
Government take$ the risk of having accurately ascertained that he who purports to act for the Government
stays within the bounds of his authority. The scope of
this authority may be explicitly defined by Congress or
be limited by delegated legislation, properly exercised
through the rule-making power. And this is so even
though, as here, the agent himself may have been unaware of the limitations upon his authority. See, e. g.,
Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States, 243 U. S.389,
409; United States v. Stewart, 311 U. S.60, 70, and see,
generally, The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666.
If the Federal Crop Insurance Act had by explicit
language prohibited the insurance of spring wheat which
is reseeded on winter wheat acreage, the ignorance of such
a restriction, either by the respondents or the Corporation's agent, would be immaterial and recovery could not
be had against the Corporation for loss of such reseeded
wheat. Congress could hardly define the multitudihous
details appropriate for the business of crop insurance when
the Government entered it. Inevitably "the terms and
conditions" upon which valid governmental insurance can,
be had must be defined by the agency acting for the Government. And so Congress has legislated in this instance,
as in modern regulatory enactments it so often does, by
conferring the rule-making power upon the agency created for carrying out its policy. See § 516 (b), 52 Stat.
72, 77, 7 U. S. C. § 1516 (b). Just as everyone is charged
with knowledge of the United States Statutes at Iarge,

FEDERAL CROP INS. CORP. v. MERRILL. . 385
380

Opinion of the Court.

Congress has provided that the appearance of rules and
regulations in the Federal Register gives legal notice of
their contents. 49 Stat. 502, 44 U. S. C. § 307.
Accordingly, the Wheat Crop Insurance Regulations
were binding on all who sought to come within the Federal
Crop Insurance Act, regardless of actual knowledge of
what is in the Regulations or of the hardship resulting
from innocent ignorance. The oft-quoted observation in
Rock Island,Arkansas & LouisianaRailroadCo,v. United
States, 254 U. S. 141, 143, that "Men must turn square
corners when they deal with the Government," does not
reflect a callous outlook. It merely expresses the duty of
all courts to observe the conditions defined by Congress
for charging the public treasury. The "terms and conditions" defined by the Corporation, under authority of
Congress, for creating liability on the part of the Government preclude recovery for the loss of the reseeded wheat
no matter with what good reason the respondents thought
they had obtained insurance from the Government. Indeed, not only do the Wheat Regulations limit the liability of the Government as if they had been enacted by
Congress directly, but they were in fact incorporated by
reference in the application,2 as specifically required by the
Regulations.'
2

"H. Acceptance by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.-

It is understood and agreed that upon acceptance of the application
by a duly authorized representative of the Corporation as evidenced
by his approval below, the insurance contract shall be in effect,
provided the application has been submitted in accordance with the
provisions of the application and the applicable Wheat Crop Insurance Regulations. It is further understood and agreed that the
accepted application and the applicable Wheat Crop Insurance Regulations, including any amendments thereto, constitute the contract
between the Corporation and the insured."
3,"§ 414.3 Acceptance of applications by the Corporation. (a)
Upon acceptance of an application by a duly authorized representa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

We have thus far assumed, as did the parties here and
the courts below, that the controlling regulation in fact
precluded insurance coverage for spring wheat reseeded on
winter wheat acreage. It explicitly states that the term
"wheat crop shall not include . . .winter wheat in the
1945 crop year, and spring wheat which has been reseeded
on winter wheat acreage in the 1945 crop year." (Sec.
414.37 (v) of Wheat Crop Insurance Regulations, 10 Fed.
Reg. 1591.) The circumstances of this case tempt one
to read the regulation, since it is for us to read it, with
charitable laxity. But not even the temptations of a
hard case can elude the clear meaning of the regulation.
It precludes recovery foe "spring wheat which has been
reseeded on winter wheat acreage in the 1945 crop year."
Concerning the validity of the regulation, as "not inconsistent with the provisions" of the Federal Crop Insurance
Act, no question has been raised.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissent.

MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

I would affirm the decision of the court below. If crop
insurance contracts made by agencies of the United States
Government are to be judged by the law of the State in
which they are written, I find no error in the court below.
tive of the Corporation, the insurance contract shall be in effect,
provided such application is submitted in accordance with the provisions of the application and of these regulations, including any amendments thereto." 10 Fed. Reg. 1586. The regulation defined "insur-

ance contract" as "the contract of insurance entered into between the
applicant-.and the Corporation by virtue of the application for insurance andr these regulations and any amendments thereto." 10 Fed.

R( g .1591.

FEDERAL CROP INS. CORP. v. MERRILL.
3SO

JACKSON,

387

J., dissenting.

If, however, we are to hold them subject only to federal
law and to declare what that law is, I can see no reason
why we should not adopt a rule which recognizes the
practicalities of the business.
It was early discoered that fair dealing in the insurance business required that the entire contract between
the policyholder and the insurance company be embodied
in the writings which passed between the parties, namely,
the written application, if any, and the policy issued. It
may be well enough to make some types of contracts
with the Government subject to long and involved regulations published in the Federal Register. To my mind,
it is an absurdity to hold that every farmer who insures
his crops knows what the Federal Register contains or
even knows that there is such a publication. If he were
to peruse this voluminous and dull publication as it is
issued from time to time in order to make sure whether
anything has been promulgated that affects his rights, he
would never need crop insurance, for he would never get
time to plant any crops. Nor am I convinced that a
reading of technically-worded regulations would enlighten
him much in any event.
In this case, the Government entered a field which
required the issuance of large numbers of insurance policies to people engaged in agriculture. It could not expect
them to be lawyers, except in rare instances, an d one
should not be expected to have to employ a lawyer to
see whether his own Government is issuing him a policy
which in case of loss would turn out to be no pelicy at
all. There was no fraud or concealment, and those who
represented the Government in taking on the risk apparently no more suspected the existence of a hidden regulation that would render the contract void than did the
policyholder. It is very well to say that those who deal
with the Government should turn square corners. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
332 U. S.

Syllabus.

there is no reason why the square corners should cQnstitute a one-way street.
The Government asks us to lift its policies out of the
control of the States and to find or fashion a federal rule
to govern them. I should respond to that request by
laying down a federal rule that would hold these agencies
to the same fundamental principles of fair dealing that
have been found essential in progressive states to prevent
insurance from being an investment in disappointment.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS joins

in this opinion.

DELGADILLO v. CARMICHAEL, DISTRICT DIRECTOR, IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 63.

Argued October 22, 1947.-Decided November 10, 1947.

More than five years after he had entered the United States legally,
an alien shipped as a seaman on an American ship bound from
Los Angeles to New York. The ship was torpedoed and he was
rescued and taken to Havana, whence he was returned to the United
States. He was convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude
committed within five years thereafter and was sentenced to imprisonment for a term of one year to life. Proceedings were irstituted
for his deportation. Held: He is not subject to deportation, since

his return to the United States was not "the entry of the alien to
the United States" within the meaning of § 19. (a) of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, as amended.

Pp. 389-391.

159 F. 2d 130, reversed.

On a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, the District
Court discharged a resident alien who was being held for
deportation under § 19 (a) of the Immigration Act of
February 5, 1917, as amended, 8 U. S. C. § 155 (a). The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 159 F. 2d 130. This

