OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

With that understanding, we reverse the judgment of the
District Court and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE agree

with Parts I and II of this opinion but dissent from the
holding in Part III.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON concurs in Part III of this
opinion. However, he believes that the complaint as a
whole fails to state a cause of action and that, therefore,
the judgment of the District Court dismissing it should
be affirmed.

.MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. MUNSEY TRUST CO.,
RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 847.

Argued May 6, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.

1. N'otwithstanding claims of a surety on a statutory payment bond
(given under 40 U. S. C. § 270a) for reimbursement for sums paid
to laborers and materialmen, the Government may set off, against
unappropriated percentages of progress payments withheld by it
and due to the contractor on the construction contract, a debt owed
to it by the contractor as a result of a separate and independent
transaction. Pp. 236-244.
2. When a receiver is appointed for a contractor with instructions to
collect money owing to the contractor by the Government and to
hold it for reimbursement of a surety on a payment bond for payments made to laborers and materialmen, a suit in the Court of
Claims by the receiver against the Government for money due
the contractor is in the right of the contractor; but the receiver
may assert the surety's rights also. P. 239.

UNITED STATES v. MUNSEY TRUST CO.
234

235

Statement of the Case.

3. Under Judicial Code § 145, 28 U. S. C. § 250, when a. receiver
asserts in the Court of Claims a contractor's title, to a sum owing
to him by the Government, that 'Court is under statutory duty to
recognize an undisputed claim of the Government against the
contractor. Pp. 239-240.
4. With reference to withheld and unappropriated percentages of
progress payments on a construction contract, performance of
which has been completed and accepted, the Government is not a
mere general creditor but a secured creditor entitled to withhold
what it owes the contractor until it is paid whatever the contractor
owes the Government. P. 240.
5. A surety on a payment bond who has paid laborers and materialmen for labor and material furnished under a Government con-'
struction contract is not entitled! by subrogation to their rights, to
a lien on unappropriated percentages of progress payments retained by the Government for its own protection. Pp. 241-242.
6. The right of the Government to retained percentages of progress
payments on a construction contract does not devolve on a surety
who has paid laborers and materialmen, so as to prevent the Government from applying the unappropriated sum to the satisfaction of its own claim growing out of a separate and independent
transaction. Pp. 242-243.
7. The provisions of 40 U. S. C. § 270a requiring a separate bond for
payment of laborers and materialmen were enacted for their benefit
and, do not give sureties who have paid them rights to the detriment
of the Government. Pp. 243-244.
8. When the work to be done under a Government construction
contract has been completed at the contract price and accepted by
the Government, the law of damages is not pertinent to the rights
of a surety on a payment bond given under 40 U. S. C. § 270a
who has paid laborers and materialmen. P. 244.
107 Ct. Cl. 131, 67 F. Supp. 976, reversed.

Notwithstanding the existence of a claim by the Government against the contractor growing out of another
transaction, the Court of Claims gave judgment against
the Government to a receiver for a contractor for withheld
and unappropriated percentages of progress payments on

a construction contract, to be used by the receiver in reimbuirsing a surety on a payment bond for payments made

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

to laborers and materialmen. 107 Ct. Cl. 131, 67 F. Supp.
976. This Court granted certiorari. 330 U. S. 814.
Reversed, p. 244.
Philip Elman argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, John
R. Benney, PaulA. Sweeney and Melvin Richter.
Alexander M. Heron and W. Braxton Dew argued the
cause for respondent. With them on the brief was.
William L. Owen.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents a problem arising out of contracts
for public building construction and repair. The rights
inter sese of contractor, surety, assignees and government
have been productive of much litigation, but we have not
heretofore had to decide whether percentages retained
pursuant to contract by the United States may be subjected to its set-off claims despite the claims of a surety
who has paid laborers and materialmen.
In May and July, 1940, six contracts were made between the United States and the Federal Contracting
Corporation, in which the corporate contractor agreed to
paint and repair certain federal buildings. Each contract conformed to the requirements of statute, 49 Stat.
793, 40 U. S. C. § 270a, et seq., by providing -for two
surety bonds, one c~nditioned on the completion of the
work within the contract period, and the other on the
payment of those furnishing labor and material to the
contractor. The Aetna Casualty and Surety Company
signed those bonds, each of which assigned to it the contractor's claims against the government for sums due on
the contracts whenever the surety should be compelled

UNITED STATES v. MUNSEY TRUST CO.
234

237

Opinion of the Court.

by default of the contractor to fulfill its obligations.1
The work was completed by the contractor apparently in
1940, and accepted by the government. The surety
therefore was not called upon to make good the promise
of the performance bonds. But the contractor did not
pay $13,065.93 owed to persons who had supplied labor
and material for performance of five of the six contracts.
This indebtediiess the surety paid between April and
September, 1941 as the payment bonds obliged it to do.
Under the customary terms of its contracts, the government had retained percentages of the progress payments due to the contractor. This retained money, on
acceptance of the work; amounted to $12,445.03, but it
was not disbursed. On October 18, 1940, the Federal
Contracting Corporation submitted a bid to the United
States for another painting job, in St. Louis. That bid
was accepted, but the contractor then failed to enter into
contract for the work. Another contractor painted the
building for a price which left the government considerably
more out-of-pocket than it would have been had Federal
undertaken performance at its bid price. It is undisputed that $6,731.50 is the amount of damages sustained
by the government after it had applied the contractor's
deposit of $415.00 in reduction.
Almost inevitably, court process was begun to untangle
claims to the money the United States still owed on the
six contracts. A stockholder of Federal asked the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia to
appoint a receiver 2 to collect the money. The Aetna
1 These assignments were of course invalid against the United
States, R. S. § 3477, 31 U. S. C. § 203; Martin v. National Surety Co.,
300 U. S. 588, but they enable the surety to -prevail over the contractor if there is contest between them.
2 Such proceedings to appoint a receiver in the District of Columbia
are for the purpose of taking possession of a fund or property and

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Casualty and Surety Company was made a party to that
action. Respondent here, the Munsey Trust Company,
was appointed receiver with directions to demand and
authority to receive from the United States the proceeds
of the six contracts. The order of appointment also recited that "the proceeds of all collections made by the
Receiver pursuant to this order shall be held for the reimbursement of the defendant The Aetna Casualty and
Surety Company for expenditures made by it in the payment of furnishers of labor and material under the several
contracts of the Federal Contracting Corporation."
On demand by the receiver for the amounts due, the
General Accounting Office deducted the government's
claim of $6,731.50 and paid over $5,713.53. Aetna, by
letter to the Comptroller General, protested the government's settlement by set-off and asserted its right to an
additional $3,568.23.' The receiver also protested the
set-off and demanded $3,143.23 for reimbursement of the
surety. It relied upon Maryland Casualty Co. v. United
States, 100 Ct. Cl* 513, 53 F. Supp. 436. The Acting
Comptroller General declined to follow the opinion of the
Court of Claims, in the absence of ruling by this Court,
and rejected the protests. When the receiver reported its
efforts to the district court, it was ordered to turn over to
the surety the money collected, less $500. That sum was
for prosecution of suit in the Court of Claims for the recovery of whatever other moneys "may be due under the
contracts of the Federal Contracting Corporation."- This
action was begun, and the Court of Claims gave judgment
for $3,568.23 to respondent. 107 Ct. Cl. 131, 67 F. Supp.
to prevent its loss or dissipation. Insolvency is not a necessary allegation, Houston v. Ormes, 252 U. S. 469, and there is no claim in this
case that the contractor is insolvent.
3 The surety did not and could not claim 'the whole amount retained
by the government. The payments for which it was liable, and which
it paid, on.two of the contracts exceeded, and on the other four were
less than, the amounts retained on each particular contract.

UNITED STATES v. MUNSEY TRUST CO.
234

239

Opinion of the Court.

976. We granted the government's petition for certiorari
because of the importance and novelty of the question
and the cumulative effect of Maryland Casualty Co. v.
United States, supra, and the decision below. 330. U. S.
814.
In these cases, it is usual for the rights relied upon to
be largely derivative or subrogated ones. Decision will
be attended with unnecessary confusion and difficulty if
it is not clear .whose rights are being asserted and who
claims them. The Court of Claims treated this case as
though the surety were plaintiff. But the district court.
directed the receiver to bring the suit. Its order of appointment made it the representative of Federal Contracting Corporation, although the sums it was to collect were
to be held for the reimbursement. of Aetna. The second
order authorized this action to collect whatever other
money might be held to be due under the six contracts
which the government would not Voluntarily pay. Certainly, the receiver sued at least in the right of Federal,
but since its efforts were directed to be for the benefit of
Aetna, it might assert the surety's rights also. Samuel
Olson & Co. v. Voorhees, 292 F.4l13, 115.
If the right of the United States to make the set-off
were opposed only by the claims of the contractor, this
case would present no difficulty. The government has
the same right "which belongs to every creditor, to apply
the unappropriated moneys,,of his debtor, in his hands,
in extinguishment of the debts due to him." Gratipt v.
United States, 15 Pet. 336, 370; McKnight v. U~ited
States, 98 U. S.179, 186. More than that, 'federal st.tute
gives jurisdiction to the Court of Claims to hear ari .determine "All set-offs, counterclaims, claims for darAages,
whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands
whatsoever on the part of the Government of the United
States against any claimant against the Government in
said court . . .." Judicial Code § 145, 28 U. S. C. § 250

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

(2). This power given to the Court of Claims to strike
a balance between the debts and credits of the government, by logical implication gives power to the Comptroller General to do the same, subject to review by that
court. Insofar as the suitor in the Court of Claims asserted the contractor's title to the sum in dispute, that
court was under statutory duty to recognize the undisputed claim for damages of the United States. Cherry
Cotton Mills, Inc. v. United States, 327 U. S. 536.
But the surety urges that it is subrogated also to the
rights of laborers and materialmen whom it paid and of
the United States. From PrairieState Bank v. United
States, 164 U. S. 227, to American Surety Co. v. Sampsell, 327 U. S. 269, we have recognized the peculiarly equitable claim of those responsible for the physical completion of building contracts to be paid from available
moneys ahead of others whose claims come from the
advance of money. But in all those cases, the owner was
a mere stakeholder and had no rights of its own to assert.
Respondent tells us that here the United States is in the
same position and that as a general creditor it has no
more right to the money which it holds than does any
other general creditor of the contractor.
At the time demand for payment was made by the
receiver, the claim of the United States on the St. Louis
contract was extant for some time. Tne disbursing
officers, therefore, did not concede that they held the entire amount of the retained percentages for distribution
to the contractor or others. And one whose own appropriation and payment of money is necessary to create a
fund for general creditors is not a general creditor. He
is not compelled to lessen his own chance of recovering
what is due him by setting up a fund undiminished by his
claim, so that others may share it with him. fn fact, he
is the best secured of creditors; his security is his own
justified refusal to pay what he owes until he is paid what
is due him.

UNITED STATES v. MUNSEY TRUST CO.
234

241

Opinion of the Court.

But the infirmity in respondent's case goes deeper. If
the United States were obligated to pay laborers and
materialmen unpaid by a contractor, the surety who
discharged that obligation could -claim subrogation.
But nothing is more clear than that laborers and
materialmen do not have enforceable rights against the
United States for their compensation. Cf. H. Herfurth,
Jr., Inc. v. United States, 89 Ct. Cl. 122; see Schmoll v.
United States, 105 Ct. Cl. 415, 455, 63 F. Supp. 753, 757;
Maryland Casualty Co. v. United States, 100 Ct. Cl. 513,
521-522, 53 F. Supp. 436, 440. They cannot acquire a
lien on public buildings, Hill v. American Surety Co.,
200 U. S. 197, 203; Equitable Surety Co. v. McMillan,
234 U. S. 448, 455, and as a substitute for that more customary protection, the various statutes were passed which
require that a surety guarantee their payment. Of these,
the last and the one now in force is the Miller Act under
which the bonds here were drawn.
The surety says, nevertheless, that the laborers and
materialmen may have a lien, or something in the nature
of a lien, on the retained percentages. Its argument runs
into logical difficulties. For it asserts that the moneys
are retained by the government as much for assurance
that the contractor will perform his contract by paying
the laborers and materialmen as by completing the work
on time. It is said .to follow that so long as they remain
unpaid, the contractor may not demand payment and
the government would be jus'tified in refusing to disburse the retained percentages.' In that case, how
may the laborers and materialmen have a lien upon
money which the United States may legally keep?
Surely it is not intended that the laborers and ma4 If the money is retained only to assure performance of the work,
then the contractor might compel payment when the work is ac-

cepted. In that case, the surety's argument falls, since obviously,
before paying, the government might set off claims against the
contractor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

terialmen may claim payment of that which is not
due to the contractor. We are aware that the laborers
and materialmen have been paid, so that by no interpretation of the contracts between government and contractor
can there be restrictions on paying out the money retained.
It is said that it was the surety's payment of those claims
which released the asserted contract restrictions. In relying on the rights of the laborers and materialmen, however, the surety must establish that those rights existed
before their claims were paid. For it is elementary that
one cannot acquire by subrogation what another whose
rights he claims did not have. Once the laborers and
materialmen have been paid, either by contractor or
surety, they have no rights in any fund. If before they
are paid, the fund to which they are said to be entitled to
look is unavailable for the very reason that they are unpaid, the surety relies on nothing when it relies on those
nonexistent "rights." One who rests on subrogation
stands in the place of one whose claim he has paid, as if
the payment giving rise to the subrogation had not been
.made. See Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Middleport, 124
U. S. 534, 548. He cannot jump back and forth in time
and present himself at once as the unpaid claimant and
again, under the conditions as they have changed, because
payment was made.
We need not decide whether laborers and materialmen
would have any claim to the retained percentages if both
contractor and surety failed to pay them. Even if they
do, certainly those would be rights to which the surety
could not be subrogated, for by hypothesis it would have
done nothing to earn subrogation.
The surety has yet another party whose rights it would
claim, if it cannot prevail by substitution for contractor
or laborers and materialmen. This contention too was
.sustained by the Court of Claims when it said that the
rights of the United States devolved upon the surety,
because of its payments. We are told that the United

UNITED STATES v. MUNSEY TRUST CO.
234

243

Opinion of the Court.

States retained the money to assure performance of all
the obligations of the contractor, and that the surety is
entitled to apply that security to indemnify itself for
performing one of those obligations. This is by analogy
to the rule that an obligee, as against a surety, may not
apply security in satisfaction of debts other than the
one it secures. See 4 Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence
(5th ed.) 1075. But although we have assumed, for the
purposes of another argument, that assurance that laborers and materialmen will be paid is one of the reasons
for retaining the money, it seems more likely that completion of the work on time is the only motive. California Bank v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
129 F. 2d 751; see Schmoll v. United States, 105 Ct. Cl.
415, 455, 63 F. Supp. 753, 757; Maryland Casualty Co. v.
United States, supra, at 439. It is hardly reasonable to
withhold money in order to assure payments which perhaps can be made only from the money earned. In any
event, we are not prepared to apply law relating to security to unappropriated sums which exist only as a claim.
Finally, the surety by reference to the Maryland Casualty case, supra, suggests that it has rights of its own in
the money which the. government retained. It argues
that the implication of th6 several contracts among government, contractor and surety was that the moneys
earned under the repair contracts would be available to
pay claims arising under each job. However, if statute
did not require a surety, there could be no question that
the government would have the right of set-off. Respondent's contention then comes to this: that by requiring the contractor to furnish assurances that he will
perform his obligations to laborers and materialmen, the
government has deliberately decreased the ordinary safeguards it would have had to enforce the contractor's obligations to it. We see nothing in the words of the contract
or the statute to lead us to this conclusion. On the contrary, the statutory provisions requiring a separate bond

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

for payment of laborers and materialmen were enacted for
their benefit, not to the detriment of the government.
It is the surety who is required to take risk. We have no
warrant to increase risks of the government.
Respondent argues that if the work had not been completed, and the surety chose not to complete it, the surety
would be liable only for the amount necessary to complete,
less the retained money. Moreover, if the surety did
complete the job, it -would be entitled to the retained
moneys in addition to progress payments. The situation
here is said to be similar. But when a job is incomplete,
the government must expend funds to get the work done,
and is entitled to claim damages only in the amount of
the excess which it pays for the job over what it would
have paid had the contractor not defaulted. Therefore,
a surety would rarely undertake to complete a job if it
incurred the risk that by completing it might lose more
than if it had allowed the government to proceed. When
laborers and materialmen, however, are unpaid and the
work is complete, the government suffers no damage.,
The work has been done at the contract price. The government cannot suffer damage because it is under no
legal obligation to pay the laborers and materialmen.
In the case of the laborers' bond, the surety has promised
that they will be paid, not, as in the case of performance
bond, that work will be done at a certain price. The
law of damages is therefore not pertinent to the payment
bond.
We hold that the government properly used its right
to set off its independent claim and the judgment below
must be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON

dissents.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

