OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

FOSTER

ET AL. v.

332 U. S.

ILLINOIS.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 540.

Argued May 8, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.

1. In reviewing on writ of error a conviction for burglary and
larceny in which it was claimed that the right to counsel had been
denied contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, a state supreme
court was confined by local practice to the common law record.
That record contained no specific recital of an offer of counsel;
but it showed that the defendant was a mature man and that,
before accepting his plea of guilty, the trial court advised him of
his "rights of trial" and of the consequences of a plea of guilty; and
it contained nothing to contradict this account of the proceedings.
In the state supreme court, there was neither proof nor uncontradieted allegation of any actual miscarriage of justice in accepting
the plea of guilty; and that court affirmed the conviction. Held:
On this record, to which review in this Court is confined, there
is no showing of a denial of due process under the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 138-139.
2. The provision of the Sixth Amendment which guarantees to an
accused in'a criminal prosecution in a federal court the absolute
right "to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence," is not
made applicable by the Fourteenth Amendment to prosecutions in
state courts. Pp. 136-137.
394 Il. 194, 68-N. E. 2d 252, affirmed.

In an original proceeding in the Supreme Court of Illinois, petitioners challenged the validity, under the Federal
Constitution, of sentences of imprisonment imposed on
them upon pleas of guilty in criminal prosecutions in a
state court. The State Supreme Court affirmed the judgments. 394 Ill. 194, 68 N. E. 2d 252. This Court
granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 712. Affirmed, p. 139.
Charles R. Kaufman argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioners.

FOSTER v. ILLINOIS.
134

Opinion of the Court.

William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the
brief were George F. Barrett, Attorney General,, and
James C. Murray, Assistant Attorney General.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by
Eugene F. Black, Attorney General, Edmund E. Shepherd, Solicitor General, and Daniel J. O'Hara, Assistant
Attorney General, for the State of Michigan; and Sterry
R. Waterman for the State of Vermont.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an original proceeding in the Supreme Court
of Illinois by way of writ of error to test the validity
of sentences of imprisonment following pleas of guilty.
The Supreme Court of Illinois having affirmed the judgment, 394 Ill. 194, 68 N. E. 2d 252, we brought the case
here, 329 U. S. 712, because of the importance of reviewing
convictions where solid doubt is raised whether the
requirements of due process have been observed.
On February 22, 1935, the petitioners were sentenced
to confinement in the Illinois State Penitentiary, under
the Illinois State indeterminate sentence law, after pleading guilty to an indictment charging them with burglary
and larceny. Cahill's Ill. Rev. Stats. (1933) c. 38,
§§ 65, 796. Since the controversy turns on the legal
significance of the circumstances under which the pleas of
guilty were accepted, it > important to state them according to the record which, for purposes of this proceeding,
is binding upon the Illinois Supreme Court and therefore
upon this Court. According to the "Minutes from the
Judges Docket," the defendants Foster and Payne (petitioners here)

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

"having been furnished with a copy of the Indictment and a list of the Jurors and Peoples Witnesses
and are advised of their rights of Trial and of the
consequences of an entry of a plea of guilty and
being arraigned in open Court for plea to the Indictment says, each for himself That he is guilty of
burglary and larceny as charged in the indictment
and thereupon the Court advises and admonishes each
of said defendants of the consequences of entering
such pleas of guilty, and Thereafter each of said
defendants still persist in such pleas of guilty . . .
Whereupon said pleas of guilty are received and
entered of record."
"The Court finds the ages of said defendants
to be as follows, respectively, Nelson Foster 34
years old, George Payne, alias Elijah Jefferson 48
years ....
Eleven years later, on February 7, 1946, the petitioners
asked the Supreme Court of Illinois for their discharge.
Various state grounds were urged and rejected. Our sole
concern is with the claim "that the record in this case
fails to show" a compliance with the Fourteenth Amendment insofar as the Due Process Clause of that Amendment requires an accused to have the benefit of counsel.
The considerations that guide the disposition of this
case have been canvassed here in a series of recent opinions.
The "due process of law" which the Fourteenth Amendment exacts from the States is a conception of fundamental
justice. See Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312, 316;
Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S.319, 325. It is not satisfied by merely formal procedural correctness, nor is it
confined by any absolute rule such as that which the Sixth
Amendment contains in securing to an accused "the Assistance of Counsel for his defence." By virtue of that
provision, counsel must be furnished to an indigent de-

FOSTER v. ILLINOIS.
134

Opinion of the Court.

fendant prosecuted in a federal court in every case, whatever the circumstances. See Palko v. Connecticut, supra,
at 327; Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458; Betts v. Brady,
316 U. S. 455, 464-65. Prosecutions in State courts are
not subject to this fixed requirement. So we have held
upon fullest consideration. Betts v. Brady, supra. But
process of law in order to be "due" does require that a State
give a defendant ample opportunity to meet an accusation. And so, in the circumstances of a "particular situation," assignment of counsel may be "essential to the
substance of a hearing" as part of the due process which
the Fourteenth Amendment exacts from a State which
imposes sentence. Palko v. Connecticut, supra, at 327.
Such need may exist whether an accused contests a charge
against him or pleads guilty.
The rationale of this application of due process was
first expounded in Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45. In
following that case our recent decisions have spoken of
"the rule of Powell v. Alabama," or "the requirements of
Powell v. Alabama," thereby indicating the essential
scope of the doctrine. See Williams v. Kaiser, 323 U. S.
471, 476-77; Tomkins v. Missouri, 323 U. S. 485, 488.
And so, in every case in which this doctrine was invoked
and due process was found wanting, the prisoner sustained
the burden of proving, or was prepared to prove but was
denied opportunity, that for want of benefit of counsel
an ingredient of unfairness actively operated in the process
that resulted in his confinement. See Powell v. Alabama,
supra, at 51, 53, 56, 57-58; Smith v. O'Grady, 312 U. S.
329, 334; Williams v. Kaiser, supra, at 472, 473-74, and
476-77; Tomkins v. Missouri, supra, at 486-487; House
v. Mayo, 324 U. S. 42, 45-46; White v. Ragen, 324 U. S'
760, 762-63; Rice v. Olson, 324 U. S. 786, 788-89. Only
the other day, in a case concerning a charge of first-degree
murder against a seventeen-year-old defendant, in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

we found a deprivation "of rights essential to a fair hearing," we took pains to point out that "The court did not
explain the consequences of the plea of guilty, and the
record indicates considerable confusion in petitioner's.
mind at the time of the arraignment as to the effect of
such a plea." De Meerleer v. Michigan, 329 U. S. 663,
664.
In this case there is neither proof nor uncontradicted
allegation of any such miscarriage of justice in accepting
pleas of guilty. The record of the proceeding plainly
imports an observance of due process. In the contemporaneous language of the trial court, the defendants
"are advised of their rights of Trial and of the consequences of an entry of a plea of guilty," the court "advises
and admonishes each of said defendants of the consequences of entering such pleas of guilty," and the defendants thereafter still persisting, their pleas "are received
and entered of record." There was nothing in the common-law record, on the basis of which the Supreme Court
of Illinois rendered its decision, to contradict this account
of the proceedings in 1935. We thus have in effect the
bald claim that, merely because the record does not disclose an offer of counsel to a defendant upon a plea of
guilty, although the court before accepting the plea duly
advised him of his "rights of Trial" and of the consequences of such a plea, he is "deprived of rights essential
to a fair hearing under the Federal Constitution." De
Meerleer v. Michigan,supra, at 665.
We reject such a claim. Most incarcerations are upon
pleas of guilty, and probably most such pleas have been
made without the felt need of counsel. It is not for us
to suggest that it might be desirable to offer to every
accused *ho de'sires to plead guilty the opportunities
for counsel and to enter with formality upon the record
the deliberate disclaimer of his need for counsel because

FOSTER v. ILLINOIS.
134

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

of a full appreciation of the meaning of a plea of
guilty as expounded by responsible judges. Our duty
does not go beyond safeguarding "rights essential to a
fair hearing" by the States. After all, due process, "itself
a historical product," Jackman v. Rosenbaum Co., 260
U. S.22, 31, is not to be turned into a destructive dogma
in the administration of systems of criminal justice under
which the States have lived not only before the Fourteenth
Amendment but for the eighty years since its adoption.
It does not militate against respect for the deeply rooted
systems of criminal justice in the States that such an
abrupt innovation as recognition of the constitutional
claim here made implies, would furnish opportunities
hitherto uncontemplated for opening wide the prison
doors of the land.
Insofar as the sentences in this case are attacked on
claims which were not open for consideration on the common-law record which alone was before the Illinois court,
see 394 Ill. 194, 68 N. E. 2d 252, they are not open here.
Carter v. Illinois, 329 U. S.173. They must be raised by
whatever procedure Illinois may provide, or, in default
of relief by appropriate Illinois proceedings, by a new
claim of denial of due process for want of such relief. See
Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S.103.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

with whom
and MR.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

join,

dissenting.
In Adamson v. California,this day decided, ante p. 46,
the Court waters down the Fourteenth Amendment's application to the states of the Bill of Rights guarantee
against self-incrimination so as to make it compatible
with the Court's standards of decency and a fair trial.
In this case the Court similarly waters down the Bill of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

Rights guarantee of counsel in criminal cases. In both
cases, the Court refuses to strike down convictions obtained in disregard of Bill of Rights guarantees, assuming
all the while that identical convictions obtained in federal
courts would violate the Bill of Rights. For the Court,
in the instant case, concedes that, by virtue of the Sixth
Amendment, "counsel must be furnished an indigent defendant prosecuted in a federal court in every case, whatever the circumstances." This, of course, relates to convictions following both pleas of not -guilty and pleas of
guilty. Williams v. Kaiser, 323 U. S. 471; Tomkins v.
Missouri,323 U. S. 485.
In the Adamson case, I have voiced my objections to
dilution of constitutional protections against self-incrimination in state courts. This decision is another example
of the consequences which can be produced by substitution
of this Court's day-to-day opinion of what kind of trial
is fair and decent for the kind of trial which the Bill of
Rights guarantees. This time it is the right of counsel.
We cannot know what Bill of Rights provision will next
be attenuated by the Court. We can at least be sure
that there will be more, so long as the Court adheres to
the doctrine of this and the Adamson case.
The Court's decision relies heavily on Betts v. Brady,
316 U. S. 455. In that case, a man on relief, too poor to
hire a lawyer, and whose request for the appointment
of a lawyer was denied, was compelled to act as his own
lawyer on a charge of robbery. Conviction followed.
That case is precedent for this one. But it is the kind
of precedent that I had hoped this Court would not
perpetuate.
One thing more. The Court seems to fear that protecting these defendants' right to counsel to the full extent
defined in the Bill of Rights would furnish "opportunities
hitherto uncontemplated for opening wide the prison
doors of the land," because, presumably, there are many

FOSTER v. ILLINOIS.
134

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

people like Betts, Foster and Payne behind those doors
after trials without having had the benefit of counsel.
I do not believe that such a reason is even relevant to a
determination that we should decline to enforce the Bill
of Rights.
with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur,

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting.
I think the Sixth Amendment's guaranty of the right
to counsel in criminal causes is applicable to such proceedings as this in state courts.
Apart from that view and upon the Court's basis that
the Fourteenth Amendment by its own force independently prescribes a partial similar guaranty, cf. Palko v.
Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 327; Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S.
455; Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45, I am unable to
accept its conclusion in this case. Of course if the
so-called presumption of regularity is to be effective to
sustain the denial of counsel in circumstances as bald
as those presented in Gaye8 v. New York, 332 U. S. 145,
decided today, that presumption must work the same
denial in the somewhat less startling facts of this case.
But when a record discloses as much as the record
here shows, I do not think any presumption of regularity
should be permitted to overcome the substance of the
violated constitutional right. Such a presumption indeed, if valid by mere force of the fact that a judgment
has been rendered, may always be indulged. Cf. Williams v. Kaiser, 323 U. S. 471; Tomkins v. Missouri, 323
U. S. 485; De Meerleer v. Michigan, 329 U. S. 663. And
the consequences of such a course of action here, for the
observance and preservation of constitutional rights,
more especially of the indigent and ignorant who are unable to employ counsel from their own resources and do

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

not know their rights, must be, not merely a denial of the
basic right of counsel, but also a denial of the equal protection of the laws in sweeping application. Poverty or
wealth will make all the difference in securing the substance or only the shadow of constitutional protections.
Here petitioners were charged with the serious crimes
of burglary and larceny, handed a copy of the indictment,
and arraigned. Every lawyer knows the difficulties of
pleading to such charges, including the technicalities of
the applicable statutes and especially of the practice
relating to included or lesser offenses. The crimes
charged involved penalties of imprisonment for from one
year to life, the penalty actually imposed upon these
petitioners.
On the very day the indictment was handed down,
petitioners were arraigned, their pleas of guilty were accepted, and they were sentenced. At no time were they
offered counsel or advised of their right to counsel, nor
did they receive any assistance from counsel. The record,
it is true, recites that they were "advised of their rights
of Trial and of the consequences of an entry of a plea of
guilty," notwithstanding which each said that he was
guilty, whereupon the court "advises and admonishes each
of said defendants of the consequences of entering such
pleas of guilty," despite which each persisted in his plea.
However this vague and formal recital might be taken
in other circumstances, it cannot be regarded in this case
as meaning that petitioners were either offered counsel or
informed of any right to counsel. Indeed the recital
must be taken as having deliberately avoided including
statements in either respect. And, upon the record as
a whole, we are required not only to read it in this light
but to conclude that the recital and the intentional
omission of statements concerning the right to counsel
were effective to establish that the petitioners were in fact
denied that right.

FOSTER v. ILLINOIS.
134

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

The Court does not point out, but it is the very heart of

this case, that under Illinois law these petitioners were, in
effect, denied the right to have counsel tendered or appointed by the court. It was under no duty imposed by
state law to tender counsel, to inquire into the need for
counsel, or to inform the defendants of any right to
counsel. Indeed, under the law of the state, it seems,
the court would have exceeded its powers by taking action
in any of these respects.
We are not only entitled, we are required, to read the
record of the state's proceedings in the light of the state's
law applicable to them. In Illinois by statute it is only in
capital cases that the court is under an affirmative duty,
when it appears that a defendant is indigent, to tender
appointment of counsel.' In noncapital cases the following statute applies:
"... Every person charged with crime shall be
allowed counsel, and when he shall state upon oath
that he is unable to procure counsel, the court shall
assign him competent counsel, who shall conduct his
defense." Ill. Rev. Stat. (1945) c. 38, § 730.
The Illinois Supreme Court consistently has construed
this statute as requiring appointment of counsel only
when a defendant requests counsel and states on oath
that he cannot procure counsel. It is expressly held that
the provision "does not place upon the court the duty
to proffer the services of counsel . . .," People v. Laven-

dowski, 326 Ill. 173, 176, nor does it require advising
defendants of their right to counsel. People v. Corrie,
387 Ill. 587, 589-590. See also People v. Corbett, 387 Ill.
"Whenever it shall appear to the court that a defendant or
defendants indicted in a capital case, is or are indigent and unable to

pay counsel for his or her defense, it shall be the duty of the court
to appoint one or more competent counsel for said defendant or
defendants, who shall receive a reasonable sum for services .
Ill. Rev. Stat. (1945) c. 38, § 730.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

41; People v. Childers, 386 Ill. 312; People v. Fuhs, 390
Ill. 67. And the failure of the defendant to state his need
and inability to procure counsel under oath is taken apparently as a waiver of the right. Cf. People v. Stubblefield, 391 Ill. 609, 610.2
Finally, the opinion of the Illinois court in this case
shows that petitioners were denied relief on the basis
of these rules.3
In the light of the Illinois statutes and decisions, therefore, the present record can be taken to sustain no presumption that the trial court offered counsel to petitioners,
inquired concerning their need for counsel -or ability to
secure such aid, or advised them in any way of their right
to have that assistance. The only tenable presumption
is that the court refrained deliberately, in accordance
with the state law, from taking action in any of these
respects.
Moreover, when men appear in court for trial or plea,
obviously without counsel or so far as appears the means
of securing such aid, under serious charges such as were
made here involving penalties of the character imposed,
it is altogether inconsistent with their federal constitutional right for the court to shut its eyes to their apparently helpless condition without so much as an inquiry
concerning its cause. A system so callous of the rights of
men, not only in their personal freedom but in their rights
to trial comporting with any conception of fairness, as
to tolerate such action, is in my opinion wholly contrary
2

And see note 3.
"It is first contended by plaintiffs in error that they did not have
counsel appointed to represent and protect their rights. It is not
shown by the record- that the defendants informed the court or in
any way indicated that they desired counsel. We have repeatedly
held that the right to be represented by counsel is a personal right
which a defendant may waive or claim as he himself may determine.
(People v. Fuhs, 390 Ill. 67.) This contention is without merit."
394 Ill. 194, 195.
8

GAYES v. NEW YORK.
Sylbus.

134

to the scheme of things the nation's charter establishes.
Courts and judges, under that plan, owe something more
than the negative duty to sit silent and blind while men
go on their way to prison, for all that appears, for want
of any hint of their rights.
Adding to this blindness a "presumption of regularity"
to sustain what has thus been done makes a mockery
of judicial proceedings in any sense of the administration
of justice and a snare and a delusion of constitutional
rights for all unable to pay the cost of securing their
observance.
GAYES v. NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE COUNTY COURT OF MONROE COUNTY,
NEW YORK.

No. 405.

Argued May 2, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.

Upon a plea of guilty in a criminal prosecution in a state court, petitioner was sentenced as a second offender, the length of the sentence
being based partly on a previous conviction. Upon sentence as a
second offender, petitioner had full opportunity, so far as appears,
to contest any infirmity in the previous sentence. While serving
the second sentence, petitioner applied to the court which had
imposed the earlier sentence to vacate the judgment there rendered
against him, on the ground of denial of his right to counsel under
the Federal Constitution. The state court denied the motion, and
its judgment is here affirmed. Pp. 147-149.
Affirmed.

Petitioner's application to a state court to vacate a
judgment there rendered against him was denied without
opinion. Under the state law, no review could be had
of this determination. This Court granted certiorari.
329 U. S. 710. Affirmed, p. 149.
Herbert Wechsler argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.

