SIPUEL v. BOARD OF REGENTS.
625

Syllabus.

ter, shall to that extent be void." 35 Stat. 66, 45 U. S. C.
ยง 55. It is obvious that a release is not a device to
exempt from liability but is a means of compromising a
claimed liability and to that extent recognizing its possibility. Where controversies exist as to whether there is liability, and if so for how much, Congress has not said that
parties may not settle their claims without litigation.
Since we believe the Court of Appeals was right in
directing a new trial at which the jury shall be permitted
to pass on all issues of fact, the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, being of the

view that releases under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act should be governed by the same rule which applies
to releases by seamen in admiralty (see the separate
opinion of Judge Jerome Frank, Ricketts v. Pennsylvania
R. Co., 153 F. 2d 757, 767-770), dissent from an affirmance of the judgment.

SIPUEL v. BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVER-

SITY OF OKLAHOMA

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 369.

Argued January 7-8, 1948.-Decided January 12, 1948..

A Negro, concededly qualified to receive professional legal education
offered by a State, cannot be denied such education because of
her color. The State must provide such education for her in
conformity with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and provide it as soon as it does for applicants of
'ny other group. Pp. 632-633.
199 Okla. 36, 180 P. 2d 135, reversed.

The' Supreme .Court of Oklahoma affirmed a denial by
an-inferior state couxt of a writ of mandamus to require

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

admission of a qualified Negro applicant -to a state law
school. 199 Okla. 36, 180 P. 2d 135. This Court granted
certiorari. 332 U. S. 814. Reversed, p. 633.
Thurgood Marshall and Amos 7'. Hall argued the cause
for petitioner. With them on the brief was Frank D.
Reeves.
Fred Hansen, First Assistant Attorney General of
Oklahoma, and Maurice H. Merrill argued the cause for
respondents. With them on the brief was Mac Q. Williamson, Attorney General.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
Robert W. Kenny, 0. John Rogge, and Andrew D. Weinberger for the National Lawyers Guild; and Arthur Garfield Hays and Osmond K. Fraenkel for the American
Civil Liberties Union.
PER CURIAM.

On January 14, i946, the petitioner, a Negro, concededly qualified to receive the professional legal education offered by the State, applied for admission to the
School of Law of the University of Oklahoma, the only
institution for legal education supported and maintained.
by the taxpayers of the State of Oklahoma. Petitioner's
application for admission was denied, solely because of.
her color.
Petitioner then made application for a writ !of mandamus in the District Court of Cleveland County, Oklahoma. The writ of mandamus was refused, and the
Supreme Court of the State of Oklahoma affirmed the
judgment of the District Court. 199 Okla. 36, 180 P. 2d
135. We brought the case here for review.
The petitioner is entitled to secure legal education
afforded by a state institution. To this time, it has
been denied her although during the same period many

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
631

Syllabus.

white applicants have been afforded legal education by
the State. The State must provide it for her in conformity with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and provide it as soon as it does for applicants of any other group. Missouri ex rel. Gaines v.
Canada,305 U. S. 337 (1938).
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma is
reversed and the cause is remanded to that court for
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
The mandate shall issue forthwith.
Reversed.

OYAMA

ET AL.

V.

CALIFORNIA.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT'OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 44.

Argued October 22, 1947.-Decided January 19, 1948.

1. The California Alien Land Law, as applied in this case to effect
an escheat to the State of certain agricultural lands recorded in
the name of a minor, American citizen because they had been paid
for by his father, a Japanese alien ineligible for naturalization who
was appointed, the son's guardian, held to have deprived the son
of the equal protection of the laws and of his privileges as an
American citizen, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment and R. S.
ยง 1978. Pp. 640-647.
2. The Alien Land Law, as applied in this case, discriminated against
the citizen son in the following respects:.
(a) By a statutory prima facie presumption that conveyancef
financed by his father and recorded in the son's name were nogifts to the son but that the land was held for the benefit of th,:
father; whereas, for most minors, California applies the rule thai
where a parent pays for a conveyance to his child it is presumec
that a gift was intended. Pp. 641-642, 644-645.
(b) Because, under the laws of California as applied by its
courts when the father is ineligible for citizenship, facts which
would usually be considered indicia of the son's ownership are used
to make that ownership susnect: whereas, if the father were not

