FAHEY v. MALLONEE.
Syllabus.

FAHEY, FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK COMMIS-

SIONER,

ET AL.

v. MALLONEE

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 687.

Argued April 30, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.

1. Section 5 (d) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, which authorizes the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to prescribe by
regulation the terms and conditions upon which a conservator may
be appointed for a federal savings and loan association, is not an
unconstitutional delegation of legislative functions. Pp. 248-254.
(a) Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388; Schechter
Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S.495, distinguished. Pp. 249-250.
(b) Banking being one of the longest regulated and most closely
supervised of public callings, a discretion to make regulations to
guide supervisory action with respect to the appointment of conservators, receivers and liquidators for banking institutions may
be constitutionally permissible while it might not be allowable to
authorize creation of new crimes in uncharted fields. P. 250.
(c) The rules and regulations of the Home Loan Bank Board
governing the appointment of conservators are sufficiently explicit,
against the background of custom, to be adequate for proper
administration and for judicial review. Pp. 250-253.
(d) In view of the delicate nature of banking institutions and
the impossibility of preserving credit during an investigation, it
is not unconstitutional to provide for a hearing after, instead of
before, a conservator takes possession. Pp. 253-254'
2. When, after the appointment of a conservator for a federal savings and loan association, an administrative hearing is granted and
specifications of the charges are furnished, but the making of a
record is prevented by an injunction obtained by its shareholders
in a derivative suit on behalf of the association without the taking of
testimony by the trial court, this Court, in reviewing the judgment
for the purpose of determining the case without trial, must assume
that the supervisory authorities would be able to sustain the statements of fact and to justify the conclusions in their charges.
P. 254.
3. In a derivative' suit on behalf of the association, shareholders of
a federal savings and loan association organized under § 5 of the
Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 are estopped from challenging
the constitutionality of the provisions of § 5 (d), which authorize

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

332 U. S.

the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which a conservator may be appointed for the
association. Pp. 255-256.
68 F. Supp. 418, reversed.
In a shareholders' derivative suit on behalf of a federal
savings and loan association, a three-judge district court
held § 5 (d) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 unconstitutional, ordered removal of a conservator who had
been appointed for the association, permanently enjoined
the authorities from holding an administrative hearing
on the matter, permanently enjoined an apprehended
merger, restored the association to its former management, ordered the conservator to account, and enjoined
these authorities "from ever asserting any claims, right,
title or interest" in or to the association's property. 68
F. Supp. 418. On direct appeal to this Court, reversed,
p. '258.
Oscar H. Davis argued the cause for appellants. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Robert L.
Stern, Paul A. Sweeney, Kenneth G. Heisler, Ray E.
Dougherty and Mose Silverman.
Wyckoff Westover argued-the cause for Mallonee et al.,
appellees. With him on the brief was Daniel W. O'Donohue, Jr.
Charles K. Chapman argued the cause and filed a brief
for the Long l~each Federal Savings & Loan Association,
appellee.
By special leave of Court, Everett W. Mattoon, Deputy
Attorney General, argued the cause for the State of California, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance. With him on
the brief was Fred N. Howser, Attorney General.

FAHEY v. MALLONEE.
245

Opinion of the Court.

Louis W. Myers, Pierce Works and Richard Fitzpatrick
submitted on brief for the Federal Home Loan Bank of
Los Angeles, appellee.
Robert H. Wallis and Raymond Tremaine submitted on
brief for Wallis, appellee.
Harry 0. Wallace submitted on brief for the Title
Service Company, appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

.JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A specially constituted three-judge District Court has
summarily, 'without trial, entered final judgment ousting
a Conservator who, on orders of the Federal Home Loan
Bank* Commissioner, had taken possession of the Long
Beach Federal Savings and Loan Association. It granted
this and other relief on the principal ground that § 5 (d)
of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended, violates Article I, §§ 1 and 8 of the Constitution,
The Federal Home Loan Bank Administration on May
20, 1946, without notice or hearing, appointed Ammann
conservator for the Association and he at once entered into
possession. Th4 grounds assigned were that the Association was conducting its affairs in an unlawful, unauthorized and unsafe manner, that its management was unfit
and unsafe, that it was pursuing a course injurious to, and
jeopardizing the interests of, its members, creditors and
the public. Plaintiffs at once commenced this class action
in the right of the Association against the Conservator and
Fahey, Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board,
the Association as a nominal defendant, and several others
not important to the issue here. The complaint alleged
that the Conservator and the Chairman had seized the
property without due process of law, motivated by malice
and ill will; and that the seizure for various reasons was in

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

violation of the Constitution. It asked return of the Association to its former management, permanent injunction
against further interference, and other relief. Other
parties in interest intervened. Temporary restraining
orders issued and a three-judge court was duly convened.
Personal service was secured upon Ammann, the Conservator, but Fahey, the Federal Home Loan Bank Commissioner, officially an inhabitant of the District of Columbia, could not b- served in California. A motion for
substituted service, therefore, was granted and process was
served upon him in the District of Columbia. It was believed that this was authorized by Judicial Code, § 57, 28
U. S. C. § 118. Ammann moved to dismiss the complaint
on the ground that it failed to state a cause of action.
Fahey appeared specially to move dismissal or quashing return of service on him upon the ground that he could
not, in his official capacity, be sued in California and had
not been served properly with process. Neither had
answered the complaint, nor had their time to do so
expired, when final judgment was granted against them.
The three-judge court set a variety of pending motions
for argument and, after argument mainly on the constitutionality of § 5 (d), with only pleadings and motion papers before it, held the section unconstitutional, ordered
removal of the Conservator, permanently enjoined the
authorities from holding an administrative hearing on the
matter, permanently enjoined an apprehended merger, restored the institution to its former management, ordered
the Conservator to account and enjoined these authorities
"from ever asserting any claims, right, title or interest" in
or to the Association's property. 68 F. Supp. 418. The
case is here on direct appeal. 50*Stat. 752-53, 28 U. S. C.
§§ 349a, 380a.
It is manifest that whatever merit there -may be in various subsidiary and collateral questions, this drastic decree
*can stand only if the section, as applied here, is unconstitutional.

FAHEY v. MALLONEE.
245

Opinion of the Court.

Its defect is said to consist of delegation of legislative
functions to the supervising authority without adequate
standards of action or guides to policy. Section 5 (d) of
the Act gives to the Board "full power to provide in the
rules and regulations herein authorized for the reorganization, consolidation, merger, or liquidation of such associations, including the power to appoint a conservator or a receiver to take charge of the affairs of any such association,
and to require an equitable readjustment of the capital
structure of the same; and to release any such association
from such control and permit its further operation."
48 Stat. 133, 12 U. S. C. § 1464 (d). This, the District
Court held, was unconstitutional delegation of the congressional function. It relied on PanamaRefining Co. v.
Ryan, 293 U. S.388, and Schechter Corp. v. United States,
295 U. S. 495.
Both cited cases dealt with delegation of a power to
make federal crimes of acts that never had been such
before and to devise novel rules of law in a field in which
there had been no settled law or custom. The latter case
also involved delegation to private groups as well as to
public authorities.. Chief Justice Hughes emphasized
these features, saying that the Act under examination
was not merely to deal with practices "which offend
against existing law, and could be the subject of judicial
condemnation without further legislation, or to create
administrative machinery for the application of established principles of law to particular instances of violation.
Rather, the purpose is clearly disclosed to authorize new
and controlling prohibitions through codes of laws which
would embrace what the formulators would propose, and
what the President would approve, or prescribe, as wise
and beneficent measures for the government of trades and
industries in order to bring about their rehabilitation, correction and development, according to the general declaration of policy in section one." Schechter Corp. v.
United States, 295 U. S.495, 535.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

The savings and loan associations with which § 5 (d)
deals, on the other hand, are created, insured and aided by
the Federal Government. It may be that explicit standards in the Home Owners' Loan Act would have been a
desirable assurance of responsible administration. But
the provisions of the statute under attack are not penal
provisions as in the case of Lanzetta v. New Jersey, 306
U. S. 451, or United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255
U. S. 81. The provisions are regulatory. They do not
deal with unprecedented economic problems of varied industries. They deal with 9 single type of enterprise and
with the problems of insecurity and mismanagement which
are as old as banking enterprise. The remedies which are
authorized are not new ones unknown to existing law to
be invented by the Board in exercise of a lawless range
of power. Banking is one of the longest regulated and
most closely supervised of public callings. It is one in
which accumulated experience of supervisors, acting for
many states under various statutes, has established welldefined practices for the appointment of conservators, receivers and liquidators. Corporate management is a field,
too, in which courts have experience and many precedents
have crystallized into well-known and generally acceptable
standards. A discretion to make regulations to guide
supervisory action in such matters may be constitutionally
permissible while it might not be allowable to authorize
creation of new crimes in uncharted fields.
The Board adopted rules and regulations governing appointment of conservators. They provided the grounds
upon which a conservator might be named,1 and they
1 The

Rules and Regulations for the Federal Savings and Loan
System provide in part as follows:
PART

206.

APPOINTMENT oF CONSERVATOR OR RECEIVER.

§ 206.1. Receiver or conservator; appointment. (a) Whenever, in
the opinion of the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration, any
Federal savings and loan association:

FAHEY v. MALLONEE.
245

Opinion of the Court.

Footnote 1.-Continued.
(1) Is conducting its business in an unlawful, unauthorized, or
unsafe manner;
(2) Is in an unsound or unsafe condition,, or has a management
which is unsafe or unfit to manage a Federal savings and loan association;
(3) Cannot with safety continue in business;
(4) Is impaired in that its assets do not have an aggregate value
(in the judgment of the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration)
at least equal to the aggregate amount of its liabilities to its creditors,
members, and all other persons;
(5) Is in imminent danger of becoming impaired;
(6) Is pursuing a course that is jeopardizing or injurious to the
interests of its members, creditors, or the public;
(7) Has suspended payment of its obligations;
(8) Has refused to submit its books, papers, records, or affairs
for inspection to any examiner or lawful agent appointed by the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration;
(9) Has refused by the refusal of any of its officers, directors, or
employees to be examined upon oath by the Federal Home Loan
-Bank Administration or its representative concerning its affairs; or
(10) Has refused or failed to observe a lawful order of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Administration,
the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration may appoint the Federal Savingsand Loan Insurance Corporation receiver for such Federal association, which appointment shall be for the purpose of
liquidation, or .the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration may
appoint a conservator for such Federal association to conserve the
assets of the association pending further disposition of its affairs.
The appointment shall be by order, which order shall state on which
of the above causes the appointment is based. Any conservator so
appointed shall furnish bond for himself and his employees, in form
and amount and with surety acceptable to the Governor of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, or any Deputy or Assistant Governor,
*but no bond shall be required of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation as receiver. The conservator or receiver shall
forthwith upon appointment take possession of the association and,
at the time such conservator or receiver shall demand possession,
such conservator or receiver shall notify the officer or employee of
the association, if any, who shall be in the home office of the association
and appear to be in charge of suuh office, of the action of the Federal
Home Loan BaW Administration. The Secretarv of the Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Footnote 1.-Continued..
Home Loan Bank Administration shall, forthwith upon adoption
thereof, mail a certified copy of the order of appointment to the
address of the association as it shall appear on the records of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Administration and to each director of
the association, known by the Secretary to be su,?h, at the last address
of each as the same shall appear on the records of the Federal Home
Loan Bank Administration. If such certified copy of the order
appointing the conservator or receiver is received at the offices of
the association after the taking of possession by the conservator or
receiver, such conservator or receiver shall hand the same to any
officer or director of the association who may make demand therefor.
§ 206.2. Hearing on appointment. Within fourteen days (Sundays and holidays included) after the appointment of a conservator
or receiver for a Federal association not at the time of such appointment in the hands of a conservator, such Federal association, which
has not, by its board of directors, consented to or requested the
appointment of a conservator or receiver, may file an answer and
serve a written demand for a hearing, authorized by its board of
directors, which demand shall state the address to which notice of
hearing shall...be sent. Upon receipt of such answer and written
demand for a hearing the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration
shall issue and serve a notice of hearing upon the institution by mailing
a copy of the order of hearing to the address stated in the demand
therefor and 'shall conduct a hearing, at which time and place the
Federal association may appear and show cause why the conservator
or receiver should not have been appointed and why an order should
be entered by the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration discharging the conservator or receiver. Such hearing shall be held
either in the district of the Federal Home Loan Bank of which such
Federal association is a member or in Washington, D. C., as the
Federal Home' Loan Bank Administration shall determine, unless
the association otherwise consents in writing. Such hearing may be
held before the Federal Home Loan Bank Commissioner or before
a trial examiner or hearing officer, as the Federal Home Loan Bank
Administration shall determine. Such Federal association, which has
not, by its board of directors, consented to or requested the appointment of a conservator or receiver, may, within seven days (Sundays
and holidays included) of such appointment, serve a written or telegraphic demand, authoriled by its board of directors, upon the Federal
Home Loan Bank Administration for a more definite statement of
the cause or causes for the action. The time of service upon the

FAHEY v. MALLONEE.
245

Opinion of the Court.

But even if the section were defective, which we think it
is not in a constitutional sense, another obstacle stands in
the way of ousting this conservator.
The Long Beach Federal Savings and Loan Association
was organized in 1934 under § 5 of the Home Owners' Loan
Act of 1933, subsection (d) of which is now sought to be
declared unconstitutional. The present management obtained a charter which provided that the Association "shall
at all times be subject to the provisions of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, providing for Federal savings and
loan associations, and to any amendments thereof, and to
any valid rules and regulations made thereunder as the
same may be amended from time to time," and that it
might be "liquidated, merged, consolidated, or reorganized, as is provided in the rules and regulations for Federal
savings and loan associations . . . ." In 1937, upon the
Association's request, an amended charter was issued
which likewise provided that the Association was to exercise its powers subject to the Home Owners' Loan Act an'd
regulations issued thereunder.
This is a stockholder's derivative action in which plaintiffs sue only in the right of the Association. It is an elementary rule of constitutional law that one may not "retain the benefits of the Act while attacking the constitutionality of one of its important conditions." United
States v. San Francisco, 310 U. S. 16, 29. As formulated by Mr. Justice Brandeis, concurring in Ashwander
v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 348,
"The Court will not pass upon the constitutionality of a
statute'at the instance of one who has availed himself of
its benefits."
In the name and right of the Association it is now being
asked that the Act under which it has its existence be
struck down in important particulars, hardly seversa.'e
from those provisions which grant its right to exist.
Plaintiffs challenge the constitutional validity of the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

provision under which proceedings may be taken to liquidate or conserve the Association for the protection of its
members and the public. If it can hold the charter that
it obtained under this Act and strike down the provision
for terminating its powers or conserving its assets, it may
perpetually go on, notwithstanding any abuses which its
management may perpetrate. It would be intolerable
that the Congress should endow an association with the
right to conduct a public banking business on certain
limitations and that the Court at the behest of those who
took advantage from the privilege should remove the
limitations intended for public protection. It would
be difficult to imagine a more appropriate situation in
'which to apply the doctrine that one who utilizes an Act
to gain advantages of corporate existence is estopped from
questioning the validity of its vital conditions. We hold
that plaintiffs are estopped, as the Association would be,
from challenging the provisions of the Act which authorize the Board to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which a conservator may be named.
There are other important and difficult questions raised
in the case which it becomes unnecessary to decide.
Objection is made to the administrative hearing upon
the ground that it is before the same authority which has
preferred the charges and that it cannot be expected, therefore, to be fair and impartial and that the Act does not
provide for judicial review of the Board's determination
on the hearing. We cannot agree that courts should assume in advance that an administrative hearing may not
be fairly conducted. We do-not now decide whether the
determination of the Board in such proceeding is subject
to. any manner of judicial review. The absence from the
statute of a provision for court review has sometimes been
held not to foreclose review. Stark v. Wickard, 321 U. S.
288; Federal Reserve Board v. Agnew, 329 U. S. 441; Administrative Proceduie Act, 5 U. S. C. A. § 1009. Nor do
we mean to be inderstood that if supervising authorities

FAHEY v. MALLONEE.
245

Opinion of the Court.

are the usual and conventional grounds found in most
state and federal banking statutes2 They are stifficiently explicit, against the background of custom, to be
adequate for proper administration and for judicial review
if there should be a proper occasion for it.
It is complained that these regulations provide for hearing after the conservator takes possession instead of before.
This is a drastic procedure. But the delicate nature of
the institution and the impossibility of preserving credit
during an investigation has made it an almost invariable
custom to apply supervisory authority in this summary
manner. It is a heavy responsibility to be exercised
Federal Home Loan Bank Administration for the purposes of this
section shall be the time of receipt by the Secretary of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Administration.
§ 206,4. Discharge of conservator or receiver. An order of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Administration discharging a conservator
and returning the association to its management shall restore to
such Federal association all its rights, powers and privileges and shall
restore the rights, powers anI privileges of its officers and directors,
all as of the time specified in such order, except as such order may
otherwise provide. An order of the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration discharging a receiver and returning the association to its
management shall by operation of law and without any conveyance
or other instrument, act or deed, restore to such Federal association
all its rights, powers and privileges, revest in such Federal association
the title to all its property, and restore the rights, povvers and privileges of its officers and directors, all as of the time specified in such
order, except as such order may otherwise provide. 24 .C. F. R.
Cum. Supp. § 206.1 et seq., as amended, 24 C. F. R. 1943 Supp.
§ 206.1.
2Bank Conservation Act of March 9, 1933, § 203, 48 Stat; 2-3, 12
U. S. C. § 203; Banking Act of 1933, § 31, 48 Stat. 194, 12 U. S. C.
§ 71a; National Housing Act, § 406, 48 Stat. 1259-60, 12 U. S. C.
§ 1729. E. g., New York Banking Law, § 606, 4 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of New York, pp. 708-709, (pocket part, 1946) 125-26;
Page's Ohio General Code Ann., § 687; 1 Deering's California General
Laws, Act 986, § 13.11; Massachusetts Laws Ann. c. 167, § 22; c. 170B,
§ 4; Jones Illinois Stat. Ann., § 14.40.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

with disinterestedness and restraint, but in the light of
the history and customs of banking we cannot say it is
unconstitutional8
In this case an administrative hearing was demanded
and specifications were asked as to the charges against
the management of the Association. The hearing was
granted and a statement of complaints against the management was furnished.
The causes for the appointrjpent of a conservator as
therein set forth by the Board included withdrawals by the
president without proper voucher therefor; payment of
salaries and fees not commensurate with services rendered;
a director's unlawful removal of a cashier's check in the
amount of $50,000 during an examination by Federal
Home Loan Bank examiners; leasing properties of the
Association for a twenty-year period on terms which would
not provide adequate consideration to the Association; use
of the Association for personal gain of one or more officers
and directors; failure to maintain proper accounts and to
make proper reports; and falsification of records. It also
charged certain manipulations of the affairs of another
institution by the president of this institution.
The plaintiffs nevertheless demanded and obtained an
injunction to prevent the administrative hearing and they
have therefore cut off the making of a record as to whether
these charges are well-founded. Nor did the trial court
take evidence on the subject. We must assume that the
supervising authorities would be able to sustain the statements of fact and to justify the conclusions in their charges
for the pi -pose of determining the case without trial.
We are .hc'efore unable to agree with the court below that
the section is invalid and hence that regardless of the
charges the management was free to go on undisciplined
and unchecked.
8

See note 2.

FAHEY v. MALLONEE.
245

Opinion of the Court.

maliciously, wantonly and without cause destroy the credit
of a financial institution, there are not remedies.
One of the allegations of the complaint is that it was
intended that this institution would be merged with other
institutions to the injury of its shareholders. The allegation seems to be based on the fact that a different institution with which the management of the Long Beach
institution was connected was merged by the authorities
in a way. that was highly objectionable to some of the
shareholders *and aroused concern of the public authorities. We find no explicit threat to merge the Long
Beach institution and there is no such finding by. tie
court below. The Government has assured us at the
bar that there is no plan for such a merger in contemplation. Nevertheless, such a merger was enjoined. In view
of the absence of a finding of the threat or of evidence to
sustain one, we accept the Government's assurance that
merger will not follow and, hence, we do not consider it
necessary to discuss the legality of hypothetical mergers.
Since the judgment that has been rendered against the
Conservator, who was duly served with process, must be
reversed, we find it unnecessary to decide whether Fahey
was .an indispensable party or was properly brought into
the case by substituted service.
It is obvious that there is more to this litigation than
meets the eye on the pleadings. The plaintiffs' charges
that ill will and malice actuated the supervising authorities, as well as the charges of the defendants that the institution has been mismanaged and that the management is
unfit, are alike undetermined by the courts below, and we
make no determination or intimation concerning the
merits of these issues or as to other remedies or relief than
that in the judgment before us.
Our decision is that it was error in the court below to
hold the section unconstitutional, to oust the Conservator
or to enjoin any of his proceedings or to enjoin the admin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

istrative hearing, and this without prejudice to any other
administrative or judicial proceedings which may be warranted bylaw. The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs in the result and in

the Court's opinion insofar as it rests upon the ground
that the controlling statute, § 5 (d) of the Home Owners'
Loan Act of 1933, is not unconstitutional.

EX PARTE FAHEY, FEDERAL HOME LOAN
BANK COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
No. 133, Misc. Argued April 30, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.
Mandamus, prohibition and injunction against judges are extraordinary remedies which should be reserved for really extraordinary
cases; and this Court will not countenance their use as substitutes
for an appeal. Pp. 259-260.

Petition invoking the original jurisdiction of this Court
and asking leave to file petition for writ of mandamus,
prohibition or inj unction against a District Judge to -vacate
his order allowing fees to counsel in Fahey v. Mallonee,
ante, p. 245, to prohibit any further allowance therein and
to enjoin any payments heretofore allowed, denied, p. 260.
Oscar H. Davis argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Robert L.
Stern, Paul A. Sweeney, Kenneth G. Heisler, Ray E.
Dougherty and Mose Silverman.
Charles K. Chapman and Welburn Maycock argued
the cause for Hall, United States District Judge. With
Mr. Chapman on the brief were Peirson M. Hall, Wyckoff
Westover and Harry0. Wallace.

