GAYES v. NEW YORK.
Sylbus.

134

to the scheme of things the nation's charter establishes.
Courts and judges, under that plan, owe something more
than the negative duty to sit silent and blind while men
go on their way to prison, for all that appears, for want
of any hint of their rights.
Adding to this blindness a "presumption of regularity"
to sustain what has thus been done makes a mockery
of judicial proceedings in any sense of the administration
of justice and a snare and a delusion of constitutional
rights for all unable to pay the cost of securing their
observance.
GAYES v. NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE COUNTY COURT OF MONROE COUNTY,
NEW YORK.

No. 405.

Argued May 2, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.

Upon a plea of guilty in a criminal prosecution in a state court, petitioner was sentenced as a second offender, the length of the sentence
being based partly on a previous conviction. Upon sentence as a
second offender, petitioner had full opportunity, so far as appears,
to contest any infirmity in the previous sentence. While serving
the second sentence, petitioner applied to the court which had
imposed the earlier sentence to vacate the judgment there rendered
against him, on the ground of denial of his right to counsel under
the Federal Constitution. The state court denied the motion, and
its judgment is here affirmed. Pp. 147-149.
Affirmed.

Petitioner's application to a state court to vacate a
judgment there rendered against him was denied without
opinion. Under the state law, no review could be had
of this determination. This Court granted certiorari.
329 U. S. 710. Affirmed, p. 149.
Herbert Wechsler argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

332 U. S.

Harry L. Rosenthal argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER announced the judgment of
the Court in an opinion in which THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR.
JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join.

This is another case in which release is sought from
confinement under a sentence by a State court following
a plea of guilty, on a claim of a denial of due process of
law through want of benefit of counsel.
The circumstances sre these. On July 15, 1938, Gayes,
then a lad of sixteen, was arraigned in the County Court
of Monroe County, New York, upon an indictment charging burglary in the third degree and petty larceny. According to the record of conviction, he was asked, in
accordance with the requirement of § 308 of the New York
Code of Criminal Procedure, whether "he desired the aid
of counsel," and he answered "No." I Imposition of sentence was postponed to July 28. When on that day
Subsequent to the proceedings before the County Court of Monroe
now under review, the minutes of the original proceedings against
Gayes came to light. By stipulation of counsel these minutes are here.
According to them, the precise question put to Gayes by the Assistant
District Attorney in the presence of the Judge was, "Do you need a
lawyer before you enter a plea of guilty or not guilty to this indictment?" To which Gayes replied, "No, sir." It may be inconclu-

sively debated whether if Gayes was asked "if he desired the aid of
counsel," as stated in the entry in the record of conviction, he was
better informed of his rights, than if he was asked, "Do you need a
lawyer?" In view of our disposition, the difference in significance
becomes immaterial, and it is also immaterial whether, if there were a
difference, we could consider, even in a case involving belated release
from State detention, a matter not before the court whose judgment is
here for review. But the differences that may exist between formal
entry in the minutes of an acceptance of a plea and what was actually
said contemporaneously lends force to th. caution frequently expressed
that every intendment must be made in support of the due observance of law in the rendering of judgments which are collaterally
attacked, often after a considerable passage of time.

GAYES v. NEW YORK.
145

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

Gayes appeared for judgment, he was asked, again according to the requirements of New York law, whether "he
had any legal cause to show why judgment should not
be pronounced against him." New York Code of Criminal Procedure § 480. And "no sufficient cause appearing," the record continues, Gayes was committed to a New
York State Vocational School to be dealt with there
according to law. It appears from the facts before us
that Gayes did not stay at this correctional institution
as long as New York law would have authorized his detention. See New York Penal Law §§ 2184-a and 2189,
in connection with § 407. For, on October 14, 1941, he
pleaded guilty, in the County Court of Schenectady, New
York, to a new charge of burglary in the third degree.
The record of this latter proceeding does not indicate
whether this time he was or was not represented by
counsel. But no claim is made that this plea of guilty, or
the sentence under it, has any infirmity for lack of legal
assistance. Gayes' claim is that he was sentenced as a
second offender by the inclusion of the improper sentence
to the vocational school in 1938.
In accordance with New York procedure, Gayes, pro se,
filed in the County Court of Monroe County, New York,
an application to vacate the judgment rendered against
him in that court on July 28, 1938. He claimed that
in the proceedings which led to that judgment he had
not been informed of his "Constitutional Rights of Assistance of Counsel," that he "could not have understood his
rights to Counsel" and that "youths of the age of 16 years
cannot Intelligently and Competently waive their rights."
Since, according to this claim, the first sentence was void,
he challenged the validity of the sentence in 1941 because
the length of the second sentence was partly based upon
the 1938 conviction.
Upon this record, the county court denied the motion
without opinion. As New York law then stood, no re-

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

332 U. S.

view could there be had of this determination. See People
v. Gersewitz, 294 N. Y. 163, 61 N. E. 2d 427. This made
the county court the highest court of the State of New
York for purposes of our review. Canizio v. New York,
327 U. S.82, 85. But see Chapter 706 of the New York
Laws of 1947. We brought the case here, 329 U. S.710,
as one of a series, for further consideration of the circumstances under which the requirements of due process
imply a duty to supply counsel to defendants in State
prosecutions.
The guiding principles bearing on the general problem
have been set forth in the opinion in Foster v. Illinois,
just decided, ante, p. 134. Insofar as the facts of this case
present a particular variant, they are controlled by our
decision in Canizio v. New York, supra. We there held
that whatever doubts may arise from the circumstances
of a plea of guilty, if, before sentence is imposed, the
opportunities required by the Constitution for meeting
the legal implications of the plea are satisfied, the sentence must stand. And so, the questions that may be
raised regarding the circumstances attending the imposition of Gayes' commitment to the vocational institution
in 1938 are not now open. Gayes is complaining of his
sentence following his plea of guilty in 1941.2 What he
wants is to be relieved of his imprisonment under that
sentence. That sentence, to be sure, partly took into
account his earlier sentence in 1938. But upon his subsequent sentence, as a second offender, in 1941, he had
2Gayes is detained under the 1941 sentence imposed by the County

Court of Schenectady. A motion attacking that sentence would,
under New York law, have to be made in that court. What he is
asking is the invalidation of the prior sentence, underlying as it were
the Schenectady sentence, presumably as a first step in getting relief
from detention under the latter sentence. We are treating this proceeding, for our purposes, as one seeking, in effect, relief from the 1941
sentence without regard to formal distinctions which might otherwise
be relevant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

out knowledge of his constitutional rights,' pleaded guilty
in 1938, under an indictment specifying two highly technical and distinct charges,2 to the crime of burglary in
the third degree.' The property he was charged with
intending to steal' consisted of cigarettes of the value
of seventy-five cents, two flashlights worth one dollar,
and three dollars in currency. The sentence imposed
on that plea has been served.' He is now confined as
a second offender under sentence for another offense of
similar character imposed in 1941,' when he was nineteen
'No answer was filed to the petition and the trial court determined
the issues on the pleadings without hearing or appearance of petitioner in court, in person or by counsel. The allegation of petitioner
that when asked whether he "desired counsel," he answered "no" in
the belief that he would have to pay the lawyer's fee, and was not
informed to the contrary is, of course, to be taken as true in the
absence of denial and of contrary evidence which might have been
tendered on a hearing.
2 The first count charged that petitioner "broke and entered the
building and garage of Francis Marlow . . . with intent to commit

therein the crime of larceny"; the second count charged petit larceny
of the property described in the text above.
1The sentence was to confinement in the New York State Vocational Institute, which when imposed for an unspecified term under
N~ew York Penal Law § 2184-a carried a maximum of ten years,
which is the maximum for burglary in the third degree as a first
offense. N. Y. Penal Law § 407 (3).
' Under the second count, for petit larceny or theft, being also
presumably the property with respect to which it was charged in
the first count that petitioner broke and entered with intent to
commit larceny.
5Petitioner was held under the first sentence, see note 3, until
December 14, 1943, when the New York Board of Parole directed
that service of the sentence as second offender begin. The date of
termination of the latter sentence, see note 6, was correspondingly
postponed.
' The sentence of ten to twenty years as second offender is mandatory. N. Y. Penal Law § 1941. Had petitioner been sentenced in

GAYES v. NEW YORK.
145

RuTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

full opportunity, so far as appears, to contest whatever
infirmity he may have claimed in the earlier sentence
when the fact of that sentence was included in the sentence
which he is now serving." Since the process leading up
to the second sentence is not challenged he cannot now,
so far as the United States Constitution is concerned, by a
flank attack, challenge the sentence of 1938.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON

concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, with whom MR. JUsTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur,

dissenting.
A sixteen-year-old boy, indigent and alone, without
relatives, friends, money or counsel to aid him and, according to the undenied allegations of the petition, with' According to the State, Gayes could have raised the claim he now
makes against the 1938 conviction at the time he was sentenced
in 1941, and from a denial of relief could have appealed to the higher
courts. This was not contradicted by the petitioner and is not
brought into question in any opinion of the higher courts of New
York. It has been ruled in courts of very limited authority that
a second offender cannot apply for resentence on a claim that there
was a defect in the first sentence imposed by another court. See
People v. Keller, 37 N. Y. S. 2d 61 (Gen. Sess. N. Y. County), and
People v. Paterno, 182 -Misc. 491, 50 N. Y. S. 2d 713 (Chatauqua
County Court). Neither case, however, presented the claim that
a violation of the United States Constitution vitiated the first sentence, and neither case raised the power of the court at the time of
sentencing to consider such a claim. It is certainly within the power
of a duly advised defendant, before pleading guilty as a second
offender, to raise the constitutional invalidity of the first sentence
so as to secure opportunity appropriately to challenge such invalidity.
Nothing that is herein decided precludes petitioner from raising a
denial of his constitutional right upon a record that discloses circumstances other than those before us. An order on such a motion is
now reviewable by the New York Supreme Court and in certain
instances by the New York Court of Appeals.

GAYES v. NEW YORK.
145

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

and also without relatives, friends or counsel so far as
appears.!
One part of the opinion announced in this case, as I
understand, takes the view that because Gayes did not
attack the 1938 sentence in 1941, when he was sentenced
as a second offender, he is forever foreclosed from doing
so on the facts and issues presented on this record, although as a second offender he is now suffering the consequences of the 1938 sentence.' For this conclusion
reliance is placed upon no New York authorities; indeed,
as I read the state cases, the Court's decision is made in
the face of their rulings that the procedure petitioner has
followed is the appropriate one for raising the issues he
presents.':
I am unwilling to subscribe to such a doctrine of forfeitures concerning constitutional rights, which in the
extreme circumstances of this case seems to me
shocking.
1941 as a first rather than a second offender, the maximum sentence
allowed would have been five to ten years, N. Y. Penal Law §§ 2189,
407, and he might have been sent to a reformatory rather than
prison. N. Y. Penal Law § 2185.
7The "Record of Conviction" in the trial for the second offense,
contained in the record here, discloses that petitioner, having been
charged and arraiglped, first pleaded not guilty, then withdrew that
plea and entered one of guilty. It is then recited that petitioner
appeared for judgment and, "having been asked by the clerk whether
he had any legal cause to show why judgment should not be pronounced against him, and no legal cause having been shown" or appearing to the court, judgment and sentence were thereupon pronounced. There is no recital that petitioner was represented by
counsel, was informed of hiq rights in any manner, or was admonished
of the consequences of his plea.
SSeenotes 3, 5, 6 supra. See also note 12 infra and text.
See note 11 infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

Under all of the New York decisions which have passed
upon the question, 0 the proper and apparently the necessary procedure, see People v. Keller, 37 N. Y. S. 2d 61,
62, for attacking a sentence as second offender, upon
the ground that the former conviction was invalid, is
first by motion in the court imposing the initial sentence
to vacate it, after which if the motion is successful the
sentence for the second offense may be attacked and
vacated. 1 In other words, the second offender, situated
as is petitioner, must first overturn his first conviction in
the court where it was obtained, before he can attack the
second sentence founded in part upon that conviction.
This procedure in my opinion is a reasonable one within
the power of a state to require, at least where both offenses
have taken place within its jurisdiction. And I know of
no reason why this Court should disregard or override it.
Much less is it within our province to invert the state
procedure, if that is the effect of the dubious suggestion
that petitioner's rights perhaps may be saved upon some
other record "that discloses circumstances other than those
10 Inthe absence of determination by a state's highest tribunal the
rule announced and applied by other state courts is to be taken by
us as determining questions of state law. Cf. Wedt v. A. T. & T. Co.,
311 U. S. 223.
"IIfthe 1938 conviction is held void, under state law petitioner
then may move to vacate the 1941 sentence in the court which imposed it, and for "resentencing according to state law. See People
ex rel. Sloane v. Lawes, 255 N. Y. 112; People ex rel. Carollo v.
Brophy, 294 N. Y. 540; People v. Keller, 37 N. Y. S. 2d 61. And
the proper forum for attacking the 1938 conviction, as a preliminary
to attack on that of 1941, is the one where the former was obtained,
by the motion to vacate which petitioner has employed. People
v. Bernoff, 61 N. Y. S. 2d 46; People v.,Foeter, 182 Misc. 73; People
v. Paterno, 187 Misc. 56, with which compare People v. Paterno,
182 Misc. 491; cf. People v. Gereewitz, 294 N. Y. 163, 167; People
v. Keller, 8upra,at 63.

GAYES v. NEW YORK.
145

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

before us," presumably if at all by motion before the court
which imposed the 1941 sentence to vacate it. 2
No state decisions are cited or, it would seem in view of
the contrary authorities cited above,' can be cited to support such a view. Nor is it required by anything said or
done in Canizio v. New York, 327 U. S. 82, if indeed such
a matter could ever be within our function. The Canizio
decision has no relevance to this case, either for prescribing
the state procedure or for the constitutional issue. It held
only that where a defendant had counsel at the time of
his sentence and could then have moved to withdraw
his prior plea of guilty, he was not prejudiced by the
convicting court's previous failure to inform him of his
right to counsel.
12The opinion announced in conjunction with the Court's judgment seems to suggest that the decisions establishing the state procedure followed in this case are not controlling for our disposition,
on what basis I am unable to understand, see note 10 supra, unless
upon the untenable one that state rulings upon criminal procedures
and the proper forum for utilizing them are not binding for federal
determinations to the same extent as are such rulings in civil matters.
Only upon some such basis is the dubious suggestion justified that
petitioner should have raised the question of the validity of his first
sentence at the time of his sentencing as a second offender and in
that forum. Not only is this contrary to the established state procedure, see note 11, but it is expressly qualified by the further suggestion that petitioner's rights may possibly be saved "upon a record
that discloses circumstances other than those before us," and it seems
to be contradicted by the further statement that "the questions that
may be raised regarding the circumstances attending the imposition
of Gayes' commitment .. .in 1938 are not now open." It is pertinent to inqpired whether Gayes is to have another chance, through
a local procedure prescribed by this Court alone, or whether the
constitutional questions now presented are foreclosed by his failure
to follow a procedure not prescribed or, so far as appears, permitted
by the state.
13
See note 11.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

That case had nothing to d6 with the state procedure
open to one convicted as a second offender for challenging
his sentence on the ground that the first conviction was
invalid for federal constitutional reasons. And the facts,
on the merits, were very different from those presented here. Whereas, among other things, in that case
the petitioner did have counsel before his sentence was
imposed, here not only was Gayes denied counsel altogether in the first trial, but so far as the record discloses
he had none in the trial for the second offense. I do not
think the Canizio decision can be held to cover such a
wholly different situation as this. It did not rule that,
if a convicted person has never had counsel, the fact that
in a later proceeding he conceivably might have had such
aid if he had applied for it cures the denial, more particularly when so far as appears he was treated no better during his trial for the second offense than during the first,
and when moreover his present attack is made as a preliminary one required by state law for showing the second
sentence invalid.
In my judgment it is for the state, not this Court, to
say whether the attack upon the first sentence as increasing the second shall be made on the flank or frontally, or
perchance in either way. Indeed, under the law of New
York, which is controlling on us, the so-called "flank"
attack is apparently the only one now open to petitioner.
In the face of so clear a violation of constitutional right
as this case presents, we should neither foreclose that
avenue nor substitute for it. another dubiously available
one of our own manufacture.
The judgment should be reversed.

