SEALFON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

SEALFON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 174.

Argued December 11, 1947.-Decided January 5, 1948.

1. Petitioner was tried and acquitted on a charge of conspiracy to
defraud the United States by presenting false invoices and making
false representations to a ration board to the effect that certain
sales of. sugar products were made to exempt agencies. Thereafter, he was tried and convicted for aiding and abetting the
uttering and publishing of the false invoices introduced in the
conspiracy trial. The crux of the prosecutor's case at the second
trial was an alleged agreement necessarily found in the first trial
to be nonexistent. Held: In the unique circumstances of this case,
the jury's verdict in the conspiracy trial was a determination favorable to petitioner of the facts essential to conviction of the substantive offense; and res judicata was a valid defense to the second
prosecution. Pp. 576-580.
2. The doctrine of res judicata is applicable to criminal as well as
civil proceedings, and operates to conclude those matters in issue
which have been determined by a previous verdict, even though
the offenses be different. P. 578.
161 F. 2d 481, reversed.

After being acquitted on a conspiracy charge, petitioner
was tried and convicted on substantially the same evidence for violating § 332 of the Criminal Code. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 161 F. 2d 481. This
Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 754. Reversed, p.
580.
John J. Wilson argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was Roger Robb.

With

W. Marvin Smith argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorney General 9uinn, Robert S.
Erdahl and Beatrice Rosenberg.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of -he Court.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

. 332 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents the question whether an acquittal of
conspiracy to defraud the United States precludes a subseqdent prosecution for commission of the substantive
offense, on the particular facts here involved.
Two indictments were returned against petitioner and
others. One charged a conspiracy to defraud the United
States of its governmental function of conserving and
rationing sugar by'presenting false invoices and making
false representations to a ration board to the effect that
certain sales of sugar products were made to exempt
agencies.1 The other indictment charged petitioner and
Greenberg with the commission of the substantive offensp,2 viz., uttering and publishing as true the false in-

voices. The conspiracy indictment was tried first and
the following facts were shown:
Defendant Greenberg manufactured syrup and approached Sanford Doctors, a salesman for a brokerage
concern, to sell vanilla syrup. Doctors negotiated some
sales to petitioner who did a wholesale business under
the name of Sero Syrup Co. Thereafter Greenberg asked
Doctors to get a list from petitioner showing the places
where petitioner made sales and told him that if any sales
were made to exempt agencies, Greenberg could sell to
petitioner in larger quantities. Doctors so informed petitioner and some time thereafter petitioner wrote to Greenberg saying, "at the present time some of our syrups are
being sold at the Brooklyn Navy Yard" and various defense plants. Petitioner did sell some of his syrup to a
vending company which had machines at the Navy Yard
but it was not vanilla syrup and no sales were made to
1 See § 28 Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. § 72.
2 See § 332 Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. § 550.

SEALFON v, UNITED STATES.
575

Opinion of the Court.

the Navy iard as such. Greenberg thereafter presented
a series of false invoices to the ration board purporting
to show sales to petitioner for delivery to the Navy Yard.
Petitioner's letter was never shown to the board. On the
basis of these invoices Greenberg received replacement
certificates for 21 million pounds of sugar, 10 million of
which he sold to petitioner in the form of vanilla syrup,
and which was by petitioner sold to non-exempt consumers, mostly the National Biscuit Company. Petitioner at first made payments to Greenberg by check but
thereafter gave checks to hiG trucker which the latter
cashed, deducted his trucking fee, and paid Greenberg.
The jury returned a verdict of not guilty as to petitioner.' Thereafter a trial was had on the other indictment which charged petitioner and Greenberg with
uttering and publishing as true the false invoices introduced in the conspiracy trial. Greenberg pleaded guilty
and the trial proceeded against petitioner on the theory
that he aided and abetted Greenberg in the commission
of the substantive offense. The false invoices, the letter
from petitioner to Greenberg, and essentially the same
testimony were again introduced against petitioner. In
addition, it was brought out on cross-examination that
petitioner had unsuccessfully sought replacement certificates from his ration board for sugar contained in syrups
sold at the Navy Yard and defense plants. Greenberg
3.The conspiracy indictment also named Leo and Murray Greenberg, Fresh Grown Preserves Corporation in which the Greenbergs
were officers (all of whom we refer to simply as Greenberg), the
S. J. Baron Corporation, theRoyal Crown Bottling Co. of Baltimore,

Inc., Royal Crown Bottling Co. of Washington, Inc., and William C.
Franklin, president of the Royal Crown companies.

Greenberg'

pleaded guilty, Baron Corporation pleaded nolo contendere, and verdicts were directed for Royal Crown and Franklin. It was charged

that the Baron Corporation participated in the conspiracy by writing
a letter similar to that written by petitioner, discussed hereafter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

gave testimony from which the jury could conclude that
petitioner was a moving factor in the scheme to defraud
which was-constructed around petitioner's letter and that
he was faniliar with- Greenberg's intention to submit false
invoices. Greenberg further testified that petitioner received $500,000 in cash under the agreement as a rebate
of two cents a pound on all replacement sugar which
Greenberg received on Navy Yard invoices whether or not
it was used in syrup sold to petitioner. This time the jury
returned a verdict of guilty and petitioner was sentenced
to five years' imprisonment and fined $12,000.
Petitioner moved to quash the second indictment on
grounds of double jeopardy (abandone in this Court) and
re8 judicata, and also objected to the introduction of the
evidence adduced at the first trial. The district judge
.ruled against petitioner, and the court below affirmed.
161 F. 2d 481. We granted the petition for a writ of
certiorari because of the importance of the questiop to the
administration of the criminal law.
It has long been recognized that the commission of the
substantive offanse and a conspiracy to commit it are separate and distinct offenses. Pinkerton v. United.States,
328 U. S. 640, 643. Thus, with some exceptions, one may
be prosecuted for both crimes. Ibid. But res judicata
may be a defense in a second prosecution. That doctrine
applies to criminal as well as civil proceedings (United
States v. Oppenheimer, %42 U. S. 85, 87; United States v.
De Angelo, 138 F. 2d 466, 468: 147 A. L. R. 991; see
Frank v. :Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 334) and operates to
conclude those matters in issue which the verdict determined though the offenses be different. See UnitedStates
v. Adams, 281 U. S.202, 205.
Thus the only question in this case is whether the jury's
verdict in the conspiracy trial was a determination favorable to petitioner of the facts essential to conviction of

SEALFON v. UNITED STATES.
575

Opinion of the Court.

the substantive offense. This depends upon the facts
adduced at each trial and the instructions under which
the jury arrived at its verdict at the first trial.
Respondent argues that the basis of the jury's verdict
cannot be known with certainty, that the conspiracy trial
was predicated on the theory that-petitioner was a party
to an over-all conspiracy ultimately involving petitioner,
Greenberg, and the Baron Corporation.4 Thus it is said
that the verdict established with certainty only that petitioner was not a member of such conspiracy and. that
therefore the prosecution was not foreclosed from showing
in the second trial that petitioner wrote the letter pursuant to an agreement with Greenberg to defraud the United
States. The theory is that under the instructions given
the jury might have found that petitioner conspired with
Greenberg and yet refused to infer that he was a party to
the over-all conspiracy.
The instructions under which the verdict was rendered,
however, must be set in a practical frame and viewed
with an eye to all the circumstances of the proceedings.
We look to them only for such light as they shed on the
issues determined by the verdict. Cf. De Sollar v. Hanscome, 158 U. S. 216, 222. Petitioner was the only one on
trial under the conspiracy indictment. There was no evidence to connect him directly with anyone other than
Greenberg. Only if an agreement with at leas.t Greenberg was inferred by the jury could petitioner be convicted. And in the only instruction keyed to the particular facts of the case the jury was told that petitioner must
be acquitted if there was reasonable doubt that he con-:.
spired with Greenberg. Nowhere was the jury told that
to return a verdict of guilty it must be found that petitioner was a party to a conspiracy involving not only
4 See note 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Greenberg but the Baron Corporation as well.' Viewed in
this setting, the verdict is a determination that petitioner,
who concededly wrote and sent the letter, did not do so
pursuant to an agreement with Greenberg to defraud.
So interpreted, the earlier verdict precludes a later conviction of the substantive offense. The basic facts in each
trial were identical. As we read the records of the two
trials, petitioner could be convicted of either offense
only on proof that he wrote the letter pursuant to
an agreement with Greenberg. Under the evidence introduced, petitioner could have aided and abetted Greenberg in no other way. Indeed, respondent does not
urge that he could. Thus the core of the prosecutor's
case was in each case the same: the letter, and the circumstances surrounding it and to be inferred from it, and
the false invoices. There was, of course, additional evidence on the second trial adding detail to the.circumstances leading up to the alleged agreement, petitioner's
participation therein, and what he may have got out of
it. But at most this evidence only made it more likely
that petitioner had entered into the corrupt agreement.
It was a second attempt to prove the agreement which
at each trial was crucial to the prosecution's case and
which was necessarily adjudicated in the former trial to
be non-existent. That the prosecution may not do.
Reversed.

That was the view oi the judge who tried b6th cases. At the
second trial he characterized as follows the charge and the verdict
at, fhe first: "...
what was tried on the 11th of December was a
charge of conspiracy and what the'jury by its verdict determined was
th,t Seslfon had not entered into common agreement with the Greenbergs and the Fresh Grown Company to violate the law."

