OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
631

Syllabus.

white applicants have been afforded legal education by
the State. The State must provide it for her in conformity with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and provide it as soon as it does for applicants of any other group. Missouri ex rel. Gaines v.
Canada,305 U. S. 337 (1938).
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma is
reversed and the cause is remanded to that court for
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
The mandate shall issue forthwith.
Reversed.

OYAMA

ET AL.

V.

CALIFORNIA.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT'OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 44.

Argued October 22, 1947.-Decided January 19, 1948.

1. The California Alien Land Law, as applied in this case to effect
an escheat to the State of certain agricultural lands recorded in
the name of a minor, American citizen because they had been paid
for by his father, a Japanese alien ineligible for naturalization who
was appointed, the son's guardian, held to have deprived the son
of the equal protection of the laws and of his privileges as an
American citizen, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment and R. S.
§ 1978. Pp. 640-647.
2. The Alien Land Law, as applied in this case, discriminated against
the citizen son in the following respects:.
(a) By a statutory prima facie presumption that conveyancef
financed by his father and recorded in the son's name were nogifts to the son but that the land was held for the benefit of th,:
father; whereas, for most minors, California applies the rule thai
where a parent pays for a conveyance to his child it is presumec
that a gift was intended. Pp. 641-642, 644-645.
(b) Because, under the laws of California as applied by its
courts when the father is ineligible for citizenship, facts which
would usually be considered indicia of the son's ownership are used
to make that ownership susnect: whereas, if the father were not

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Counsel for Parties

332 U. S.

an ineligible alien, the same facts would be evidence that a completed gift was intended. P. 642.
(c) By being required to counter evidence that his father was
remiss in his duties as guardian; whereas no other California case
has been called to this Court's attention in which the penalty for
a guardian's derelictions has fallen on the ward. Pp. 642-644.
3. The sole basis for this discrimination, which resulted in a citizen
losing the land irretrievably and without compensation, was the
fact that his father was Japanese. Cockrill v. California,268 U. S.
258, distinguished. Pp. 644-645.
4. Such discrimination against a citizen on the basis of his racial
descent cannot be justified on the ground that it is necessary to
prevent evasion of the State's laws prohibiting the ownership of
agricultural land by aliens who are ineligible for citizenship. Pp.
646-647.
29 Cal. 2d 164,173 P. 2d 794, reversed.

The Supreme Court of California affirmed a decision
of a state trial court declaring escheated to the State
under the California Alien Land Law, 1 Cal. Gen. Laws,
Act 261, as amended, certain agricultural lands recorded
in the name of a minor American citizen, which lands

had been paid for by his father, a Japanese citizen ineligible for naturalization.

29 Cal. 2d 164, 173 P. 2d 794.

This Court granted certiorari.

330 U. S. 818.

Reversed,

p. 647.
A. L. Wirin and Dean G. Acheson argued the cause for
petitioners. With Mr. Wirin on the brief were Charles A.

Horsky, James C. Purcell, Guy C. Calden, Saburo Kido
and Fred Okrand.

Everett W. Mattoon, Deputy Attorney General of California, and Duane J. Carnes argued the cause for respondent. With them on the brief was Fred N. Howser, Attorney General.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
James C. Purcell for the Civil Rights Defense Union of

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

Opinion of the Court.

Northern California; and Edwin Borchard, Edward J.
Ennis, Osmond K.

Fraenkel, Walter Gellhorn, Arthur

Garfield Hays, Harold Evans and Benjamin Kizer for the

American Civil Liberties Union.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON delivered the opinion of

the Court.
. Petitioners challenge the constitutionality of Califor-hia's Alien Land Law 1 as it has been applied in this case
to effect an escheat of two small parcels of agricultural
land.2 One of the petitioners is Fred Oyama, a minor
American citizen in whose name title was taken. The
other is his father and guardian, Kajiro Oyama, a Japanese citizen not eligible jor naturalization,' who paid the
purchase price.

Petitioners press three attacks on the Alien Land Law
as it has been applied in this case: first, that it deprives

Fred Oyama of the equal protection of the laws and of
his privileges as an American citizen; secondly, that it

denies Kajiro Oyama equal protection of the laws; and,
thirdly, that it contravenes the due process clause by
sanctioning a taking of property after expiration of the
1 Cal. Gen. Laws, Act 261 (Deering 1944, 1945 Supp.).
Cal. 2d 164, 173 P. 2d 794 (1946).
8 At the time the Alien Land Law was adopted the right to be
naturalized extended only to free white persons and persons of
African nativity or descent. In 1940, descendants of races indigenous
to the Western Hemisphere were also made eligible, 54 Stat. 1140;
in 1943 Chinese were mgde eligible, 57 Stat. 601; and in 1946 Filipinos and persons of races indigenous to India were made eligible,
60 Stat. 416, 8 U. S. C. A. § 703 (1946 Supp.). While it is not altogether clear whether the statute should be interpreted to include or
to exclude certain peoples, see Note, 54 Harv. L. Rev. 860, 864-5
(1941), it seems to be accepted that Japanese are among. the few
groups not eligible for citizenship.
1

2 29

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

applicable limitations period. Proper foundation for
these claims has been laid in the proceedings below.
In approaching cases, such as this one, in which federal
constitutional rights are asserted, it is incumbent on us
to inquire not merely whether those rights have been
denied in express terms, but also whether they have been
denied in substance and effect. We must review independently both the legal issues and those factual matters
with which- they are commingled.
In broad outline, the Alien Land Law forbids aliens
ineligible for American citizenship to acquire, own, occupy, lease, or transfer agricultural land.' It also provides that any property acquired in violation of the
statute shall escheat as of the date of acquisition 6 and
that the same result shall fbllow any transfer made with
"intent to prevent, evade or avoid" escheat.' In addition, that intent is presumed, prima facie, whenever an
ineligible alien pays the consideration for a transfer to
a citizen or eligible alien.'
The first of the two parcels in question, consisting of
si- acres of agricultural land in southern California, was
purchased in 1934, when Fred Oyama was six years old.
Kajiro Oyama paid the $4,000 consideration, and the seller
executed a deed to Fred. The deed was duly recorded.
Some six months later, the father petitioned the Superior Court for San Diego County to be appointed Fred's
guardian, statind that Fred owned the six acres. After
a hearing, the court found the allegations of the petition
See Patton v. Mississippi, 332 U. S. 463 (1947); Chambers v.
Florida, 309 U. S. 227, 228-9 (19.40); Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S.
587,590 (1935).
5 §§ 1 and 2.
§ 7.
4

§ 9.
8§9

(a).

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

Opinion of the Court.

true and Kajiro Oyama "a competent and proper person"
to be appointed Fred's guardian. The appointment was
then ordered, and the father posted the necessary bond.
In 1936 and again in 1937, the father as guardian sought
permission to borrow $4,000, payable in six months, for
the purpose of financing the next season's crops and to
mortgage the six-Acre parcel as security. In each case
notice of the petition and date for hearing was published
in a newspaper, the court then approved the borrowing
as advantageous to Fred Oyama's estate, and the father
posted a bond for $8,000. So far as appears from the
record, both loans were obtained, used for the benefit of
the estate, and repaid on maturity.
The second parcel, an adjoining two acres, was acquired
in 1937, when Fred was nine years old. It was sold by
the guardian of another minor, and the court supervising
that guardianship confirmed the sale "to Fred Oyama"
as highest bidder at a publicly advertised sale. A copy
of the court's order was recorded. Fred's father again
paid the purchase price, $1,500.
From the time of the two transfers until the date of
trial, however, Kajiro Oyama did not-file the annual
reports which the Alien Land Law requires of all guardians of agricultural land belonging to minor children of
ineligible aliens.'
In 1942, Fred and his fhmily were evacuated from the
Pacific Coast along with all other persons of Japanese
descent. And in 1944, when Fred" was sixteen and still
forbidden to return home, the State filed a petition to
declare an escheat of the two parcels on the ground that
the conveyances in 1934 and 1937 had been with intent
to violate and evade the Alien Land Law.
9 §§ 4 and 5. This was the holding of the state courts. Petitioners
argue that until 1943 there was some doubt as to whether reports
were required. See note 23, infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

At the trial the only witness, other than a court official
testifying to records showing the facts set forth above,
was one John'Kurfurst, who had been left in charge of
the land at the time of the evacuation. He testified that
the Oyama family once lived on the land but -had not
occupied it for several years before the evacuation. After
the evacuation, Kurfurst and those to whom he rented
the property drew checks to Fred Oyama for the rentals
(less expenses), and Kurfurst transmitted them to Fred
Oyama through the War Relocation Authority. The
canceled checks were returned endorsed "Fred Oyama,"
and no evidence was offered to prove that the signatures
were not by the son. Moreover, the receipts issued by
the War Relocation Authority for the funds transmitted
by Iturfurst were for the account of Fred Oyama, and
Kurfurst identified a letter signed "Fred Oyama" directing him to turn the property over to a local bank for
management.
On direct examination by the State's Attorney, however, Kurfurst also testified that he knew the father as
"Fred," but he added that he had never heard the father
refer to himself, by that name. In addition, he testified
on cross-examination that he had once heard the father
say, "Some day the boy will have a good piece of property
because that is going to be valuable." He also admitted
that he knew "the father was running the boy's business"
and that "the property belonged to the boy and to June
Kushino" (Fred's cousin, an American citizen). Kurfurst further acknowledged that in a letter he had written
about the property and had headed "Re: Fred Yoshihiro
Oyama and June Kushino" he meant by "Fred Yoshihiro
Oyafma" the boy, not the father. He also understood a
letter written to him by the War Relocation Authority
"Re: Fred Oyama" to refer to the boy.
From this evidence the trial court found as facts that
the father had had the beneficial use of the land and that

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

Opinion of the Court.

the transfers were subterfuges effected with intent to pre"
vent, evade or avoid escheat. Accordingly, the court
entered its conclusion of law that the parcels had vested
in the State as of the date of the attempted transfers in
1934 and 1937.
The trial court filed no written opinion but indicated
orally that its findings were based primarily on four inferences: (1) the statutory presumption that any conveyance is with "intent to prevent, evade or avoid" escheat
if an ineligible alien pays the consideration; 10 (2) an
inference of similar intent from the mere fact that the
conveyances ran to a minor child; 11 (3) an inference of
lack of bona fides at the time of the original transactions
from the fact that the father thereafter failed to file
annual guardianship reports; and (4) an inference from
the father's failure to testify that his testimony would
have been adverse to his son's cause. No countervailing
inference was warranted by the exhibits in Fred's name,
the judge said, "because there are many instances where
there is little in a name."
In holding the trial court's findings of intent fully
justified by the evidence, the Supreme Court of California
pointed to the same four inferences. It also ruled that
California could constitutionally exclude ineligible aliens
from any interest in agricultural land,12 and that Fred
Oyama was deprived of no constitutional guarantees since
§ 9 (a) of the Alien Land Law.
"IThe judge stated that in the absence of a strong reason people
just do not take title to real estate in the name of their seven-yearold children-thereby putting it beyond the power of the parernts
to deal with it directly, to deed it away, to borrow money on it and
to make free disposition of it.
12 This conclusion was based in large measure on a series of cases
decided within a week of each other in 1923: Terrace v. Thompson,
263 U. S. 197; Porterfieldv. Webb, 263 U. S. 225; Webb v. O'Brien,
263 U. S. 313; and Frick v. Webb, 263 U. S. 326.
10

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

the land had passed to the State without ever vesting
in him.
We agree, with petitioners' first contention, that the
Alien Land Law, as applied in this case, deprives Fred
Oyama of the equal protection of California's laws and
of his privileges as an American citizen. In our view of
the :case, the State has discriminated against Fred Oyama;
the discrimination is based solely ohi his parents' country
of origin; and there is absent the compelling justification
which would be needed to sustain discrimination of that
nature.
By federal statute, enacted before the Fourteenth
Amendment but vindicated by it, the states must accord
to all citizens the right to take and hold real property."
California, of course, recognizes both this right and the
*fact that infancy does not incapacitate a minor from holding realty."4 It is also established under California law
that ineligible aliens may arrange gifts of agricultural land
to their citizen children." Likewise, when a minor citizen does become the owner of agricultural land, by gift or
otherwise, his father may be appointed guardian of the
estate, whether the father be a citizen, an eligible alien, or
an ineligible alien." And, once appointed, a guardian is
3

"All citizens of the United States shall have the same right, in
every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to
inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal
property." R. S. § 1978, 8 U. S. C. § 42.
14 The State in its brief concedes that this is so. See also Estate
of Yano, 188 Cal. 645, 649p 206 Pac. 995, 998 (1922); People v. Fujita,
215 CL66, 1698 P. 2d 1011,1012 (1932).
15The State also concedes the accuracy of this proposition. See
also People v. Fujita,supra note 14.
16 A statute of general applicability requires that parents be given
preference in the appointment of a minor's guardian. Cal. Prob.
Code Ann. § 1407.
Sectiorr 4. of the Alien Land Law, as enacted in 1920, prohibited
an ineligible alien from becoming the guardian of that part of his

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

Opinion of the Court.

entitled to have custody of the estate and to manage and
husband it for the ward's benefit." To that extent Fred
Oyama is ostensibly on a par with minors of different
lineage.
At this point, however, the road forks. The California
law points in one direction for minor citizens like Fred
Oyama, whose parents cannot be naturalized, and in
another for all other children-for minor citizens whose
parents are either citizens or eligible aliens, and even for
minors who are themselves aliens though eligible for
naturalization.
-In the first place, for most minors California has the
customary rule that where a parent pays for a conveyance
to his child there is a presumption that a gift is intended;
there is no presumption of a resulting trust, no presumption that the minor takes the land for the benefit of his
parent. 8 When a gift is thus presumed and the deed is
recorded in the child's name, the recording suffices for
delivery," and, absent evidence that the gift is disadvantageous, acceptance is also presumed. 0 Thus the burden
of proving that there was in fact no completed bona fide
gift falls to him who would attack its validity.
child's estate which consisted of agricultural land. Cal. Stats. 1921,
p. lxxxiii. This section was held unconstitutional in Estate of YanO,
supra note 14.
17 See DeGreayer v. Superior Court, 117 Cal. 640, 49
Pac. 983
(1897).
18 Gomez v. Cecena, 15 Cal. 2d 363, 101 P. 2d 477 (1940); Quinn
v.
Reilly, 198 Cal. 465, 245 Pac. 1091 (1926); Russ v. Mebius, 16 Cal.
350 (1860); cf. Lezinsky v. Mason Malt Whiskey Distilling Co., 185
Cal. 240, 250, 196 Pac. 884, 889 (1921); Hamilton v. Hubbard, 134
Cal. 603,605, 65 Pac. 321, 322 (1901).
19People v. Fujita, 215 Cal. 166, 169, 8 P. 2d 1011, 1012 (1932);
Estate of Yano, 188 Cal. 645, 649, 206 Pac. 995, 998 (1922); cf.
Turner v. Turner, 173 Cal. 782, 786, 161 Pac. 980, 982 (1916).
20 People v. Fujita and Estate of Yano, both supra note 19; DeLevillain v. Evans, 39 Cal. 120,123 (1870).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Fred Oyama, on the other hand, faced at the outset the
necessity of overcoming a statutory presumption that
conveyances financed by his father and recorded in Fred's
name were not gifts at all. Something very akin to a
resulting trust was presumed and, at least prima facie,
Fred was presumed to hold title for the benefit of his
parent."
In the second place, when it came to rebutting this
statutory presumption, Fred Oyama ran into other obstacles which, so far as we can ascertain, do not beset the
path of most minor donees in California.
Thus the California courts said that the very fact that
the transfer put the land beyond the father's power to
deal with it directly-to deed it away, to borrow money
on it, and to make free disposition of it in any other
way-showed that the transfer was not complete, that it
was merely colorable. The fact that the father attached
no strings to the transfer was taken to indicate that he
meant, in effect, to acquire the beneficial ownership himself. The California law purports to permit citizen sons
to take gifts of agricultural land from their fathers, regardless of the fathers' nationality. Yet, as indicated by
this case, if the father is ineligible for citizenship, facts
which would usually be considered indicia of the son's
ownership are used to make that ownership suspect; if
the father is not an ineligible alien, however, the same
facts would be evidence that a completed gift was
intended.
Furthermore, Fred Oyarna had to counter evidence that
his father was remiss in his duties as guardian. Acts
21 It
is interesting to note that in two previous cases the California
Supreme Court has explicitly stated that where aliens are prohibited
from holding lands, an implied trust by operation of law will not arise
in their favor. Estate of Yano and People v. Fujita,both supra,note
.19. Both cases were decided before purchase of either of the parcels
involved in this case and at the time of the purchase apparently
represented the established State law.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

Opinion of the Court.

subsequent to a transfer may, of course, be relevant to
indicate a transferor's intent at the time of the transfer.
In this case the trial court itself had reservations as to
the evidentiary value of the father's omissions; 22 with
these we agree, especially because there was some reason to believe reports were not required of him until
1943, 23 and he had been excluded from the state from
1942 on. More important to the issue of equal protection, however, our attention has been called to no other
case in which the penalty for a guardian's derelictions hasfallen on any one but the guardian. At any time the
court supervising the guardianship could have demanded
the annual accounts and, if appropriate, could have removed Kajiro Oyama as guardian; severe punishment
could also have been meted out." The whole theory of
22 While relying to some extent on this inference the trial court
indicated that it did not consider it a strong one "because sometimes
people who are not informed as to the requirements of the law in
connection with those matters simply fail to do the thing that the
law requires."
2 Section 4 of the Alien Land Law, as amended in 1920, prohibited
ineligible aliens from becoming guardians of agricultural land owned
by their minor children, Cal. Stats. 1921, p. lxxxiii, while § 5 required
certain reports of persons who could and did become guardians of
such land-i. e., persons other than the parents. Section 4 was held
invalid in 1922 in Estate of Yano, supra note 21, and was not replaced
until 1943, when there was enacted a new § 4 enunciating requirements for ineligible alien guardians. Section 5 has remained on the
books continuously.
Petitioners argue that. there may have been at least a justifiable
belief on the part of ineligible aliens such as Kajiro Oyama that they
were not required to file guardianship reports until 1943. As inferential corroboration of this view, they point to the failure of both
the guardianship court and the district attorney to take action against
Kajiro Oyama under § 5 between 1935 and 1943.
24 If, as the State contends, § 5 of the Act required Kajiro Oyama
to file annual reports, the same section set as the penalty for violation
a fine up to $1,000 and imprisonment up to a year. Other statutes
of general applicability subject guardians to the law of trusts and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

guardianships is to protect the ward during his period of
incapacity to protect himself. In Fred Oyama's case,
however, the father's deeds were visited on the son; the
ward became the guarantor of his guardian's conduct.
The cumulative effect, we believe, was clearly to discriminate against Fred Oyama. He was saddled with
an onerous burden of proof which need not be borne by
California children generally. The statutory presumption and the two ancillary inferences, which would not
be used against most children, were given such probative
value as to prevail in the face of a deed entered in the
public records, four court orders recognizing Fred Oyama
as the owner of the land, several newspaper notices to
the same effect, and testimony that business transactions
regarding the land were generally understood to be on
his behalf. In short, Fred Oyama lost his gift, irretrievably and without compensation, solely because of the
extraordinary obstacles which the State set before him.
The only basis for this discrimination against an American citizen, moreover, was the fact that his father was
Japanese and not American, Russian, Chinese, or English.
But for that fact alone, Fred Oyama, now a little over
a year from majority, would be the undisputed owner
of the eight acres in question.
The State argues that racial. descent is not the basis
for whatever discrimination has taken place. The argument is that the same statutory presumption of fraud
would apply alike to any person taking agricultural land
paid for by Kajiro Oyama, whether the recipient was
Fred Oyama or a stranger of entirely different ancestry.
We do not know how realistic it is to suppose that Kajiro
authorize the court to remove a guardian for mismanagement or
failure to render accounts. Cal. Prob. Code §§ 1400, 1580. Furthermore, since 1943 the statute has provided that breach of § 4 may
subject the guardian to a maximum of 10 years' imprisonment and
a $5,000 fine.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
.633

Opinion of the Court.

Oyama would attempt gifts of land to others than his
close relatives. But in any event, the State's argument
ignores the fact that the generally applicable California
law treats conveyances to the transferor's 6hildren differently from conveyances to strangers. Whenever a Chinese or English parent, to take an example, pays a third
party to deed land to a stranger, a resulting trust is presumed to arise, and the stranger is presumed to hold the
land for the benefit of the person paying the consideration; 2 when the Alien Land Law applies a similar presumption to a like transfer by Kajiro Oyama to a stranger,
it appears merely to reiterate the generally applicable
law of resulting trusts. When, on the other hand, the
same Chinese or English father uses his own funds to
buy land in his citizen son's name, an indefeasible title
is presumed to vest in the boy; 2 but when Kajiro Oyama
arranges a similar transfer to Fred Oyama, the Alien Land
Law interposes a presumption just to the contrary. Thus,
as between the citizen children of a Chinese or English
father and the citizen children of a Japanese father, there
is discrimination; as between strangers taking from the
same transferors, there appears to be none.
It is for this reason that Cockrill v. California,go8 U. S.
258 (1925), does not support the State'sposition. In that
case an ineligible alien paid for land and had title put
in a stranger's name, and this Court affirmed a decision
upholding the statutory presumption of the Alien Land
Law as there applied.27
25

Cal. Civil Code § 853.

26See

note 18 supra.

In the Cockrill case the ineligible alien, one Ikada, first attempted
to purchase the larid in his own name. When the seller questioned
the legality of the transfer, it was arranged for title to be put in the
name of Cockrill, Ikada's attorney. That was done, and immediately
on execution of the contract of sale, Ikada himself entered into possession. There was some evidence that the land was purchased and
was being held for Ikada's American-born children, but a jury found
27

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

There remains the question of whether discrimination
between citizens on the basis of their racial descent, as
revealed in this case, is justifiable. Here we start with
the proposition that only the most exceptional circumstances can excuse discrimination on that basis in the face
of the equal protection clause and a federal statute giving
all citizens the right to own land. 8 In Hirabayashi v.
United States, this Court sustained a war measure which
involved restrictions against citizens of Japanese descent.
But the Court recognized that, as a general rule, "Distinctions between citizens solely because of their ancestry are
by their very nature odious to a free people whose institutions are founded upon the doctrine of equality." 320
U. S. 81,100 (1943).
The only justification urged upon us by the State is
that the discrimination is necessary to prevent evasion
of the Alien Land Law's prohibition against the ownership of agricultural land by ineligible aliens. This reasoning presupposes the validity'of that prohibition, a
premise which we deem it unnecessary and therefore inappropriate to reexamine in this case. But assuming, for
purposes of argument only, that the basic prohibition is
constitutional, it does not follow that there is no constiIkada and Cockrill guilty of conspiracy to violate the Alien Land
Law. In affirming, the California appellate court pointed out that
no move had been made toward having a guardian appointed for the
children. 62 Cal. App. 22, 45, 216 Pac. 78, 88. Before this Court
Ikada and Cockrill argued that the statutory presumption denied
equal protection to the Japanese, not to the donee as in the present
case.
Since"
do not reach petitioners' second argument, that it is
unconstitutional for a state to forbid the ownership of land by an
ineligible alien, we do not -think it appropriate to reexamine either
the cases cited in note 12, supra, or the hecessary implication in the
Cockrill case that the basic prohibition of the Alien Land Law is
valid.
28See

note 13 supra.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

- BLACK, J., concurring.

tutional limit to the means which may be used to enforce
it. In the light most favorable to the State, this case
presents a conflict between the State's right to formulate
a policy of landholding within its bounds and the right of
American citizens to own land anywhere in the United
States. When these two rights clash, the rights of a
citizen may not be subordinated merely because of his
father's country of origin.
Since the view we take of petitioners' first contention
requires reversal of the decision below, we do not reach
their other contentions: that the Alien Land Law denies
ineligible aliens the equal protection of the laws, and
that failure to apply any limitations period to escheat
actions under that law takes property without due process
of law.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
agrees, concurring.
I concur in the Court's judgment and its opinion. But
I should prefer to reverse the judgment on the broader
grounds that. the basic provisions of the California Alien
Land Law violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and conflict with federal laws and
treaties governing the immigration of aliens and their
rights after arrival in this country. The California law in
actual effect singles out aliens of Japanese ancestry, requires the escheat of any real estate they own, and its
language is broad enough to make it a criminal offense,
punishable by imprisonment up to ten years,-for them to
acquire, enjoy, use, possess, cultivate, occupy, or transfer
real property.1 It would therefore appear to be a crime
1Section 10 (a) of the Alien Property Initiative Act provides:
"Any persou who violates any of the provisions of this act shall be
punishable by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed one

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
BLACK, J., concurring.

332 U. S.

for an alien of Japanese ancestry to own a home in ,California, at least if the land around it is suitable for.
cultivation.2 This is true although the statute does
not name the Japanese as such, and although its terms
also apply to a comparatively small number of aliens
from other countries. That the effect and purpose of
the law is to discriminate against Japanese because they
are Japanese is too plain to call for more than a statement
of that well-known fact.
We are told, however, that, despite the sweeping prohibition against Japanese ownership or occupancy, it is
no violation of the law for a Japanese to work on land as
a hired hand for American citizens or for foreign nationals
permitted to own California lands. And a Japanese man
or woman may also use or occupy land if acting only in the
capacity of a servant. In other words, by this Alien Land
Law California puts all Japanese aliens within its boundaries on the lowest possible economic level. And this
Land Law has been followed by another which now bars
Japanese from the fishing industry. Cal. Stats. 1945, c.
181; see Takahashi v. Fish & Game Comm'n, 30 Cal. 2d
year or in the State penitentiary not exceeding 10 years, or by a fine

not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) or both." Section 2
of the Act provides that aliens ineligible for citizenship "may acquire,
possess, enjoy, use, cultivate, occupy and transfer' real property, or
any interest therein" in California only to the extent allowed by
treaty between the United States and the nation of which the alien
is a citizen.
2 The United States-Japanese Treaty of 1911, which guaranteed
Japanese in this country the right to own and lease land "for residential and commercial purposes," 37 Stat. 1504, was abrogated
effective January 26, 1940. Dept. of State Bull., July 29, 1939, p. 81.
Since the abrogation of this treaty, it is doubtful whether Japanese
aliens in California may own or rent a home or a business. We
are told that a recent intermediate court decision upholding the
right of Japanese aliens to rent a building for business purposes,
Palmero v. Stockton Theatres, 172 P. 2d 103 (1946), has been
appealed to the Supreme Court of California.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

BLACK,

J., concurring.

719, 185 P. 2d 805. If there is any one purpose of the
Fourteenth Amendment that is wholly outside the realm
of doubt, it is that the Amendment was designed to ban,
States from denying to some groups, on account of their
race or color, any rights, privileges, and opportunities
accorded to other groups. I would now overrule the previous decisions of this Court that sustained state land
laws which discriminate against people of Japanese origin
residing in this country.'
Congress has provided strict immigration tests and
quotas. It has also enacted laws to regulate aliens after
admission into the country. Other statutes provide for
deportation of aliens. Although Japanese are not permitted to become citizens by the ordinary process of
naturalization, still Congress permitted the admissiorl of
some Japanese into this country. All of this means that
Congress, in the exercise of its exclusive power over immigration, Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 42, decided that
certain Japanese, subject to federal laws, might come to
and live in any one of the States of the Union: The Supreme Court of California has said that one purpose of
that State's Land Law is to "discourage the coming of
Japanese into this state, . . ." Estate of Yano, 188 Cal.
645, 658, 206 P. 995, 1001. California should not be permitted to erect obstacles designed to prevent the immigration of people whom Congress has authorized to come into
and remain in the country. See Hines v. Davidowitz, 312
U. S. 52, 68. There are additional reasons now why that
law stands as an obstacle to the free accomplishment of
our policy in the international field. One of these reasons
is that we have recently pledged ourselves to cooperate
with the United Nations to "promote . . . universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamen3 Terrace v. Thompson,, 263 U. S. 197; Porterfield v. Webb, 263

U. S. 225; Webb v. O'Brien, 263 U. S. 313; Frick v. Webb, 263 U. S.
326.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

tal freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion."' 4 How can this nation be faithful
to this international pledge if state laws which bar land
ownership and occupancy by aliens on account of race
are permitted to be enforced?
MR. JUSTICE
LEDGE

MURPHY,

with whom MR. -JUSTICE RUT-

joins, concurring.

To me the controlling issue in this case is whether the
California Alien Land Law on its face is consistent with
the Constitution of the United States. Can a state prohibit all aliens ineligible for American citizenship from
acquiring, owning, occupying, enjoying, leasing or transferring agricultural land? Does such a prohibition
square with the language of the Fourteenth Amendment
that no state shall "deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws"?"
The negative answer to those queries is dictated by
the uncompromising opposition of the Constitution to
racism, whatever cloak or disguise it may assume. The
California statute in question, as I view it, is nothing
more than an outright racial discrimination. As such, it
deserves constitutional condemnation. And since the
very core of the statute is so defective, I consider it necessary to give voice to that. fact even though I join in the
opinion of the Court.
In its argument before us, California has disclaimed
any implication that the Alien Land Law is racist in
its origin, purpose or effect. Reference is made to the
fact that nowhere in the statute is there a sifigle mention of race, color, creed or place of birth or allegiance
as a determinant of who may not own or hold farm land.
The discrimination established by the-statute is said to
4 United Nations Charter, Articles 55c and 56; 59 Stat. 1045, 1046
(1945).

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

be entirely innocent of the use of such factors, being
grounded solely upon the reasonable distinctions created
by Congress in its naturalization laws. However, an
examination of the circumstances surrounding the original enactment of this law in 1913, its reenactment in 1920
and its subsequent application reveals quite a different
story.'
The California Alien Land Law was spawned of the
great anti-Oriental virus which, at an early datte, infected
many persons in that state. The history of this antiOriental agitation is not one that does credit to a nation
that prides itself, at least historically, on being the
friendly haven of the tired and the oppressed of other
lands. Beginning in 1850, witX the arrival of substantial numbers of Chinese immigrants, racial prejudices and
discriminations began to mount. Much of the opposition
to these Chinese came from trade unionists, who feared
economic competition, and from politicians, who sought
union support. Other groups also shared in this opposition. Various laws and ordinances were enacted for the
purpose of discouraging the immigrants and dramatizing
'The story is a familiar one and has been told many times. See
the following sources:
Treatises.-Millis, The Japanese Problem in the United States
(1915); Ichihashi, Japanese in the United States (1932); Strong, The
Second Generation Japanese Problem (1934); McWilliams, Prejudice
(1944); Konvitz, The Alien and the Asiatic in American Law (1946),
ch. 5.
Articles.-Buell, "The Development of Anti-Japanese Agitation in
the United States," 37 Pol. Sci. Q. 605, 38 id. 57; Bailey, "California,
Japan, and the Alien Land Legislation of 1913," 1 Pac. Hist. Rev. 36;
McGovney, "The Anti-Japanese Land Laws of California and Ten
Other States," 35 Calif. L. Rev. 7; Ferguson, "The California Alien
Land Law and the Fourteenth Amendment," 35 Calif. L. Rev. 61;
Comment, 56 Yale L. J. 1017.
Government Publications.-H. R. Rep. No. 2124, 77th Cong., 2d
Sess.; U. S. Dept. of Interior, W. R. A., People in Motion: The Postwar Adjustment of the Evacuated Japanese Americans (1947).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY, J.,

concurring.

332 U. S.

the native dissatisfaction. Individual Chinese were subjected to many acts of violence. Eventually, .Congress
responded to this popular agitation and adopted Chinese
exclusion laws.
It was not until 1900 that Japanese began to arrive
in California in large numbers. By that time the repressive measures directed at the Chinese had achieved much.
of their desired effect; the Chinese population had materially decreased and the antipathy of the Americans was
on the decline. But the arrival of the Japanese fanned
anev the flames of anti-Oriental prejudice. History then
began to repeat itself. White workers resented the new
influx, a resentment which readily lent itself to political
exploitation. Demands were made that Japanese immigration be limited or prohibited entirely.! Numerous
2"In November of 1904 the American Federation of Labor, in
annual convention in San Francisco, resolved to exclude Japanese
and Korean, as well as Chinese laborers. The San Francisco Chronicle in February 1905 began the publication of a series of articles
captioned: 'Crime and Poverty Go Hand in Hand with Asiatic Labor,'
'Brown Men an Evil in the Public Schools,' 'Japanese a Menace to
American Women,' 'Japs Throttle Progress in the Rich Fruit Section.'
The campaign was immediately effective. In early March the California Legislature, followed by the Nevada Legislature, passed a
resolution demanding immediate action to limit the immigration of
Japanese laborers. And in May 1905 the Asiatic Exclusion League,
originally the Japanese and Korean Exclusion League, was organized
in San Francisco . ...
"The avowed purpose of the league was to preserve North America
for Americans, by preventing or minimizing the immigration of Asiatics, who were said to be unassimilable, and ill-suited to complement
the machine processes of American industrial life. The league declared itself in favor of segregation of Japanese in the schools and a
boycott against Japanese workers and businessmen. In California
alone, it was claimed that membership of the league was 110,000 in
February of 1908. Of the 238 affiliated bodies composing the league,
202 were labor unions; the rest were fraternal, civic, benevolent,
political, and military societies." H. R. Rep. No. 2124, 77th Cong.,
2d Sess., pp. 72-73.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

acts of violence were perpetrated against Japanese businessmen and workers, combined with private economic
sanctions designed to drive them out of business. Charges
of espionage, unassimilativeness, clannishness and corruption of young children were made against these "Mongolian invaders." Campaigns were organized to secure
segregated schools and to preserve "America for the
Americans."
Indeed, so loud did this anti-Japanese clamor become
that the Japanese Government made formal protests to
the United States. President Theodore Roosevelt thereupon investigated and intervened in the California situation. He was able to secure a slight amelioration.
Further, negotiations with the Japanese Government
resulted in a so-called "gentlemen's agreement," whereby
the Japanese Government agreed to limit passports to
the United States to nonlaborers and to others who had
already established certain business and personal interests
in this country.3
But the agitation did not die and anti-Japanese measures continued to be proposed in wholesale fashion. The
first anti-Japanese land bills were introduced in the
California legislature in 1907, but the combined efforts
of President Roosevelt and Governor Gillett prevented
their passage. At least seventeen anti-Japanese bills
were introduced in the 1909 session, including another
land bill. President Roosevelt again intervened. This
time he" succeeded in having the land bill amended to
apply to all aliens, as a result of which the bill was
defeated; ' he was also instrumental in preventing the
3

See Ichihashi, Japanese in the United States (1932), ch. XVI.
'During the legislative debate on this bill, one of the assemblymen
stated: "I would rather every foot of California was in its native
wilderness than to be cursed by the foot of these yellow invaders, who
are a curse to the country, a menace to our institutions, and destructive of every principle of Americanism. I want no aliens, white, red,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY, J., concurring.

332 U. S.

passage of a school segregation bill. The flood of antiJapanese proposals continued in the 1911 session, at
which more than twenty such measures were introduced.
Among them, of course, was still another alien land bill.
It provided that "no alien who is not eligible to citizenship" should hold real property in California. The prospects for the passage of this bill seemed good, for by
this time all political parties in the state had anti-Japanese planks in their platforms. But Presidential intervention was once again successful and the bill died in
committee.'
In 1913, however, nothing could stop the passage of
the original version of what is now the Alien Land Law."
This measure, though limited to agricultural lands, represented the first official act of discrimination aimed at
the Japanese. Many Japanese were engaged in agricultural.pursuits in 1913 and they constituted a substantial
segment of the California farm labor supply. From 1900
to 1910, Japanese-controlled farms in California had inblack or yellow, to own a foot of land in the State of California."
Another assemblyman said that he intensely and unalterably hated
the Japanese, whom he characterized as "a bandy-legged bagiboo,
miserable craven Simian, degenerated rotten little devil." From the
San Francisco Chronicle, February 3, 1909, quoted in Ichihashi,
Japanese in the United States (1932), p. 26 2 .
5
Also opposing the bill at this time was the Panama Pacific Exposition Company and its supporters. They, desired not to antagonize
Japan and thus jeopardize the chances of Japan's participation in the
exposition, which was soon to be held at San Francisco.
6"By 1913 the political situation was ripe for the passage of an
anti-Japanese land law. The state administration in California remained Progressive Republican while the national administration
became Democratic and exercised less influence over the state legislature. The Exposition had ,progressed to the point where the appeal
for its success was no longer sufficiently effective. Opposition to the
bill came only from a few relatively ineffective groups." Ferguson,
"The California Alien Land Law and the Fourteenth Amendment," 35
Calif. L. Rev. 61, 66.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MuRPHY,

J., concurring.

creased from 4,698 acres to 99,254 acres. The agricultural situation thus offered a fruitful target for the antiJapanese forces, who had been balked in their attempts
to secure a ban on all Japanese immigration and to outlaw
Japanese acquisition and enjoyment of residential and
commercial property. In this new endeavor they were
eminently successful. Secretary of State Bryan, acting
on behalf of President Wilson, made a personal appearance in California to plead for caution, but his request
was ignored as the legislators voted overwhelmingly in
favor of the bill. This 1913 law denied "aliens ineligible
to citizenship" the privilege of buying land for agricultural purposes in California, and allowed them to lease
land for such purposes for no more than three years.
The- measure was so drawn as ,not to be inconsistent
with the Japanese-American treaty of 1911, which authorized Japanese in this country to lease and occupy land
for residential and commercial purposes. But since the
treaty made no mention of agricultural land, legislation
on the matter by California did not present a square
conflict.
The passage of the law was an international incident.
The Japanese Government made an immediate protest
on the ground that the statute was an indication of
unfriendliness towards its people. Indeed, the resentment was so violent inside Japan that demands were
made that war be declared against the United States.
Anti-American agitation grew rapidly.! The question
'"The land act could not have been passed at a more inopportune
time. Shortly prior to its adoption, this country had aroused considerable resentment in Japan by its recognition of the newly established Chinese Republic... ..Furthermore the land act was passed,
as Mr. A. M. Pooley has pointe4 out, 'shortly after the Tokio mob
had succeeded in shattering the third Katsura Ministry.' Passage
of the bilioccasioned violent resentment in Japan. 'Revelling in the
recent discovery of its power,' writes Mr. Pooley, 'the mob, inflamed
by the oppesition, endeavored to use the same methods to force a

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

was discussed at length on the diplomatic level.

332 U. S.

It was

declared by. the Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs that
the statute "is essentially unfair and invidiously discriminatory against my countrymen, and inconsistent as well
with the sentiments of amity and good neighborhood
which have presided over the relations between the two
countries .. . ."
, But the matter was allowed to lapse
as both countries became increasingly occupied with the
developments of World War I.
The intention of those responsible for the 1913 law was
plain. The "Japanese menace" was to be dealt with on
a racial basis. The immediate purpose, of course, was
to restrict Japanese farm competition. As subsequently
stated by Governor Stephens of California, "In 1913 the
Legislature of this state passed a statute forbidding the
ownership of agricultural lands by Japanese and limiting
their tenure to three-year leaseholds. It was the hope
at that time that the enactment of this statute might put
a stop to the encroachments of the Japanese agriculturist." ' Actually, however, the law had little effect on the
settlement of the California question on the government' that it had
used in ousting the Katsura Ministry. Throughout April and May,
1913, the Japanese press adopted a most threatening and truculent
tone. California newspapers on April 18, 1913, carried a dispatch
from Tokyo to the effect that 'a demand that Japan resort to arms
was hysterically cheered at a mass meeting here tonight to protest
against the alien land bill now pending before the California legislature. Twenty thousand persons assembled.'
"'More unfortunate still,' observed Mr. Pooley, 'the wave of excitement grew under the stimulus of anti-American societies formed by
men in responsible positions. The agitation of April and May, 1913,
became a national movement and of such volume that the Government had to pay respect to it. The anti-American movement spread,
associations sprang up like mushrooms to deal with the matter.'"

McWilliams, Prejudice (1944), p. 46.
8
Quoted in Ichihashi, Japanese in the United States (1932), p.
274.
9Report of California State Board of Control, California and the
Oriental (1920), p. 11.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

farm situation. It failed to prohibit the acquisition of
farms in the future or to divest any existing holdings; and
there was no limitation on the renewal of leases. The
Japanese farm population remained largely intact.
The more basic purpose of the statute was to irritate
the Japanese, to make economic life in California as
uncomfortable and unprofitable for them as legally possible. It was thus but a step in the long campaign to
discourage the Japanese from entering California and to
drive out those who were already there. The Supreme
Court of California admitted as much in its statement
that the Alien Land Law was framed so as "to discourage
the coming of Japanese into this State." Estate of Tetsubumi Yano, 188 Cal. 645, 658, 206 P. 995, 1001. Even
more candid was the declaration in 1.913 by Ulysses S.
Webb, one of the authors of the aw and an Attorney
General of California. He stated "The fundamental
basis of all legislation upon this subject, State and Federal, has been, and is, race undesir bility. It is unimportant and foreign to the question under discussion
whether a particular race is inferior. The simple and
single question is, is the race desirable . . . . It [the
Alien Land Law] seeks to limit their presence by curtailing their privileges which they may enjoy here; for
they will not come in large numbers and long abide with
us if they may not acquire land. ,jAnd it seeks to limit
the numbers who will come by limiting the opportunities
for their activity here when they arrive."
10From

a speech before the Commonwealth Club of San Francisco

on August 9, 1913,. quoted in Ichihashi, Japanese in the United States
'(1932), p. 275.

Apparently one factor which, in Mr. Webb's mind, made the Japanese an "undesirable" race was their efficiency in agricultural production. In a brief signed by him and submitted to this Court in
Porterfield v. Webb, 263 U. S.225 (No. 28, OT 1923), p. 25, he
stated:
"The fundimental question is not one of race discrimination. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

Further evidence of the racial prejudice underlying the
Alien Land Law is to be found in the events relating to
the reenactment and strengthening of the statute by
popular initiative in 1920. More severe and effective
than the 1913 law, the initiative measure prohibited
ineligible aliens from leasing land for agricultural purposes; and it plugged various other loopholes in the
earlier provisions. A spirited campaign was waged to
secure popular approval, a campaign with a bitter antiJapanese flavor. All the propaganda devices then
known-newspapers, speeches, films, pamphlets, leaflets,
billboards, and the like-were utilized to spread the
anti-Japanese poison.1 The Japanese were depicted as
is a question of recognizing the obvious fact that the American farm,
with its historical associations of cultivation, environment, and including the home life of its occupants, can not exist in competition with
a farm developed by Orientals with their totally different standards
and ideas of cultivation of the soil, of living and social conditions.
"If the Oriental farmer is the more efficient, from the standpoint
of soil production, there is just that much greater certainty of an
economic conflict which it is the duty of statesmen to avoid.
"The conservative and intelligent- statesmen of Japan have recognized this truth just as fully as have those of America. It is far better
to have an occasional outburst from extremists who refuse to recog-.
nize the underlying reason for such legislation, than to permit of a
condition that would lead to results far more serious from the standpoint of the friendly relations of the two nations."
""In point of virulence, the 1920 agitation far exceeded any similar
demonstration in California. In support of the initiative measures,
the American Legion exhibited a motion picture throughout the state
entitled 'Shadows of the West.' All the charges ever made against
the Japanese were enacted in this film. - The filnT showed a mysterious
room fitted with wireless apparatus by which 'a head Japanese ticked
out prices which controlled a state-wide vegetable market'; spies
darted in and out of the scenes, Japanese were shown dumping vegetables intothe harbor to maintain high prices; two white girls were
abducted -by a group of Japanese men only to be rescued, at the last
moment, by a squad of American Legionnaires. When meetings were
called to protest the exhibition of this scurrilous film, the meetings
were broken up." McWilliams, Prejudice (1944), p. 60.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

degenerate mongrels and the voters were urged to save
"California-the White Man's Paradise" from the "yellow peril," which had somewhat lapsed in the public
mind since 1913. Claims were made that the birth rate
of the Japanese was so high that the white people would
eventually be replaced and dire warnings were made that
the low standard of living of the Japanese endangered
the economic and social health of the community. Opponents of the initiative measure were labeled "Japlovers." The fires of racial animosity were thus rekindled
and the flames rose to new heights.
In a pamphlet officially mailed to all voters prior to
the election, they were told that the primary purpose
of the new measure was "to prohibit Orientals who cannot become American citizens froim controlling our rich
agricultural lands . . . . Orientals, and more particularly Japanese, [have] commenced to secure control of
agricultural lands in California .
12 The arguments
in the pamphlet in support of the measure were repeatedly directed against the Japanese alone, without reference to other Orientals or to others who were ineligible
for American citizenship. In this atmosphere heavy
with race hatred, the voters gave decisive approval to
the proposal, 668,483 to 222,086, though the majority constituted less than half of the total electorate. But so
virulent had been. the campaign and so deep had been the
natural resentment in Japan that once again the threat of
war appeared on the horizon, only to die in the rush of
other events.
It is true that the Alien Land Law, in its original and
amended form, fails to mention Japanese aliens by name.
.Some of the proposals preceding the adoption of the
original measure in 1913 had in fact made specific refer12

From the pamphlet, "Argument in Favor of Proposed Alien Land

Law," quoted in McGovney, "TheAnti-Japanese Land Laws of
California and Ten Other States," 35 Calif. L. Rev. 7, 14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY, J., concurring.

332 U. S.

ence to Japanese aliens. But the expansion of the discrimination to include all aliens ineligible for citizenship
did not indicate any retreat from the avowed anti-Japanese purpose. Adoption of the Congressional standard
of ineligibility for citizenship was only an indirect, but
no less effective, means of achieving the desired end.
The federal legislation at all pertinent times has been
so drawn as to exclude Japanese aliens from American
citizenship. 3 This Court has said, in referring to such
legislation, that "a person of the Japanese race, if not
born a citizen, is ineligible to become a citizen, i. e., to
be naturalized." Morrison v. California,291 U. S. 82, 85.
The framers of the California law were therefore able
to utilize the federal standard with full assurance that
the result would be to exclude Japanese aliens from the
ownership and use of farm land. Congress supplied a
ready-made vehicle fQr discriminating against Japanese
aliens, a vehicle which California was prompt to grasp and
expand to purposes quite beyond the scope or object of the
Congressional statute.
Moreover, there is nothing to indicate that the proponents of the California law were at any time concerned
with the use or ownership of farm land by ineligible
aliens other than those of Japanese origin. Among those
ineligible for citizenship when the law was under consideration were Chipese aliens. But the Chinese in
'California were genei ally engaged in small commercial
9 See 8 U. S. C. § 703, as last amended on July 2, 1946, 60 Stat.
416. This extends the right to become a naturalized citizen only to
white persons, persons of African nativity or descent, persons who are
descendants of races indigenous to the continents of North or South
America or adjacent islan is, Filipino persons, Chinese persons and
persons of Chinese descent, and persons of races indigenous to India.
But, Chinese and Hindu§ ; ere not eligible at the time the Alien Land
Law was under consideration.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,.

J.,

concurring.

enterprises rather than in agricultural occupations and,
in addition, were not considered a menace because of
the Chinese exclusion acts.'4 No mention was made by
the statute's proponents of the Hindus or the Malay and
Polynesian aliens who were resident in California. Aliens
of the latter types were so numerically insignificant as to
arouse no interest or animosity. 5 Only the Japanese
aliens presented the real problem. It was they, the
"yellow horde," who were the object of the legislation.
That fact has been further demonstrated by the subsequent enforcement of the Alien Land Law. At least
79 escheat action§ have been instituted by the state since
the statute becarhe effective. Of these 79 proceedings,
4 involved Hindus, .2 involved Chinese and the remaining
73 involved Japanese."0 Curiously enough, 59 of the 73
Japanese cases were begun by the state subsequent to
Pearl Harbor, during the period when the hysteria generated by World War II magnified the opportunities for
"The people of that state [California] did not object particularly
to Chinese and negroes, who were racially different but who stayed
in their place. But they did object to the Japanese because they
were efficient, thrifty, ambitious, and, above. aft, unwilling to remain
'mudsillers.'" Bailey, "California, Japan, and the Alien Land Legislation of 1913," 1 Pac. Hist. Rev. 36, 57.
15The California State Board .of Control collected statistics in 1920
as to. city lots and farm lands occupied by Orientals, both American
citizdns and aliens. - Of the total of 27,931,444 acres of farm land in
the state, Japanese owned 74,769 acres, Chinese owned 12,076 acres
and Hindus owned 2,099 acres. At the same time, Japanese held
under lease or crop contract 383,287 acres, Chinese held 65,181 acres
and Hindus held 86,340. There was no indication that any other
aliens then ineligible for citizenship held any substantial amount of
farm lands. Report, California and the Oriental (1920), p. 47.
" These statistics have been compiled by the petitioner (Appendix
B of brief in this Court) from the biennial reports of the California
Attorney General's Office from 1912-14 through 1944-46, as supplemented by the state's brief in this case (p. 47).
14

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

effective anti-Japanese propaganda." Vigorous enforc, ment of the Alien Land Law has been but one of the
cruel discriminatory actions which have marked this
nation's treatment since 1941 of those residents who
chanced to be of Japanese origin.
The Alien Land Law, in short, was designed to effectuate a purely racial discrimination, to prohibit a Japanese alien from owning or using agricultural land solely
because he is a Japanese alien. It is rooted deeply in
racial, economic and social antagonisms. The question
confronting us is whether such a statute, viewed against
the background of racism, can mount the hurdle of the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Can a state disregard in this manner the historic ideal
that those within the borders of this nation are not to
be denied rights and privileges because they are of a
particular race? I say that it cannot.
The equal protection clause is too clear to admit of
any other conclusion. It provides that no state shall
"deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws." The words "any person" have
1Y 1944 the Attorney General of California explained that the
subsfantial non-enforcement of the iaw prior to World War II was
"a reflection of the National policy to refrain from acts which might
be regarded as unfriendly to the Japanese race and the Japanese
empire." Proceedings, California Land Title Association (38th Ann.
Conf. 1944), p. 97. Such was also the reason given by a California
Senate Fact Finding Committee on Japanese Resettlement (Report
of May 1,1945), p. 3: "The Federal authorities since the beginning
have not looked with favor upon the enforcement of the law just
as they opposed its enactment in the beginning. The principal reason
for this attitude appears to have been that expressed by William Jennings Bryan when, as Secretary of State, he came to California in
opposition to the enactment of this law. He stated that the enactment of the law might turn a now friendly Nation into an unfriendly
Nation. Undoubtedly the attitude of the Federal authorities on this
matter has been an important influence."

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

sufficient scope to include resident aliens, whether eligible
for citizenship or not. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33. Hence Japanese
aliens ineligible for citizenship must be accorded equal
protection. And the laws as to which equal protection
must be given cert inly include those protecting the right
to engage in common occupations like farming, Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, supra, and those pertaining to the use and
ownership of agricultural lands, Buchanan v. Warley, 245
U. S. 60. The concept of equal protection, however, may
in rare cases permit a state to single out a class of persons,
such as ineligible aliens, for distinctive treatment. The
crucial test in these exceptional instances is whether there
is a rational basis for the particular kind of discrimination
involved. Are the characteristics of the class such as to
provide a rational justification for the difference in
treatment?
Such a rational basis is completely lacking where, as
here, the discrimination stems directly from racial hatred
and intolerance. The Constitution of the United States,
as I read it, embodies the highest political ideals of which
man is capable. It insists that our government, whether
state or federal, shall respect and observe the dignity of
each individual, whatever may be the name of his race,
the color of his skin or the nature of his beliefs. It thus
renders irrationAl, as a justification for discrimination,
those factors which reflect racial animosity. Yet the
history of- the Alien Land Law shows beyond all doubt
that factors of that nature make up the foundation upon
which rests the discrimination established therein. And
such factors are at once evident Avhen the legal, social
and economic considerations advanced in support of the
discriminatiorl are subjected to rigid scrutiny.
First. It is said that the rule established by Congress
for determining those classes of aliens who may become

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MuRPHY, J., concurring.

332 U. S.

citizens furnishes in and of itself a reasonable basis for the
discrimination involved in the Alien Land Law.
The proposition that the "plenary" power of Congress
over naturalization is uninhibited, even by the constitutional prohibition of racism, is one that is open to grave
doubts in my mind. 8 Racism has no justifiable place
whatever in our way of life, even when it appears under
the guise of "plenary" power. Cf. concurring opinion in Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U. S. 135, 161-162.. But the
fact remains that Congress has made racial distinctions in
establishing naturalization standards. And those distinctions in large part have grown out of the demands of
racially intolerant groups, including many of those who
were among the foremost proponents of the Alien Land
Law. Yet it does not follow, even if we assume that
Congress was justified in adopting such racial distinctions,
that California can blindly adopt those distinctions for the
purpose of determining who may own and enjoy agricultural land.. What may be reasonable and constitutional
for Congress for one purpose may not be reasonable or constitutional for a state legislature for another and wholly
distinct purpose. Otherwise there would be few practical
limitations to the power of a state to discriminate among
those within its jurisdiction, there being a plethora of federal classifications which could be copied."
In other words, if 'a state wishes to borrow a federal
classification, it must seek to rationalize the adopted distinction in the new setting. Is the distinction a reasonable one for the purposes for which the state desires to
18 See Gordon, "The Racial Barrier to American Citizenship," 93
U. of Pa. L. Rev. 237.
19See Arrowsmith v. Voorhies, 55 F. 2d 310, holding invalid a
Michigan statute .which prohibited "undeiirable aliens," as defined
by the laws of .the United States, from establishing or maintaining
legal residence in that state or from securing employment in that
state. See also Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

use it? To that question it is no answer that the distinction was taken from a federal statute or that the distinction may be rationalized for the purpose for which Congress used it. The state's use of the distinction must
stand or fall on its own merits. And if it appears that the
equal protection clause forbids the state from using the
distinction for the desired purpose, the fact that Congress
is free to adopt the -distinction in some other connection
gives the state no additional power to act upon it. Thus
the state acquires no power whatever to impose racial
discriminations upon resident aliens from the Congressional power to exclude some or all aliens on a racial
basis.
Second. It is said that eligibility for American citizenship is inherently related to loyal allegiance and desire
to work for the success and welfare of the state, which
has a vital interest in the farm lands within its borders.
Hence it may limit the ownership and use of farms to
those who are or who may become citizens.
Such a claim is outlawed by reality. In 1940 there
were 4,741,971 aliens residing in the continental United
States, of whom 48,158 were ineligible for naturalization."
Many of these ineligible aliens have long been domiciled
in this country. They have gone into various businesses
and professions. They have established homes and
reared children, who have the status of American citizens
by virtue of their birth in this country. And they have
entered into the social and religious fabrics of their communities. Such ineligible aliens thus have a vital interest
in the economic, social and political well-being of the
states in which they reside and their loyalty has been
0 Of the 48,158 aliens ineligible for naturalization, 47,305 were
Japanese, 749 were Korean, 9 were Polynesian, and 95 belonged to
other Asiatic groups. 16th Census of the United States: 1940, Characteristics of the Nonwhite Population, p. 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

proved many times.2 ' The fact that they are ineligible
for citizenship does not, by itself, make them incapable
of forming these ties and interests. Nor does their ineligibility necessarily preclude them from possessing the
loyalty and allegiance which the state rightly desires.
Loyalty and the desire to work for the welfare of the
state, in short, are individual rather than group characteristics. An ineligible alien may or may not be
loyal; he may or may not wish to work for the success
and welfare of the state or nation. But the same can
be said of an eligible alien or a'natural born citizen.
It is the essence of naivete to insist that these desirable
characteristics are always lacking in a racially ineligible
alien, whose ineligibility may be remedied tomorrow by
Congress." These are matters which depend upon factors
far more subtle and penetrating than the prevailing naturalization standards. As this Court has said, "Loyalty
is a matter of the heart and.mind, not of race, creed, or
color." Ex parte Endo, 323 U. S. 283, 302. And so
racial eligibility for citizenship is an irrational basis for
determining who is loyal or who desires to work for the
welfare of the state.
Third. It has been said that if ineligible aliens could
lease or own farms, it is within the realm of possibility
that they might acquire every foot of land in California
which is fit for agriculture.
There was no indication of any sabotage or other subversive activities in the period surrounding Pearl Harbor on the part of Japanese
aliens long resident in this country.
22 Thus see the recent amendment to the Naturalization Act, 56
Stat. 182, 8 U. S. C. § 1001, permitting the naturalization of every
person who'honorably served in the armed forces of the United States
during World War II without regard to what would otherwise be
racial ineligibility. Presumably a Japanese alien could own or use
farm land in California if he meets the requirements of this provision.
21

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

,J., concurring.

If we assume that it is wrong for ineligible aliens to own
or use all the farm land in California, such a contention
is statistically absurd." The Japanese population in California, both citizen and alien, has increased from 41,356
(more than one-tenth of them citizens) in 1910 to 71,952
(about one-third of them citizens) in 1920 to 93,717
(about two-thirds of them citizens) in 1940. Of the total
farms in California in 1920, Japanese citizens and aliens
controlled 4.4%, comprising 1.2% of the total acreage.
In 1930 they controlled 2.9% of the farms, or 0.6% of
the acreage. And in 1940 they controlled 3.9% of the
farms, or 0.7% of the acreage.. Since we are concerned
here only with the Japanese aliens, the percentage of the
farms and acreage controlled by them is materially less
than the foregoing figures. Thus the possibility of all
the California farm land falling under the control of
Japanese aliens is quite remote, to say the least.
Moreover, the nature of the Japanese alien segment
of the California population is significant. In 1940 there
were 33,569 Japanese aliens in that state, but the number
is now smaller, the best estimate being about 25,000.24
The 33,569 figure represents those who entered before
1924, when Congress prohibited further immigration of
aliens ineligible for citizenship.25 By 1940, all but 2,760
of these individuals were 35 years of age or older. More
than half of them were 50 years or more in age. These
age figures have risen to 43 and 58 during the past eight
years and death is beginning to take a more rapid toll.
Deportation, voluntary return to Japan and departure
23

The statistics which follow are taken frort the 16th Census of the

United States: 1940, Characteristics of the Nonwhite Population.

See

also McGovney "The Anti-Japanese Land Laws of California and Ten
Other States," 35 Calif. L. Rev. 7, 15-16.
24 McGovney "The Anti-Japanese Land Laws of California and
Ten Other Statefs,," 35 Calif. L. Rev. 7, 14.
2543 Stat. 161, 8 U. S. C. § 213 (c).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

to other states have also contributed to the decline. The
number of these aliens decreased 42% between 1920 and
1940 and an ever-increasing loss is inevitable.
Further deductions from this declining total of Japanese aliens must be made, for our purposes, for men
and women who are engaged in non-agricultural activities. In 1940 about 58% of them resided in urban centers
of 2,500 population or more. Out of 23,208 alien Japanese, fourteen years of age or older, only 10,512 were
reported as engaged in farming occupations. While the
Alien Land Law has undoubtedly discouraged some from
becoming farmers, the number who would normally be
non-farmers remains relatively substantial. The farmers, actual and potential, among this declining group are
numerically minute.
One other fact should be mentioned in this connection.
"Many of these aged and aging Japanese aliens suffered
heavy pecuniary losses incident to their evacuati,,n during the war. Suddenly ordered to abandon their properties and their homes, many felt compelled to sell at
sacrificial prices. Others lost through unfaithful custodianship of their properties during their absence. Cdnfined to so-called relocation centers, they were cut off for
nearly three years from any gainful employment. The
result is that many of the well-to-do among them returned
to California broken in fortune, with very few years of
life left for financial recuperation." 6
Such is the nature of the group to whom California
would deny the right to own and occupy agricultural
land. These elderly individuals, who have resided in
this country for at least twenty-three years and who are
constantly shrinking in number, are said to constitute
a menace, a "yellow peril," to the welfare of California.
26 McGovney, "The Anti-Japanese Land Laws of California and
Ten Other States," 35 Calif. L. Rev. 7, 16-17.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

They are said to be encroaching on the agricultural interests of American citizens. They are said to threaten
to take over all the rich farm land of California. They
are said to be so efficient that Americans cannot compete
with them. They are said to be so disloyal and so undesirous of working for the welfare of the state that they
must be denied the right to earn a living by farming.
The mere statement of these contentions in the context
of the actual situation is enough to demonstrate their
shallowness and unreality. The existence of a few thousand aging residents, possessing no racial characteristic
dangerous to the legitimate interests of California, can
'hardly justify a racial discrimination of the type here
involved.
. Fourth. It is stated that Japanese aliens are so efficient
in their farming operations and that their living standard
is so low that American farmers cannot compete successfully with them. Their right to own and use farm lands
must therefore be denied if economic conflicts are to be
avoided.
That Japanese immigrants brought with them highly
developed techniques of cultivation is not to be denied.
In Japan they had learned to obtain the highest possible
yield from each narrow strip of soil. And they possessed
the willingness and ability to perform the great amount
of labor necessary for intensive farming. , When they
came to California they put their efficient methods into
operation. There they pioneered in the production of
various crops and reclaimed large areas, developing some
of the richest agricultural regions in the state. I& performing these tasks, however, the Japanese caused no
substantial displacement. of American farmers. The
areas which they cultivated were, for the most part,
deserted or undesired by others.
27

McWilliams, Prejudice (1944), pp. 79-80.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

But eventually, the Japanese concentrated all of their
agricultural efforts in the production of vegetables, small
fruits and greenhouse products, experience having shown
that they could not compete successfully in larger farming endeavors. Within this truck-farm sphere, the Japanese achieved a near-monopoly by their diligence and
efficiency. While they had, as we have seen, an infinitesimal proportion of the total farm acreage in California,
their 1941 truck crops coveted 42% of the state's acreage
devoted to such production.'
In Los Angeles County
alone, they raised 64% of the truck crops for processing,
and 87% of the vegetables for fresh marketing.' This.
concentration of effort by the Japanese, many of whom
were not aliens, naturally gave strong competition to
other producers and forced some of them out of the
field.
The -success thus achieved through diligence and efficiency, however, does not justify prohibiting the Japanese
from owning or using farm lands. Free competition and
the survival of the fittest are supposedly vital elements
in the American economic structure. And those who are
injured by the fair operation of such elements can make
no legitimate objection. It would indeed be strange if
efficiency in agricultural production were to be considered a rational basis for denying one the right to engage
in that production. Certainly from a constitutional
standpoint, superiority in efficiency and productivity has
never been thought to justify discrimination.
2H.
R. Rep. No. 2124, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 117-118. In
1941 the Japanese produced 90% or more of California's snap beans
for marketing, spring and summer celery, peppers and strawberries;
50% to 90% of the artichokes, snap beans for canning, cauliflower,

fall and winter celery, cucumbers, fall peas, spinach and tomatoes;
25% to 50% of the asparagus, cabbage, cantaloupes, carrots, lettuce,
onions, and watermelons.
29d., p. 118.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

Comparatively speaking, the standard of living of the
Japanese immigrants may have been low at first. But
they have worked 'to raise their standard despite such
obstacles as the Alien Land Law. Like many other firstgeneration immigrants, the Japanese wereoften forced
to work long hours for low pay. Yet nothing has indicated that, given a fair opportunity, they are incapable
of improving their economic status. At the very least,
a low standard of-living is hardly a justification for a
statute which operates to keep that standard low. Something more than its own bootstraps is needed to pull such
a law up to the constitutional level.
Fijth. Closely knit with the foregoing are a host of
other contentions which make no pretense at concealing
racial bigotry and which have been used so successfully
by proponents and supporters of the Alien Land Law.
These relate to the alleged disloyalty, clannishness, inability to assimilate, racial inferiority and racial undesirability of the Japanese, whether citizens or aliens. The
misrepresentations, half-truths and distortions which
mark such contentions have been exposed many times
and need not be repeated here. See dissenting opinion
in Korematsu v. United States, 323 U. S. 214, 236-240.
Suffice it to say that factors of this type form no rational
basis for a statutory discrimination.
Unquestionably there were and are cultural, linguistic
and racial differences between Japanese aliens and native
Americans not of Japanese origin or ancestry.' The
physical characteristics of the Japanese, their different
customs and habits, their past connections with Japan,
their unique family relationships, their Oriencal religion,
and their extreme efficiency all contributed to the social
and economic conflicts which unfortunately developed.
But the crucial mistake that was made, the mistake
30 See

McWilliams, Prejudice (1944), ch. III.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.MURPHY, J., concurring.

332 U. S.

that made the attitude of many Americans one of intolerance and bigotry, was the quick assumption that these
differences were all racial and unchangeable. From that
mistake it was an easy step to charge that the Japanese race was undesirable and that all Japanese persons
were unassimilable. And from that mistake flowed the
many proposals to deal with the social and economic conflicts on a group or 'acial basis. It was just such a proposal that became the Alien Land Law.
Hence the basic vice, the constitutional infirmity, of
the Alien Land Law is that its discrimination rests upon
an -unreal racial found~tion. It assumes that there is
some racial characteristic, common to all Japanese aliens,
that makes them unfit to own or use agricultural land in
California. There is no such characteristic. None has
even been suggested. The arguments in support of the
statute make no attempt whatever to discover any true
racial factor. They merely represent social and economic
antagonisms which have been translated into false racial
terms. As such, they cannot form the rationalization
necessary to conform the statute to the requirements of
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Accordingly, I believe that the prior decisions of
this Court giving sanction to this attempt to legalize
racism should be overruled.31
Added to this constitutional defect, of course, is the fact
that the Alien Land Law from its inception has proved
an embarrassment to the United States Government.
This statute has been more than a local regulation of
internal affairs. It has overflowed into the realm of foreign policy; it has had direct and unfortunate conse31Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197; Porterfield v. Webb, 263
U. S. 225; Webb v. O'Brien, 263 U. S. 313; Frick v. Webb, 263

U. S. 326.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

quences on this country's relations with Japan. Drawn
on a background of racial animosity, the law was so patent
in its discrimination against Japanese aliens as to cause
serious antagonism in Japan, even to the point of demands
for war against the United States. The situation was so
fraught with danger that three Presidents of the United
States were forced to intervene in an effort to prevent the
Alien Land Law from coming into existence. A Secretary
of State made a personal plea that the passage of the law
might turn Japan into an unfriendly nation' Even after
the law became effective, federal authorities feared that
enforcement of its provisions might jeopardize our relations with Japan. That fear was in large part responsible
for the substantial non-enforcement of the statute prior
to World War II. But the very existence of the law undoubtedly has caused many in Japan to bear ill-feeling
toward this country, thus making friendly relations between the two nations that much more difficult.
Moreover, this nation has recently pledged itself,
through the United Nations Charter, to promote respect
for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental
freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language and religion. The Alien Land Law stands as a
barrier to the fulfillment of that national pledge. Its
inconsistency with the Charter, which has been duly ratified and adopted by the United States, is but one more
reason why the statute must be condemned.
And so in origin, purpose, administration and effect, the
Alien Land Law does violence to the high ideals of the
Constitution of the United States and the Charter of the
United Nations. It is an unhappy facsimile, a disheartening reminder, of the racial policy pursued by those forces
of evil whose destruction recently necessitated a devastating war. It is racism in one of its most malignant forms.
Fortunately, the majority of the inhabitants of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

States, and the majority of those in California,32 reject
racism and all of its implications. They recognize that
under our Constitution all persons are erititled to the equal
protection of the laws without regard to their racial ancestry. Human liberty is in too great a peril today to
warrant ignoring that principle in this case. For that
reason I believe that the penalty of unconstitutionality.
should be imposed upon the Alien Land Law.
MR. JUSTICE REED, with whom MR. JUSTICE BURTON
joins, dissenting.'
The Court's opinion assumes arguendo that the California Alien Land Laws are constitutional. As we read
the opinion, it holds that the Alien Land Laws of California, as here applied, discriminate in an unconstitutional
manner against an American citizen-a son born in the
United States to resident parents of Japhnese nationality.
From this holding we dissent.
California, through' an exercise of the police power,
which has been repeatedly approved by us,1 has prohibited ownership of land within the state by aliens
ineligible for citizenship.! Recognizing that the benefits
flowing from ownership can be enjoyed through subter32 On November 5,
1946, the voters of California rejected by
1,143,780 to 797,067 an attempt to "close loopholes in legislative
enactments [the Alien Land Laws] based on constitutional grounds."
The rejected amendment validated various additions to the Alien
•Land Law which had been made by the legislature to prevent circumvention of that law. U. S. Dept. of Interior, W. R. A., People
in Motion: The Postwar Adjustment of the Evacuated Japanese
Americans (1947), pp. 41-45.
I See footnote 12 of the majority opinion.
2 SEC. 1: "All aliens eligible to citizenship unde
the laws of the
United States may acquire, possess, enjoy, use, cultivate, occupy,
transfer, transmit and inherit real property, or any interest therein,
in this state, and have in whole or in part the beneficial use thereof,

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

,5

REED, J., dissenting.

fuge by persons not the holders of legal or equitable
title, California has proscribed as to the state every "conveyance . . . made with intent to prevent, evade or avoid
escheat . . . ." ' Transfers of real property made with
in the same manner and to. the same extent as citizens of the United
States, except as otherwise provided by the laws of this state."
SEC. 2: "All aliens other than those mentioned in section one of
this act may acquire, possess, enjoy, use, cultivate, occupy and transfer real property, or any interest therein, in this state, and have in
whole or in part the beneficial use thereof, in the manner and to
the extent, and for the purposes prescribed by any treaty now existing between the government of the United States and the 'nation
or country of which such alien is a citizen or subject, and not otherwise."
SEC. 7: "Any real property he'reafter acquired in fee in violation
of the provisions of this act by any alien mentioned in Section 2 of
this act, or by any company, association or corporation mentioned
in Section 3 of this act, shall escheat as of the date of such acquiring,
to, and become and remain the property of the State of California. .
3 SEC. 9: "Every transfer of real property, or of an interest therein,
though colorable in form, shall be void as to the State and the interest
thereby conveyed or sought to be conveyed shill escheat to the State
as of the date of such transfer, if the property interest involved is
of such a character that an alien mentioned in Section 2 hereof is
inhibited from acquiring, possessing, enjoying, using, cultivating, occupying, transferring, transmitting or inheriting it, and if the conveyance is made with intent to prevent, evade or avoid escheat as
provided for herein..
"A prima facie presumption that the conveyance is made'with
such intent shall arise upon proof of any of the following group .of
facts:
"(a) The taking of the property in the name of a person other
than the persons mentioned in Section 2 hereof if the consideration
is paid or agreed or understood to be paid by an alien mentioned
in Section 2 hereof;
"(b) The taking of the property in the name of a company, association or corporation if the. memberships or shares of stock therein
held by aliens mentioned in Section 2 hereof, together with the memberships or shares of stock held by others but paid for or agreed or

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED, J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

this intent "shall be void as to the state and the interest
thereby conveyed or sought to be conveyed shall escheat
to the state as of the date of such transfer .

. . ."

To

assist in the proof of "intent to prevent, evade or avoid
escheat," the state was given the benefit of a "prima facie
presumption that the conveyance is made with such intent

. . ."

where the state proves: "The taking of the

property in the name of a pei son other than [an alien who
cannot hold land] . ... if the consideration is paid or

agreed or understood to be paid by an alien [who cannot
hold land] .

. . ."

Thus the state has made void as to

it, two substantive acts: (1) ownership of land by ineligible aliens and (2) transfers made to avoid by indirection
the prohibition against ownership of land by ineligible
aliens. The statutory scheme recognizes that the purpose
of the Alien Land Laws cannot be achieved unless attempts to avoid the basic prohibition of the law are
penalized. Any law aimed at the prevention of ownunderstood to be paid for by such aliens, would amount to a majority
of the membership or issued cipital stock of such company, association or corporation;
"(c) The execution of a mortgage in favor of an alien mentioned
in Sectioi 2 hereof if such mortgagee is given possession, control or
management of the property.I
"In each of the foregoing instances the burden of proof shall be
upon the defendant to show that the conveyance was not made with
intent to prevent, evade or avoid escheat.
"The enumeration in this section of certain presumptions shall
not be so construed as to preclude other presumptions or inferences
that reasonably may be made as to the existence of intent to prevent,
evade or avoid escheat as provided for herein."
Presumption (a) has not been challenged on due process grounds.
Such an attack would be futile as there is a "rational connection
between the fact[s] proved .and the ultimate fact presumed." To
v. United States, 319 U. S. 463, 467. In Cockrilk v. California, 268
U. S. 258, this Court held that presumption (a) did not violate due

process.

OYAMA v, CALIFORNIA..7
633

REED,

677

J., dissenting.

ership by ineligible aliens, which did not penalize both
the act of owning and the act of attempting to enjoy the
rights of ownership through a cloak, would be defective
and readily avoided.
The trial court found that the transfers challenged by,
California in this case were made with an "intent to prevent, evade or avoid escheat"; in so finding the court
considered the statutory presumption together with theother evidence detailed in the Court's opinion and concluded that the defendants had not met the statutory
burden of proof imposed by § 9. The Supreme Court of
California affirmed.
We do not have in this review a balancing of constitutional rights; on one hand, the right of California to exclude ineligible aliens from land ownership and, on the
other, the right of their citizen sons to hold land. California does not deny the right to own land in California to
a citizen son of an ineligible alien. If that citizen obtains
the land in any way not made void as a violation of law,
he may hold it. Under § 9 the land escheats because of
the father's violation of law before it reaches the son.
The denial to the father by California of the privilege of
land ownership is not challenged. Neither is the right
to protect that denial by an escheat of the land on the
father's attempt to avoid the limitations of the California
land law. Actually, the only problem is whether the presumption arising from the payment of money for land by
the ineligible father denies eqtlal protection of the law to
the son. We understand the majority opinion to hold
that presumption (a) of § 9, with its so-called ancillary
inferences because of the son's minority and the father's
failure to file guardianship reports or testify, as here
applied, discriminates unconstitutionally against Fred
Oyama. If that presumption, with .the inferences, had
been held constitutional, apparently the Court would have
affirmed the opinion below because the issue then remain-

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

ing would have been the correctness of the findings of fact
by the trial judge. No one would suggest that the correctness of those findings could be challenged here; the
resolution of disputed issues of fact in non-constitutional
matters is for the state judicial system. This Court does
not intimate that it disagrees with California's factual
conclusion. Its ruling is based on the "cumulative effect"
of the "statutory presumption" and "two ancillary inferences." On remand to the courts of California, the case
may be tried again. On that retrial all of the evidence
admitted at the first trial may be submitted to the triers
of fact for no one says that the items of evidence, including
the father's payment of consideration, introduced by the
state are inadmissible. A major vice of the state's application of the law apparently was the reliance upon a presumption and inferences that this Court holds deny equal
protection. If an intent to "prevent, evade or avoid escheat" is found on the same evidence, an escheat will again
take place.
Presumption (a) of § 9 has been construed by the California Supreme Court: "That if the consideration for the
purchase of the real property is paid by an ineligible alien
and the title is taken in the name of a third person, it
will be presumed, in the absence of other evidence to
ihe contrary, that it was Lhe intent of both the alien and
the grantee to 'prevent, evade or avoid' thO escheat at
law. . . . But the presumption is recognized as dispittable and as disappearing in the. face of contrary evidence of sufficient strength to meet our rule. on conflict
of testimony."' We do not interpret the opinion of our
Brethren to say that the presumption, if valid, is irrebut* 4.People v. Fujita,215 Cal. 166, 170-71, 8 P. 2d 1011-12; see Takeuchi v. Schmuck, 206 Cal. 782, 276 P. 345. Indeed, a holding that
this presumption was conclusive might "open it to a serious attack
based upon due process grounds. See Heiner v..Donnan, 285 U. S.
312.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

REED,

J., dissenting.

table; or, to put the matter differently, that the effect of
the presumption, if valid, is to make it inevitable that all
gifts of real property by an alien-Japanese father to his
child can be successfully escheated by the state. As the
cases prove, an alien-Japanese father can give California
lands to his son in spite of the presumption.' The effect
of the presumption, if valid, is rather to place a burden,
an "onerous burden" to adopt the phrase of the majority
opinion, upon all grantees who take land under those
conditions set forth in § 9.
The issue in this case, therefore, is neither the validity
of the California prohibition against the ownership of
agricultural land by a person ineligible to become an
American citizen, nor the validity of a law, § 9, that an
attempt to evade that prohibition shall be penalized by
escheat. The validity of both of these provisions is unchallenged by this Court's opinion. The issue here is
the validity of the presumption that when an ineligible
person pays the consideration for land conveyed to an
eligible person, there is a prima facie presumption that
the conveyance is made to avoid the prohibited ownership. The essence of the argument in the opinion is this:
When an alien-English father purchases land from a third
party and puts title in his child, acceptance by the child
and delivery of the deed are presumed; however, if an
alien-Japanese father engages in the same transaction,
his child must meet the "onerous burden" of the presumption; therefore, Fred Johnson and Fred Oyama are not
treated equally by the laws of California and Fred Oyama
is denied equal protection by those laws. These facts
are accurate; 'the flaw is that the conclusion does not
follow. California has, as against the state, made illegal
a particular class of transactions: transfers made with
the intent to evade escheat of lands. Anyone, no matter
5

People v..Fujita, 215 Cal. 166, 8 P. 2d 1011; see Estate of Yano,
188 Cal. 645, 206 P. 995.

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

what his racial origin may be, who as a grantee is a party
to a sale of land which the gtate attacks as being within
the proscribed class must overcome the presumption of
§ 9 to establish the legality of the transfer. This presumption operates with a mechanical impartiality. Whoever the grantee in a transfer questioned by the state
is, be he Fred Johnson or Fred Oyama, he must bear
the "onerous burden"; he must bear it not because of
descent or nationality but because he has been a party
to a transaction which the state challenges as illegal under
an admittedly valid law.
As we see the Court's argument, it focuses attention
upon what it contends are two parallel situations: the
gift of an English father to a citizen son and the gift of
a Japanese father to a citizen son. Upon examination
of the relevant state laws, it concludes that the son of
the Japanese father is placed in a position less advantageous than that of the son of an English father. That
is so, but for our purposes it is the reason for the result,
and not the- result itself, that is important. The legal
positions of the two sons are different only because the
situations are not parallel. The Japanese father and his
citizen son are parties to an illegal transaction if the land
was transferred with the "intent to prevent, evade or
avoid escheat"; as an English father is not prevented
from holding real property, his gift cannot be challenged
on that ground by the state. The capacities of the donors
are different and it is thiA difference, and nothing else,
whicii raises in one case and fails to raise in the other,
the presumption complained of by Oyama. It is not a
denial of equal protection for a state to classify transacS Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 42-43:
"Legislation providing that- proof of one fact shall constitute pima
facie evidence of the main fact in issue is but to enact~a rule of evidence, and quite within the general power of government. Statutes,
National and. state, dealing with such methods of proof in both civil

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

REED,

J., dissenting.

tions readily leading to law evasions differently from
those without such a possibility. Such classification is
permissible.
Let us test the Court's reasoning by applying it to a
different set of facts. For purposes of illustration, we
put these cases: (1) a solvent father purchases land from
a third party and puts the title in his son; and (2) an
insolvent father purchases land from a third party and
puts the title in his son. In example (2), the creditors
of the father in an action against the son to subject
the land to the satisfaction of their claims against the
father, can raise a prima facie presumption that the
transfer was fraudulent as to them by proving that the
transaction took place during the period of the father's
insolvency." Here the son of the insolvent father bears
an "onerous burden" to which the Son of a solvent father
is not subjected; he bears this burden because he has been
a party to a transaction which creditors challenge as voidand criminal cases abound, and the decisions upholding them are
numerous....
"That a legislative presumption of one fact from evidence of another
may not constitute a denial of due process of law or a denial of the
equal protection of the law it is only essential that there shall be some

rational connection between the fact proved and the ultimate fact
presumed, and that the inference of one fact from proof of another
shall not be so unreasonable as to be a purely arbitrary mandate.
So, 'also, it must not, under guise of regulating the presentation of
evidence, operate to preclde the party from the" right to present
his defense to the main fact thus presumed."
Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 90; Bandini
Co. v. Superior Court, 284 U. S. 8, 18-19; United States ex rel. St.
Louis S. R. Co. v. I. C. C., 264 U. S. 64, 77.
7Bailey v. Blackmon, 3 F. 2d 252, 253, aff'd on rehearing, 14 F.
2d 16;_ Hedrick v. Hockfield, 283 F. 574, 576-77; Ryan v.. Wohl,
South & Co., 241 Ala. 123, 124-25, 1 So. 2d 292, 293; Judson v. Lyford,
84 Cal. 505, 509, 24 P. 286, 287-288; Swartz v. Hazlett, 8 Cal. 118,
128; Chrisman v. Greer, 239 Ky. 378, 380, 39. S.W.. 2d 678, 679;
Pruyn v. Young, 51 La. An. 320, 322, 25 So. 125, 126; Lusk v. Riggs,
65 Neb. 258, 261.,,91 N. W. 243, 244; Grombling, Spalding & Co. v.

682 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
REED,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

able. The disability of the father taints the son's right
and, therefore, he is placed in a position less advantageous
than that of the son of a solvent father. Would it be
reasonable to say that the son of the insolvent father has
been denied "equal protection" and, consequently, the presumption is unconstitutional? No one would so contend.
The inequality between the sons of eligible and ineligible
landowners does not seem to us to differ.
As we understand petitioners' argument in briefs and
before this Court, the petitioners in their discussion of the
denial of equal protection to the citizen son depended
solely upon the invalidity of the presumption arising
from the payment of the money by the father. This
Court's opinion recognizes that petitioners' argument includes discrimination, amounting to a lack of equal protection, arising (1) from the requirement of § 9 that the
son must take the burden of proving affirmatively the
bona fides of the gift from the father; (2) because the
gift to the infant son of a Japanese is presumed invalid
while the gift to an infant son of an eligible alien is
presumed valid; (3) because the Court took into consideration the father's omission to file guardian reports
after the transfer. Normally,, the Court says, a guardian's subsequent improper conduct would not affect the
validity of a gift to a child. Because of what is deemed.
additional burdens thus placed upon the son, the Court
concludes that:
"The cumulative effect, we believe, was clearly to
discriminate against Fred Oyama ...
Dickey, 118 N. C. 986, 988, 24 S. E. 671, 672; Willamette Grocery
Co. v. Skiff, 118 Ore. 685, 689, 248 P. 143, 144.
This analogy is exact because in most jurisdicions the fact of a
blood relationship alone raises no presumption of fraud. Gottlieb v.
Thatcher, 151 U. S.271, 279; Gray v. Galpin, 98 Cal. 633, 635, 33 P.
725, 726. See cases collected in 27 C. J. 827, note 99: 37 C. J. S.
1084, note 9,

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

REED, J.,

dissenting.

"The only basis for this discrimination against an
American citizen, moreover, was the fact that his
father was Japanese and not American, Russian,
Chinese, or English."
These discriminations, if such they are, seem to us mere
elaborations of the central theory that the challenged
presumption of § 9 is unconstitutional as a denial of equal
protection. It is of course true that the son of a citizen
of Japan cannot receive a gift from an ineligible father
as readily as a son of an alien entitled to naturalization
but again such a classification is entirely reasonable when
we once assume that the State of California has a right
to prohibit the ownership of California land directly or
indirectly by a Japanese.
Discrimination in the sense of placing more burdens
upon some than upon others is not in itself unconstitutional. If all types of discrimination were unconstitutional, our society would be incapable of legislation upon
many important and vital questions. All reasonable classification puts its subjects into different categories where
they may have advantages or disadvantages that flow from
their positions.8 The grouping of all those who take land
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78-79:
"The rules by which this contention must be tested, as is shown
by repeated decisions of this court. ,re these: 1. The equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not take from the State
the power to classify in. the adoption of police laws, but admits of
the exercise of a wide scope of discretion in that regard, and avoids
what is done only when it is without any reasonable basis and therefore is purely arbitrary., 2, A classification having some reasonable
basis does not offend against that clause merely because ;. is not
made with mathematical nicety or because in practice it results in
some inequality. 3 When the classification in such a law is called
in question, if any state of facts. reasonably can be conceived that
would sustain it, the existence of that state of facts at the time the
law was enacted must be assumed. 4. One who assails the classifi8

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

as grantees, in a transaction in which an ineligible alien
pays the consideration, in a class subject to the statutory.
presumption of § 9 and other inferences which are reasonably related to the transfer, should not be struck down
as unconstitutional. Unless the California Land Laws
are to be held unconstitutional, we think the presumption
and its resulting effects must be accepted as legal.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

I am unable to see how this Court logically can set
aside this judgment unless it is prepared to invalidate
the California Alien Land Laws, on which it is based.
If this judgment of escheat seems harsh as to the Oyamas,
it is only because it faithfully carries out a legislative policy, the validity of which this Court does not
question.
The State's argument is as simple ks this: If California has power to forbid certain aliens to own its lands,
it must have incidental power to prevent evasion of that
prohibition by use of an infant's name to cloak a forbidden ownership. If it has the right to protect itself against
such evasion, its courts must have the right to decide the
question of fact whether a given transaction constitutes
an evasion. And if its courts have to apply the Act, the
State has power to aid them by creating reasonable presumptions. I cannot find that this reasoning is defective
or that it fails to support the judgment below, however
little I like the result.
In this case'the elder Oyama arranged to acquire soine
six acres of agricultural lands. He could not take title
in his own name because of his classification as an ineligible alien, and hence one forbidden to acquire such lands.
cation in such a law must carry the burden of showing that it does
not rest upon any reasonable basis, but is essentially arbitrary."
Finley v. California,222 U. S. 28.

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

Title was taken in the name of Fred, his son. When this
was happening Fred was six years old. He had no funds
and the entire consideration was paid by the father. We
can hardly criticize the state court for concluding, especially in absence of any proof to the contrary, that a
6-year-old child did not decide for.himself to go into agriculture, or that these particular lands would be suitable
for him if he did. The lands would require continuous
cultivation if they were not to revert to a state of nature
and it was not unreasonable to doubt that the 6-year-old
son could supply either the manual labor or the oversight
necessary to preserve the investment or to make it yield a
return. Moreover, the return from the lands, even if applied to the support of young Oyama, operated to reduce
the parental obligation. In short, there is no proof that
this 6-year-old child contributed to the purchase of these
lands either funds, judgment or desire. The California
court considered that his name was used in the transaction
without the infant's understanding consent. Even if
there were no presumption created by statute, I should
find it difficult to say that this conclusion is an unreasonable one.
Nor do I think we could say that it would offend t,,j
Federal Constitution if the State, to make admittedly
constitutional legislation effective, should go so far as to
create a presumption that where the consideration is paid
by an ineligible father and the title is taken in the name
of his infant son, it is to be deemed the father's purchase.
I do not understand the Court to say that this is a farfetched or unreasonable inference from such facts. It
seems to say, however, that a presumption, which it construes in this way, is invalid because it operates only
against sons of persons ineligible for citizenship. If even
such a presumption strikes only a limited class, it is because the basic prohibitions of the Act strike only a lim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

ited class. If the State can validly classify certain Asiatics as a separate class for exclusion from land ownership,
I do not see why it could not do so for purposes of a
presumption.
But the California statute has not made a presumption
applicable only against sons of the excluded Asiatics.
The statutory presumption, so far as it applies here, is
cast in this language:
"A prima facie presumption that the conveyance is
made with such intent shall arise upon proof of any of
the following group of facts:
"(a) The taking of the property in the name of a person
other than the persons mentioned in Section 2 hereof
[the excluded alien] if the consideration is paid or agreed
or understood to be paid by an alien mentioned in Section
2 hereof . ..

."

The same presumption would be raised by the statute against any American citizen or any alien or any
person whatsoever if he received the title and any ineligible alien paid the consideration. The Court's decision is that the presumption denies Fred Oyama the equal
protection of the laws because grantees are treated differently if they are sons of ineligible aliens than if they are
the sons of others. This Act makes no such classification.
The presumption does not apply to him because he is the
son of an ineligible father-it applies because he is a
grantee of lands paid for by an ineligible alien. The
Court itself reads this father and son classification into
the Act, quite unjustified by its words. It is true that in
this case the relationship of father and son also exists,
but that is not the relationship that calls the presumption
into operation.
Tho Act classifies grantees only as those whose lands
have been paid for by an ineligible alien and those whose
lands have not. Every member of the class whose lands
have been paid for by such an alien must overcome the

OYAMA v. CALIFORNIA.
633

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

presumption. Every grantee similarly situated is saddled
by the identical burden imposed on Fred Oyama whether
he is the son of a Japanese, the son of an American citizen
or the son of an eligible alien. Thus there is no discrimination apparent on its face in the provision of the statute
which the Court strikes down.
But it is said that a discrimination is latent in this
presumption from the fact that other fathers may give
land to their sons and no presumption would apply. That
there is a discrimination in this situation no one will deny;
it is the fundamental one, which the Court does not
touch, by which the elder Oyama could not, directly or
indirectly, acquire this land while many other fathers
could. The presumption, of course, would not apply if
th- consideration were paid by a person to whom the statute does not apply. But Fred Oyama, the son, is in no
different position as to the presumption than the son of
any other person whatsoever. If a citizen's son received
this land from Oyama, Senior under the same conditions,
he would be confronted with the same presumption and
escheat. If the Oyama lad, on the other hand, received
this land from a citizen, he would take it as free of presumption and escheat as any California lad could do.
The only discrimination which prejudices young Oyama
is the one which makes his father ineligible to own land
or be a donor of it. That discrimination is passed by
as valid, and one that seems to me wholly fictitious is
first erected by this Court and then struck down.
I do not find anything in the Federal Constitution
which authorizes us to strip a State of its power to enact
reasonable presumptions which put the burden of producing evidence' upon the only person who possesses it.
This presumption is not made conclusive and the California courts have sometimes 1 .d it to be overcome by
evidence. In this case, if there is any explanation of
this transaction other than that Oyama used his son's

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACTISON, J., dissenting.

332 U. S..

name to acquire benefioial interests for himself which he
was forbidden to acquire in his own name, no one knows
those facts better than the senior Oyama. He did not
take the witness stand. He left unrebutted both the presumption of the statute and the inference that most
reasonable persons, even in the absence of a statute,
would draw from the facts. This Court also says that California used the default
of the father, in failing to file accountings as trustee for
the infant, as evidence against the infant and seems to
imply this was an unconstitutional procedure. As we
have seen, this infant was of such tender years that he
had neither ideas nor will nor understanding. about the
purchase. The only person's intention which would
stamp this transaction as one in good faith or as an evasion of the statute was the intention of the father. He
was the only actor; he gave the land to the son and aecepted on his behalf, so we are told. Certainly it was
competent for the California courts, as bearing on his intentions and good faith, to receive evidence of the fact
that the sole actor did not consider himself under an
obligation to account as the law would require him to do
if the property really belonged to an infant and he were
a trustee.
While I think that California has pirsued a policy of
unnecessary severity by which the Oyamas lose both land
and investment, I do not see how this Court, while conceding the State's right to keep the policy on its books,
can strip the State of the right to make its Act effective. What we seem to be holding is that while the State
has power to exclude the alien from land ownership, the
alien has the constitutional right ' to nullify the policy by
a device we would be prompt to condemn if it were used
to evade a federal statute.
A majority of the Court agrees that the ground assigned
by the Court's opinion is sufficient to decide this litigation.

UNITED STATES v. SULLIVAN.
633

689

Syllabus.

It does not therefore seem necessary or helpful to enter
into a discussion of the constitutionality of the Alien Land
Laws themselves.

UNITED STATES v. SULIIVAN, TRADING AS SULLIVAN'S PHARMACY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 121.

Argued December 9, 1947.-Decided January 19, 1948.

1. It is a violation of § 301 (k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act of 1938 for a retail druggist who has purchased
sulfathiazole tablets from a wholesaler in the same State (who had
obtained them by way of an interstate shipment) to remove a
dozen of them from a properly labeled bulk container in which
they were shipped in interstate commerce and in which they were
being held for resale, place them in a pill box labeled "sulfathiazole"
but not containing the statutorily required directions for use or
warnings of danger, and sell them locally to a retail purchaser.
Pp. 695-697.
(a) The removal of drugs from a container labeled in accordance with the requirements of the Act to one not so labeled is
the doing of an act which results in their being "misbranded"
within the meaning of § 301 (k). P. 695.
(b) Although a previous intrastate sale had occurred following
the interstate shipment and although the retail sale in question
occurred over six months after completion of the shipment in interstate commerce, the sulfathiazole tablets in this case were "held
for sale after shipment in interstate commerce" within the meaning
of § 301 (k). Pp. 695-696.
(c) The purpose of the Act is to safeguard the consumer by
-applying its requirements to articles from the moment of their
introduction into interstate commerce all the way to the moment
of their delivery to the ultimate consumer. Pp. 696-697.
2. As thus construed, the Act does not exceed the constitutional
power of Congress under the Commerce Clause or invade the
powers reserved to the states. McDermott v. Wiscon8in, 228 U. S.
115.. Pp. 697-698.
3. A restrictive -interpretation should not be given d statute merely
because Congress has chosen to depart from custom -or because

