CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
ALABAMA v. -KING & BOOZER,

A PARTNERSHIP, ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 602. Argued October 23, 24, 1941.a- Decided November, 10, 1941.
1. No constitutional immunity of the United States from state taxation prevents a State from applying its sales tax to a purchase of
building materials by one who buys them for use, and uses them, in
performing a "cost-plus" building contract for the Government, although the contract provides that the title to such materials shall vest
in the United States upon their delivery, inspection, and acceptance
by.a Government officer, at the building site, and that the contractor
shall be reimbursed by the Goverment for the cost of the materials,
including the tax. P. 8.
(1) The fact that the economic burden of the tax is passed on to
the United States does not make it a tax upon the United States.
PanhandleOil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218, and Graves v. Texas Co.,
298 U. S. 393, overruled. P. 9.
(2) In this case, the legal incidence of the tax was on the contractor, not on the United States; the contractor, in buying the materials,
was not the agent or representative of the Government; and the
transaction was not such as to place the Government in the r~le of
purchaser. P. 9.
No question was here raised of the power of Congress to free from
state taxation transactions of individuals where the economic burden
of the tax is passed on to the United States. P. 8.
2. Under the Alabama statute here involved (it is conceded and assumed for the purposes of this case) the purchaser of tangible goods,
who is subjected to the tax measured by the sales price, is the
person who orders and pays for them when the sale is for cash or who
428670-42-I

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Respondents.

314 U. S.

is legally obligated to pay for them if the sale is on credit; and under
the contract here involved the contractors were to purchase in their
own names and on their own credit all the materials required, unless
the Government should elect to furnish them, and the Government
was not bound by their purchase contracts, but was obligated only
to reimburse the contractors when the materials purchased should
be delivered, inspected and accepted at the site. P. 10.
241 Ala. 557, 3 So. 2d 572, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 599, to review a decree of the Su-

preme Court of Alabama which reversed a decision of a
state circuit court sustaining a sales tax. The decision
of the circuit court was rendered upon an appeal from
the assessment. The United States was permitted to
intervene.
Messrs. Thomas S. Lawson, Attorney General of Alabama, and John W. Lapsley, Assistant Attorney General,
with whom Mr. J. Edward Thornton, Assistant Attorney
General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant
Attorney General Clark and Messrs. J. Louis Monarch,
Berryman Green, Paul F. Mickey, 0. W. Hammonds, Jr.,
Warner W. Gardner, and Fred L. Blackmon were on the
brief, for respondents.
The tax is imposed upon the purchaser.
The United States in its purchases is immune from a
sales tax upon the buyer.
Congress has power to waive the immunity from state
taxation which would otherwise attach to federal instrumentalities and transactions, and has also power to exempt from state taxation transactions of the United
States and its instrumentalities which might otherwise be
taxable.
Any tax upon a transaction will affect both parties.
Recognition of this has, at least until recent years, forced
the Court to attempt a distinction between various trans-

ALABAMA v. KING & BOOZER.
1

Argument for Respondents.

action taxes according to the immediacy of their effect
upon the Government. That task has been notoriously
difficult. We think that it should be abandoned, and that,
in the silence of Congress, immunity should turn upon the
simpler and more satisfactory test of whether the tax
is imposed upon the Government or upon a private
person.
The Court has in the large adhered to some six general
tests by which to distinguish the good tax from the bad
tax as applied to the transaction between the Government
and a private person. These may be classified as follows:
(1) Presence of burden upon the Government. (2) Interference with government functions. (3) Is the tax
upon the governmental source of the payment taxed?
(4) Is the economic burden borne by the Government?
(5) Is the tax nondiscriminatory? (6) Is the tax, in law,
imposed upon the Government or the private person?
We think the first four criteria are unsound and have been
rejected by the Court and that acceptance of the fifth
and sixth is required both by principle and by existing
authority.
Tax-on-the-source test, exemplified in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 158 U. S. 601, has
been rejected, both in terms and in practical results. See
Graves v. N. Y. ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, 480-481.
The formula would have required the invalidation of
the taxes sustained in the O'Keefe case, supra, and other
cases.
It is very hard to tell what is meant by the statement
that a tax interferes with or burdens the Government's
transaction. Ordinarily, the only practical interference
would seem to be the discouragement found in the economic burden of the tax.
Economic Burden of the Tax: A simple and intelligible
reason for invalidating a tax laid upon a private person is
that, as a practical matter, it will increase the costs or

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Respondents.

314 U. S.

reduce the revenues of the government with which he
deals. But this reason has been advanced in only three
of the opinions declaring an immunity from taxation.
Indeed, the Court has firmly stated that "The question
here is one of power and not of economics." Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 519.
One supposes that an economic analysis or intuition lies
back of every decision that a private person is immune
from taxation because he deals with the Government. See
Graves v. Texas Co., 298 U. S. 393, 395. Yet the difficulty
with the analysis is that it inevitably proves too much.
When the Government buys an article, or receives goods
and services under contract, it must in the normal course
pay all of the costs required for the finished product.
These costs include taxes of all forms. There is no economic reason why these taxes should be valid and the tax
upon the final transaction, sale or delivery to the Government, invalid. True, it is probable that the final tax
would somewhat more certainly be shifted to the Government than those anterior in point of time. But even
the final tax is by no means certain to be shifted. See Mr.
Justice Stone, dissenting in Indian Motocycle Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S. 570, 581. And the earlier taxes
could easily be isolated through accounting procedures
and by contract be made specifically reimbursable by the
Government; yet none would suppose that the resulting
certainty of tax incidence upon the Government would
invalidate taxes otherwise -unobjectionable.
For these reasons, the economic test is illusory and incapable of consistent application.
The Court in its recent opinions seems to have rejected
the economic burden as a criterion of validity or invalidity. That rejection has taken two forms: (a) an outright
refusal to accept increased cost as a reason for invalidation
and (b) an analysis which indicates that the economic bur-

ALABAMA v. XING & 300ZER.
1

Argument for Respondents.

den of the challenged' tax on the Government is speculative, and so indicates that the economic incidence of any
tax must always be speculative. Each of the recent
opinions dealing with the question has adopted both approaches. James v. DravoContractingCo., 302 U. S. 134,
160; Helvering v. ProducersCorp., 303 U. S. 376; Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, 418-419, 422; Graves v.
N. Y. ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, 483,484,487.
The existence or nonexistence of an economic burden
upon the Government can no longer be accepted as the
touchstone of validity or invalidity of a tax imposed upon
a private person.
A discriminatory tax, singling out a governmental function to bear abnormal and unfriendly burdens, does in
truth involve the power to destroy. Cf., McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall.
533. Accordingly, the principle that a tax, so long as it
has any effect upon the Government's operations, must
be nondiscriminatory to be upheld, is one of pervading
application and importance.
The rules of intergovernmental tax immunity, so far
as they have been developed and applied to private persons who deal with the Government, exhibit a great diversity of decision and reasoning. A number of cases
have expressly been overruled; many more have been distinguished on the narrowest of grounds; and in still other
decisions technical rules have been devised to reach results in practical contradiction of earlier cases. In short,
there is no single decision exempting a private taxpayer
from a nondiscriminatory tax which can with confidence
be said to be good law today.
The decisions relating to a tax on the United States
itself show an unqualified uniformity. No decision of
this Court has ever held, in the absence of legislative consent, that the National Government could be taxed by a
State or local government.

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The validity of taxes challenged as invading the immunity of the Government should be decided, we therefore submit, in terms of the legal incidence of the tax.
In terms of the present issue, we urge that purchases
which the United States makes through the cost-plus-afixed-fee contractor are in reality those of the United
States and not those of the contractor. In advancing a
test based upon the legal incidence of the tax upon the
Government or a private person, we do not speak in terms
of technicalities but in terms of the realities of the governmental functions with which the constitutional protection is concerned.
The immunity includes a vendee sales tax collected
through a private person. The Alabama sales tax is
imposed upon the vendee and the immunity of the United
States is ,not lost because it makes its purchases through
a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contractor. The problem is simply
whether the immunity of the United States from a state
tax imposed upon it includes a sales tax the legal incidence of which is upon the purchaser but which is collected
through the seller. Whether, in other words, the Government's immunity vanishes if the tax is collected from the
Government by the vendor instead of by a direct payment
to the tax collector of the State.
Messrs. Eu gene Stanley, Attorney General of Louisiana, and Cicero C. Sessions filed a brief on behalf of the
State of Louisiana, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondents King and Boozer sold lumber on the order
of "cost-plus-a-fixed-fee" contractors for use by the latter
in constructing an army camp for the United States. The
question for decision is whether the Alabama sales tax
with which the seller is chargeable, but which he is required

ALABAMA v. KING & BOOZER.

I

Opinion of the Court.

to collect from the buyer, infringes any constitutional
immunity of the United States from state taxation.
The Alabama statute, Act No. 18, General Acts of Alabama, 1939, expressly made applicable to sales of building
materials to contractors, ยง I (j), lays a tax of 2 per cent on
the gross retail sales price of tangible personal property.
While in terms, ยง II, the tax is laid on the seller, who is
denominated the "taxpayer," by ยง XXVI it is made the
duty of the seller "to add to the sales price and collect
from the purchaser the amount due by the taxpayer on
account of said tax."
Section VII provides that when sales are made on credit
the tax is payable as and when the collection of the purchase price is made. The Supreme Court of Alabama has
construed these provisions as imposing a legal obligation
on the purchaser to pay the tax, which the seller is required
to add to his sales price and to collect from the purchaser
upon collection of the price, whether the sale is for cash or
on credit. See Lone StarCement Corp. v. State Tax Commission, 234 Ala. 465, 175 So. 399; Long v. Roberts & Son,
234 Ala. 570, 176 So. 213; National Linen Service Corp. v.
State Tax Commission, 237 Ala. 360, 186 So. 478; Wood
Preserving Corp. v. State Tax Commission, 235 Ala. 438,
179 So. 254. Section V excludes from the tax the proceeds of sales which the state is prohibited from taxing by
the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Respondents King and Boozer, who furnished the lumber in question on the order of the contractors, appealed to
the state circuit court from an assessment of the tax by the
state department of revenue, on the ground that the tax
is prohibited by the Constitution because laid upon the
United States, and is excluded from the operation of the
taxing statute by its terms. The United States was permitted to intervene and joined in these contentions.
The trial, upon a stipulation of facts embodying the
relevant documents, resulted in a decree sustaining the tax,

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

which the Supreme Court of Alabama reversed, 3 So. 2d
572. Apart from the constitutional restriction, it found
no want of authority in the taxing statute for the collection
of the tax from the contractors. But it concluded that
although the contractors were indebted to the seller for
the purchase price of the lumber, they were so related
by their contract to the Government's undertaking to
build a camp, and were so far acting for the Government
in the accomplishment of the governmental purpose, that
the tax was in effect "laid on a transaction by which the
United States secures the things desired for governmental
purposes," so as to infringe the constitutional immunity,
citing PanhandleOil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218; Graves v.
Texas Co., 298 U. S. 393. We granted certiorari, 314
U. S. 599, the question being one of public importance.
Congress has declined to pass legislation immunizing
from state taxation contractors under "cost-plus" contracts for the construction of governmental projects.'
Consequently, the participants in the present transaction
enjoy only such tax immunity as is afforded by the Constitution itself, and we are not now concerned with the extent
and the appropriate exercise of the power of Congress to
free such transactions from state taxation of individuals
in such circumstances that the economic burden of the tax
is passed on to the National Government. The Government, rightly we think, disclaims any contention that the
Constitution, unaided by Congressional legislation, prohibits a tax exacted from the contractors merely because
it is passed on economically, by the terms of the contract
or otherwise, as a part of the construction cost to the Government. So far as such a non-discriminatory state tax
upon the contractor enters into the cost of the materials
'See proposed Senate Amendment No. 120, to H. R. 8438, which
became the Act of June 11, 1940, 54 Stat. 265; Cong. Rec., 76th Cong.,
3rd Sess., Vol. 86, Part 7, pp. 7518-19, 7527-7535, .7648.

ALABAMA v. KING & BOOZER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

to the Government, that is but a normal incident of the
organization within the same territory of two independent
taxing sovereignties. The asserted right of the one to be
free of taxation by the other does not spell immunity from
paying the added costs, attributable to the taxation of
those who furnish supplies to the Government and who
have been granted no tax immunity. So far as a different
view has prevailed, see PanhandleOil Co. v. Knox, supra;
Graves v. Texas Co., supra, we think it no longer tenable.
See Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514; Trinityfarm
Co. v. Grosjean, 291 U. S. 466; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, 160; Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304
U. S. 405, 416; Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306
U. S. 466.
The contention of the Government is that the tax is
invalid because it is laid in such manner that, in the circumstances of this case, its legal incidence is on the Government rather than on the contractors, who ordered the
lumber and paid for it but who, as the Government insists,
have so acted for the Government as to place it in the role
of a purchaser of the lumber. The argument runs: the
Government was a purchaser of the lumber, and but for its
immunity from suit and from taxation, the state applying
its taxing statute could demand the tax from the Government just as from a private individual who had employed
a contractor to do construction work upon a like cost-plus
contract.
The soundness of this conclusion turns on the terms of
the contract and the rights and obligations of the parties
under it. The taxing statute, as the Alabama courts have
held, makes the "purchaser" liable for the tax to the seller,
who is required "to add to the sales price" the amount of
the tax and collect it when the sales price is collected,
whether the sale is for cash or on credit. Who, in any
particular transaction like the present, is a "purchaser"
within the meaning of the statute, is a question of state

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

law on which only the Supreme Court of Alabama can
speak with final authority. But it seems plain, as the
Government concedes and as we assume for present purposes, that under the proviFions of the statute the purchaser of tangible goods who is subjected to the tax
measured by the sales price, is the person who orders and
pays for them when the sale is for cash or who is legally
obligated to pay for them if the sale is on credit. The
Government's contention is that it has a constitutional
immunity from state taxation on its purchases and that
this was sufficiently a Government purchase to come
within the asserted immunity.
As the sale of the lumber by King and Boozer was not
for cash, the precise question is whether the Government
became obligated to pay for the lumber and so was the
purchaser whom the statute taxes, but for the claimed immunity. By the cost-plus contract the contractors undertook to "furnish the labor, materials, tools, machinery,
equipment, facilities, supplies not furnished by the Government, and services, and to do all things necessary for
the completion of" the specified work. In consideration
of this the Government undertook to pay a fixed fee to the
contractors and to reimburse them for specified expenses
including their expenditures for all supplies and materials
and "state or local taxes . . . which the contractor may
be required on account of his contract to pay." The contract provided that the title to all materials and supplies
for which the contractors were "entitled to be reimbursed"
should vest in the Government "upon delivery at the site
of the work or at an approved storage site and upon inspection and acceptance in writing by the Contracting Officer."
The Government reserved the right to furnish any and
all materials necessary for completion of the work, to pay
freight charges directly to common carriers, and "to pay
directly to the persons concerned all sums due from the
Contractor for labor, materials or other charges." Upon

ALABAMA v. KING & BOOZER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

termination of the contract by the Government, it undertook to "assume and become liable for all obligations ...
that the Contractor may have theretofore in good faith
undertaken or incurred in connection with said work and
in accordance with the provisions of this contract."
A section of the contract, designated as one of several
"special requirements," stipulated that contractors should
"reduce to writing every contract in excess of two thousand
dollars ($2,000) made by him for the purpose of the work
hereunder for services, materials, supplies . ..; insert
therein a provision that such contract is assignable to the
Government; make all such contracts in his own name, and
not bind or purport to bind the Government or the Contracting Officer thereunder." While this section refers to
contracts in excess of $2,000, we think all the provisions
which we have mentioned, read together, plainly contemplate that the contractors were to purchase in their own
names and on their own credit all the materials required,
unless the Government should elect to furnish them; that
the Government was not to be bound by their purchase
contracts, but was obligated only to reimburse the contractors when the materials purchased should be delivered,
inspected and accepted at the site.
The course of business followed in the purchase of the
lumber conformed in every material respect to the contract. King and Boozer submitted to the contractors in
advance a proposal in writing to supply as ordered, at
specified prices, all the lumber of certain description required for use in performing their contract with the
Government. The contractors, after procuring approval
by the contracting officer of the particular written order
for lumber with which we are presently concerned, placed
it with King and Boozer on January 17, 1941. It directed
shipment to the Construction Quartermaster at the site
"for account of" the contractors and stated "this purchase
order does not bind, nor purport to bind, the United States

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

Government or Government officers." King and Boozer
thereupon shipped the lumber ordered by the contractors
by contract trucks to the site as directed, where it was
used in performance of the contract. The sellers delivered to the contractors the invoice of the lumber, stating
that it was "sold to the United States Construction Quartermaster %" (for account of) the contractors.2 The invoice was then approved by the Construction Quartermaster for payment; the contractors paid King and
Boozer by their check the amount of the invoice and were
later reimbursed by the Government for the cost of the
lumber.
We think, as the Supreme Court of Alabama held, that
the legal effect of the transaction which we have detailed
was to obligate the contractors to pay for the lumber.
The lumber was sold and delivered on the order of the contractors, which stipulated that the Government should
not be bound to pay for it. It was in fact paid for by the
contractors, who were reimbursed by the Government
pursuant to their contract with it. The contractors were
thus purchasers of the lumber, within the meaning of the
taxing statute, and as such were subject to the tax. They
were not relieved of the liability to pay the tax either
because the contractors, in a loose and general sense, were
acting for the Government in purchasing the lumber or, as
the Alabama Supreme Court seems to have thought, because the economic burden of the tax imposed upon the
purchaser would be shifted to the Government by reason
of its contract to reimburse the contractors.
'The statement that the lumber was "sold" to the Construction
Quartermaster appears to have been inadvertent. On the argument
the Government conceded that this was not the usual practice. The
invoices appearing of record in Curry v. United States, post, p. 14,
issued to the same contractors for supplies ordered by them and
delivered at the same site stated that the supplies were sold to the

contractors. -

ALABAMA v. KING & BOOZER.
Opinion of the Court.

The Government, to support its thesis that it was the
purchaser, insists that title to the lumber passed to the
Government on shipment by the seller, and points to the
very extensive control by the Government over all purchases made by the contractors. It emphasizes the fact
that the contract reserves to Government officers the decision of whether to buy and what to buy; that purchases
of materials of $500 or over could be made by the contractors only when approved in advance by the contracting officer; that the Government reserved the right to
approve the price, to furnish the materials itself, if it so
elected; and that in the case of the lumber presently
involved, the Government inspected and approved the
lumber before shipment. From these circumstances it
concludes that the Government was the purchaser. The
necessary corollary of its position is that the Government,
if a purchaser within the taxing statute, became obligated
to pay the purchase price.
But however extensively the Government may have
reserved the right to restrict or control the action of the
contractors in other respects, neither the reservation nor
the exercise of that power gave to the contractors the
status of agents of the Government to enter into contracts or to pledge its credit. See United States v. Algoma
Lumber,Co., 305 U. S. 415, 421;, United States v. Driscoll,
96 U. S. 421. It can hardly be said that the contractors
were not free to obligate themselves for the purchase of
material ordered. The contract contemplated that they
should do so and that the Government should reimburse
them for their expenditures. It is equally plain that they
did not assume to bind the Government to pay for the
lumber by their order, approved by the Contracting
Officer, which stipulated that it did not bind or purport
to bind the Government. The circumstance that the
title to the lumber passed to the Government on delivery

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1941
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

does not obligate it to the contractor's vendor under a
cost-plus contract more than under a lump sum contract.
Cf. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra; United States
v. Driscoll, supra.
We cannot say that the contractors were not, or that
the Government was, bound to pay the purchase price, or
that the contractors were not the purchasers on whom
the statute lays the tax. The added circumstance that
they were bound by their contract to furnish the purchased material to the Government and entitled to be
reimbursed by it for the cost, including the tax, no more
results in an infringement of the Government immunity
than did the tax laid upon the contractor's gross receipts
from the Government in James v. Dravo ContractingCo.,
supra. See Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra, 523, 524;
Trinityfarm Co. v. Grosjean, supra, 472; Helvering v.
Gerhardt,supra,416; Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe,
supra, 483.
'Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
CURRY, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE OF

ALABAMA, v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 603. Argued October 24, 1941.-Decided November 10, 1941.
A state use-tax imposed on a contractor in respect of materials which
he purchased outside of, and used within, the State in performance
of a "cost-plus" contract with the Government can not be adjudged
invalid as a tax on the United States, either upon the assumption
that the contractor is the Government's agent or representative in
the matter, which is not correct, or because of the fact that the
economic burden of the tax is shifted to the United States when the

