OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

390

Argument for Appellant.

314 U. S.

DUCKWORTH v. ARKANSAS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 43.

Argued November 17, 18, 1941.-Decided December 15, 1941.

A statute of Arkansas, requiring a permit for the transportation of
intoxicating liquor through the State, which may be obtained upon
application, for a nominal fee-the object of the regulation being
merely to identify those who engage in such transportation, their
routes and points of destination, thus enabling local officials to insure
transportation without diversion, in conformity with the permit is not violative of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
P. 396.
201 Ark. 1123, 148 S. W. 2d 656, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming a conviction and
sentence for transportation of liquor without a permit in
violation of a State law.

Mr. Harold R. Ratcliff, with whom Mr. Cecil B. Nance
was on the brief, for appellant.
The Acts of Congress dealing with interstate commerce
in intoxicating liquors do not confer upon the State any
power whatsoever to regulate a shipment of intoxicants
which is merely passing through the State. These Acts
use the word "into" as distinguished from "through," and
there is no basis for a regulation such as that here
involved.
Each State has power to prohibit the manufacture of
liquors within its borders and to prohibit or condition their
export from the State, Ziffrin, Inc. v. Reeves, 308 U. S.
132; also the power to condition or absolutely prohibit the
importation into it of all intoxicants. Const., 21st
Amendment; State Board of Equalizationv. Young's Market Co., 299 U. S. 59. But there is nothing in the Federal
Constitution or statutes, nor in the decisions of this Court,
ihich sanctions the Arkansas regulation.
If the State may demand a permit from one class of
transporter, it may demand it from all. Every auto-

DUCKWORTH v. ARKANSAS.
390

Opinion of the Court.

mobile, truck, train, wagon, or boat, and indeed every person, is subject to search and possible arrest upon entering
the State. This is what Art. I, § 8, Cl. 3, of the Constitution was designed to prevent.
Messrs. Jno. P. Streepey, Assistant Attorney General of
Arkansas, and Leflel Gentry argued the cause, and Mr.
Jack Holt, Attorney General, was with Mr. Streepey on
the brief, for appellee.
Arkansas has built through roads across the State and
has provided for police protection, inspection, etc.,
thereon. The statute requires persons transporting
liquor into the State and across it, on these through roads,
to take out a permit from the State Commissioner of Revenues. One of the purposes in requiring such a permit is
to enable the State to check up on bootleggers using the
highways, to see that they do not dump their stocks into
the State. When a permit is obtained, a state policeman
can be assigned to each shipment of liquor as it comes
into and across the State, and there is no chance for anything to go wrong. It is otherwise if those transporting
liquor may cross the State without supervision.
The regulation applies to interstate and intrastate
traffic without discrimination. Congress has not acted in
this particular matter; therefore, the State had the right
to do so, even though interstate commerce was burdened
to some extent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant was convicted and fined by an Arkansas court
for transporting intoxicating liquor through the state
without a permit as required by an Arkansas statute.
The question for decision is whether this statutory requirement and its penal sanction unduly encroach upon the
power over interstate commerce delegated to Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The Arkansas Supreme Court sustained the requirement
of the permit as a local police regulation permissible under
the commerce clause. 201 Ark. 1123, 148 S. W. 2d 656.
The case comes here on appeal under the provisions of
§ 237 (a) -of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a),
§ 861 (a) (b).
Section 14177, Pope's 1937 Digest of Arkansas Statutes,
§ 5, Act 109 of 1935, under which appellant was convicted,
makes it unlawful for any person to ship into the state
any distilled spirits without first having obtained a permit
from the state commissioner of revenue. The statute
provides that the form of permit and the shipments into
the state shall be governed by rules and regulations promulgated by the commissioner. Appellant was tried upon
a stipulation of facts which tended to show that, when
arirested in Arkansas, he was engaged in transporting by
motor truck, without a permit, a load of distilled spirits
from a point in Illinois to a point in Mississippi. The state
court held that this violated § 14177. At the time of the
offense, there were no regulations specifically applicable
to transportation passing through the state, the regUlations then in force being adapted to transportation for
delivery within the state or from point to point within
the state.
. We have no occasion to decide whether the Arkansas
statute, when applied to transportation passing through
that state for delivery or use in another, derives support
from the Twenty-first Amendment, which prohibits the
"transportation or importation" of intoxicating liquors
"into any state . . . for delivery or use therein" in violation of its laws, cf. United States v. Gudger, 249 U. S. 373.
Nor need we decide whether appellant's admission that
the transported liquor was intended for importation into
Mississippi for illegal use there establishes a violation of
the Twenty-first Amendment while he was in Arkansas,
so as to deprive him of the right to seek protection of the

DUCKWORTH v. ARKANSAS.
390 ,

Opinion of the Court.

commerce clause on his journey through Arkansas, cf.
McFarlandv. American Sugar Rfg. Co., 241 U. S. 79, 84-5.
We may also assume that appellant's admission no more
deprives him of the right to invoke the protection of the
commerce clause against the Arkansas statute than did
intended violation by the importer of the liquor laws of
the state of destination before the adoption of the WebbKenyon Act, 37 Stat. 699, and the Twenty-first Amendment. SeeBowmanv. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 125 U. S.
465; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100. For we are of the
opinion that, upon principles of constitutional interpretation consistently accepted and followed by this Court ever
since the decisions in Willson v. Black Bird Creek Marsh
Co., 2 Pet. 245, and Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How.
299, the commerce clause does not foreclose the Arkansas
regulation with which we are now concerned.
The commerce here is transportation alone, there being
no question of sale or use within the state of regulation.
We may therefore put to one side the cases in which local
restrictions or prohibitions on sale or use of intoxicating
liquor or other articles of commerce, unaided by Acts of
Congress, have been deemed a prohibited burden on interstate commerce, see Bowman v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co.,
supra; Leisy v. Hardin, supra. The present scheme of
regulation is narrower in operation and has a less restrictive effect upon the commerce. It does not forbid the
traffic in liquor, nor does it impede it more than is reasonably necessary to inform the local authorities who is to
effect the transportation through the state, and to afford
opportunity for them to police it.
The Arkansas Supreme Court in this case has declared
that under the statute appellant was entitled to a permit on application, which he does not appear to have
made; that the permit requirement is in its nature an
inspection measure for which only a nominal fee, necessary to defray the cost of issuing it and of police inspection

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

and of necessary reports, is charged.' It also said that any
failure by the state commissioner to act reasonably and
promptly in administering the lawwould be controlled by
the courts through mandamus. In a later case, Hardin
v. Spiers, 152 S. W. 2d 1010, arising under regulations not
in force at the time of appellant's conviction, the same
court declared that the commissioner must exercise this
power in a reasonable, not an arbitrary, manner.
While the commerce clause has been interpreted as reserving to Congress the power to regulate interstate commerce in matters of national importance, that has never
been deemed to exclude the states from regulating matters
primarily of local concern with respect to which Congress
has not exercised its power, even though the regulation
has some effect on interstate commerce. As we had occasion to point out at the last term of Court, there are many
matters which are appropriate subjects of regulation in
the interest of the safety, health and well-being of local
communities which, because of their local character and
their number and diversity, and because of the practical
difficulties involved, may never be adequately dealt with
by Congress. Because of their local character, also, there
is wide scope for local regulation without impairing the
uniformity of control over the commerce in matters of
national concern and without materially obstructing the
free flow of commerce, which were the principal objects
sought to be secured by the commerce clause. Such regulations, in the absence of supervening Congressional action, have for the most part been sustained by this Court,
1 The

regulations promulgated by the commissioner on February 3,

1941, after appellant's conviction, provided for the payment of a
license fee for the permit. It does not appear that there ivas any prescribed fee at the time of appellant's offense. Moreover, his sole contention is that the commerce clause precludes the state from exacting
any form of permit, either, with or without a fee, for the interstate
transportation of liquor through the state.

DUCKWORTH v. ARKANSAS.
390

395

Opinion of the Court.

notwithstanding the commerce clause. See Californiav.
Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 113, et seq., and cases cited.
See also cases collected in DiSanto v. Pennsylvania, 273
U. S. 34, 39, 40, and in South CarolinaHighway Dept. v.
Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 188, Note 5, and 191.
In the cases referred to, the Court has sustained a variety
of local regulations designed to safeguard the states from
injurious local effects that may attend interstate transportation. Familiar examples are inspection and quarantine laws for the protection of local health and safety,
applicable to persons, animals, and merchandise moving
in interstate commerce. Again, a state may insure the
safe and convenient use of its harbors and navigable
waterways by controlling the movement of vessels in interstate and foreign commerce; in the interests of safety
it may control the operations of interstate trains and of
their employees and appliances.
Of recent years, the Court has sustained state regulations of the size and weight of motor cars moving interstate, designed to insure the safe and economical use of
the states' highways. South CarolinaHighway Dept. v.
Barnwell Bros., supra, and cases cited. A state may police "caravans" of motor vehicles moving over its highways in interstate commerce and charge a compensatory
license fee for doing it. Morf v. Bingaman, 298 U. S.
407; Clark v. Paul Gray, Inc., 306 U. S. 583. It may, in
the interest of public safety and convenience, restrict particular types of motor vehicles, moving in interstate commerce, to particular areas. Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S.
374, 393-5; cf. Clark v. Paul Gray, Inc., supra, 598. And
a state may undertake to insure the fitness and integrity
of those negotiating contracts for interstate transportation, by licensing them and requiring a bond to insure their
good behavior. Californiav. Thompson, supra.
While the subject matter of the present regulation,
transportation of liquor, with its attendant dangers to the

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

communities through which it passes, differs in many respects from those' which we have mentioned, all are alike
in their tendency, if unregulated, to affect the public
interest adversely in varying ways depending on local conditions. The efforts at effective regulation, state and national, of intoxicating liquor, evidenced by the long course
of litigation in this Court, have not left us unaware of
the peculiar difficulties of controlling it or of its tendency
to get out of legal bounds. The present requirement of a
permit is not shown to be more than a means of establishing the identity of those who are to engage in the transportation, their route and point of destination, and affords
opportunity for local officials to take appropriate measures
to insure that the liquor is transported without diversion,
in conformity to the permit. The permit device is not unlike state requirements of health certificates for animals or
certificates of inspection for goods, which have been sustained here both as to transportation into a state, Savage
v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 528; Mintz v. Baldwin, 289 U. S.
346; and through it, Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. $. 137; cf.
Morf v. Bingaman, supra. Where the power to regulate
commerce for local protection exists, the states may adopt
effective measures to accomplish the permitted end. The
Arkansas statute does not conflict with any act of Congress. It does not forbid or preclude the transportation,
or interfere with the free flow of commerce among the
states beyond what is reasonably necessary to protect
the local public interest in preventing unlawful distribution or use of liquor within the state. It does not violate
the commerce clause. Cf. Ziffrin, Inc. v. Reeves, 308
U.S. 132.
What we have said is restricted to the statute as applied
under the regulations in force at the time of petitioner's
alleged offense: It will be time enough to deal with abuses
of the permit system if and when they arise. Nor have we
occasion to consider the state's authority to regulate other

DUCKWORTH v. ARKANSAS.
390

JAcKsoN, J., concurring.

articles of commerce less susceptible to uses injurious to
the communities through which they pass. Cf. Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311,
332; Ziffrin, Inc. v. Reeves, supra, 138.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE JACKSON, concurring in result:
I agree that this Court should not relieve Duckworth
of his conviction, but I would rest the decision on the constitutional provision applicable only to the transportation
of liquor, and refrain from what I regard as an unwise
extension of state power over interstate commerce.

Appellant was convicted for transporting a load of intoxicating liquor through Arkansas, without permit from
that State, on the way from Illinois to Mississippi. The
owner of the liquor testified, and his testimony was treated
as a stipulation of fact, "that the liquor was intended
to be sold in the State of Mississippi in violation of the
state laws of Mississippi."
The Twenty-first Amendment provides:
"The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or use
therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws
thereof, is hereby prohibited."
Duckworth now contends that it is our duty to assure
him safe conduct as against the action of Arkansas, although his goal is to violate both the laws of Mississippi
and the Federal Constitution. He asks us to hold that one
provision of the Constitution guarantees him an opportunity to violate another. The law is not that tricky.
Whether one transporting liquor across Arkansas to a
legal destination might not have some claim to federal
protection, we do not need to consider. One who assails
the constitutionality of a statute must stand on his own

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

314 U. S.

right to relief.' Since this appellant had no rightful claim
to constitutional protection for his trip, the whole purpose of which was to violate the Constitution which he
invokes, we should leave him where we find him, and for
this reason I concur in the judgment of this Court affirming
the conviction.
II
If we yield to an urge to go beyond this rather narrow
but adequate ground of decision, we should then consider
whether this liquor controversy cannot properly be determined by guidance from the liquor clauses of the Constitution. These clauses of the Twenty-first Amendment
create an important distinction between state power over
the liquor traffic and state power over commerce in general.
The people of the United States knew that liquor is a
lawlessness unto itself. They determined that it should
be governed by a specific and particular Constitutional
provision. They did not leave it to the courts to devise
special distortions of the general rules as to interstate com1 Mr.

Justice Holmes, speaking for a unanimous Court, laid down
the rule as to tax cases, equally applicable to this, if, indeed, this is not
itself something of a tax case. He pointed out that the Court. does
not consider arguments on constitutional grounds "unless the party
setting up the unconstitutionality of the state law belongs to the class
for whose sake the constitutional protection is given, or the class
primarily protected . . ." Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160.

Mr. Justice Cardozo has stated for the Court that those who attack
the constitutionality of state statutes "are not the champions of any
rights except their own." Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S.
577, 583.
Mr. Justice Brandeis has given expression to the same view for the
Court in these terms:
"We have no occasion to consider the constitutional question, because
it appears that the plaintiff is without standing to present it. One who
would strike down a state statute as obnoxious to the Federal Constitution must show that the alleged unconstitutional feature injures
him." Premier-PabstCo. v. Grosscup,298 U. S. 226, 227.

DUCKWORTH v. ARKANSAS.
390

399

JAcKsoN, J., concurring.

merce to curb liquor's "tendency to get out of legal
bounds." It was their unsatisfactory experience with that
method that resulted in giving liquor an exclusive place in
constitutional law as a commodity whose transportation is
governed by a special, constitutional provision.
Transportation itself presented no special dangers or
hazards, but it might be a step in evading and undermining a policy as to use and sale of liquor which the state
has a right to prescribe for itself. Regulated transportation of liquor is a necessary incident of regulated consumption and distribution. So the Twenty-first Amendment
made the laws as to delivery and use in the state of destination the test of legality of interstate movement. This
obviously gives to state law a much greater control over
interstate liquor traffic than over commerce in any other
commodity.
If the Twenty-first Amendment is not to be resorted to
for the decision of liquor cases, it is on the way to becoming
another "almost forgotten" clause of the Constitution.
Compare Edwards v. California, ante, p. 183. It certainly applies to nothing else. We should decide whether
this Arkansas statute is sustainable under the Twentyfirst Amendment. Does it authorize a state to exact some
assurance that all liquor entering its territory either is
imported for lawful delivery under its own laws or will
pass through without diversion? The Amendment might
bear a construction that would allow a state to prohibit
liquor from entering its borders at all unless by responsible
carrier under consignment to some lawful destination
within or beyond the state. I should not at all object
to considering all of the potential evils which the Court's
opinion associates with the liquor traffic, and some more
that I could supply, to be sufficient reasons for giving a
liberal interpretation to the Twenty-first Amendment as
to state power over liquor. But the Court brushes aside
the liquor provisions of the Twenty-first Amendment.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1941-.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

314 U. S.

III
The opinion of the Court solves the present case through
a construction of the interstate commerce power. It regards this liquor as a legitimate subject of a lawful commerce, and then, because of its special characteristics, approves this admittedly novel permit system and thus expands the power of the state to regulate such lawful commerce beyond anything this Court has yet approved.
The extent to which state legislation may be allowed to
affect the conduct of interstate business in the absence of
Congressional action on the subject has long been a vexatious problem. Recently the tendency has been to abandon the earlier limitations and to sustain more freely such
state laws on the ground that Congress has power to
supersede them with regulation of its own. It is a tempting escape from a difficult question to pass to Congress
the responsibility for continued existence of local restraints
and obstructions to national commerce. But these restraints are individually too petty, too diversified, and too
local to get the attention of a Congress hard pressed with
more urgent matters. The practical result is that in default of action by us they will go on suffocating and retarding and Balkanizing American commerce, trade and
industry.
I differ basically with my brethren as to whether the
inertia of government shall be on the side of restraint of
commerce or on the side of freedom of commerce. The
sluggishness of government, the multitude of matters that
clamor for attention, and the relative ease with which men
are persuaded to postpone troublesome decisions, all make
inertia one of the most decisive powers in determining the
course of our affairs and frequently gives to the established order of things a longevity and vitality much beyond
its merits. Because that is so, I am reluctant to see any
new local systems for restraining our national commerce

DUCKWORTH v. ARKANSAS.
390

JAcKsoN, J., concurring

get the prestige and power of established institutions. The
Court's present opinion and tendency would allow the
states to establish the restraints and let commerce struggle
for Congressional action to make it free. This trend I
am unwilling to further in any event beyond the plain
requirements of existing cases.
If the reaction of this Court against what many of us
have regarded as an -excessive judicial interference with
legislative action is to yield wholesome results, we must be
cautious lest wemerely rush to other extremes The excessive'use for insufficient reason of a judicially inflated
due process clause to strike down states' laws regulating
their own internal affairs, such as hours of labor in industry, minimum wage requirements, and standards for working conditions, is one thing. To invoke the interstate
commerce clause to keep the many states from fastening their several concepts of local "well-being" onto the
national commerce is a wholly different thing.
Our national free intercourse is never in danger of being
suddenly stifled by dramatic and sweeping acts of restraint.
That would produce its own antidote. Our danger, as the
forefathers well knew, is from the aggregate strangling
effect of a multiplicity of individually petty and diverse
and local regulations. Each may serve some local purpose worthy enough by itself. Congress may very prop-,
erly take into consideration local policies and dangers
when it exercises its power under the commerce clause.
But to let each locality conjure up its own dangers and be
the judge of the remedial restraints to be clamped onto
interstate trade inevitably retards our national economy
and disintegrates our national society. It is the movement and exchange of goods that sustain living standards,
both of him who produces and of him who consumes. This
vital national interest in free commerce among the states
must not be jeopardized.
428670°--42-26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

314 U. S.

I do not suppose the skies will fall if the Court does
allow Arkansas to rig up this handy device for policing
liquor on the ground that it is not forbidden by the commerce clause, but in doing so it adds another to the already
too numerous and burdensome state restraints of national
commerce and pursues a trend with which I would have
no part.

GRAY, DIRECTOR OF THE BITUMINOUS COAL
DIVISION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL. v. POWELL ET .L., RECEIVERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 18. Argued October 21, 22, 1941.-Decided December 15, 1941.
1. Upon the facts of this case, a determination by the Director of the
Bituminous Coal Division that a railroad company was not the
"producer" of certain coal consumed by it, and therefore that the
coal was not exempt, under §§ 4-11 (1), and 4-A, from the provisions of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, should not be disturbed
onreviewunder§6 (b). P.411.
2. On review under § 6 (b) of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, of
an administrative determination that the consumer of certain coal
was not the "producer" thereof and that therefore the coal was not
exempt under §§ 4-11 (1) and 4-A of the Act, the function of the
court is fully performed when it determines that there has been a
fair hearing, with notice and an opportuntiy to prewent the circumstances and arguments to the administrative bady, and an application of the statute in a just and reasoned manner. P. 411.
3. In order that the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, § 4-11, may apply
to particular transactions in coal, it is not essential that there be
a sale or other transfer of title by the producer. P. 414.
4. It is within the power of Congress to provide for the determination of who are "producers" under the Bituminous Coal Act of
1937. P. 417. •
114 F. 2d 752, reyersed.

311 U. S. 644, to review a decree reversing
an order of the Director of the Bituminous Coal Division
CERTIORARI,

