14

OCTOBER TERM, 1941
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

does not obligate it to the contractor's vendor under a
cost-plus contract more than under a lump sum contract.
Cf. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra; United States
v. Driscoll, supra.
We cannot say that the contractors were not, or that
the Government was, bound to pay the purchase price, or
that the contractors were not the purchasers on whom
the statute lays the tax. The added circumstance that
they were bound by their contract to furnish the purchased material to the Government and entitled to be
reimbursed by it for the cost, including the tax, no more
results in an infringement of the Government immunity
than did the tax laid upon the contractor's gross receipts
from the Government in James v. Dravo ContractingCo.,
supra. See Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra, 523, 524;
Trinityfarm Co. v. Grosjean, supra, 472; Helvering v.
Gerhardt,supra,416; Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe,
supra, 483.
'Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
CURRY, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE OF

ALABAMA, v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 603. Argued October 24, 1941.-Decided November 10, 1941.
A state use-tax imposed on a contractor in respect of materials which
he purchased outside of, and used within, the State in performance
of a "cost-plus" contract with the Government can not be adjudged
invalid as a tax on the United States, either upon the assumption
that the contractor is the Government's agent or representative in
the matter, which is not correct, or because of the fact that the
economic burden of the tax is shifted to the United States when the

CURRY v. UNITED STATES.
14

Counsel for Parties.

Government, pursuant to the contract, reimburses the contractor for
the cost of the materials, tax included. Alabama v. King & Boozer,
ante, p. 1. P. 18.
241 Ala. 569, 3 So. 2d 582, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 599, to review a decree of the Su-

preme Court of Alabama which reversed a decree of the
Alabama Circuit Court sustaining a use tax laid on government contractors. The suit was brought in the latter
court by the United States and the contractors against
the State Commissioner of Revenue to determine the tax
liability and for a refund of payment made.
Messrs. John W. Lapsley, Assistant Attorney General of
Alabama, and Thomas S. Lawson, Attorney General, with
whom Mr. J. Edward Thornton, Assistant Attorney General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney General Clark and Mr. Warner W. Gardner
were on the brief, for respondents.
The Alabama use tax is imposed upon the user.
The United States in storing and using tangible personal property is immune from use tax. Here, as in the
King & Boozer case, ante, p. 1, the problem admits of
ready solution under the guiding principle that the United
States is immune from any tax imposed upon and paid by
the Government itself. , As that immunity includes a sales
tax, it includes, a fortiori,a use tax collected directly from
the consumer of the goods.
The immunity of the United States is not lost when it
stores or uses goods through a cost-plus contractor.
Messrs. Eugene Stanley, Attorney General of Louisiana, and Cicero C. Sessions filed a brief on behalf of the
State of Louisiana, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

314 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companion case to Alabama v. King & Boozer,
ante, p. 1. It presents the question whether, by the costplus contract involved in the King & Boozer case, the contractors, who are respondents here, are immune from the
use tax imposed by the Alabama statute, Act No. 67, General Acts of Alabama, 1939, because the materials, with
respect to the use of which the tax was laid, were ordered
by the contractors and used by them in the performance
of their contract with the Government.
Section II of the taxing act provides: "(a) An excise tax
is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in this state of tangible personal property purchased
at retail . . . for storage, use or other consumption in
this state at the rate of two per cent (2%) of the sales
price of such property, . . . (b) . . . Every person stor-

ing, using or otherwise consuming in this State tangible
personal property purchased at retail shall be liable for
the tax imposed by this act . . ." Section III exempts
from the operation of the statute the storage, use or other
consumption of property, the sale of which is taxed by
other provisions of the statutes, and the storage, use or consumption of property, taxation of which is prohibited by
the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Petitioner, Commissioner of Revenue for the State,
assessed and collected from the contractors a tax on their
use or consumption, within the state, of a quantity Of roofing which they purchased outside the state and caused to
be shipped to the camp-site within the state, where they
used it in the performance of their construction contract
with the Government. The present suit was brought by
the United States and the contractors in the state circuit
court against petitioner, individually and as Commissioner, for a declaratory judgment determining the tax

CURRY v. UNITED STATES.
14

Opinion of the Court.

liability of the contractors and for a decree ordering refund
of the tax paid by the contractors. The lawfulness of the
tax was challenged specifically on the ground that the
plaintiffs, respondents here, are exempt from the tax by
the provisions of the state statute, and are immune from
it, because the use and consumption of the roofing by
the contractors as agents or instrumentalities of the
United States is constitutionally immune from taxation.
The circuit court sustained the tax, declaring that it
was laid upon the contractors by the statute and that they
were not constitutionally immune from the tax because
of their use of the purchased property in performance of
their contract with the United States. The Supreme
Court of Alabama reversed, 3 So. 2d 582, holding that the
tax infringed the constitutional immunity of the United
States, for reasons stated in its opinion in King & Boozer
v. Alabama, 241 Ala. 557, 3 So. 2d 572. We granted certiorari, 314 U. S. 599, so that we might consider this with
the King & Boozer case.
Since the Supreme Court of Alabama rested its decision
on the constitutional ground and not upon the inapplicability of the taxing statute to the contractors, we assume
for present purposes, as we take it the state court assumed,
that the contractors are subject to the tax but for the
asserted Government immunity, and that upon the correct interpretation of the Alabama statute they would
have been subject to the tax if their cost-plus contract had
been with a private individual. Cf. Felt & Tarrant Co. v.
Gallagher,306 U. S. 62; Southern PacificCo. v. Gallagher,
306 U. S. 167; Department of Treasury v. Wood Corp.,
313 U. S. 62.
For the reasons stated at length in our opinion in the
King & Boozer case, we think that the contractors, in purchasing and bringing the building material into the state
and in appropriating it to their contract with the Government, were not agents or instrumentalities of the Gov42867O-42--2

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

ernment; and they are not relieved of the tax, to which
they would otherwise be subject, by reason of the fact that
they are Government contractors. If the state law lays
the tax upon them rather than the individual with whom
they enter into a cost-plus contract like the present one,
then it affects the Government, like the individual, only
as the economic burden is shifted to it through operation
of the contract. As pointed out in the opinion in the
King & Boozer case, by concession of the Government
and on authority, the Constitution, without implementation by Congressional legislation, does not prohibit a tax
upon Government contractors because its burden is passed
on economically by the terms of the contract or otherwise
as a part of the construction cost to the Government.
Upon the record as it comes to us, we are not called
upon to determine whether the taxing statute is applicable
to transactions of the contractors on the camp-site, a government reservation. We decide only the question passed
upon by the Supreme Court of Alabama, that if the
statute is applicable to, and taxes, the contractors upon a
cost-plus contract like the present, if entered into with a
private person, they are not immune from the tax when,
as here, the contract is with the Government.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

