252

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.*
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 1. Argued October 18, 21, 1940 (No. 19, 1940 Term).
October 13, 1941.-Decided December 8, 1941.

Reargued

1. In determining whether punishment for an out-of-court publication concerning a pending case, as a contempt, is consistent with
guaranties of the Federal Constitution, the problem in the case of
a judgment based upon a particularized statutory declaration of the
policy of a State is different from that where the judgment is based
upon a common-law concept of a general nature. P. 260.
2. The "clear and present danger" cases, decided by this Court, indicate that the substantive evil likely to result must be extremely
serious and the degree of imminence extremely high before utterances
can be punished. P. 263.
3. The "clear and present danger" cases do not mark the farthest constitutional boundaries of protected expression; nor do they more
than recognize a minimum compulsion of the Bill of Rights. P. 263.
4. The freedom of speech and of the press secured by the First Amendment against abridgment by the United States is similarly secured
to all persons by the. Fourteenth against abridgment by a State.
P. 263, n. 6.
5. The First Amendment's prohibition of "any law abridging the
freedom of speech or of the press" must be given the broadest scope
that can be countenanced in an orderly society. P. 265.
6. The First Amendment can not be taken as approving all practices in respect to punishment for contempt which prevailed in
England at the time of its ratification. P. 265.
7. The "inherent tendency" or "reasonable tendency" of an out-ofcourt publication to cause disrespect for the judiciary or interfere
with the orderly administration of justice in a pending case is not
sufficient to establish punishable contempt. P. 272.
8. Upon the facts of this case, held that convictions of a newspaper
publisher and editor for contempt, based on the publication of editorials commenting upon cases pending in a state court, were vio*Together with No. 3, Times-Mirror Co. et al. v. Superior Court of
California in and for the County of Los Angeles, also on writ of certiorari, 310 U. S. 623, to the Supreme Court of California. Argued
October 21,1940 (No. 64,1940 Term); reargued October 13, 14, 1941.

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Argument for Bridges.

lative of constitutional rights of freedom of speech and of the
press. P. 271.
9. The conviction of a labor leader for contempt of a state court,
based upon his publication in the press of a telegram which he had
sent to the Secretary of Labor, in which he criticized the decision of
a judge in a case involving a labor dispute and indicated that enforcement of the decree would result in a strike, held violative of
constitutional rights of freedom of speech and of the press. P. 275.
14 Cal. 2d 464, 94 P. 2d 983; 15 Cal. 2d 99, 98 P. 2d 1029,
reversed.
CERnoRARI, 309 U. S. 649, 310 U. S. 623, to review, in
two cases, the affirmance of convictions and sentences for
contempt of court.
Mr. Osmond K. Fraenkel, with whom Mr. A. L.,Wirin
was on the brief, on the reargument for petitioner in No. 1.
Mr. Wirin on the original brief and argument.
The power of state judges to punish for contempt is
restricted by the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the same extent as is the power of the
executive and legislative branches. Brinkerhoff-Faris
Co. v. Hill, 281 U. S. 673, 680.
There are special reasons why judicial action in punishing for contempt should be subject to scrutiny on constitutional grounds. Where legislative action or executive action is in question, review is by a different branch
of government. Not so in contempt cases. Here the
judiciary reviews the acts of its own members. Moreover, in many cases, although not here, the action under
review was taken by the very judge criticized in the publication complained of. And in all cases the procedure
is summary, without the safeguard of trial by jury.
Where, as here, the act complained of is an expression
of opinion concerning judicial action and the expression
takes place outside of the courtroom, there can be no
punishment unless the expression actually obstructed
judicial action, or was intended improperly to influence

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Bridges.

314 U. S.

judicial action, or where, in the absence of such intent,
there was a clear and present danger that judicial action
would be improperly influenced.
The line sought to be drawn in the case at bar between
cases pending and cases determined has no substantial
meaning. To hold that publications may be punished
merely because the time for rehearing has not expired
exalts form above substance, establishes a criterion lacking in reason and sets a trap for the unwary. The layman seldom knows anything about when rehearings are
available. Experience has taught him, moreover, that
judges change their minds in a negligible proportion of
cases, so that he considers the right to ask for a rehearing
illusory.
.The "reasonable tendency" test will enmesh anyone
who criticizes a judicial decision immediately after it is
rendered, if a judge can be persuaded that the critic ought
to have foreseen that his words might have some effect on
the judge criticized or on the public reaction to courts in
general.
If the State may not punish one charged with attempting to overthrow it on a showing only of reasonable tendency to accomplish that unlawful end, it should have no
right to punish on a showing of like character for the much
-less serious offense of contempt.
There were here no special facts to justify the inference
that there was any clear danger that obstruction of justice
would result from the publication of the telegram. The
statements in the telegram were expressed, not with the
purpose of interfering with the administration of justice,
but with the hope that the Secretary of Labor would find
a means of solving the controversy between the two competing unions in a forum other than the judicial one.
In any evefit, the sending and publication of the telegram were the exercise of the right to petition the government. California had no power to restrict this right by

,BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Argument for Times-Mirror Co.

punishing its exercise as a contempt. The right of petition is protected by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. And when the petition is addressed
to the national government on an issue of national concern, it is also protected by the privileges and immunities
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Hague v. C. I. 0.,
307 U. S. 496; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.
542.
Mr. T. B. Cosgrove, with whom Messrs. John N.
Cramerand F. B. Yoakum, Jr.were on the brief, for petitioners in No. 3.
The clear and present danger doctrine should be
applied.
The clear and present danger doctrine requires a weighing of the evidence and a determination "whether the
words used are used in such circumstances and are of
such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that
they will bring about" a substantial interference with the
orderly administration of justice. Schenck v. United
States, 249 U. S. 47, 52; Schaefer v. United States, 251
U. S. 466, 482; Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 672;
Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 256; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 105; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310
U. S. 296, 311.
The reasonable tendency test is so vague and indefinite
that it "is repugnant to the guarantee of liberty contained in the Fourteenth Amendment." Herndon v.
Lowry, supra, 259.
This Court has not subordinated constitutional liberties to governmental functions. The practice has been
to reconcile the two. Whitney v. California, 274 U. S.
357, 374; Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 258; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161, 164; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 95-96; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310
U. S. 296, 304, 307, :308; Minersville School Dist. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Respondents.

314 U. S.

Gobitis, 310 U. S. 586, 593-594, 596; Milk Wagon Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Dairies, 312 U. S. 287, 298299; American Federation of Labor v. Swing, 312 U. S.
321, 325-326.
In summary proceedings for contempt by publication,
adoption of the actual interference test or the clear and
present danger doctrine will conform to DeJonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 364-365, which declared that "legislative intervention can find constitutional justification only
by dealing with the abuse. The rights themselves must
not be curtailed." Proscribing all comment on judicial
proceedings until finally terminated would abridge the
right of free speech. However, the right would not be
abridged, but its abuse would be dealt with, if comment
upon pending judicial proceedings is proscribed only
when it is of such a nature and published under such circumstances as to bring about an actual interference, or
create a clear and present danger that it will bring about
a substantial interference, with the judicial proceedings
about which comment is made.
Mr. Allen W. Ashburn, with whom Messrs. J. H. O'Connor, Win. B. McKesson, anidMichael G. Luddy were on the
brief, for respondents.
The determination of what constitutes contempt of a
state court, and the character of punishment therefor,,
are matters exclusively within the control of the State.
Pattersonv. Colorado,205 U. S. 454.
From the standpoint of due process, antiquity of the
process is the hallmark of acceptability, whether the matter be viewed adjectively or substantively. If inherent
or reasonable tendency to influence or otherwise interfere
with the deliberations of a court in a pending matter was
an established criterion of constructive contempt at the
time of the ado-tion of the Federal Constitution, its application today can not constitute a denial of due process.

BRIDGES v. CALIFb)RNiA.
252

257

Argument for Respondents.

The inherent or reasonable tendency criterion has been
established for constructive contempt for a period of two
hundred years or more.
Whereas the federal statute made "obstruction" the
test, the California Penal Code made "direct tendency"
the test. The codifiers incorporated not only "tendency"
as a criterion for acts which must be actually obstructive
under the federal statute, but also adopted the common
law as to contempts generally. The California decisions
have uniformly held this to be the proper criterion, sometimes referring to the statute and sometimes to the inherent power of the court. Matter of Tyler, 64 Cal. 434, 439;
Ex parte Barry,85 Cal. 603, 607; In re Shortridge,99 Cal.
526, 532, 533; In re Shuler, 210 Cal. 402; In re Lindsley,
75 Cal. App. 124; Lindsley v. Superior Court, 76 Cal. App.
428; In re San FranciscoChronicle, 1 Cal. 2d 637.
The clear and present danger doctrine has never found
its way into the law of contempt.
Nye v. United States, 313 U. S. 33, dealt only with the
effect of the federal statute which defines the method of
procedure for punishment of various types of contempt
and limits those which may be summarily dealt with.
Section 1209 of the California Code of Civil Procedure
writes the common-law doctrine of reasonable tendency
into the statutes of California. If the statutory test be
adeqiate from a constitutional standpoint, the evidence
will not be reviewed except for the limited purpose of
determining whether, as expressed in the Milk Wagon
Drivers Union case, 312 U. S. 287, the conviction rests
upon "insubstantial findings of fact" amounting to "a
palpable evasion of the Constitutional guaranty."
But if the reasonable tendency criterion be considered
independently of the California statutes, it possesses, aside
from its ancient lineage, adequate certainty to meet the
demands of due process. Cf. Herndonv. Lowry, 301 U. S.
242.
428670o-42...-17

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

Reasonable tendency may be made a new statutory
standard of guilt. Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212
U. S. 86.
A statutory or other definition of crime is not vague
for uncertainty "merely because it throws upon men the
risk of rightly estimating a matter of degree." There
must be an uncertainty in the standard itself, as distinguished from a mere matter of difficulty in applying the
standard to the given facts. "'Drawing the line' is a
recurrent difficulty in those fields of the law where differences in degree produce ultimate differences in kind."
Harrison v. Schaffner, 312 U. S. at 583; Gorin v. United
States, 312 U. S. 19.
Differentiation between inherent tendency and clear
present danger as applied to constructive contempts is
futile.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Osmond K. Fraenkel and A. L. Wirin on behalf
of the American Civil Liberties Union, and its Southern
California Branch; and by Mr. Elisha Hanson on behalf
of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, all
urging reversal.
MR. Jusrice BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These two cases, while growing out of different circumstances and concerning different parties, both relate to the
scope of our national constitutional policy safeguarding
free speech and a free press. All of the petitioners were
adjudged guilty aad fined for contempt of court by the
Superior Court of Los Angeles County. Their conviction
rested upon comments pertaining to, pending litigation
which were published in newspapers. In the Superior
Court, and later in the California Supreme Court, petitioners challenged the state's action as an abridgment,
prohibited by the Federal Constitution, of freedom of

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Opinion of the Court.

speech and of the press; but the Superior Court overruled
this contention, and the Supreme Court affirmed.' The
importance of the constitutional question prompted us to
grant certiorari. 309 U. S. 649; 310 U. S. 623.
In brief, the state courts asserted and exercised a power
to punish petitioners for publishing their views concerning
cases not in all respects finally determined, upon the following chain of reasoning: California is invested with the
power and duty to provide an adequate administration
of justice; by virtue of this power and duty, it can take
appropriate measures for providing fair judicial trials free
from coercion or intimidation; included among such appropriate measures is the common law procedure of punishing certain interferences and obstructions through contempt proceedings; this particular measure, devolving
upon the courts of California by reason of their creation
as courts, includes the power to punish for publications
made outside the court room if they tend to interfere with
the fair and orderly administration of justice in a pending case; the trial court having found that the publications
had such a tendency, and there being substantial evidence
to support the finding, the punishments here imposed were
an appropriate exercise of the state's power; in so far as
these punishments constitute a restriction on liberty of expression, the public interest in that liberty was properly
subordinated to the public interest in judicial impartiality
and decorum. 1

Bridges v. Superior Court, 14 Cal. 2d 464, 94 P. 2d 983; Times.

Mirror Co. v. Superior Court, 15 Cal. 2d 99, 98 P. 2d 1029. In the
Times-Mirror case, the affidavits of complaint contained seven counts,
each based upon the publication of a different editorial. The Superior
Court for Los Angeles County sustained a demurrer to two of the
counts, and of the five remaining counts on which conviction rested,
the California Supreme Court affirmed as to three, reversed as to two.
'See Times-Mirror Co. v. Superior Court, supra, 118, where the
following is quoted with approval: "Liberty of the press is subordinate
to the independence of the judiciary ..

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

If the inference of conflict raised by the last clause be
correct, the issue before us is of the very gravest moment.
For free speech and fair trials are two of the most cherished
policies of our civilization, and it would be a trying task
to choose between them. But even if such a conflict is
not actually raised by the question before us, we are still
confronted with the delicate problems entailed in passing
upon the deliberations of the highest court of a state.
This is not, however, solely an issue between state and
nation, as it would be if we were called upon to mediate
in one of those troublous situations where each claims
to be the repository of a particular sovereign power. To
be sure, the exercise of power here in question was by a
state judge. But in deciding whether or not the sweeping
constitutional mandate against any law "abridging the
freedom of speech or of the press" forbids it, we are necessarily measuring a power of all American courts, both state
and federal, including this one.
I,
It is to be noted at once that we have n.o direction by
the legislature of California that publications outside the
court room which comment upon a pending case in a specifled manner should be ' punishable. As we said in Ca itwell v. Connecticgt, 310 U. S. 296, 307-308, such a "declaration of the State's policy would weigh heavily in any
challenge of the law as infringing constitutional limitations." But as we also said there, the problem is different
where ."the judgment is based on a common law concept
of the most general and undefined nature." Id. 308. Cf.
Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 261-264.. For here the
legislature of California has not appraised a particular
kind of situation and found a specific danger 8sufficiently
'Indeed, the only evidence we have of the Calilornia legilature's
appraisal indicates approval of a policy directly-contriry to that here

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Opinion of the Court.

imminent to justify a restriction on a particular kind of
utterance. The judgments below, therefore, do not come
'to us encased in the armor wrought by prior legislative
deliberation. Under such circumstances, this Court has
said that "it must necessarily be found, as an original
question," that the specified publications involved created
"such likelihood of bringing about the substantive evil as
to deprive [them] of the constitutional protection." Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 671.
How much "likelihood" is another question, "a question
of proximity and degree" " that cannot be completely captured in a formula. In Schenck v. United States, h~wever, this Court said that there must be a determination
of whether or not "the words used are used in such cir-.
cumstances and are of such a nature as -to create a clear
and present danger that they will bring about the substantive evils." We recognize that this statement, however helpful, does not comprehend the whole problem.
As Mr. Justice Brandeis said in his concurring opinion in
Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357, 374: "This Court has
not yet fixed the standard by which to determine when a
danger shall be deemed clear; how-remote the danger may
be and yet be deemed present."
followed by the California courts. For ยง 1209, subsection 13, of the
California Code of Civil Procedure (1937 ed.) provides: ". . . no
speech or publication reflecting upon or concerning any court or any

officer thereof shall be treated or punished as a contempt of such court
unless made in the immediate presence of such court while in session':
and in such a, manner as to actually interfere with its proceedings."
The California Supreme Court's decision that the statute is invalid
under the California constitution is an authoritative determination of
that point. But the inferences as to the legislature's appraisal of the
danger arise from the enactment, and are therefore unchanged by
the subsequent judicial treatment of the statute.
SSchenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

Nevertheless, the "clear and present danger" language5
of the Schenck case has afforded practical guidance in a
great variety of cases in which the scope of constitutional
protections of freedom of expression was in issue. It has
been utilized by either a majority or minority of this Court
in passing upon the constitutionality of convictions under
espionage acts, Schenck v. United States, supra; Abrams
v. United States, 250 U. S. 616; under a criminal syndicalism act, Whitney v. California,supra; under an "antiinsurrection" act, Herndonv. Lowry, supra;and for breach
of the peace at common law, Cantwell v. Connectitut,
supra. And very recently we have also suggested that
"clear and present danger" is an appropriate guide in
determining the constitutionality of restrictions upon expression where the substantive evil sought to be prevented
by the restriction is "destruction of life or property, or
invasion of the right of privacy." Thornhill v. Alabama,
310 U. S. 88, 105.
Moreover, the likelihood, however great, that a substantive evil will result cannot alone justify a restriction
upon freedom of speech or the press. The evil itself must
be "substantial," Brandeis, J., concurring in Whitney v.
California,supra,374; it must be "serious," id. 376. And
'Restatement of the phrase "clear and present danger" in other
terms has been infrequent. Compare, however: ". . . the test to be
applied . . . is not the remote or possible effect." Brandeis, J., dissenting in Schaefer v. United States, 251 U. S. 466, 486. ". . . we
should be eternally vigilant against attempts to check the expression
of opinions that we loathe and believe to be fraught with death, unless
they so imminently threaten immediate interference with the lawful
and pressing purposes of the law that an immediate check is required
to save the country.' Holmes, J., dissenting in Abrams v.. United
States, 250 U. S. 616, 630; "To justify suppression of free speech there
must be reasonable ground to fear that serious evil will result if free
speech is practiced. There must be reasonable ground to believe that
the danger apprehended is imminent.' Brandeis, J., concurring in
Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357, 376. The italics are ours.

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Opinion of the Court.

even the expression of "legislative preferences or beliefs"
cannot transform minor matters of public inconvenience
or annoyance into substantive evils of sufficient weight to
warrant the curtailment of liberty of expression. Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161.
What finally emerges from the "clear and present danger" cases is a working principle that the substantive evil
must be extremely serious and the degree of imminence
extremely high before utteranices can be punished. Those
cases do not purport to mark the furthermost constitutional boundaries of protected expression, nor do we here.
They do no more than recognize a minimum compulsion
of the Bill of Rights. For the First Amendment 6 does
not speak equivocally. It prohibits any law "abridging
the freedom of speech, or of the press." It must be taken
as a command of the broadest scope that explicit language,
read in the context of a liberty-loving society, will allow.
II
Before analyzing the punished utterances and the circumstances surrounding their publication, we must consider an argument which, if valid, would destroy the relevance of the foregoing discussion to this case. In brief,
this argument is that the publications. here in question
belong to a special category marked off by history,-a
category to which the criteria of constitutional immunity
from punishment used where other types of utterances
are concerned are not applicable. For, the argument runs,
the power of judges to punish by contempt out-of-court
publications tending to obstruct the orderly and fair administration of justice in a pending case was deeply
"The freedom of speech and of the press secured by the. First
Amendment against abridgment by the United States is similarly secured to all persons by the Fourteenth against abridgment by a atate."
Schneiderv. State, 308 U. S. 147, 160.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

rooted in English common law at the time the Constitution was adopted. That this historical contention is
dubious has been persuasively argued elsewhere. Fox,
Contempt of Court,passim, e. g,, 207. See also Stansbury,
Trial of James H. Peck, 430. In any event it need not
detainus, for to assume that English common law in this
field became ours is to deny the generally accepted historical belief that "one of the objects of the Revolution
was to get rid of the English common law on liberty of
speech and of the press." ' Schofield, Freedom of the
Press in the United States, 9 Publications Amer. Sociol.
Soc., 67, 76.
.More specifically, it is to forget the environment in
which the First Amendment was ratified. In presenting
the prioposals which were later embodied in the Bill of
Rights, James Madison, the leader in the preparation of
the First Amendment, said: "Although I know whenever the great rights, the trial by jury, freedom of the
press, or liberty of conscience,' come in question in that
body [Parliament], the invasion of them is resisted by
able advocates, yet their Magna Charta does not contain
any one provision for the security of those rights, respecting which the people of America are most alarmed. The
freedom of the press and rights of conscience, those choicest privileges of the people, are unguarded in the British
Constitution." 1 Annals of Congress 1789-1790, 434.
And Madison' elsewhere wrote that "the state of the
press . . . under the common law, cannbt . . .be the
standard of its freedom in the United States." VI Writings of James Madison 1790-1802, 387.
.Compare James Buchanan, quoted in Stansbury, Trial of James
H. Peck, 434: "At- the. Revolution we separated ourselves from the
mother country, and we have established a. republican form of government, securing to the citizens of this. equntry other and greater
personal rights, then those enjoyed under the Briitish monarchy."

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Opinion of the Court.

There are no contrary implications in any part of the
history of the period in which the First Amendment Was
framed and adopted. No purpose in ratifying the Bill
of Rights was clearer than that of securing for the people
of the United States much greater freedom of religion,
expression, assembly, and petition than the people of
Great Britain had ever enjoyed. It cannot be denied, for
example, that the religious test oath 8 or the restrictions
upon assembly' then prevalent in England would have
been regarded as measures which the Constitution prohibited the American Congress from passing. And since
the same unequivocal language is used with respect to
freedom of the press, it signifies a similar enlargement of
that concept as well. 10 Ratified as it was while the memory of many oppressive English restrictions on the enumerated liberties was still fresh, the First Amendment
cannot reasonably be taken as approving prevalent English practices. On the contrary, the only conclusion supported by history is that the unqualified prohibitions laid
down by the framers were intended to give to liberty of the
press, as to the other liberties, the broadest scope that
could be countenanced in an orderly society.
16 Geo. II, c. 30. This was not repealed until 1828. 9 Geo. IV,

c. 17.
' 1 Geo. I, stat. 2, c. 5. Cf. also 36 Geo. III, c. 8, and discussion in
Buckle, History of Civilization in England, Vol. I, 351.
Compare VI Writings of James Madison, 1790-1802, 389: "To

these observations one fact will be added, which demonstrates that the
common law cannot be admitted as the universal expositor of American terms ....

The freedom of conscience and of religion are found

in the same instruments which assert the freedom of the press. It will
never be admitted that the meaning of the former, in the common law
of England, is to limit their meaning in the United States." See'also
Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 716-717; Thornhill v. Alabama,
supra,310 U. S. 102.

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The implications of subsequent American history confirm such a construction of the First Amendment. To be
sure, it occurred no more to the people who lived in the
decades following Ratification than it would to us now
that the power of courts to protect themselves from disturbances and disorder in. the court room by use of contempt proceedings could seriously be challenged as
conflicting with constitutionally secured guarantees of liberty. In both state and federal courts, this power has
been universally recognized. See Anderson v. Dunn, 6
Wheat. 204, 227. But attempts to expand it in the postRatification years evoked popular reactions that bespeak
a feeling of jealous solicitude for freedom of the press.
In Pennsylvania and New York, for example, heated controversies arose over alleged abuses in the exercise of
the contempt power, which in both places culminated in
legislation practically 1 1 forbidding summary punishment
for publications. See Nelles and King, Contempt by
PublicatiOn,28 Col. L. Rev. 401, 409-422.
In the federal courts, there was the celebrated case of
Judge Peck, recently referred to by this Court in Nye v.
United States, 313 U. S. 33, 45. The impeachment proceedings against him, it should be noted, and the strong
feelings they engendered, were set in motion by his summary punishment of a lawyer for publishing comment
on a case which was on appeal at the time of publication
The New York statute specifically made "the publication of a false,
or grossly inaccurate report" of court proceedings punishable by contempt proceedings, however. New York Rev. Stat. 1829, Part III,
c. III, tit. 2, art. 1, ยง 10 (6). The Pennsylvania statute contained no
such proviso. It explicitly stated that "all publications out of
court ... concerning any cause pending before any court .of this

commonwealth, shall not be construed into a contempt of the said
court, so as to render the author, printer, publisher, or either of them,
liable to attachment and summary punishment for the same." Pa. Acts
1808-1809, c, 78, p, 146.

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

252

and which raised the identical issue of several other cases
then pending before him. Here again legislation was the
outcome, Congress proclaiming in a statute expressly captioned "An Act declaratory of the law concerning contempts of court," 1 that the power of federal courts to
inflict summary punishment for contempt "shall not be
construed to extend to any cases except the misbehaviour
of . . . persons in the presence of the said courts, or

so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice

.

."

When recently called upon to interpret

this statute, we overruled the earlier decision of this Court
in Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 402,
in the belief that it improperly enlarged the stated area of
summary punishment. Nye v. United States, supra.
*Here, as in the Nye case, we need not determine whether
the statute was intended to demarcate the full power permissible under the Constitution to punish by contempt
proceedings. But we do find in the enactment viewed in
its historical context, a respect for the prohibitions of the
First Amendment, not as mere guides to the formulation
of policy, but as commands the breach of which cannot
be tolerated.
We are aware that although some states have by statute
or decision expressly repudiated the power of judges to
punish publications as contempts on a finding of mere
tendency to interfere with the orderly administration of
justice in a pending case, other states have sanctioned the
exercise of such a power. (See Nelles and King, loc. cit.
supra, 536-562, for a collection and discussion of state
cases.) But state power in this field was not tested in this
Court for more than a century." Not until 1925, with the
- 4 Stat. 487 (1831).
"Patterson v. Colorado, 205 U. S. 454, the only case before this
Court during that period in which a state court's power to punish
out-of-court publications by contempt was in issue, cannot be taken

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

decision in Gitlow v. New York, supra, 268 U. S. 652, did
this Court recognize in the Fourteenth Amendment the
application to the states of the same standards of freedom
of expression as, under the First Amendment, are applicable to the federal government. And this is the first time
since 1925 that we have been called upon to determine, the
constitutionality of a state's exercise of the contempt
power in this kind of situation. Now that such a case is
before us, we cannot allow the mere existence of other
untested state decisions to destroy the historic constitutional meaning of freedom of speech and of the press.
History affords no support for the contention that the
criteria applicable under the Constitution to other types
of utterances are not applicable, in contempt proceedings,
to out-of-court publications pertaining to a pending
case.
III
We may appropriately begin our discussion of the judgments below- by considering how much, as a practicql
matter, they would affect liberty of expression. It-must
be recognized that public interest is much more likely to
be kindled by a controversial event of the day than'by a
generalization, however penetrating, of the historian or
scientist. Since they punish utterances made during the
pendency of a case, the judgments below therefore produce
their restrictive results at the precise time when public
interest in the matters discussed would naturally be at
its height. Moreover, the ban is likely to fall not only at
a crucial time but upon the most important topics of discussion. Here, for example, labor controversies were the
topics of some of the publications. Experience shows
that the more-acute labor controversies are, the more likely
as a decision squarely on this point. Cf.: "We leave undecided the

question whether there is to'be found in the Fourteenth" Amendment
a prohibition similar to that in the First." Id. 462.

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Opinion of the Court.

it is that in some aspect they will get into court. It is
therefore the controversies that command most interest
that the decisions below would remove from the arena of
public discussion.
No suggestion can be found in the Constitution that
the freedom there guaranteed for speech and the press
bears an inverse ratio to the timeliness and importance
of the ideas seeking expression. Yet, it wohld follow as
a practical result of the decisions below that anyone who
might wish to give public expression to his views on a
pending case involving no matter what problem of public
interest, just at the time his audience would be most receptive, would be as effectively discouraged as if a deliberate statutory scheme of censorship had been adopted.
Indeed, perhaps more so, because under a legislative
specification of the particular kinds of expressions prohibited and the circumstances under which the prohibitions are to operate, the speaker or publisher might at
least have an authoritative guide to the permissible scope
of comment, instead of being compelled to act at the peril
that judges might find in the utterance a "reasonable
tendency" to obstruct justice in a pending case.
This unfocussed threat is, to be sure, limited in time,
terminating as it does upon final disposition of the case.
But this does not change its censorial quality. An endless
series of moratoria on public discussion, even if each were
very short, could hardly be dismissed as an insignificant
abridgment of freedom of expression. And to assume
that each would be short is to overlook the fact that the
"pendency" of a case is frequently a matter of months or
even years rather than days-or weeks.1'
'Compare Nelles and King, loc. cit. upra,.549: "While the Sacco-

Vanzetti case was in the.courts [six years], it was not, we.believe,.suggested as desirable that public expressions on either side be dealt
with- as contempts." In.public utility rate regulation, to take one

of many examples that might be given of a field in which public

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

For these reasons we are convinced that the judgments
below result in a curtailment of expression that cannot be
dismissed as insignificant. If they can be justified at all,
it must be in terms of some serious substantive evil which
they are designed to avert. The substantive evil here
sought to be averted has been variously described below. 5
It appears to be double: disrespect for the judiciary; and
disorderly and unfair administration of justice. The
assumption that respect for the judiciary can be won by
shielding judges from published criticism wrongly appraises the character of American public opinion. For it
is a prized American privilege to speak one's mind, although not always with perfect good taste," on all public
institutions. And an enforced silence, however limited,
interest is strong and public opinion divided, cases commonly remain
"pending" for several years. See St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United
States, 298 U. S. 38, 88-92; McCart v. Indianapolis Water Co., 302
U. S. 419, 435.
25Cf.: ".

.

. said telegram

....

had an inherent tendency .

.

. to

embarrassand influence the actions and decisions of the judge before
whom said action was pending." Bridges v. Superior Court, supra,
14 Cal. 2d at p. 471; "The published statement was not only a criticism
of the decision of the court in an action then pending before said court,
but was a threat that if an attempt was made to enforce the decision,
the ports of the entire Pacific Coast would be tied up." Id. 488; "...
the test . . . is whether it had a reasonable tendency to interfere with
the orderly administration of justice . . ." Times-Mirror Co. v. Superior Court, supra, 15 Cal. 2d at 103-104; ". . . the editorial [had
a] . . . reasonable tendency . .. to interfere with the ordinary admin-

istration of justice." Id. 110. The italics are ours.
" Compare the following statements from letters of Thomas Jefferson
as set out in Padover, Democracy, 150-151: "I deplore . . . the putrid

state into which our newspapers have passed, and the malignity, the
vulgarity, and mendacious spirit of those who write them ....

These

ordures are rapidly depraving the public taste.
"It is however an evil for which there is no remedy, our liberty
depends on the freedom of the press, and that cannot be limited without
being lost."

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Opinion of the Court.

solely in the name of preserving the dignity of the bench,
would probably engender resentment, suspicion, and contempt much more than it would enhance respect.
The other evil feared, disorderly and unfair administration of justice, is more plausibly associated with restricting publications which touch upon pending litigation.
The very word "trial" connotes decisions on the evidence
and arguments properly advanced in open court. Legal
trials are not like elections, to be won through the use of
the meeting-hall, the radio, and the newspaper. But we
cannot start with the assumption that publications of the
kind here involved actually do threaten to change the
nature of legal trials, and that to preserve judicial impartiality, it is necessary for judges to have a contempt
power by which they can close all channels of public expression to all matters which touch upon pending cases.
We must therefore turn to the particular utterances here
in question and the circumstances of their publication to
determine to what extent the substantive evil of unfair
administration of justice was a likely consequence, and
whether the degree of likelihood was sufficient to justify
summary punishment.
The Los Angeles Times Editorials. The Times-Mirror
Company, publisher of the Los Angeles Times, and L. D.
Hotchkiss, its managing editor, were cited for contempt
for the publication of three editorials. Both found by the
trial court to be responsible for one of the editorials, the
company and Hotchkiss were each fined $100. The company alone was held responsible for the other two, and was
fined $100 more on account of one, and $300 more on account of the other.
The $300 fine presumably marks the most serious
offense. The editorial thus distinguished was entitled
"Probation for Gorillas?" After vigorously denouncing
two members of a labor union who had previously been

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

found guilty of assaulting nonunion truck drivers, it closes
with the observation: "Judge A. A. Scott will make a
serious mistake if he grants probation to Matthew Shannon and Kennan Holmes. This community needs the
example of their assignment to the jute mill."
Judge
Scott had previously set a day (about a month after the
publication) for passing upon the application of Shannon
and Holmes for probation and for pronouncing sentence.
The basis for punishing the publication as contempt
was by the trial court said to be its "inherent tendency"
and by the Supreme Court its "reasonable tendency" to
interfere with the orderly administration of justice in an
1 The whole editorial, published in The Los Angelcs Times of May 5,
1938, was as follows:
"Two members of Dave Beck's wrecking crew, entertainment committee, goon squad or gorillas, having been convicted in Superior Court
of assaulting nonunion truck drivers, have asked for probation. Presumably they will say they are 'first offenders,' or plead that they
were merely indulging a playful exuberance when, with slingshots,
they fired steel missiles at men whose only offense was wishing to work
for a living without paying tribute to the erstwhile boss of Seattle.
"Sluggers for pay, like murderers for profit, are in a slightly different
category from ordinary criminals. Men who commit mayhem for
wages are not merely violators of the peace and dignity of the State;
they are also conspirators against it. The man who burgles because
his children are hungry may have sqme claim on public sympathy.
He whose crime is one of impulse may'be entitled to lenity. But he
who hires out his muscles for the creation of disorder and in aid of a
racket is a deliberate foe of organized society and should be penalized
accordingly.
"It will teach no lesson to other thugs to put these men on good
behavior for a limited time. Their 'duty' would simply be taken over
by others like them. If Beck's thugs, however, are made to realize
that they face San Quentin when they are caught, it will tend to
make their disreputable occupation unpopular.' Judge A. A. Scott
will make a serious mistake if he grants probation to Matthew Shannon
and Kennan Holmes. This community needs the example of their
assignment to the jute mill."

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

Opinion of the Court.

action then before a court for consideration. In accordance with what we have said on the "clear and present
danger" cases, neither "inherent tendency" nor "reasonable tendency" is enough to justify a restriction of free
expression. But even if they were appropriate measures,
we should find exaggeration in the use of those phrases
to describe the facts here.
From the indications in the record of the position taken
by the Los Angeles Times on labor controversies in the
past, there could have been little doubt of its attitude
toward the probation of Shannon and Holmes. In view
of the paper's long-continued militancy in this field, it
is inconceivable that any judge in Los Angeles would
expect anything but adverse criticism from it in the
event probation were granted. Yet such criticism after
final disposition of the proceedings would clearly have
been privileged. Hence, this editorial, given the most
intimidating construction it will bear, did no more than
threaten future adverse criticism which was reasonably
to be expected anyway in the event of a lenient disposition of the pending case. 8 To regard it, therefore, as in
itself of substantial influence upon' the course of justice
would be to impute to judges a lack of firmness, wisdom,
or honor,--which we cannot accept as a major premise.
Cf. Holmes, J., dissenting in Toledo Newspaper Co. v.
United States, 247 U. S. 402, 424.
Cf. Times-Mirror Co. v. Superior Court supra, 15 Cal. 2d
109-110: "The editorial may not have been intended, but it is capable
of being construed, as a notice to the trial judge that no leniency
should be extended to the convicted men, and, furthermore, that
should the court act contrary to the suggestions contained iii the
editorial, it might Well expect adverse criticism in the columns of
The Times." Although the foregoing statement was made with respect

to another of the editorials, the opinion of the California Supreme
Court later~said it was applicable to "Probation for Gorillas?" Id.
114-115.
42860O.-42-18"

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The other two editorials, publication of which was fined
below, are set out in the lower margin. 9 With respect to
these two editorials, there is no divergence of conclusions
among the members of this Court. We are all of the opinion that, upon any fair construction, their possible influence on the course of justice can be dismissed as negligible,
9

The first of these editorials, entitled "Sit-Strikers Convicted," was

published in the Los Angeles Times of December 21, 1937, the day after
the jury had returned a verdict that the "sit-strikers" in question were
guilty, and the day before the trial judge was to hold court for the
purpose of pronouncing sentence, hearing motions for a new trial, and
passing upon applications for probation. The editorial follows in
its entirety:
"The verdict of a jury finding guilty the twenty-two sit-strikers
who led the assault on the Douglas plant last February, will have reverberations up and down the Pacific Coast and in points farther
east.
"The verdict means that Los Angeles is still Los Angeles, that the
city is aroused to the danger of davebeckism, and that no kind of
union terrorism will be permitted here.
"The verdict may have a good deal to do with sending Dave Beck
back to Seattle. For, while the United Automobile Workers have no
connection with Beck, their tactics and his are identical in motive;
and if Beck can be convinced that this kind of warfare is not permitted in this area he will necessarily abandon his dreams of conquest.
"Already the united farmers and ranchers have given Beck a severe
setback. The Hynes hay market is still free and it has been made
plain that interference with milk deliveries to Los Angeles will not be
tolerated.
"Dist. Atty. Fitts pledged his best efforts to prevent and punish
union terrorism and racketeering in a strong radio address, and followed
it up yesterday with a statement congratulating the jury that convicted the sit-downers and the community on one of the 'most farreaching verdicts in the history of this country.'
"In this he is correct. It is an important verdict. For the first
time since the present cycle of labor disturbances began, union
lawlessness has been treated as exactly what it is, an offense against the
public peace punishable like any other crime.
"The seizure of property by a militant minority, which arrogated to
itself the right of dictating not only to employers, but to other workers

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

275

Opinion of the Court.

and that the Constitution compels us to set aside the convictions as unpermissible exercises of the state's power.
In view of the foregoing discussion of "Probation for
Gorillas?", analysis of these editorials and their setting
is deemed unnecessary.
The Bridges Telegram. While a motion for a new trial
was pending in a case involving a dispute between an
not in sympathy with it, what should be the terms and conditions of
working, has proved to be within the control of local peace officers and
authorities.
"Nobody ran off to Washington to get this affair handled. It was
attended to right here.
"Government may have broken down in other localities; whole
States may have yielded to anarchy. But Los Angeles county stands
firm; it has officers who can do their duty and courts and juries which
can function.
"So long as that is the case, davebeckism cannot and will not get
control here; nor johnlewisism either."
The second of these editorials, entitled "The Fall of an Ex-Queen,"
was published in The Los Angeles Times of April 14, 1938. Here,
too, publication took place after a jury had found the subject of the
editorial guilty, but before the trial judge hadpronounced sentence.
The editorial follows in its entirety:
"Politics as we know it is an essentially selfish business, conducted
in the main for personal profit of one kind or another. When it is of
the boss type, it is apt to be pretty sordid as well. Success in boss-ship,
which is a denial of public rights, necessarily implies a kind of moral
obliquity if not an actually illegal one.
"So that it is something of a contradiction of sense if not of terms
to express regret that the political talents of Mrs. Helen Werner were
not directed to other objectives than those which, in the twilight of
her active life, have brought her and her husband to disgrace. If they
had been, she would not have been in politics at all and probably would
never have been heard of in a public way. Her natural flair was purely

political; she would have been miscast in any other sphere of activity.
"Mra. Werner's primary mistake seems to have been in failing to
recognize that her political day was past. For years she enjoyed the
unique distinction of being the country's only woman boss-and did
she enjoy it! In her heyday she had a finger in every political pie
and many were the plums she was able to extract therefrom for those

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

A. F. of L. union and a C. I. 0. union of which Bridges
was an officer, he either caused to be published or acquiesced in the publication of a telegram which he had
sent to the Secretary of Labor. The telegram referred to
the judge's decision as "outrageous"; said that attempted
enforcement of it would tie up the port of 'Los Angeles
and involve the entire Pacific Coast; and concluded with
the announcement that the C. I. 0. union, representing
some twelve thousand members, did "not intend to allow
state courts to override the majority vote of members in
choosing its officers and representatives and to override
0
the National Labor Relations Board." 2
who played ball with her. From small beginnings she utilized every
opportunity to extend her influence and to put officeholders and promising political material under obligations to her. She became a power
in the backstage councils of city and county affairs and from that place
of strategic advantage reached out to pull the strings on State and
legislative offices as well.
"Those were the days when Mrs. Werner was 'Queen Helen' and
it is only fair to say that to her the power was much more important
than the perquisites. When the inevitable turning of the political
wheel brought new figures to the front and new bosses to the back,
she found her grip slipping and it was hard to take. The several cases
which in recent years have brought her before the courts to defend
her activities seem all examples of an energetic effort to regain and
reassert her onetime influence in high places. That it should ultimately
have landed her behind the bars as a convicted bribe-seeker is not
illogical. But if there is logic in it, the money meant less to Mrs.
Werner than the name of still being a political power, one who could
do things with public officials that others could not do. To herself
at least she was still Queen Helen."
"The portions of the telegram published in newspapers of general
circulation in San Francisco and Los Angeles on January 24 and 25,
1938, were as follows:
"This decision is outrageous considering I. L. A. has 15 members (in
San Pedro) and the International Longshoremen-Warehousemen's
Union has 3000. International Longshoremen-Warehousemen Union
has petitioned the labor board for certification to represent San Pedro

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

277

Opinion of the Court.

Apparently Bridges' conviction is not rested at all upon
his use of the word "outrageous." The remainder of the
telegram fairly construed appears to be a statement that
if the court's decree should be enforced there would be a
strike. It is not claimed that such a strike would have
been in violation of the terms of the decree, nor that in
any other way it would have run afoul of the law of California. On no construction, therefore, can the telegram
be taken as a threat either by Bridges or the union to
follow an illegal course of action.
Moreover, this statement of Bridges was made to the
Secretary of Labor, who is charged with official duties in
connection with the prevention of strikes. Whatever the
cause might be if a strike was threatened or possible the
Secretary was entitled to receive all available information.
Indeed, the Supreme Court of California recognized that,
publication in the newspapers aside, in sending the message to the Secretary, Bridges was exercising the right of
petition to a duly accredited representative of the United
States Government,.a right protected by the First Amendment.21
It must be recognized that Bridges was a prominent
labor leader speaking at a time when public interest in
the particular labor controversy was at its height. The
observations we have previously made here upon the timelongshoremen with International Longshoremen Association denied
representation because it represents only 15 men. Board hearing held;
decision now pending. Attempted enforcement of Schmidt decision
will tie up port of Los Angeles and involve entire Pacific Coast. International Longshoremen-Warehousemen Union, representing over
11,000 of the 12,000 longshoremen on the Pacific Coast, does not intend to allow state courts to override the majority vote of members
in choosing its officers and representatives and to override the National Labor Relations Board."
See Bridges v. Superior Court, supra, 14 Cal. 2d at 493. Cf: White
v. Nicholls, 3 How. 266.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

liness and importance of utterances as emphasizing rather
than diminishing the value of constitutional protection,
and upon the breadth and seriousness of the censorial
effects of punishing publications in the manner followed
below, are certainly no less applicable to a leading spokesman for labor than to a powerful newspaper taking another
point of view.
In looking at the reason advanced in support of the
judgment of contempt, we find that here, too, the possibility of causing unfair disposition of a pending case is
the major justification asserted. And here again the gist
of the offense, according to the court below, is intimidation.
Let us assume that the telegram could be construed as
an announcement of Bridges' intention to call a strike,
something which, it is admitted, neither the general law of
California nor the court's decree prohibited. With an
eye on the realities of the situation, we cannot assume that
Judge Schmidt was unaware of the possibility of a strike as
a consequence of his decision. If he was not intimidated
by the facts themselves, we do not believe that the most
explicit statement of them could have sidetracked the
course of justice. Again, we find exaggeration in the conclusion that the utterance even "tended" to interfere with
justice. If there was electricity in the atmosphere, it was
generated by the facts; the charge added by the Bridges
telegram can be dismissed as negligible. The words of
Mr. Justice Holmes, spoken in reference to very different
facts, seem entirely applicable here: "I confess that I
cannot find in all this or in the evidence in the case anything that would have affected a mind of reasonable fortitude, and still less can I find there anything that
obstructed the administration of justice in any sense that I
possibly can give to those words." Toledo Newspaper Co.
v. United States, supra,247 U. S. at 425.
Reversed.

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

279

FRANKFUR'rER, J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, with whom concurred

the

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE

BYRNES, dissenting.
Our whole history repels the view that it isan exercise
of one of the civil liberties secured by the Bill of Rights
for a leader of a large following or for a powerful metropolitan newspaper to attempt to overawe a judge in a
matter immediately pending before him. The view of the
majority deprives California of means for securing to its
citizens justice according to law-means which, since the
Union was founded, have been the possession, hitherto
unchallenged, of all the states. This sudden break with
the uninterrupted course of constitutional history has no
constitutional warrant. To find justification for such deprivation of the historic powers of the states is to misconceive the idea of freedom of thought and speech as
guaranteed by the Constitution.
Deeming it more important than ever before to enforce
civil liberties with a generous outlook, but deeming it no
less essential for the assurance of civil liberties that the
federal system founded upon the Constitution be maintained, we believe that the careful ambiguities and silences
of
the majority opinion call for a full exposition
of the
issues in these cases.
While the immediate question is that of determining the
power of the courts of California to deal with attempts
to coerce their judgments in litigation immediately before
them, the consequence of the Court's ruling today is a
denial to the people of the forty-eight states of a right
which they have always regarded as essential for the effective exercise of the judicial process, as well as a denial to
the Congress of powers which were exercised from the
very beginning even by the framers of the- Constitution
themselves. To be sure, the majority do not in so many
words hold that trial by newspapers has constitutional

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

sanctity. But the atmosphere of their opinion and several
of its phrases mean that or they mean nothing. Certainly, the opinion is devoid of any frank recognition of
the right of courts to deal with utterances calculated to
intimidate the fair course of justice-a right which
hitherto all the states have from time to time seen fit to
confer upon their courts and which Congress conferred
upon the federal courts in the Judiciary Act of 1789. If
all that is decided today is that the majority deem the
specific interferences with the administration of justice in
California so tenuously related to the right of California to
keep its courts free from coercion as to constitute a check
upon free speech rather than ' upon impartial justice, it
would be well to say so. Matters that involve so deeply
the powers of the states, and that put to the test the professions by this Court of self-restraint in nullifying the
political powers of state and nation, should not be left
clouded.
We are not even vouchsafed reference to the specific
provision of the Constitution which renders states powerless to insist upon trial by courts rather than trial by
newspapers. So far as the Congress of the United States
is concerned, we are referred to the First Amendment.
That is specific. But we are here dealing with limitations
upon California-with restraints upon the states. To say
that the protection of freedom of speech of the First
Amendment is absorbed by the Fourteenth does not say
enough. Which one of the various limitations upon state
power introduced by the Fourteenth Amendment absorbs
the First? Some provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment apply only to citizens and one of the petitioners here
is an alien; some of its provisions apply only to natural
persons, and another petitioner here is a corporation. See
Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S.. 496, 514, and cases cited. Only
the Due Process Clause assures constitutional protection
of civil liberties to aliens and corporations. Corporations

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

281

FRANKURTR, J., dissenting.

cannot claim for themselves the "liberty" which the Due
Process Clause guarantees. That clause protects only
their property. Piercev. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510,
535. The majority opinion is strangely silent in failing to
avow the specific constitutional provision upon which its
decision rests.
These are not academic debating points or technical
niceties. Those who have gone before us have admonished us "that in a free representative government nothing
is more fundamental than the right of the people through
their appointed servants to govern themselves in accordance with their own will, except so far as they have
restrained themselves by constitutional limits specifically
established, and that in our peculiar dual form of government nothing is more fundamental than the full power
of the State to order its own affairs and govern its own
people, except so far as the Federal Constitution expressly
or by fair implication has withdrawn that power. The
power of the people of t&ie States to make and alter their
laws at pleasure is the greatest security for liberty and
justice . . . We are not invested with the jurisdiction
to pass upon the expediency, wisdom or justice of the laws
of the States as declared by their courts, but only to determine their conformity with the Federal Constitution and
the paramount laws enacted pursuant to it. Under the
guise of interpreting the Constitution we must take care
that we do not import into the discussion our own personal views of what would be wise, just and fitting rules
of government to be adopted by a free people and confound them with constitutional limitations." Twining v.
New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 106-07.
In a series of opinions as uncompromising as any in
its history, this Court has settled that the fullest opportunities for free discussion are "implicit in the concept
of ordered liberty, and thus, through the Fourteenth
Amendment," protected against attempted invasion by

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTE,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

the states. Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 324-25.
The channels of inquiry and thought must be kept open

to new conquests of reason, however odious their expression may be to the prevailing climate of opinion. But
liberty, "in each of its phases, has its history and connotation." Whether a particular state action violates "the essential attributes of that liberty" must be judged in the
light of the liberty that is invoked and the curtailment
that is challenged. Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 708.
For "the recognition of a privilege does not mean that
it is without conditions or exceptions. The social policy
that will prevail in many situations may run foul in others
of a different social policy, competing for supremacy.
It is then the function of a court to mediate between them,
assigning, so far as possible, a proper value to each, and
summoning to its aid all the distinctions and analogies
that are the tools of the judicial process." Clark v. United
States, 289 U. S. 1, 13.
Free speech is not so absolute or irrational a conception
as to imply paralysis of the means for effective protection
of all the freedoms secured by the Bill of Rights. Compare Lincoln's Message to Congress in Special Session,
July 4, 1861, 7 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
Presidents, pp. 3221-3232. In the cases before us, the
claims on behalf of freedom of speech and of the press
encounter claims on behalf of liberties no less precious.
California asserts her right to do what she has done as a
means of safeguarding her system of justice.
The administration of justice by an impartial judiciary
has been basic to our conception of freedom ever since
Magna Carta. It is the concern not merely of the immediate litigants. Its assurance is everyone's concern, and
it is protected by the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. That is why this Court has outlawed
mob domination of a courtroom, Moore v. Dempsey, 261
U. S. 86, mental coercion of a defendant, Chambers v.

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

.283

FANxFumER, J., dissenting.

Florida, 309 U. S. 227, a judicial system which does not
provide disinterested judges, Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510,
and discriminatory selection of jurors, Pierrev. Louisiana,
306 U. S. 354; Smith v. Texas, 311 U. S. 128.
A trial is not a "free trade in ideas,!' nor is the best
test of truth in a courtroom "the power of the thought to
get itself accepted in the competition of the market."
Compare Mr. Justice Holmes in Abrams v. United States,
250 U. S.616, 630. A court is a forum with strictly defined
limits for discussion. It is circumscribed in the range of
its inquiry and in its methods by the Constitution, by
laws, and by age-old traditions. Its judges are restrained
in their freedom of expression by historic compulsions
resting on no other officials of government. They are so
circumscribed precisely because judges have in their keeping the enforcement of rights and the protection of liberties which, according to the wisdom of the ages, can
only be enforced and protected by observing such methods
and traditions.
The dependence of society upon an unswerved judiciary
is such a commonplace in the history of freedom that the
means by which it is maintained are too frequently taken
for granted without heed to the conditions which alone
make it possible. The r6le of courts of justice in our society has been the theme of statesmen and historians and
constitution makers. It is perhaps best expressed in the
Massachusetts Declaration of Rights:
. "It is essential to the preservation of the rights of every
individual, his life, liberty, property, and character, that
there be an impartial interpretation of the laws, and administration of justice. It is the right of every citizen to
be tried by judges as free, impartial and independent as
the lot of humanity will admit."
. The Constitution was not conceived as a doctrinaire
document, nor was the Bill of Rights intended as a collection of popular slogans. We are dealing with instruments

284

8OCTOBER TERM, 194.1.
FRANKFURER,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

of government. We cannot read into the Fourteenth
Amendnient the freedom of speech and of the press protected by the First Amendment and at the same time read
out age-old means employed by states for securing the
calm course of justice. The Fourteenth Amendment does
not forbid a state to continue the historic process of prohibiting expressions calculated to subvert a specific exercise of judicial power. So to assure the impartial accom*plishment of justice is not an abridgment of freedom of
speech or freedom of the press, as these phases of liberty
have heretofore been conceived even by the stoutest libertarians. In fact, these liberties themselves depend upon
an uniramneled judiciary whose passions are not even
unconsciously aroused and whose minds are not distorted
by extra-juldicial considerations.
Of course freedom of speech and of the press are essential to th6 enlightenment of a free people and in restraining those who wield power. Particularly should this freedom be employed in comment upon the work of courts,
who are without many influences ordinarily making for
humor and humility, twin antidotes to the corrosion of
power. But the Bill of Rights is not self-destructive.
Freedom of expression can hardly carry implications that
nullify the guarantees of impartial- trials. And since
courts are the ultimate resorts for vindicating the Bill of
Rights, a state may surely authorize appropriate historic
means to assure that the process for such vindication be
not wrenched from its rational tracks into the more primitive mal6e of passion and pressure. The need is'great
that courts be criticized, but just as great that they be
allowed to do their duty.
The "liberty" secured by the Fourteenth Amendment
summarizes the experience of history. And the power
exerted by the courts of California is deeply rooted in the
system of administering justice evolved by liberty-loving
English-speaking peoples. From the earliest days of the

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

285

FRA NKFURTE, J., dissenting.

English courts, they have encountered obstructions to doing that for which they exist, namely, to administer
justice impartially and solely with-reference to what comes
before them. These interferences were of diverse kinds.
But they were all covered by the -infelicitous phrase "contempt of court," .and the means for dealing with them is
historically known as the power of courts to punish for
contempt.' As is true of many aspects of our legal institutions, the settled doctrines concerning the mode of procedure for exercising the power of contempt became established on dubious historical authority. Exact legal
scholarship has controverted much pertaining to the origin
of summary proceedings for contempt.. See Sir John Fox,
The History of Contempt of Court, passim. But there is
no doubt that, since the early eighteenth century, the
pover to punish for contempt for intrusions into the living
process of adjudication has been an unquestioned characteristic of English courts and of the courts of this
country.
The judicatures'of the English-speaking world, including the courts of 'the United States and of the forty-eight
states, have from time to time- recognized and exercised
the power now challenged. (For partial lists of cases, see
Neles and King, Contempt by Publication in the United
States, 28 Col. L. Rev. 401, 525, 554; Sullivan, Contempts
by Publication, pp. 185 et seq.) A declaratory formula,
tion of the common law was written into the Judiciary
Act of 1789 (ยง 17, 1 Stat. 73, 83) by Oliver Ellsworth, one
of the framers of the Constitution, later to become Chief
Justice; the .power was early recognized as incidental to
the very existence of courts in a succession of opinions in
this Court (United States v.Hudson,7 Cranch 32; Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 227; Ex parte Kearney, 7
Wheat. 38); it was expounded and supported by the great
Commentaries that so largely influenced the shaping of
our law in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth cen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FrANKFURTR,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

turies, those of Blackstone, Kent and Story; its historic
continuity withstood attack against state action under
the Due Process Clause, now again invoked, Eilenbecker
v. Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31; and see Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289; Sauin,
Petitioner,131 U. S. 267.
"Certain implied powers must necessarily result to our Courts of
To fine for conjustice from the nature of their institution.. ..
tempt-imprison for contumacy-inforce the observance of order, &c.
are powers which cannot be dispensed with in a Court, because they
are necessary to the exercise of all others." United States v. Hudson,
7 Cranch 32, 34 (1812).
"That 'the safety of the people is the supreme law,' not only comports with, but is indispensable to, the exercise of those powers in
their public functionaries, without which that safety cannot be guarded.
On this principle it is, that Courts of justice are universally acknowledged to be vested, by their very creation, with power to impose silence,
respect, and decorum, in their presence, and submission to their lawful
mandates, and, as a corollary to this proposition, to preserve themselves and their officers from the approach nd insults of pollution.
"It is true, that the Courts of justice of the United States are vested,
by express statute provision, with power to fine and imprison for contempts; but it does not follow, from this circumstance, that they would
not have exercised that power without the aid of the statute, or not, in
cases, if such should occur, to which such statute provision may not
extend; on the contrary, 'it is a legislative assertion of this right, as
incidental to a grant. of judicial power, and can only be considered either
as an instance of abundant caution, or a legislative declaration, that
the power of punishing for contempt shall not extend beyond its known
and acknowledged limits of fine and imprisonment." Anderson v.
Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 227-28 (1821).
"The power to punish for contempts is inherent in all courts; its
existence is essential to the preservation of order in judicial proceedings, and to the enforcement of the judgments, orders, and writs of the
eourts, and consequently to the -due administration of' justice. The
moment the courts of the United States were called into existence and
invested with jurisdiction over any subject, they became possessed of
this power." Ex parte Robinson,,19 Wall. 505, 510 (1874).
"The act of 1789 did not define what were contempts of the authority
of the courts of the United States, in any cause or hearing before them,

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

FRAxxrumR

, J., dissenting.

As in the exercise of all power, it was abused. Some
.English judges extended their authority for checking interferences with judicial business actually in hand, to "lay
by the heel" those responsible for "scandalizing the court,"
that is, bringing it into general disrepute. Such foolishness has long since been disavowed in England and has
never found lodgment here. But even the technical power
of punishing interference with the court's business is
susceptible of abuse. As early as 1809, Pennsylvania restricted the power to inflict summary punishment for contempts to a closely defined class of misconduct, and provided the ordinary criminal procedure for other forms of
interferences with a pending cause. 1808-09 Pa. Acts, c.
โข78, p. 146.2 The flagrant case of Judge Peck 8 led Connor did it prescribe any special procedure for determining a matter
of contempt. Under that statute the question whether particular acts
constituted a contempt, as well as the mode of proceeding against the
offender, was left to be determined according to such established rules
and principles of the common law as were applicable to our situation."
Savin, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 267, 275-76 (1889).
' For the history leading up to the Pennsylvania legislation, see
Respublica v. Oswald, 1 Dall. 319 (1788), particularly note beginning
at p. 329; Respublica v. Passmore, 3 Yeates (Pa.) 441; Hamilton,
Report of the Trial and Acquittal of Justices of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania (1805). Cf. Hollingsworth v. Duane, Wall. Sr. 77,
Fed. Cas. No. 6616; United States v. Duane, Wall. Sr. 102, Fed. Cas.
No. 14997.
' The charge against Judge Peck was that he punished counsel for
contempt after the final decree of the particular litigation had been
rendered and the necessary steps for an appeal had been taken, and
after the judge had published his opinion in a newspaper and plaintiff
in reply had submitted to the public "a concise statement of some
of the principal errors into which your petitioner [the accused counsel]
had fallen." Stansbury, Report of the Trial of James H. Peck
(1833). In view of their immediate professional responsibility, the
eminent lawyers who 'had charge of the impeachment proceedings
against Judge Peck would naturally take the least tolerant view of
the power of courts to punish for contempt. Yet all the managers
of the House of Representatives (James Buchanan of Pennsylvania,

288

OCTOBER TERM, 194i.
FR.ANKYOmrR,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

gress to pass the Act of March 2, 1831, 4 Stat. 487, 28
U. S. C. ยง 385, the scope of which we recently considered.
Nye v. United States, 313 U. S. 33. A number of states
copied the federal statute. It.would be pedantic to trace
the course of legislation and of adjudication on this subject in our half-hundred jurisdictions. Suffice it to say
that the hitherto unchallenged power of American states
to clothe their courts with authority to punish for contempt was thus summarized only recently by Mr. Chief
Justice Hughes in the leading case vindicating the liberty
of the press against state action: "There is also the conceded authority of courts to punish for contempt when
publications directly tend to prevent the proper discharge
of judicial functions." Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S.
697, 715.'
George E. McDuffie of South Carolina, Ambrose Spencer and Henry
Storrs of New York, Charles E. Wickliffe of Kentucky) acknowledged
the historic power to punish interferences calculated to obstruct the
exercise of the judicial function in a pending cause. They-did so substantially in the terms now here challenged. Ibid., pp. 91, 291, 293,
382, 400. The following from Mr. Storm' argument is a fair sample:
"The law of contempts, when confined to the protection of the courts
in their proper constitutional action and duties, and to the punishment
of every direct or indirect interference with the exercise of their powers
and the protection of those who are concerned in them as parties, jurors,
witnesses and officers of justice in aid of the administration of their functions, was too well established and too well sustained by principle
as well as positive law, to be doubted or disturbed; and, confined to
its proper limits, admitted of all reasonable certainty in its definitions
of crime. But if extended to thecase of general libel, there was no
security for personal liberty but the discretion or feeling of a judge."
Ibid., p. 400.
'It is relevant to add that this expressed the view of Mr. Justice
Holmes and Mr. Justice Brandeis whose opinions have had such a
powerful influence in pressing the Due Process Clause to the service
of freedom of speech and of the press. In two earlier cases of summary
punishment for contempt they strongly dissented because they found
that the limits set by the Act of 1831 had been exceeded. Toledo New8-

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

It is trifling vith great issues to suggest that the question before us is whether eighteenth-century restraints
upon the freedom of the press should now be revived. The
question is rather whether nineteenth- and twentiethcentury American institutions should be abrogated by
judicial fiat.
That a state may, under appropriate circumstances, prevent interference with specific exercises of the process
of impartial adjudication does not mean that its people
lose the right to condemn decisions or the judges who
render them. Judges as persons, or courts as institutions, are entitled to no greater immunity from criticism
than other persons or institutions. Just because the
holders of judicial office are identified with the interests
of justice they may forget their common human frailties
and fallibilities. There have sometimes been martinets
upon the bench as there have also been pompous wielders
of authority who have used the paraphernalia of power in
support of what they called their dignity. Therefore
judges must be kept mindful of their limitations and of
their ultimate public responsibility by a vigorous stream
of criticism expressed with candor however blunt'. "A
paper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 402, and Craig v. Hecht, 263
U. S. 255. But in neither case did they suggest any constitutional difficulty in the exercise pf the contempt power arising from theprohibition
of the First Amendment.
5See the Lincoln Day, 1898, address of Mr. Justice Brewer, Government by Injunction, 15 Nat. Corp. Rep. 848, 849: "It is a mistake to
suppose that the Supreme Court is either honored or helped by being
spoken of as beyond criticism. On the contrary, the life and character of its justices should be the objects of constant watchfulness
by all, and its judgments subject to the freest criticism. The time is
past in the history of the world when any living man or body of men
can be set on a pedestal and decorated with a halo. True, many
criticisms may be, like their authors, devoid of good taste, but better
all sorts of criticism than no criticism at all. The moving waters are
full of life and health; only in the still waters is stagnation and death."
428670*-42

19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

man cannot be summarily laid by-the heels because -his
words may make public feeling more unfavorable in case
the judge should be asked to act at some later date, any
more than he can for exciting public feeling against the
judge for what he already has done." Mr. Justice Holmes
in Craigv. Hecht, 263 U. S. 255, 281-82. But the Constitution does not-bar a state from acting on the theory of our
system of justice, that the "conclusions to be reached in a
case will be induced only by evidence and argument in
open court, and not by any outside influence, whether of
private talk or public print." Patterson v. Colorado, 205
U. S. 454, 462. The theory of our system of justice as
thus stated for the Court by Mr. Justice Holmes has never
been questioned by any member of the Court. - It was
questioned neither by Mr. Justice Harlan nor by Mr.
Justice Brewer in their dissents in the Patterson case.
The differences in that case concerned the question
whether "there is to be found in the Fourteenth Amendment a prohibition . . . similar to that in the First,"
and, if so, what the scope of that protection is. The first
question was settled in the affirmative by a series of cases
beginning with Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652. And
that the scope of the First Amendment was broader than
was intimated in the opinion in the Pattersoncase, was
later recognized by Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for the
Court, in Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47. But that
the conventional power to punish for contempt is not a
censorship in advance but a punishment for past conduct
and, as such, like prosecution for a criminal libel, is not
offensive either to the First or to the Fourteenth Amendments, has never been-doubted throughout this Court's
:history.
This conception of justice, the product of a long and
arduous effort in the history of freedom, is one of the
greatest achievements of civilization, and is not less to be
cherished at a time when it is repudiated and derided by

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

powerful regimes. "The right to sue and defend in the
courts is the alternative of force. In an organized society
it is the right conservative of all other rights, and lies at
the foundation of orderly government." Chambers v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 207 U. S. 142, 148. This has
nothing to do with curtailing expression of opinion, be it
political, economic, or religious, that may be offensive to
orthodox views. It has to do with the power of the state
to discharge an indispensable function of civilized society,
that of adjudicating controversies between its citizens and
between citizens and the state through legal tribunals in
accordance with their historic procedures. Courts and
judges must take their share of the gains and pains of discussion which is unfettered except by laws of libel, by selfrestraint, and by good taste. Winds of doctrine should
freely blow for the promotion of good and the correction
of evil. Nor should restrictions be permitted that cramp
the feeling of freedom in the use of tongue or pen regardless of the temper or the truth of what may be uttered.
Comment however forthright is one thing. Intimidation with respect to specific matters still in judicial
*suspense, quite another. See Laski, Procedure for Constructive Contempt in England, 41 Harv. L. Rev. 1031,
1034; Goodhart, Newspapers and Contempt in English
Law, 48 Harv. L. Rev. 885. A publication intended to
teach the judge a lesson, or to vent spleen, or to discredit
him, or to influence him in his future conduct, would not
justify exercise of the contempt power. Compare Judge
Learned Hand in Ex parte Craig, 282 F. 138, 160-61. It
must refer to a matter under consideration and constitute
in effect a threat to its impartial disposition. It must be
calculated to create an atmospheric pressure incompatible
with rational, impartial adjudication. But to interfere
with justice it need not succeed. As with other offenses,
the state should be able to proscribe attempts that fail because of the danger that attempts may succeed. The pur-

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKPURTER,

J., dissenting.

314 U.S.

pose, it will do no harm to repeat, is not to protect the
court'as a mystical entity or the judges as individuals or
as anointed priests set apart from the community and
spared the criticism to which in a democracy other public
servants are exposed. The purpose is to protect immediate litigants and the public from the mischievous danger
of an unfree or coerced tribunal. The power should be
invoked only where the adjudicatory process may be
hampered or hindered in its calm, detached, and fearless
discharge of its duty on the basis of what has been submitted in court. The belief that decisions are so reached
is the source of the confidence on which law ultimately
rests.
It will not do to argue that a state cannot permit its
judges to resist coercive interference with their work in
hand because other officials of government must endure
such obstructions. In such matters "a page of history is
worth a volume of logic." New York Trust Co. v. Eisner,
256 U. S. 345, 349. Presidents and governors and legislators are political officials traditionally subject to political
influence and the rough and tumble of the hustings, who
have open to them traditional means of self-defense. In
a very immediate sense, legislators and executives express
the popular will. But judges do not express the popular
will in any ordinary meaning of the term. The limited
power to punish for contempt which is here involved
wholly-rejects any assumption that judges are superior to
other officials. They merely exercise a function historically and intrinsically different. From that difference is
drawn the power which has behind it 'the authority and
the wisdom of our whole history. Because the function
of judges and that of other officials in special situations
may approach similarity, hard cases can be put which
logically may conttadict the special quality of the judicial
process. "But the provisions of the Constitution are not
mathematical formulas having their essence in their form;

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

293

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

they are organic living institutions transplanted frcm
English soil. Their significance is vital not formal; it is
to be gathered not simply by taking the words and a dictionary, but by considering their origin and the line of
their growth." Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604,
610.
We are charged here with the duty, always delicate, ot
sitting in judgment on state power. We must be fastidiously careful not to make our private views the measure
of constitutional authority. To be sure, we are here concerned with an appeal to the great liberties which the Constitution assures to all our people, even against state denial. When a substantial claim of an abridgment of these'
liberties is advanced, the presumption of validity that belongs to an exercise of state power must not be allowed to
impair such a liberty or to check our close examination
of the merits of the controversy. But the utmost protection to be accorded to freedom of speech and of the press
cannot displace our duty to give due regard also to the
state's power to deal with what may essentially be local
situations.
Because freedom of public expression alone assures the
unfolding of truth, it is indispensable to the democratic
process. But even that freedom is not an absolute and
is not predetermined. By a doctrinaire overstatement of
its scope and by giving it an illusory absolute appearance,
there is danger of thwarting the free choice and the responsibility of exercising it which are basic to a democratic society. While we are reviewing a judgment of the
California Supreme Court and not an act of its legislature
or the voice of the people of California formally expressed
in its constitution, we are in fact passing judgment on
"the power of the State as a whole." Rippey v. Texas,
193 U. S. 504, 509; Skiriotes v. Florida,313 U. S. 69, 79;
United Gas Co. v. Texas, 303 U. S. 123, 142; Missouri v.
Dockery, 191 U. S. 165, 171; Iowa-Des Moines Bank v.
Bennett, 284 U. S. 239, 244.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

By the constitution of California, as authoritatively
construed by its Supreme Court and therefore as binding
upon this Court as though ratified by all the voters of
California, the citizens of that state have chosen to place
in its courts-the power, as we have defined it, to insure impartial justice. If the citizens of California have other
desires, if they want to permit the free play of modern
publicity in connection with pending litigation, it is within
their easy power to say so and to have their way. They
have ready means of amending their constitution and they
have frequently made use of them. We are, after all, sitting over three thousand miles away from a great state,
without intimate knowledge of its habits and its needs,
in a matter which does not cut across the affirmative powers of the national government. Some play of policy must
be left to the states in the task of accommodating individual rights and the overriding public well-being which
makes those rights possible. How are we to know whether
an easy-going or stiffer view of what affects the actual
administration of justice is appropriate to local circumstances? How are we to say that California has no right
to model its judiciary upon the qualities and standards attained by the English administration of justice, and to
use means deemed appropriate to that end by English
courts.' It is surely an arbitrary judgment to say that the
I"It is.most important that the administration of justice in this
country should not be hampered as it is hampered in some other

countries, and it is not enlarging the jurisdiction of this court-it is
refusing to narrow the jurisdiction of this court-when we say that
we are determined while we are here to do nothing to substitute in
this country trial by newspaper for trial by jury; and those who attempt to introduce that system in this country, even in its first beginnings, must be prepared to suffer for it. Probably the proper .punishment-and it is one which this court may yet have to award if the
punishment we are about to award proves insufficient--will be imprisonment in cases of this kind. There is no question about that, because

we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that newspapers are owned by

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

Due Process Clause denies California that right. For respect for "the liberty of the subject," though not explicitly
written into a constitution, is so deeply embedded in the.
very texture of English feeling and conscience' that it
survives, as the pages of Hansard abundantly prove, the
exigencies of the life and death struggle of the British
people. See, e. g., Carr, Concerning English Administrative Law, c. 3 ("Crisis Legislation").
The rule of law applied in these cases by the California
court forbade publications having "a reasonable tendency
to interfere with ihe orderly administration of justice
in pending actions." To deny that this age-old formulation of the prohibition against interference. with dispassionate adjudication is properly confined to the substantive evil is not only to turn one's back on history but
also to indulge in an idle play on words, unworthy of
constitutional adjudication. It was urged before us that
the words "reasonable tendency" had a fatal pervasiveness, and that their replacement by "clear and present
danger" was required to state a constitutionally permissible rule of law. The Constitution, as we have recently
had occasion to remark, is not a formulary. Wisconsin
v. J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S.435, 444. Nor does it require
displacement of an historic test by a phrase which first
gained currency on March 3, 1919. Schenck v. United
States, 249 U. S.47. Our duty is not ended with the recitawealthy people, and it may even happen that they will take the chances
of the fine and pay it cheerfully and will not feel that they have then
paid too much for the advertisement." Rex v. Clarke, 103 L. T. R.
(N. S.) 636, 640.

'Thus, in England, the "third degree" never gained a foothold, and
its emergence was impressively resisted long before it was outlawed

here. See 217 Parl. Deb. (Commons) cols. 1303 et seq. (May 17,
1928); Inquiry in regard to the Interrogation by the Police of Miss
Savidge, Cmd. 3147 (1928); Report of the Royal Commission on
Police Powers and Procedure, Cmd. 3297 (1929).

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

tion of phrases that are the short-hand of a complicated
historic process. The phrase "clear and present danger"
is merely a justification for curbing utterance where that
is warranted by the substantive evil to be prevented. The
phrase itself is an expression of tendency and not of accomplishment, and the literary difference between it
and "reasonable tendency" is not of constitutional
dimension.
Here the substantive evil to be eliminated is interference with impartial adjudication. To determine what
interferences may be made the basis for contempt tenders
precisely the same kind of issues as that to which the "clear
and present danger" test gives rise. "It is a question of
proximity and degree." Schenck v. United States, supra
at 52. And this, according to Mr. Justice Brandeis "isa
rule of reason,.. .. Like many other rules for human
conduct, it can be applied correctly only by the exercise
of good judgment." Schaefer v. United States, 251 U. S.
466,482-83. Has California's judgment here undermined
liberties protected by the Constitution? In common with
other questions of degree, this is to be solved not by shorthand phrases but by consideration of the circumstances
of the particular case. One cannot yell "Fire" in a crowded
theater; ,police officers cannot turn their questioning into
an instrument of mental oppression. Chambersv. Florida,
309 U. S. 227.
If a rule of state law is not confined to the evil which
may be dealt with but places an indiscriminate ban on
public expression that operates as an overhanging threat
to fre e discussion, it must fall without regard to the facts
of the particular case. This is true whether the rule of
law be declared in a statute or in a decision of a-court.
Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296. In the cases before us there was no
blanket or dragnet prohibition of 'utterance affecting
courts. Freedom to criticize their work, to assail generally

'BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

.297

FRAFumRmR, J., dissenting.

the institution of courts, to report and comment on matters in litigation but not to subvert the process'of deciding--all this freedom was respected. Only the state's
interest in calm and orderly decisions, which represented
also the constitutional right of the parties, led it to condemn coercive utterances directed towards a pending proceeding. California, speaking through its courts, acted
because of their conclusion that such utterances undermined the conditions necessary for fair adjudication.
It is suggested that threats, by discussion, to untrammeled decisions by courts are~the most natural expressions
when public feeling runs highest. But it does not follow
that states are left powerless to prevent their courts from
being subverted by outside pressure when the need for impartiality and fair proceeding is greatest. To say that the
framers of the Constitution sanctified veiled violence
through coercive speech directed against those charged
with adjudication is not merely to make violence an ingredient of justice; it mocks the very ideal of justice by
respecting its forms while stultifying its uncontaminated
exercise.
We turn to the specific cases before us:
The earliest editorial involved in No. 3, "Sit-strikers
Convicted," commented upon a case the day after a jury
had returned a verdict and the day before the trial judge
was to pronounce sentence and hear motions for a new
trial and applications for probation. On its face the editorial merely expressed exulting approval of the verdict,
a completed action of the court, and there is nothing in the
record to give it additional significance. The same is true
of the second editorial, "Fall of an Ex-Queen," which luridly draws a moral from a verdict of guilty in a sordid
trial and which was published eight days prior to the day
set for imposing sentence. In both instances imposition
of sentences was immediately pending at the time of publication, but in neither case was there any declaration,

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANkMUReRa, J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

direct or sly, in~regard to this. As the special guardian
of the Bill of Rights, this Court is under the heaviest
responsibility to safeguard the liberties guaranteed from
any encroachment, however astutely disguised. The Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment protects the
right to comment on a judicial proceeding, so long as this
is not done in a manner interfering with the impartial
disposition of a litigation. There is no indication. that
more was done in these editorials; they were not close
threats to the judicial function which a state should be
able to restrain. We agree that the judgment of the state
court in this regard should not stand.
"Probation for Gorillas?", the third editorial, is a different matter. On April 22, 1938, a Los Angeles jury found
two defendants guilty of assault with a deadly weapon and
of a conspiracy to violate another section of the peilal code.
On May 2nd, the defendants applied for probation and
the trial judge on the same day set June 7th as the day for
disposing of this application and for sentencing the defendants. In the Los Angeles Times for May 5th appeared the following editorial entitled "Probation for

Gorillas?":
"Two members of Dave Beck's wrecking crew, entertainment committee, goon squad or gorillas, having been
convicted in Superior Court of assaulting nonunion truck
drivers, have asked for probation. Presumably they will
say they are 'first offenders,' or plead that they were
merely indulging a playful exuberance when, with slingshots, they fired steel missiles at men whose only offense
was wishing to work for a living without paying tribute
to the erstwhile boss of Seattle.
"Sluggers for pay, like murderers for profit, are in a
slightly different category from ordinary criminals. Men
who commit mayhem for wages are not merely violators
of the peace and dignity of the State; they are also conspirators against it. The man who burgles because his

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

FmxKFu'rR,

J., dissenting.

children are hungry may have some claim on public sympathy. He whose crime is one of impulse may be entitled
to lenity. But he who hires out his muscles for the creation of disorder and in aid of a racket is a deliberate
foe of organized society and should be penalized accordingly.
"It will teach no lesson to other thugs to put these men
on good behavior for a limited time. Their 'duty' would
simply be taken over by others like them. If Beck's
thugs,-however, are made to realize that they face San
Quentin when they are caught, it will tend to make their
disreputable occupation unpopular. Judge A. A. Scott
will make a serious mistake if he grants probation to
Matthew Shannon and Kennan Holmes. This community needs the example of their assignment to the jute
mill."

This editorial was published three days after the trial
judge had fixed the time for sentencing and for passing on
an application for probation, and a month prior to the date
set. It consisted of a sustained attack on the defendants,
with an explicit demand of the judge that they be denied
probation and be sent "to the jute mill." This meant, in
California idiom, that in the exercise of his discretion the
judge should treat the offense as a felony, with all its dire
consequences, and not as a misdemeanor. Under the California Penal Code the trial judge had wide discretion in
sentencing the defendants: he could sentence them to the
county jail for one year or less, or to the state penitentiary
for two years. The editorial demanded that he take the
latter alternative and send the defendsnts to the "jute
mill" of the state penitentiary. A powerful newspaper
admonished a judge, who within a year would have to
secure popular approval if he desired continuance in office,
that failure to comply with its demands would be "a serious mistake." Clearly, the state court was justified in
treating this as a threat to impartial adjudication. It is

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

too naive to suggest that the editorial was written with a
feeling of impotence and an intention to utter idle words.
The publication of the editorial was hardly an exercise in
futility. If it is true of juries it is not wholly untrue of
judges that they too may be "impregnated by the environing atmosphere." Mr. Justice Holmes in Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 349. California should not be denied
the right to free its courts from such coercive, extraneous
influences; it can thus assure its citizens of their constitutional right of a fair trial. Here there was a real and substantial manifestation of an endeavor to exert outside influence. A powerful newspaper brought its full coercive
power to bear in demanding a particular sentence. If
such sentence had been imposed, readers might assume
that the court had been influenced in its action; if lesser
punishment had been imposed, at least a portion of the
community might be stirred to resentment. It cannot be
denied that even a judge may be affected by such a quandary. We cannot say that the state court was out of
bounds in concluding that such conduct offends the free
course of justice. Comment after the imposition of sentence-criticism, however unrestrained, of its severity or
lenience or disparity, cf. Ambard v. Attorney General for
Trinidadand Tobago, [1936] A. C. 322,-is an exercise of
the right of free discussion. But to deny the states power
to check a serious attempt at dictating, from without, the
sentence to be imposed in a pending case, is to deny the
right to impartial justice as it was cherished by the founders of the Republic and by the framers of the Fourteenth
Amendment. It would erect into a constitutional right,
opportunities for abuse of utterance interfering with the
dispassionate exercise of the judicial function. See Rex v.
Daily Mail, [1921] 2 K. B. 733, 749; Attorney General v.
Tonks, [1939] N. Z. L. R. 533.
In No. 1, Harry R. Bridges challenges a judgment by
the Superior Court of California fining. him $125 for con-

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

FRANKFuRTm,

J., dissenting.

tempt. -Hewas president of the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union, an affiliate of the Committee for Industrial Organization, and also West Coast
director for the C. I. 0. The I. L. W. U.'was largely
composed of men who had withdrawn from the International Longshoremen's Association, an affiliate of the
American Federation of Labor. In the fall of 1937 the
rival longshoremen's unions were struggling for control
of a local in San Pedro Harbor. The officers of this local,
carrying most of its members with them, sought to transfer the allegiance of the local to I. L. W. U. Thereupon,
longshoremen remaining in I. L. A. brought suit in the
Superior Court of Los Angeles county against the local
and its officers. On January 21, 1938, Judge Schmidt,
sitting in the Superior Court, enjoined the officers from
working on behalf of I. L. W. U. and appointed a receiver
to conduct the affairs of the local as an affiliate of the
A. F. of L., by taking charge of the outstanding bargaining
agreements of the local and of its hiring hall, which is the
physical mainstay of such a union. Judge Schmidt
promptly stayed enforcement of his decree, and on January.24th the defendants in the injunction suit moved for
a new trial and for vacation of the judgment. In view of
its local setting, the case aroused great public interest.
The waterfront situation on the Pacific Coast was also
watched by the United States Department of Labor, and
Bridges had been in communication with the Secretary
of Labor concerning the difficulties. On the same day
that the motion for new trial was filed, Bridges sent the
Secretary the following wire concerning Judge Schmidt's
decree:
"This decision is outrageous considering I. L. A. has 15
members (in San Pedro) and the International Longshoremen-Warehousemen's Union has' 3,000. International Longshoremen-Warehousemen Union has petitioned the Labor Board for certification to represent San

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRAiN4KrTER, J.,

dissenting.

314 U. S.

Pedro longshoremen with International Longshoremen
Association denied representation because itrepresents
only 15 men. Board hearing held; decision now pending.
Attempted enforcement of Schmidt decision will tie up
port of Los Angeles and involve entire Pacific Coast.
International Longshoremen-Warehousemen Union, representing over 11,000 of the 12,000 longshoremen on the
Pacific Coast, does not intend to allow state courts to
override the majority vote of members in choosing its
officers and representatives and to override the National
Labor Relations Board."
This telegram duly found its way into the metropolitan
newspapers of California. Bridges' responsibility for its
publication is clear. His publication of the telegram in
the Los Angeles and San Francisco papers is the basis of
Bridges' conviction for contempt.
The publication of the telegram was regarded by the
state supreme court as "a threat that if an attempt was
made to enforce the decision, the ports of the entire Pacific
Coast would be tied up" and "a direct challenge to the
court that 11,000 longshoremen on the Pacific Coast
would not abide by its decision." This occurred immediately after counsel had moved to set aside the judgment
which was criticized, so unquestionably there was a threat
to litigation obviously alive. It would be inadmissible
dogmatism for us to say that in the context of the immediate case-the issues at stake, the environment in which
the judge, the petitioner and the community were moving,
the publication here made, at the time and in the manner
it was, made-this could not have dominated the mind
of the judge before whom the matter was pending. Here
too'the state court's judgment should not be overturned.
The fact that the communication to the Secretary of
Labor may have been privileged does not constitutionally
protect whatever extraneous use may have been made

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

FRANKYURTER,

J., dissenting.

of the communication. It is said that the possibility of
a strike, in case of an adverse ruling, must in any event
have suggested itself to the private thoughts of a sophisticated judge. Therefore the publication of the Bridges
telegram, we are told, merely gave that possibility public
expression. To afford constitutional shelter for a definite
attempt at coercing a court into a favorable decision because of the contingencies of frustration to which all judicial action is subject, is to hold, in effect, that the Constitution subordinates the judicial settlement of conflicts to
the unfettered indulgence of violent speech. The mere
fact that after an unfavorable decision men may, upon
full consideration of their responsibilities as well as their
rights, engage in a strike or a lockout, is a poor reason
for denying a state the power to protect its courts from
being bludgeoned by serious threats while a decision is
hanging in the judicial balance. A vague, undetermined
possibility .that a decision of a court may lead to a serious
manifestation of protest is one thing. The impact of a
definite threat of action to prevent a decision is a wholly
different matter. To deny such realities is to stultify law.
Rights must be judged in their context and not in vacuo.
Compare Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194, 205; Badders
v. United States, 240 U. S. 391, 393-94; American Bank &
Trust Co. v. FederalBank, 256 U. S. 350, 358. "All rights
are derived from the purposes of the society in which they
exist;. above all rights rises duty to the community." Mr.
Justice Brandeis in Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443,
488.
The question concerning the narrow power we recognize
always is--was there a real and substantial threat to the
impartial decision by a court of a case actively pending
before it? The threat must be close and direct; it must
be directed towards a particular litigation.- The litigation
must be immediately pending. When a case is pending is

. 304

OCTOBER TERM,, 1941.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

not a technical, lawyer's problem, but is to be determined
by the substantial realities of the specific situation Danger of unbridled exercise of judicial power because of immunity from speech which is coercing is a figment of
groundless fears. In addition to the internal censor of
conscience, professional standards, the judgment of fellow
judges and the bar, the popular judgment exercised in elections, the power of appellate courts, including this Court,
there is the corrective power of the press and of public
commeht free to assert itself fully immediately upon completion of judicial conduct. Because courts, like other
agencies, may at times exercise power arbitrarily and have
done so, resort to this Court is open to determine whether,
under the guise of protecting impartiality in specific litigation, encroachments have been made upon the liberties
of speech and press. But instances of past arbitrariness
afford no justification for reversing the course of history
and denying the states power to continue to use timehonored safeguards to assure unbullied adjudications. All
experience justifies the states in acting upon-the conviction
that a wrong decision in a particular case may best be
forestalled or corrected by more rational means than coercive intrusion from outside the judicial process.
Since courts, although representing the law, United
States v. Shipp, 203 U. S. 563,574, axe also sitting in judgment, as it were, on their own function in exercising their
power to punish for contempt, it should be used only in
flagrant cases and with the utmost forbearance. It is al*The present cases are very different from the situation that evoked
dissent in Cri v. Hecht, 263 U. S. 255, 281: "It is not enough that
somebody may hereafter imove to have something done. There was
nothing then awaiting decision when the petitioner's letter was pub-

lished." And see Glaagow Corporationv. Hedderwick & Sons (1918)

Sem. Ca. 639. Compare State ex rel. Pulitzer Pub. Co. v. Coleman,

152 S. W. 2d 640 (Mo. 1941).

BRIDGES v. CALIFORNIA.
252

305

FRANKFrrmnR, J., dissenting.

ways better to err on the side of tolerance and even of
disdainful indifference.
No objections were made before us to the procedure by
which the charges of contempt were tried. But it is proper
to point out that neither case was tried by a judge who
had participated in the trials to which the publications
referred. Compare Cooke v. United States, 267 U. S. 517,
539. So it is clear that a disinterested tribunal was furnished, and since the Constitution does not require a state
to furnish jury trials, Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581;
Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 324, and states have
discretion in fashioning criminal remedies, Tigner v.
Texas, 310 U. S. 141, the situation here is the same as
though a state had made it a crime to publish utterance
having a "reasonable tendency to interfere with the orderly administration of justice in pending actions," and
not dissimilar from what the United States has done in
ยง 135 of the Criminal CodeY

935 Stat. 1113, 18 U. S. C. ยง 241.
"Whoever corruptly, or by threats
or force, or by any threatening letter or communication, shall endeavor
to influence, intimidate, or impede any witness, in any court of the
United States or before any United States commissioner or officer
acting as such commissioner, or any grand or petit juror, or officer
in or of any court of the United States, or officer who may be serving
at any examination or other proceeding before any United States commissioner or officer acting as such commissioner, in the discharge of his
duty, or who corruptly or by threats or force; or by any threatening
letter or communication, shall influence, obstruct, or impede, or en*deavor to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of
justice therein, shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars, or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both."

.428670 -- 42----20

