PINK v. A. A. A. HIGHWAY EXPRESS.
Argument for Petitioner.

PINK, SUPERINTENDENT OF INSURANCE OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK, v. A. A. A. HIGHWAY EXPRESS, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 48. Argued November 19, 1941.-Decided December 8, 1941.
Although, by the law of the State of incorporation, policyholders of
a mutual insurance company be "members" of the company and
as such liable to pay assessments made and adjudged against them
in that State in liquidation proceedings, the courts of another State
are not required by the Full Faith and Credit Clause to enforce
such liability against local residents whose policies are local contracts and on their face are mere contracts of insurance -without
mention of membership or assessments; but are free to decide according to the local law and policy the question whether by entering into such contracts the residents became members of the
company. " P. 208.
So held, where the policyholders had not appeared or been personally served, in the foreign liquidation proceedings.
191 Ga. 520, 13 S. E. 2d 337, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

313 U. S. 555, to review a judgment which

affirmed a judgment dismissing .on demurrer a suit
brought by a New York Superintendent of Insurance
against numerous residents of Georgia, policyholders in a
New York mutual insurance company, to recover assessments made against them in proceedings conducted in
New York for the liquidation of the company.
Mr. Max F. Goldstein, with whom Messrs. Alfred C.
Bennett, Arthur G. Powell, Burket D. Murphy, James N.
Frazer, and James W. Dorsey were on the brief, for
petitioner.
The laws of the State where the corporation was chartered control the rights and liabilities of the stockholders
and members. Supreme Council v. Green, 237 U. S. 531;
Sovereign Camp v. Bolin, 305 U. S. 65; Chandler v.
Peketz, 297 U. S. 609; Hartford Steam Boiler Co. v.

202.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Respondents.

314 U. S.

Harrison,301 U. S. 459, 464; Taggart v. Wachter, Hoskins & Russell, Inc., 21 A. 2d 141; Pink v. Aaron, 13 S. E.
2d 489; Pink v. Town Taxi Co., 21 A. 2d 656.
The laws of New York impose on' all policyholders a
contingent liability, Factory Mutual Liability Ins. Co. v.
Behan, 253 N. Y. S. 562, 564; Beha v. Weinstock, 247
N. Y. 221, in which creditors have a vested right.
Corning v. McCullough, 1 Comstock 47; Coombes v. Getz,
285 U. S. 434, 448.
Statutory requirements are read into the policies.
Bakker v. Aetna Life Ins. Co., 264 N. Y. 150; Newton v.
Employers Liability Assurance Corp., 107 F. 2d 164;
National Union Fire Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71;
Merchants Mutual Ins. Co. v. Smart, 267 U. S. 129;
Fire Association of Philadelphiav. New York, 119 U. S.
110; Cogliano v. Ferguson, 139 N. E. 527; Southern
Surety Co. v. Chambers, 115 Ohio St. 434.
Residents of Georgia received notice of and were
bound by the New York proceedings. Milliken v. Meyer,
311 U. S.457; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516;
Taggart v. Wachter, Hoskins & Russell, Inc., 21 A. 2d
141; Matin v. Augedahl, 247 U. S. 142.
The assessment having been approved by the court became res judicata against all defendants. Broderick v.
Rosner, 294 U. S. 629; Chandler v. Peketz, 297 U. S.
609; Marin v. Augedahl, 247 U. S.142; Hancock National
Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640.
Application of the laws of Georgia deprived petitioner
of constitutional rights. Sovereign Camp v. Bolin, 305
U. S.65.
Mr. Frank A. Hooper, Jr., with whom Messrs. T.
Baldwin Martin, A. 0. B. Sparks, and Samuel A. Miller
were on the brief, for respondents.
Full faith and credit was not -denied petitioner. In re
Auto Mutual Indemnity Co., 14 N. Y. S. 2d 601; Pennoyer

PINK v. A. A. A. HIGHWAY EXPRESS.
201

203

Opinion of the Court.

v. Neff, 95 U. S. 733; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127
U. S. 471; Bagley v. General Fire Extinguisher Co., 212
U. S. 477; Commercial Publishing Co. v. Beckwith, 188
U. S. 567; Old Wayne Mutual Life Assn. v. McDonough,
204 U. S. 8; Wetmore v. Karrick, 205 U. S. 141.; Pacific
Employers' Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306
U.S. 493.
The defendants did not under their contracts become
members of the company. Craig v. Western Life Ins. Co.,
116 S. W. 1113; Beha v. Weinstock, 160 N. E. 17; 23 Harv.
L. Rev. 38. The policy was but an ordinary standard commercial old-line policy with a flat premium. There are
many mutual companies whose policies are not assessable.
The policy having been issued in violation of the law
of New York, the policyholder is not liable for assessment.
§ 346 New York Insurance Laws.
Respondents are bound only by provisions on the face
of the policy. NorthwesternNationalIns. Co. v. Southern
States Phosphate Co., 20 Ga. App. 605; Electric Lumber
Co. v. New York UnderwritersIns. Co., 43 Ga. App. 355;
Dwindell v. Kramer, 92 N. W. 227; Baker v. Sovereign
Camp, 116 S. W. 513.
.Rulings of the Supreme Court of Georgia construing a
contract made in Georgia are binding and final. Wilhelm
v. Security Benefit Assn., 104 S. W. 2d 1042; Pink v.
Georgia Stages, Inc., 35 F. Supp. 437.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, as Superintendent of Insurance for the State
of New York, is the statutory liquidator of Auto Mutual
Indemnity Company, an insolvent mutual insurance company, organized under the laws of New York. He brought
this suit in the Superior Court of Georgia against respondents, who are residents of Georgia and policyholders in
the company, to recover assessments alleged to be due by

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

virtue of their membership in it. The Supreme Court of
Georgia affirmed the judgment of the trial court, dismissing the petition on demurrers of the several respondents. 191 Ga. 502, 13 S. E. 2d 337. We granted certiorari, 313 U. S.555, because of the asserted denial by
Georgia of full faith and credit to certain statutes and
judicial proceedings in New York, under which the assessment was levied.
The relevant facts set out in the amended petition are
as follows: The Indemnity Company, organized in 1932
under Article 10-B of the New York Insurance Law, was,
on application of the Superintendent of Insurance, placed
in liquidation by order of the New York Supreme Court
on November 24, 1937. Upon further proceedings, pursuant to § 422 of the New York Insurance Law, the court
ordered, August 12, 1938, that each member of the Indemnity Company, during the year prior to November 10,
1937, should pay assessments in specified amounts aggregating 40% of premiums earned by the cpmpany during
that year. The order directed that the members show
cause on a specified date why they should not be held liable
to pay and why the Superintendent should not have judgment for such assessments. Pursuant to § 422 and the
order, the Superintendent mailed notice of the order to
each policyholder, including respondents. None of respondents entered an appearance. It is alleged that all
"were policyholders and members of the Company" during the year mentioned; that at the time when each purchased his policy and became a member there was in force
§ 346 of the New York Insurance Law, which under New
York statutes and judicial decisions became a part of the
insurance contract, binding upon each policyholder. Section 346 provides that every mutual insurance company
"shall in its by-laws and policies fix the contingent mutual
liability of the members for the payment of losses and expenses not provided for by its admitted assets" to a spec-

PINK v. A. A. A. HIGHWAY EXPRESS.
201

205

Opinion of the Court.

ified extent, and that "all assessments, whether levied by
the board of directors, by the Superintendent of Insurance
in the liquidation of the corporation, or otherwise, shall
be for no greater amount than that specified in the policy
and by-laws." It is further alleged that the assessment
made against respondents was for their pro rata share of
the 40% assessment levied by order of the court pursuant
to the statutes of New York and the by-laws of the company, and was confirmed as to members, including respondents, by the order of November 17, 1938. The form of
policy acquired by respondents is by reference made a part
of the petition.
The Supreme Court of Georgia, construing the amended
petition as a whole, took its averment that respondents
"were policyholders and members of the company" to
mean that they were members because they were policyholders. That construction has not been challenged and
we adopt it here. The court accepted the allegations
of the meaning and effect of the New York statutes and
judicial decisions as correct, but held that respondents,
none of whom was made a party to the New York proceedings by service of process, were not concluded by
the New York orders and statutes on the question whether
their relation as policyholders to the company was such
as to subject them to liability.
Examining the contract embodied in the policies, the
court found that although the name of the company contained the word "mutual" the contracts of insurance were
without any term or provision purporting to make the
policyholder a member of a mutual company or to subject him to assessment. Each policy provided that the
insured agrees that it "embodies all agreements existing
between himself and the company or any of its agents
relating to this insurance." Printed on the back of each
policy but not referred to in the contract was a "Notice
to policyholders" that "the insured is hereby notified

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

that by virtue of this policy he is a member of the Auto
Mutual Indemnity Company," and that "the contingent
liability of the named insured under this policy shall be
limited to one year from the expiration or cancellation
hereof and shall not exceed the limits provided by the
Insurance Law of the State of New York," there being on
the face of the policy no reference to any contingent liability or assessment or to any law providing for such.
The petition does not make it clear where the policies were
delivered to respondents, and the court held that in the
absence of a showing to the contrary they were governed
by Georgia law.
Applying to this state of facts the law and policy of
.Georgia derived from its stptutes and judicial decisions,
the court held that the relation between the insured and
the company was that of contract, that the whole contract
was embodied in the stipulations appearing on the face of
the policy, and that it did not by its provisions make respondents members of the company or subject them to
assessment in accordance with the laws of New York or
otherwise. Petitioner challenges the judgment on the
ground that it fails to accord to the New York orders
and statutes the full faith and credit to which they are
entitled under Article IV, § 1 of the Constitution.
While urging in brief and argument that all those who
are shown to be members of the Indemnity Company
are bound by the New York adjudication as to the necessity for and amount of the assessment, petitioner does not
specifically urge that the New York proceedings have
established the personal liability of respondents for the
assessments which have been ordered. He could not
well do so, for the proceeding in the New York courts to
determine what judgments should be entered against the
policyholders, including nonresidents, and the judgments
actually entered, do not appear to have been made a part
of the present record. See In re Auto Mutual Indemnity

PINK v. A. A. A. HIGHWAY EXPRESS.
201

207

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 14 N. Y. S. 2d 601. In any case, it suffices for present
purposes to say that New York does not attribute any such
effect to the judgments of her courts rendered against
absent nonresident defendants. See Kittredge v. Grannis,
244 N. Y. 182, 192-96, 155 N. E. 93; Geary v. Geary, 272
N. Y. 390, 398, 6 N. E. 2d 67; cf. Pope v. Heckscher, 266
N. Y. 114, 194 N. E. 53; Hood v. Guaranty Trust Co., 270
N. Y. 17, 200 N. E. 55. Such was the ruling in the New
York proceeding for the liquidation of the Indemnity
Company with which we are here concerned. See In re
Auto Mutual Indemnity Co., supra, 611, where the referee's opinion states: ".

.

. no personal judgment will

be ordered against non-resident members or policyholders
who have not appeared generally or been served personally with process within the State, although, as hereinabove set forth, they are bound by the finding of the necessity for the assessment and the amount thereof."
It is a familiar rule that those who become stockholders
in a corporation subject themselves to liability for assessment when made in conformity to the statutes of the state
of its organization, although they are not made parties
to the proceeding for levying it. Hawkins v. Glenn, 131
U. S. 319; Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S.
640; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v.
Hamilton,224 U. S. 243, 260; Selig v. Hamilton, 234 U. S.
652; Main v. Augedahl, 247 U. S. 142; Broderick v. Rosner, 294 U. S. 629; Chandler v. Peketz, 297 U. S. 609.
Whether we support these legal consequences by reference
to consent of the stockholder or to his assumption of a
corporate relationship subject to the regulatory power.
of the State of incorporation, in either case the procedure
conforms to accepted principles, involves no want of due
process, and is entitled to full faith and credit so far as
the necessity and amount of the assessment are concerned.
See Christopherv. Brusselback, 302 U. S. 500i and cases
cited. The like principle has been consistently applied

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

to mutual insurance associations, where the fact that the
policyholders were members was not contested. Royal
Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531; Modern Woodmen v.
Mixer, 267 U. S. 544. The Supreme Court of Georgia
found it unnecessary to consider the application of these
authorities to the present case, since it decided that respondents, by acquiring the particular form of policy issued by the Indemnity Company, did not become
members of it.
It is evident that if the constitutional authority of the
Indemnity Company to stand in judgment for its absent
members turns on their consent or their assumption of
membership in the Company, respondents, who were not
parties to the New York proceedings, may defend on the
ground that they never became members because they
have done no act signifying such-consent or assumption.
After an assessment has been lawfully levied on the members of a corporation, it is still open to any who were not
parties to the assessment proceeding to defend on the
ground that they never became stockholders. Great
Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy, 162 U. S. 329, 336-37;
Coe v. Armour Fertilizer Works, 237 U. S. 413, 423; Royal
Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531, 544; Chandlerv. Peketz,
297 U. S. 609, 611; cf. Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319,
335. Ordinarily this means no more than that they have
not acquired or owned stock in the corporation during the
relevant period. For a necessary consequence of becoming a stockholder is the assumption of those obligations
which, by the laws governing the organization and management of the corporation, attach to stock ownership.
Other considerations may be significant in determining
whether a membership in a mutual insurance company has
been effected through acquisition of a policy. A mere
contract is not a share of stock and when made with a corporation or association does not necessarily connote membership in it. A policy of insurance may be a contract

PINK v. A. A. A. HIGHWAY EXPRESS.
201

209

Opinion of the Court.

whose terms purport to define completely the relationship
and obligations of the parties. Here the policy, which was
on its face a contract and nothing more, stipulated only
for obligations to be performed by the insurer upon payment of the prescribed premium. The policy's stipulations contained no provision making the insured a member
of the association or subjecting him to liability for assessment as such. Although the company was denominated
"mutual," that term does not necessarily signify that
policyholders are members or subject to assessment.
Without the command of some constitutionally controlling statute, the Georgia court was free to interpret the
obligation of the policy as limited to those stipulations
expressed on its face and as excluding any stipulation for
membership or for liability to assessment which the contract did not mention. Petitioner finds such a command
in the New York statutes, which, he asserts, make all
policyholders liable to assessment without the aid of any
stipulation to that effect in the policy. He relies on the
full faith and credit clause to exact obedience to the
statutes.
Every state has authority under the Constitution to
establish laws, through both its judicial and its legislative
arms, which are controlling upon its inhabitants and
domestic affairs. When it is demanded in the domestic
forum that the operation of those laws be supplanted by
the statute of another state, that forum is not bound, apart
from the full faith and credit clause, to yield to the demand, and the law of neither can, by its own force, determine the choice of law for the other. Milwaukee County
v. White Co., 296 U. S. 268, 272; Pacific Ins. Co. v. Commission, 306 U. S. 493, 500; Kryger v. Wilson, 242 U. S.
171, 176; Union Trust Co. v. Grosman, 245 U. S. 412;
Griffin v. McCoach, 313 U. S. 498.
To the extent that Georgia must give full faith and
credit to the New York statutes and judicial proceedings,
428670'-42

-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

it must be denied authority to adjudicate the meaning and
domestic effect under its own laws of a contract entered
into by its own inhabitants and containing no stipulation
that they should be bound by obligations extrinsically
imposed by New York law. But the full faith and credit
clause is not an inexorable and unqualified command. It
leaves some scope for state control within its borders of
affairs which are peculiarly its own. This Court has often
recognized that, consistently with the appropriate application of the full faith and credit clause, there are limits
to the extent to which the laws and policy of one state may
be subordinated to those of another. Alaska Packers
Assn. v. Commission,294 U. S. 532; PacificIns. Co. v. Commission, 306 U. S. 493; Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Co., 313 U. S.
487, 497-98; see Milwaukee County v. White Co., 296
U. S. 268, 273.
It was the purpose of that provision to preserve rights
acquired or confirmed under the public acts and judicial
proceedings of one state by requiring recognition of their
validity in others. But the very nature of the federal
union of states, to each of which is reserved the sovereign
right to make its own laws, precludes resort to the Constitution as the means for compelling one state wholly to subordinate its own laws and policy concerning its peculiarly
domestic affairs to the laws and policy of others. When
such conflict of interest arises, it is for this Court to resolve
it by determining how far the full faith and credit clause
demands the qualification or denial of rights asserted
under the laws of one state, that of the forum, by the public acts and judicial proceedings of another. See Alaska
Packers Assn. v. Commission, 294 U. S. 532, 547; Pacific
Ins. Co. v. Commission, 306 U. S. 493.
Where a resident of one state has by stipulation or stock
ownership become a member of a corporation or association of another, the state of his residence may have no such
domestic interest in preventing him from fulfilling the obligations of membership as would admit of a restricted

PINK v. A. A. A. HIGHWAY EXPRESS.
201

211

Opinion of the Court.

application of the full faith and credit clause. But it
does have a legitimate interest in determining whether its
residents have assented to membership obligations sought
to be imposed on them by extrastate law to which they
are not otherwise subject.
Without the aid of agreement or consent, the laws of the
state of organization can be imposed on Georgia courts and
policyholders only so far as the full faith and credit clause
compels it. The undue extension of the statutes and
authority of a state beyond its own borders, by the expedient of rendering a judgment against non-citizens over
whose persons or property the state has acquired jurisdiction, may infringe due process. Home Ins. Co. v. Dick,
281 U. S. 397. Like,. but more cogent, reasons may call
for the restriction of the full faith and credit clause as the
instrument for controlling the law and policy of one state,
with respect to its domestic affairs, by the statutory coinmand of another.
The interpretation and legal effect of policies of insurance entered into by the inhabitants of Georgia, who
are sued upon them in its courts, are peculiarly matters
of local concern.

Griffin v. McCoach, 313 U. S. 498.

Were it not for the New York statute, there could be no
question of Georgia's authority to adjudicate the rights
and obligations arising under the policies. And as we
have seen, the only basis for the imposition by New York
of its command on the Georgia court and policyholders
is the assumption by the latter of membership in the New
York company. But this, in the circumstances of this
case, depends upon the meaning and effect of all the provisions appearing on the policies with respect to the
assumption of membership, which is for Georgia to determine. There being no question of evasion of constitutional obligation, we accept that determination as one of
domestic law and policy which the full faith and credit
clause does not override.
Affirmed.

