OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

It was passed so that lands "retained for Indian purposes
may be consolidated and held in a solid area so far as
may be possible." 25 Such statements by the Secretary
of the Interior as that "title to the odd-numbered sections" was in the respondent 2' do not estop the United
States from maintaining this suit. For they could not
deprive the Indians of their rights any more than could the
unauthorized leases in Cramerv. UnitedStates, supra.

Hence, an accounting as respects such lands in the reservation which can be proved to have been occupied by the
Walapais from time immemorial can be had. To the
extent that the decree below precludes such proof and

accounting, it will be modified. And, as so modified, it is
Affirmed.
NEW YORK, CHICAGO & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD
CO. v. FRANK.
APPEAL FROM THE APPELLATE TERM OF THE SUPREME
COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 15.

Reargued October 16, 17, 1941.-Decided December 8, 1941.

The attempt of a consolidated interstate carrier to escape liability
for debts of a constituent, upon the ground that permission to
assume such liability was never applied for or obtained under § 20a
of the Interstate Commerce Act, although according to the state
law under which the consolidation took place the liability was
one which attached to the -consolidated corporation upon its creation, can not be upheld in this case in view of a consistent and
long-standing interpretation placed upon § 20a by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, in relation to this particular carrier system, and with full knowledge of its affairs, as not requiring such
H. Rep. No. 1446, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1. So far as appears there
were no reconveyances under that Act. It apparently was, however,
the occasion for precipitating the present litigation.
"Id. And see Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 320-321.

NEW YORK, 0. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

361

Opinion of the Court.

permission, and in view of the fact that to reject that interpretation now would result in the enrichment of a stockholder equity
which itself was capitalized, with no thorough scrutiny by the
Commission, by virtue of that interpretation. P. 372.
24 N. Y. S. 2d 854, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a judgment of the
municipal court of the City of New York in favor of the
above-named appellee, in an action against the appellant
.to.recover interest due on bonds issued by the Northern
Ohio Railway Company which were guaranteed by the
Lake Erie & Western Railroad Company. 175 Misc. 902,
24 N. Y. S. 2d 846. The latter company was a constituent of the appellant in this case, a consolidated railroad
corporation embracing a number of railroad systems.
The case was first argued at the 1940 Term and the judgment below was affirmed by an equally divided Court,
313 U. S. 538. Rehearing was granted, 313 U. S. 596.
Mr. William J. Donovan, with whom Messrs. John H.
Agate, Ralstone R. Irvine, and Theodore S. Hope, Jr.
were on the brief for appellant.
Mr. Louts J. Vorhaus, with whom Messrs. David Vorhaus and Joseph Fischerwere on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JusTicE JAcKsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellant, commonly known as the Nickel Plate
Road, was organized in 1923 as a consolidated corporation
under the laws of five states: New York, Pennsylvania,
Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. The agreements and articles
of consolidation provided that it should succeed to all of
the properties and franchises, contracts, and obligations
owned by its constituent companies. Section 143 of the
New York Railroad Law, under which the new corporation came into being, provided that "all debts and liabili-

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

ties incurred by either of such corporations shall thenceforth attach to such new corporation, and be enforced
against it and its property to the same extent as if incurred or contracted by it." I Among the constituent companies was the Lake Erie & Western Railroad. In connection with a lease of certain properties from the Northern Ohio Railway it had guaranteed payment of principal
and interest upon the latter's bonds secured by mortgage
on the leased property. Because of the contention that
the state law "attached" the obligations of this guaranty
to the Nickel Plate, it has now been held liable upon defaulted coupons by a Municipal Court of the City of
New York.
The appellant defended on two grounds: First,that the
original guaranty by the Lake Erie was ultra vires. This
defense was overruled by the state court and nothing of
that issue survives for our consideration. Second, that
approval by the Interstate Commerce Commission was
necessary under § 20a of the Interstate Commerce Act
before appellant legally could "assume" the obligation,'
1

The complete text of § 143 of the New York Railroad Law was

as follows:
"The rights of all creditors of, and all liens upon the property of,
either of such corporations, parties to such agreement and act, shall
be preserved unimpaired, and the respective corporations shall be
deemed to continue in existence to preserve the same, and all debts
and liabilities incurred by either of such corporations shall thenceforth
attach to such new corporation, and be enforced against it and its
property to the same extent as if incurred or contracted by it. No
actions or proceedings in which either of such corporations is a party
shall abate or be discontinued by such agreement and act of consolidation, but may be conducted to final judgment in the names of such
corporations, or such new corporation may be, by order of the cout,
on motion substituted as a party."
'§ 20a (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act provided that:
"It shall be unlawful for any carrier to issue any share of capital
stock or any bond or other evidence of interest in or indebtedness

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

363

Opinion of the Court.

and that such approval had not been given. This defense,
too, was overruled by the state court, and this federal question comes here by appeal.
In support of this defense the appellant set forth a
letter, dated November 25, 1939, from the Secretary of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, which advised "that
the New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company has
never applied for, nor received authorization pursuant
to section 20 (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act to
assume any obligation or liability as lessor, lessee, guarantor, endorser, surety, or otherwise in respect of bonds of
the Northern Ohio Railway Company." But it added that
"for further information I would refer" to a reported case
in which the Commission had said: "That the consolidation had the effect of transferring the guaranty of the Lake
Erie to the Nickel Plate appears to be generally assumed
by the parties to the reorganization proceeding . . ." 3
of the carrier (hereinafter in this section collectively termed 'securities')
or to assume any obligation or liability as lessor, lessee, guarantor,
indorser, surety, or otherwise, in respect of the securities of any
other person, natural or artificial, even* though permitted by the
authority creating the carrier corporation, unless and until, and
then only to the extent that, upon application by the carrier, and
after investigation by the Commission of the purposes and uses of
the proposed issue and the proceeds thereof, or of the proposed assumption of obligation or liability in respect of the securities of any other
person, natural or artificial, the Commission by order authorizes such
issue or assumption. The Commission shall make such order only
if it finds that such issue or assumption: (a) is for some lawful object
within its corporate purposes, and compatible with the public interest,
which is necessary or appropriate for or consistent with the proper
performance by the carrier of service to the public as a common carrier,
and which will not impair its ability to perform that service, and
(b) is reasonably necessary and appropriate for such purpose."
. Akron, C. & Y. Ry. Co. & Northern 0. Ry. Co. Reorganization,
236 I. C. C. 214, 216-217.
Compare the following, from a letter written by the Director of
the Commission to one Zinman, dated March 19, 1940, referring to

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

This reference suggests an examination of the administrative history of the Nickel Plate consolidation and
financing to learn what administrative application has
been made of the statutes in question to the debt structure
of this particular appellant.
Shortly after its consolidation the appellant asked the
Interstate Commerce Commission to certify under § 1
of the Interstate Commerce Act that public convenience
and necessity required the acquisition and operation by it
of the railroad lines owned by the constituent companies.
It also asked authority under § 20a to issue preferred
and common capital stocks in the anounts fixed by the
agreements and articles of consolidation. It did not, however, ask under § 5 of the Act for approval of its consolidation. Acquisition and Stock Issue by N. Y., C. & St. L.
R. Co., 79 1. C. C. 581.
This application required the Commission to construe
the Transportation Act of 1920, which had recently introduced a wide range of innovations into the Interstate
Commerce Act. Section 5 of the Interstate Commerce
Act, as amended by the Transportation Act of 1920, directed the Commission to formulate "as soon as practicable" a complete plan for the consolidation of the railways into a limited number of systems. As so amended,
§ 5 also subjected voluntary consolidations to the ap-

the Nickel Plate Guaranty on the Northern Ohio bonds, and appearing
in the Commission's file in Acquisition and Stock Issue by N. Y., C. &
St. L. R. Co., 79 I. C. C. 581:
"As to the matter of assumption of obligation and liability in respect
of the securities of others, it is our understanding that no authority
was sought nor granted in connection with the application recorded
under the above Finance Docket number. It is our further understanding that the consolidated company took the properties, rights,
and franchises of the constituent companies, subject to all their debts,

obligations, and liabilities, such as might be imposed by the consolidation statutes of' the states, of the constituent companies.

I. C. C. 365 (366) !"

See 82

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

365

Opinion of the Court.

proval of the Commission and required that they be approved if found, among other things, to be in harmony
with such complete plan for general consolidation and
if it appeared that the bonds of the consolidated corporations at par together with the outstanding capital
stock at par would not exceed the value of the consolidated properties as determined by the Commission.
By adding § 20a, the Transportation Act placed the issue
of new securities and the assumption of obligations under
the control of the Commission. The Act did not, however, provide for federal incorporation or for federal consolidation of carriers, but left the creation of new or
consolidated corporations to state laws.
At the time of the Nickel Plate's application for approval of its acquisition and operation of properties and
the issue of its stock, the Commission had not completed
its valuation of the constituent companies nor adopted
a complete plan of consolidation. The question arose,
therefore, whether under the peculiarities of the statute
the Commission was yet authorized to exercise any control over voluntary consolidations and the legal incidents
and consequences thereof. On this question the Commission was divided in opinion. Commissioner Eastman, supported by Commissioners Esch and Hall, thought the
amendment to § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act should
be construed as being immediately effective to make any
consolidation not approved by the Commission unlawful.
Had such a view prevailed, the terms of the Nickel Plate
consolidation would have been subject to scrutiny at
that time. Each item of its debt would have been examined and approved or rejected, and its capital structure,
including stock issue as well as debts, would have been
tested by the valuation of its properties. The majority
opinion, however, held that the Commission's approval
under § 5 was unnecessary. It stated: "Applicable State
laws afford means to effect the consolidation. : Such laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

are in force. They are, in fact, the laws to which resort
must be had to effectuate consolidations which the interstate commerce act is designed to facilitate. We can not
conclude that they have been nullified or superseded. As
valid existing laws we have no power to suspend them.
Whether State corporations in matters regarding their
status as legal entities as distinguished from their participation in interstate commerce may avail themselves of
such laws does not depend upon our election or anything
we do. Authority in us to withhold approval in the public
interest of security issues when State laws permit consolidation does not mean that we may not grant approval
when public interest requires that we do so. Furthermore, in the absence of mandatory provisions of a Federal
statute we should give full faith and credit to the acts of
sovereign States, especially when, as in this case, their
action is unanimous." 79 I. C. C. at pp. 585-586. The
majority opinion added that the Act did not provide for
"compulsory consolidation," that such a provision had
been "considered by the Congress and rejected," and that
accordingly "it does not seem we should conclude that the
Congress intended to prevent voluntary consolidations
under available State laws in order thereby to force consolidation under such general plan as we may ultimately
adopt." Id., p. 586. It said that "if the Congress had
intended to suspend State laws until we should at some
later time elect to permit their use, such intent would have
been manifested in plain terms." Ibid. The majority of
the Commission concluded that by virtue of the state proceedings and notwithstanding the lack of approval by
the Interstate Commerce Commission "all things necessary to the completion and consummation of the consolidation have been effected." 79 . C. C. at p. 583.
The Commission thereupon entered an order giving appellant its formal approval to the issue of new stock, including that to be exchanged share for share for upwards

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

367

Opinion of the Court.

of $23,000,000 par value of the shares in the old Lake
Erie Company, subject to an agreement to contribute a
relatively small part of it to the treasury of the new company, all as provided in the agreements and articles of
consolidation.
The Commission did not, in authorizing this stock issue,
make any finding that such stock at par together with
bonds at par did not exceed the value of the consolidated
properties. It made no order approving assumption of
any indebtedness of any kind. It appears that the appellant at that time sought no such authority. Approaching maturity of some issues of bonds eventually forced it
to take some corporate action, and upon such later occasions it sought and obtained authorization to extend maturity dates and in connection with such extensions to
make an express assumption of liability as primary
obligor.
One of the constituent companies-the old Nickel
Plate---had outstanding at consolidation $16,381,000 of a
bond issue dated October 1, 1887, maturing October 1,
1937. The assumption of this obligation was not approved until September 17, 1937, at which time the Commission approved a proposal to extend the maturity date
for ten years and to assume obligation as primary obligor
in respect of the extended bonds. N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co.
Bonds and Assumption, 221 I. C. C. 772. The published
reports of the Commission disclose two instances of similar
approval of extension and assumption of primary liability
with respect to bonds of the Lake Erie & Western outstanding at the date of consolidation, one as recent as
June 7, 1941. N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co. Assumption of
Obligation, 217 I. C. C. 598; N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co.
Assumption of Obligation, 247 I. C. C. 71.
It does not appear that either the Nickel Plate or the
Commission questioned the Nickel Plate's obligation to
pay either interest or principal of the debts of the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

stituent companies, although for long periods after the
consolidation they were without the Commission's approval. Instead, the Commission has indicated that it
regarded the state law as adequate to attach liability to
the new company for such debts. In 1923, shortly after
the consolidation, the Nickel Plate applied under § 20a of
the Interstate Commerce Act to endorse its guaranty of
payment upon certain bonds to be issued by a constituent
company, and the premise upon which relief was granted
was stated by the Commission: "It appears that the consolidation was completed on April 11, 1923, and that the
new company is now vested with the property, rights,
and franchises of the Nickel Plate and other constituent
companies, subject to all their debts, obligations, and liabilities." (Italics supplied.) N. Y., C. & St. L. R. R.
Bonds, 82 1. C. C. 365,366. The following year, in dealing
with another constituent company, the Commission defined the status of this appellant as follows: "The applicant is the successor, by consolidation, of the Toledo, St.
Louis & Western Railroad Company and other companies,
and by virtue of such consolidationhas acquired all property, rights, and powers, and has assumed all obligations
of the Toledo, St. Louis & Western Railroad Company."
(Italics supplied.) Pledge of Bonds by N. Y., C. & St.
L. R. R., 86 I. C. C. 465.
The Commission, as well as appellant, as recently as
1938 gave unmistakable recognition to the validity of the
guaranty on which appellee has recovered. This appears
from the reorganization proceedings under § 77 of the
Bankruptcy Act involving the properties of the Northern
Ohio, the original obligor whose payments were guaranteed by appellant's constituent company, the Lake Erie &
Western. The Commission stated that: "From the consolidationof the Lake Erie & Western with tho New York,
Chicago & St. Louis, resulting liability of. the latter on the
Lake Erie's. guaranty of the Northern's bonds thus is ap-

NEW YORK, 0. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

369

Opinion of the Court.

parently admitted." (Italics supplied.)' Upon that premise the Commission made allowance in the plan of reorganization for the indemnification of the appellant because, if required to make good on the guaranty, it would
become subrogated to the rights of the Northern Ohio
bondholders as a mortgage creditor and would become a
general creditor in the amount of any deficiency.
'Akron, C. & Y. Ry. Co. and Northern 0. Ry. Co. Reorganization,
228 I. C. C. 645, 647.
The plan approved by the Commission provided:
"Appropriate securities of the new company as hereinafter noted,
consistent with the other provisions of the plan, with which to recompense the New York, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Company for
the debtor's and the intervening debtor's liability to it for amounts
expended in the performance of its guaranty of the first-mortgage bonds
of the intervening debtor, shall be issued and held in treasury." Id.,
pp. 679-680. Also, "The New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad
Company, upon presentation to the treasurer of the new company of
appropriate proof of loss sustained in the performance of its contract
of guaranty of bonds of the intervening debtor, shall receive, of the
new company stock issued in reorganization and held in treasury, for
each $100 of loss so proved, $22.79, par value, of new common stock;
and shall participate equally and ratably with the holders of class A
warrants in any distribution of stock pursuant thereto, each $100 of
proved loss entitling the New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad
Company to participate in the distribution to the same extent as one
class A warrant." Id., pp. 681-682.
The true inwardness of these provisions of the reorganization plan
appears from the opinion:
"The New York, Chicago & St. Louis should be treated as though
having a claim equal to the losses it will sustain in the performance of.
its guaranty. The mathematical maximum of this claim would be
equal to the principal of the outstanding Northern bonds plus the four
years of overdue interest thereon, or $3,000,000. The probable maximum would be very much less, but cannot be determined on any definite.
basis. Securities should accordingly be reserved pending performance
of the New York, Chicago & St. Louis guaranty on the basis of its
having a $3,000,000 claim." Id., p. 673.
. The securities, however, thus set aside to the Nickel Plate were to
come back to others "as may be made possible through the New York,
428670--42-

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

We draw the following conclusions from this history of

the Nickel Plate's experience before the Interstate Commerce Commission:
By its decision in Acquisition and Stock Issue by N. Y.,
C. &St. L. R. Co., 79 1. C. C. 581, the Commission adopted
the construction of the Transportation Act which the
Nickel Plate urged upon it and held itself precluded from
supervision of the consolidation under § 5. This Court
subsequently approved that construction in Snyder v.
N. Y., C. & St. L. R.Co., 118 Ohio St. 72,160 N. E. 615, 278
U. S. 578, holding that the Nickel Plate had the rights of a
de jure corporation notwithstanding its failure to have
its creation by consolidation approved by the Commission,
on the ground that the consolidation took place at a time
when § 5 had "not as yet become applicable."
It seems clear that the Commission applied a like construction of its powers under § 20a over the assumption
of the debts and liabilities of the constituent companies.
That it deliberately deferred to a later day consideration
of all debts seems the correct inference from its express
Chicago & St. Louis settling with the Northern bondholders, or otherwise discharging its liabilities, for less than the maximum ...

"

Id.,

pp. 673-674.
An effort was apparently made to get rid of this obligation, in part
at least, in the reorganization; but the Commission held that this guaranty ran to each Northern bondholder individually, and that the
Nickel Plate could not deal with the bondholders as a class, on the
ground that there appeared to be no provision in § 77 "for enforcing
on all in lieu of the guaranty a compromise that may be agreeable to
a majority but not acceptable to a minority, and no provision for discharging in these proceedings the New York, Chicago & St. Louis, a
solvent obligor able to meet its debts as they mature, from any of its
obligations. It follows that a provision in a plan of reorganization of
the debtors, pursuant to section 77, releasing the guaranty, would be
of such doubtful validity as to require our disapproval, and that
settlements for this guaranty should be made separately from the plan
of reorganization. . . ." Id., p. 667.

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

371

Opinion of the Court.

caveat that "Nothing in this report shall be construed as
restricting the commission in its action with respect to
the promulgation of a complete consolidation plan or upon
the subject of valuation." 79 I. C. C. at p. 585. Evefi
apart from this caveat, it is clear that the Commission's
failure at this time to make either order or investigation
with reference to any debts or liabilities was due to no
delusion that the Nickel Plate was being launched as a
debt-free railroad. It was a matter of common knowledge
that the constituent companies were heavily in debt for
which no provision had been made other than by attachment to the new corporation under state law. This and the
resulting burden of fixed charges on the revenues of the
new company were well known to the Commission5 The
disappearance of all debt from consideration by the Commission cannot be accounted for except on the ground that
the Commission held itself without jurisdiction to deal
with it until the company should propose some action of
its own, such as extension, endorsement, or issue of sub'The application of the Nickel Plate asked authority to issue
327,200 shares of preferred stock and 462,479 shares of common
stock to be exchanged share for share for the stocks of the constituent
companies. It included a general balance sheet of each constituent
company and a consolidated balance sheet showing long-term debts
of the constituent companies aggregating $78,897,000, which items and
exact amounts were carried into the consolidated balance sheet.
The Lake Erie & Western Railroad Company was shown to have
outstandiig capital stocks with a par value of $23,680,000, $13,895,600
of long-term debt, and $4,996,944 of "deferred liabiities." The stock

was replaced with a like amount of stock in the new company, and
the debt and "deferred liabilities" were carried in full into the consolidated balance sheet under the same headings. The obligation in suit

was not specified; perhaps it was included in "deferred liabilities."
A Stockholders' Protective Committee of the old Nickel Plate filed
objections to the plan of consolidation, one of the grounds of which
was the alleged assumption of a heavy bond indebtedness ahead of
the stock, and complaint was specifically made of the indebtedness of
the Lake Erie & Western.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

stitute securities--as distinguished from the effect of the
law of consolidation on the fact of pre-existing debts.
That such was the holding is further indicated by the
Commission's subsequent handling of the obligations of
the constituent companies.
Whether we would agree with the Commission's interpretation of the Act as an original matter, it is not necessary to decide. Considerations of public interest certainly
should have weighed heavily in favor of the Commission,
had it asserted power to review the debts of the new company before giving even tentative and formal approval
to capitalization of its equity. What we must now decide
is the present effect of the Commission's interpretation of
its powers as to the indebtedness of this particular appellant, woven, as it has been, by a series of actions by the
Commission, into the whole financial fabric of this important carrier system. We are now asked blindly to unravel
we know not what, by reversing a consistent and longstanding interpretation of § 20a by the administrative
body to which its enforcement was committed.' We are
asked to do this to the enrichment of a stockholder equity
which itself was capitalized with no thorough scrutiny by
virtue of the same interpretation. We are asked to do this
'This interpretation is not inconsistent with the Commission's practice in other cases. Assumption of Obligation by Hudson River Connecting R. R., 72 I. C. C. 595, dealt with assumption of liability on a
mortgage which the applicant had agreed to assume as part of the
purchase price of a piece of land. It had no connection with any
consolidation proceeding. Rock Island System Consolidation, 193
I. C. C. 395, was decided after amendment of § 5 by the Emergency
Railroad Transportation Act approved June 16, 1933. The Commission had by the time of that decision promulgated a plan of consolidation, and it found that the Rock Island consolidation would be "in
harmony with and in furtherance of the plan." Id., p. 403. It was the
absence of such a plan that defeated jurisdiction of the Commission
to approve the Nickel Plate consolidation.. Snyder v. N. Y., C. & St. L.

R.Co., supra.

NEW YORK, 0. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

373

DouGLAs, J., concurring.

although the Commission, with knowledge of the claim of
illegality, has set aside securities in the Akron reorganization to compensate it in some measure and has made
no effort to enjoin the Nickel Plate from using its revenues to satisfy, in part at least, the claims of these
bondholders.
Under the circumstances of this case, the administrative
interpretation on which the Commission has acted in its
long course of dealing with Nickel Plate affairs should not
be upset. United States v. Chicago North Shore R. Co.,
288 U. S. 1.
The judgment appealed from is
Affirmed.
M. JusTIcE DOuGLAs:

While I agree with the opinion of the Court, I think an
elaboration of the point, which is the nub of the case, is
desirable in view of certain observations in the dissenting
opinion.
Appellant is a corporation formed under § 141 of New
York Railroad Law, which provides for consolidation of
railroad corporations. On the filing of the articles or
agreement of consolidation, the several constituent companies "shall be one corporation by the name provided in
such agreement." And § 141 also provides that "such act
of consolidation shall not release such new corporation
from any of the restrictions, liabilities or duties of the
several corporations so consolidated." By § 143 all debts
of the constituent companies "shall thenceforth attach to
such new corporation, and be enforced against it and its
property to the same extent as if incurred or contracted
by it.". We are pointed to no provision of the New York
law which would permit the creation of the new consolidated corporation without the attachment of the debts of
the constituent companies.
Snyder v. New York, C. & St. L. R. Co., 118 Oh. St. 72,
160 N. E. 615, aff'd 278 U. S. 578, held that authority from

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
SrONE, C. J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

the Commission was not necessary to create this consolidated corporation. A necessary and inherent incident of
its creation was the attachment of these obligations.
Hence, I do not see how we can say that, although authority from the Commission was not necessary to create appellant, such authority was necessary in order for this consolidated corporation to meet the requirements which the
New York law exacted as conditions to its creation. But
if we held that an attachment of liability under the New
York Consolidation Act was an "assumption" of liability
within the meaning of § 20 (a), we would be doing just
that. Hence, I feel forced to conclude that, in case of this
type of consolidation, "assumption" in § 20 (a) does not
include attachment of liability by virtue of the filing of
articles of consolidation under a state statute, though it
would, of course, include the issuance of any security or
the incurrence or extension of any obligation subsequent
to consolidation. Such is one consequence of the failure
to follow Commissioner Eastman's views in Acquisition
and Stock Issue of N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co., 79 . C. C. 581.
But I do not see how, in all fairness, we can reopen at this
late stage the unfortunate decision in the Snyder case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE:

I think the judgment should be reversed, but without
prejudice to any right of appellee to recover under § 20 (a)
(11) of the Interstate Commerce Act.
I am not,how prepared to say that appellee could not
have recovered under the provisions of § 20 (a) (11) had
counsel seen fit to present the question for decision. But
149 U. S. C. § 20 (a) (11), after providing that assumptions of obligations not approved by the Commission are void, declares:

"If

. .

.any security in respect to which the assumption of obligation

or liability is so made void, is acquired by any person for value and in
good faith and without notice that the . . .assumption is void, such

person may in a suit or action in any court of competent jurisdiction,

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

STONE,

375

C. J., dissenting.

the only question which they have briefed and argued here
is whether § 20 (a) (2) precludes the imposition of the
asserted liability upon appellant where, as is the case
here, its assumption by appellant has not been approved
by order of the Commission as required by that section.
The Court avoids decision of this question by declaring
that the Commission has declined to give its approval
because it has construed § 20 (a) (2) as inapplicable and
that we are bound by that construction.
Examination of the Commission's opinions and orders
from which the Court draws its cryptic answer to the question before us makes it plain that the Commission has,
placed no such construction on the statute in any case,
and that, in the cases cited relating to the Nickel Plate
consolidation, it has never had any occasion to construe
§ 20 (a) (2). On the contrary, in several cases, the Commission has construed § 20 (a) (2) as applicable to obligations like the present, which "attach" by operation of
state law to the acquisition by the carrier of the property
of other roads, and in conformity to that section has approved the "assumption" of such liability by the carrier.
In the cases before the Commission on which the Court
relies, it appears that the Commission was not asked to
pass upon the question now before us and did not purport
to pass upon it. The opinion of the Court thus rests on
no more substantial basis than the circumstance that the
Commission has acted favorably on an application of aphold jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the damage
sustained by him in respect thereof, the carrier which ... assumed
the obligation or liability so made void, and its directors, officers, attorneys, and other agents, who participated in any way ... in the
authorizing of the assumption of the obligation or liability so made
void."
It appears from the record, in an affidavit upon which summary
judgment was granted, that in 1936, after the consolidation, appellee
purchased the bonds from a broker for value "without notice of any
defense thereto or to the guarantee thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

pellant to be permitted to operate the consolidated lines
and to issue securities in conformity to the plan of consolidation, in a proceeding in which the Commission was
neither asked to take, nor took, any action with respect
to assumption of liabilities; and this under a statutory
scheme of control which plainly contemplates that a consolidation may go into effect without adoption of its
assumption of liability feature, which in any case can become operative only by order of the Commission approving
it uponapplication and on findings that the public interest
will be served. Rock Island System Consolidation, 193
I. C. C. 395, 403-04; Acquisition and Stock Issue by'P., 0.
& D. R. R., 105 I. C. C. 189, 193. The Court infers the
Commission's refusal to approve the assumption of liability for want of jurisdiction from the silence and inaction of the Commission when it was not called upon to
speak or to act, either by the statute or by any application
pending before it.
Section 20 (a) (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act contains two prohibitions. One is imposed on the issuance
of securities by railroads without approval of the Commission. The other makes it unlawful for such a carrier to
assume any obligation in respect of securities issued by
others, "even though permitted by the authority creating
the carrier corporation, unless and until, and then only to
the extent that, upon application by the carrier, and after
investigation by the Commission of the purposes and uses
of . . . the proposed assumption of obligation

. ..

the

Commission by order authorizes such issue or assumption."
The statute commands with particularity that "The Commission shall make such order only if it finds that such
issue or assumption: (a) is for some lawful object within
its corporate purposes, and compatible with the public
interest, which is necessary or appropriate for or consistent
with the proper performance by the carrier of service to
the public as a common carrier, and which will not impair

NEW YORK, 0. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

377

SmwN, C. J., disetng.

its ability to perform that service, and (b) is reasonably
necessary and appropriate for such purpose."
It will be noted that there is no requirement of the
statute that applications for the acquisition of other roads
or for the approval of security issues, and applications for
approval of the assumption of guarantee obligations, shall
be united in a single proceeding. Indeed, it is clear that
the statute leaves the Commission free to approve the one
and reject an application for the other. And it appears
that the uniform practice of the Commission has been, as
the statute directs, to entertain neither, except on an application asking the desired approval. And where more
than one is asked, the Commission has by its order separately dealt with. those upon which it intended to act.
E. g., Acquisition of C. & 0. Northern Ry. Co. by C. & 0.
Ry., 70 1. C. C. 550; Gainesville Midland Reorganization,
131 I. C. C. 355; Control of Greenbrier, Cheat & Elk R. R.,
131 I. C. C. 525; Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co. Acquisition, 158 I. C. C. 770; Elmira & L. 0. R. Co. Acquisition,
170 I. C. C. 127.
The Commission has pointed out that its action in passing on applications under each of the paragraphs 18 to 20
inclusive, of § 1, or under § 5 (2), of the Act, is limited to
the particular provision of the Act on which the application is founded, and is not to be construed as a decision on
any other provision. See Acquisition of Line by 0. C. S. .
Ry., 86 1. C. C. 273,274; Acquisition by A., T. & S. F. Ry.,
138 I. C. C. 787, 789; Acquisition by St. L.-S. F. Ry., 145
I. C. C. 110, 114; Chicago, M. & St. P. Reorganization, 131
I. C. C. 673,691-92; New York Central R. Co. Assumption,
158 I. C. C. 317, 320-23; Pacific Coast R. Co. Acquisition,
187 1. C. C. 563 and 189 I. C. C. 79. Cf. Keeshin Transcon.
Freight Lines, Inc.-Debentures, 5 M. C. C. 349, 351. In
fact, the Commission has said that § 20 (a) (2) "confers
upon us power to grant or deny authority to issue securities or to assume obligation or liability . . . only upon ap-

878

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

plication by the carrier for such authority." New York
Central R. Co. Assumption, 158 I. C. C. 317, 322.
In the Commission's view, authority to consolidate includes the authority to acquire and operate properties of
other roads, but neither that authority nor the authority
to issue securities upon consolidation includes authority
to assume liabilities of the constituent companies. Rock
Island System Consolidation, 193 I. C. C. 395, 403-04;
Santa Fe Trail Transp. Co.-Merger, 5 M. C. C. 324,328;
cf. Illinois Terminal R. Co. Consolidation and Securities,
.221 I. C. C. 676. The Court's suggestion that this was not
so before the Commission promulgated its general plan
of consolidation under § 5, is contrary to the ruling in
Acquisition & Stock Issue by P., 0. & D. R. R., 105
I. C. C. 189. In that case, before the promulgation of the
plan, the Commission was at pains to warn (p. 193) that
its approval of an issue of securities to carry out a consolidation under state law did not involve any decision on
assumption of liability of the obligations of the consolidated company's constituents. Assumption of Obligation
by L. S. & I. R. R., 86 1. C. C. 640, and Grand Trunk W.
R. Co. Unification and Securities, 158 I. C. C. 117, 138,
142-43, both decided before the promulgation of the
plan, granted permission to assume the obligations of the
constituents and thus gives further proof that the Commission, when it intended to take any position with respect to the assumption of obligations in connection with
a consolidation, did so by action affirmatively expressed
rather than by silence.
The Commission has entertained applications for the
approval, under § 1 of the Act, of the operation of
acquired properties, or for 'approval of security issues
upon consolidation, without any application for the approvalof the assumption of the liabilities involved. See
Acquisition and Stock Issue by N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co.,
79 I. C. C. 581; Pacific Coast R. Co. Acquisition, 187

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

379

STONE,C. J., dissenting.

I. C. C. 563; cf. Rock Island System Consolidation, 193
I. C. C. 395, 403-04. And in the case of this appellant,
as of other roads, it has later entertained and disposed of
separate applications for the approval of the assumption
of the obligations involved. N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co.
Assumption of Obligation, 217 I. C. C. 598; N. Y., C. & St.
L. R. Co. Bonds and Assumption, 221 I. C. C. 772; N. Y.,
C. &St. L. R. Co. Assumption of Obligation and Liability,
247 I. C. C. 71; St. Louis-S. F. Readjustment, 145 I. C. C.
218; Pacific Coast R. Co. Securities, 189 I. C. C. 79;
Cincinnati Union Term. Co. Securities, 166 I. C. C. 419
and 499, and 184 I. C. C. 619; West Jersey & S. R. Co.
Bonds, 217 I. C. C. 125; cf. Assumption of Obligation by
N. 0., T. & M. Ry., 94 1. C. C. 218.
Such action by the Commission plainly precludes any
inference that, in approving an application for the operation of the consolidated lines or an issue of securities
under a consolidation, it was doing more than responding
to the petition presented to it or that it was undertaking
to pass on the legality or propriety of the assumption
by the consolidated road of guarantee obligations of its
constituent companies. We are pointed to nothing suggesting that the Commission has ever regarded such approvals as involving an unasked determination with respect to the assumption by the' consolidated carrier of
the obligation of its constituent companies.
There is thus no plausible ground for saying that there
was lurking in the Commission's decision in 79 I. C. C.
581 some implied ruling as to the construction of
§ 20 (a) (2) and some implied refusal to act because of
that construction, in a situation in which it was not asked
or expected to act and in which, for reasons already stated,
it vas under no duty to act. In none of the cases cited
in the opinion of the Court as hinting at a possible construction by the Commission of § 20 (a) (2) was it asked
to make any finding or order with respect to the assump-

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STNE,C. J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

tion by appellant of obligations of its constituent companies. In none did it make or decline to make any of
the findings or the order required by § 20 (a) (2) with
respect to such obligations. In none did it express any
opinion whether obligations attaching to a consolidated
carrier are within the prohibition of the statute, or as to
its duty to approve or disapprove of their assumption.
In Operation of Lines and Issue of Capital Stock by
the N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co., 79 I. C. C. 581, the Commission was asked to, and did, specifically approve the
operation by appellant of the consolidated line and the
issuance of certain stock by appellant, pursuant to the
consolidation plan, and nothing more. It made no menfion of any assumption of obligation by appellant or
of the assumption provisions of § 20 (a) (2). It neither
took nor declined to take action affecting such assumption. For all that appears, the Commission, in its examination of the capital structure and the balance sheet
of appellant, may have disregarded the guarantee obligation as one not affecting the consolidated company because its assumption had not been approved by the
Commission.
It construed the consolidation provisions in § 5 of the
Act as permitting carriers to consolidate under state law
vthout first securing the Commission's authorization for
the consolidation itself. Whether or not this was the
necessary interpretation of the' consolidation provisions,
cf. Snyder v. New York, C. & St. L. R. Co., 278 U. S.578,
nothing in the report of' the Commission's decision suggests that if it was essential, in order to carry out the
consolidation under state law, that obligations be "assumed," then the assumption could be accomplished without compliance with § 20 (a) (2). Its decision is in fact
inconsistent with any such theory, and affords affirmative evidence that the Commission thought § 20 (a) (2)

NEW YORK, 0. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

381

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

was operative notwithstanding the narrow interpretation
which it gave to § 5.
The Commission authorized appellant to issue, under
§ 20 (a) (Q), certain preferred and common stock, to be
exchanged for the stock of its five constituent companies
in carrying out the consolidation. If consolidations under
state law could, in the Commission's view, be effected at
that time wholly without regard to § 20 (a) (2), then the
granting of authority to issue the stock would have been
superfluous. That the Commission deemed such authority necessary is persuasive that it regarded § 20 (a) (2)
as applicable to all issues of securities, or assumptions of
obligations, which occirred in connection with a consolidation. Freedom to consolidate, in the Commission's
view, plainly did not include freedom to make adjustments
in capital structure without-the authorization required by
§ 20 (a) (2). Hence, the only real question is whether
an obligation assumed or attaching merely by operation
of law is an "assumption" within the meaning of § 20 (a)
(2)-a question which, as will presently appear, the Commission has consistently answered in the affirmative, whenever it has been called upon to give an answer.
Subsequent proceedings before the Commission affecting appellant, in the cases on which the Court relies, presented no question of its liability upon the guarantee obligations of its constituent companies, and are equally barren of any indication that the Commission considered the
meaning and application of the assumption provisions of
§ 20 (a) (2) or that it had any occasion to do so. In
N. Y., C. & St. L. R. R. Bonds, 82 I. C. C. 365, and in
Pledge of Bonds by N. Y., C. & St. L. R. R., 86 I. C. C.
465, next cited by the Court as sustaining its decision, the
questions presented to the Commission had not even a
remote relation to any assumption by appellant of guarantee obligations, resulting from the consolidation, which the

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

Commission had not by its order approved. In the one
case the application was for authority to make a new bond
issue; in the other for permission to pledge some of its
own assets to secure a new note issue. Passing references
by the Commission, in recounting the history of the consolidation, to the fact that appellant had acquired the
properties of constituent companies "subject to all their
debts, obligations and liabilities," and that it "has assumed
all obligations" of a different constituent company from
that here involved, can hardly be accepted as evidence of
an unasked administrative construction of a provision of a
statute which it was not administering and with respect to
which it expressed no opinion.
The Court gains no support for its conclusion from the
supposed recognition by the Commission, in the Akron
case, that the "resulting liability" from appellant's consolidation had been "apparently admitted." Akron, C. &
Y. Ry. Co. & Northern 0. Ry. Co. Reorganization, 228
I. C. C. 645, 647. The bankruptcy reorganization, whose
approval by the Commission was there sought, was that
of the Northern Ohio Railway, the guarantee of whose
bonds is presently involved. What had "apparently"
been "admitted" by the proposed reorganization was that,
so far as appellant should perform or be compelled to perform the guarantee, it would become a creditor of the new
company, entitled to participate in the new securities to
be issued to creditors under the reorganization. The only
action taken by the Commissionwith respect to the obligation was to approve (p. 673) the provision of the plan,
which reserved new securities of the reorganized company
for the satisfaction of appellant's claim "pending performance," if any, of the guarantee, by appellant, and to order
(p. 684) the reorganized company to issue to appellant its
proportion of the new securities upon "appropriate proof"
by appellant "of loss sustained in the performance of its
contract of guarantee." The Commission thus had no oc-

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

STONE,

383

C. J., dissenting.

casion to determine the question which appellant asks to
have determined here, and pointedly left it undecided.
Obviously, the approved plan gave appellant a powerful
incentive to resist performance of the guarantee and manifestly did not purport to foreclose appellant from securing
the adjudication of the liability which it seeks here.
Not only do these cases fail to disclose any self-denying
construction of § 20 (a) (2) by the Commission, but in
others, where the Commission has been called on to consider the question, it has taken the position that the word
"assumption" in § 20 (a) (2) includes an obligation placed
upon the carrier merely by operation of the state law under
which it had acquired property.
Three times since its decision in 79 1.C. C., the Commission has granted the application of appellant to be permitted to extend and also to assume obligations of its constituent companies. N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co. Assumption
of Obligation, 217 I. C. C. 598; N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co.
Bonds and Assumption, 221 I. C. C. 772; N. Y., C. & St. L.
R. Co. Assumption of Obligation and Liability, 247 I. C. C.
71. In two of these cases, the Commission authorized
appellant to assume obligations of the Lake Erie & Western-the same constituent company whose obligation is
now said tcf have been assumed without the necessity of the
Commission's authorization. If appellant was already
personally liable on the obligations, permission to assume
them was unnecessary. And since the Commission does
not entertain applications for authority to assume obligations where it is of the opinion that the obligation is not
one to which § 20 (a) (2) applies, Southern Pacific Co.
Assumption of Obligation, 189 I. C. C. 212, 213; Bonds
of A. & M. Railway Bridge & Term. Co., 94 1.C.C. 79,81;
Missouri-K.-T. R. Co. Assumption of Obligation, 212
I. C. C. 217; Pittsburgh & Shawmut R. Co. Securities, 166
I.C.C. 503,505, its action in authorizing the assumptions,
in addition to the extensions, is inconsistent with any. in-

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

ference on our part that it had previously ruled that the
obligations assumed were not required to comply with

20 (a) (2).
On the contrary, the Commission applied that section
to obligations like the present soon after enactment of the
Transportation Act of 1920. In Assumption of Obligation by Hudson River Connecting R; R., 72 1. C. C. 595, decided nine months before its decision in 79 I. C. C., the
Commission took jurisdiction of an application for approval of an assumption of obligation resulting by operation of New York law from a carrier's acquisition of
property. In granting the application and in authorizing
the carrier to "assume" the attached obligation the Commission stated, page 596:
"While the applicant does not propose to make any
indorsement on the bonds, or execute any agreement in respect of the payment of them, it appears that, under the
laws of New York, the acceptance of a deed conveying
land subject to a mortgage indebtedness, which the
grantee agrees to assume, has the effect of making the
land the primary fund for the payment of the mortgage
indebtedness, so that the grantee becomes the, principal
debtor and the grantor a surety."
The .Commission made the findings prescribed by § 20 (a)
(2) and ordered that the applicant be "authorized to
assume obligation and liability" in respect of the mortgaged bonds, "said assumption of obligation and liability . . . to be accomplished by the acceptance by the
applicant of a deed of said lands."
More recently, in Public Service Coordinated Transport-Assumption of Obligation, 15 M. C. C. 406, a motor
carrier case under § 214 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
which incorporates by reference § 20 (a) (2), the Commission reaffirmed its earlier construction of § 20 (a) (2)
as applying to obligations like the present, saying (p.

408):

NEW YORK, 0. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.

385

SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

360

"Prior to consummation of the merger, applicant's liability in respect of the bonds of said' companies was of a
contingent nature. Under the statutes of New Jersey all
debts and liabilities of merged or consolidated corporations shall thenceforth attach to the consolidated corporation and may be enforced against it to the same extent
as if said debts and liabilities had been incurred or contracted by it. Thus, through completion of said merger,
applicant has, by operation of law, become the principal
obligor in-respect of these bonds, and, as such, has obligations and liabilities in respect thereof which differ from
the contingent liability previously existent. In our opinion assumption' of such obligations and liabilities as
successor in title is a matter over which we have
jurisdiction." 2
While courts are not necessarily bound by the Commission's construction of the Interstate Commerce Act,
Mitchell v. United States, 313 U. S. 80; United States v.
Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U..S. 311, they rightly
pay deference to the Commission's considered construction of it, especially when it is of long standing and has
'See also Elmira & L. 0. R. Co. Acquisition, 170 I. C. C. 127, where
the Commission approved an "assumption" of liability which was
apparently to attach (see* p. 128) solely by operation of the New York
stock corporation laws. Cf. Assumption of Obligation by L. S. &
I. R. R., 86 I. C. C. 640, where in authorizing an "assumption" the
Commission stated: "Under the agreement and the laws of Michigan
the debts, liabilities, and duties of the last two companies named
attach to the applicant and are enforceable against it to the same
extent and in the same manner as if originally incurred by it. The
applicant accordingly seeks authority to assume obligation and liability
in respect of the securities of these companies." Cf. also Union R. Co.
Assumption of Obligation and Liability, 217 I. C. C. 635, where, in
authorizing an assumption the Commission stated: "Pursuant to the
terms of the joint agreement of merger dated October 1, 1936, and the
provisions of the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the
applicant will assume all the debts and. obligations of the" constituent

corporations.
428670*-42----25

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE, C. J., dissenthig.

314 U. S.

never been departed from. But it is novel doctrine that
a provision of an act of Congress may be nullified by a
construction of the Interstate Commerce Commission
which can be inferred only from the fact that the Commission ignored the provision in a proceeding in which,
by its settled practice, it was not called upon to construe
or apply it. Certainly, the Commission does not appear
ever to have acted upon any such view, nor has it come
before us to advocate it. It seems plain that the rulings
of the Commission that § 20 (a) (2) is applicable to those
obligations which state law attaches to the carrier in
consequence of its participation in a consolidation, as well
as to those which attach to it by reason of its expressed
promise, carry out the purposes of the statute and are
consistent with its language. Section 20 (a) (2) was enacted to prevent the imposition on the railroads of the
country, through consolidation or otherwise, personal liability for the obligations of other roads, such as had occurred in certain well known consolidations notorious for
their disregard of the interests of security holders and the
public. See 58 Cong. Rec. 8317-18. As the effective
means of prevention it prescribed that all such obligations should be void, unless the Commission orders their
approval as compatible with the public interest.
But even if we assume that the silence of the Commission in 79 I. C. C. can be taken to intimate a view of the
meaning of § 20 (a) (2), with respect to which it took
no action and made no order, it seems still more novel
to say that such an inference must control our decision
here, in the face of its explicit construction of the statute
in other cases as applicable to situations like the present.
Even sporadic and inconsistent administrative decisions,
where the parties have relied upon them, may sometimes
both be followed by courts when applied to those parties.
But the unarticulated intimations of opinion of an administrative body, unacted upon, are too inconclusive

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.
360

STONE, C.

387

J., dissenting.

to control judicial decision. Courts are not like weathercocks, changing with every administrative wind that
blows. They cannot on the same day rightly decide that
the same statute means different things in different cases,
merely because the Commission may on different days
have had shifting impressions which it has not thought
sufficiently important to express in any ruling, opinion,
decision or order.
United States v. Chicago North Shore R. Co., 288 U. S.
1, upon which the Court relies, has no significance here.
It is one thing to accept judicially the Commission's decision that a particular carrier is an "interurban electric
railway," a determination unquestionably within its power
and peculiarly within its administrative competence. It
is quite another to bind the courts by a construction of the
statute which the Commission has never voiced, but which,
on the contrary, it has consistently denied, namely, that
obligations may be assumed without conscious and express
permission of the Commission and in defiance of the
declared will of Congress.
It is impossible to believe that the all-inclusive provisions of § 20 (a) (2), passed in response to a general and
long-felt need for the federal regulation of railroad capitalization, were intended to exclude assumptions of obligations which attach by virtue of state law. The statute
makes § 20 (a) (2) subject only to one excepti6n---shortterm notes maturing in not more than two years, § 20 (a)
(9)-and even in that instanc6 the carrier is required to
file with the Commission a certificate of notification. No
other exception was provided, and it is apparent that none
was intended.'
'Examination of the historical background of § 20 (a) can leave no
genuine doubt that the financial provisions of § 20 (a) (2) were meant
to be all-inclusive. Abuses in railroad financing had been a continuous
subject of public concern. See the report of the Windom Committee
in 1874, S. Rep. No. 307, 43rd Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. I, pp. 71-76 the

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE, C. J.; dissenting.

314 U. S.

We are'not concerned here with doubts whether appellant is validly organized under New York law. No such
issue is presented by the record. The only question before
report of the Cullom Committee in 1886, S. Rep. No. 46, 49th Cong.,
1st Sess., part I, pp. 51-52. In 1907 the Interstate Commerce Commission, reporting upon its investigation of the Union Pacific and the
Chicago & Alton railroads, recommended federal regulation of security
issues. In re Consolidations and Combinations of Carriers, 12 1. C. C.
277; and see also the Commission's Annual Report for 1907, p. 24. In
1910 President Taft urged upon Congress federal regulation of railroad
securities, 45 Cong'. Rec. 380, but the Senate's opposition prevented the
proposal from being included in the Mann-Elkins Act. In 1913 the
Commission concluded its New England Investigation, 27 I. C. C. 560,
616, with the recommendation that "No interstate railroad should be
permitted to lease or purchase any other railroad, nor to acquire the
stocks or securities of any other railroad, nor to guarantee the same,
directly or indirectly, without the approval of the federal government"
Senate opposition again proved too strong in 1914, 'as well as in 1916,
but by the end of the war opposition to the regulation of railroad capitalization practically disappeared. See Locklin, Regulation of Security
Issues by the interstate Commerce Commission, pp. 12-22; Sharfman,
The Interstate Commerce Commission, Vol. I, pp. 86-94, 189-93; and
the Commission's Annual Report for 1919, pp. 4-5.
Section 20 (a) when finally enacted was thus a thoroughgoing reform,
long considered and at last virtually unopposed, designed to vest in the
Commission "exclusive and plenary" jurisdiction, § 20 (a) (7), over
changes in the capital structures of the railroads. Its enactment, see
Sharfman, op. cit.; supra, Vol. I, p. 190, "was not only a fulfilment of
the Commission's repeated recommendations, but grew out of a practical unanimity of opinion among the numerous and diverse interests
that sought to influence the character of the new legislation. While this
extension of the Commission's authority was designed, indirectly, to
protect the investing public against the dissipation of railroad resources
through faulty or dishonest financing, its dominant purpose was to
maintain a sound structure for the rehabilitation and support of railroad credit, and for the consequent development of the transportation
system. It aimed to render impossible the recurrence of the various
financial scandals, with their destruction of confidence in railroad investment, which had become notorious, and to prevent the subordination of the carriers' stake as transportation agencies to the financial
advantage of alien interests."

NEW YORK, C. & ST. L. R. CO. v. FRANK.

360

389

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

us is whether personal liability can be assumed by appellant without complying with the statute, which makes
such an assumption void "even though permitted by the
authority creating the carrier corporation" "unless and
until, and then only to the extent that" the Commission
has approved the assumption after making the prescribed
findings.
The statute does not deprive the holders of obligations
of the constituent companies of any rights against them or
their property. It only prevents the acquisition by such
holders, contrary to the, public interest, of new rights
against the consolidated carrier without the consent of the
Commission, and by § 20 (a) (11) the statute gives a
remedy to those who, like appellee, become innocent purchasers of such securities, after consolidation, for the loss
of such rights through the operation of § 20 (a) (2). The
application of the statute in this case no more involves
enriching stockholder equities than in any other. The
question in every case is whether the public, and railroad
security holders, shall be burdened, through repeated reorganizations of railroads, with excessive indebtedness
which it was the purpose of the statute to prohibit. It is
obvious that the statute would fail of its proclaimed purpose unless, as the Commission has ruled, its prohibitions
extend to those obligations which the consolidated carrier
assumes by virtue of its entering into a consolidation under
state law, as well as those which it assumes by its expressed
promise. The words of the statute neither compel nor persuade to the decision now given, which seems to rest on
nothing more substantial than a far-fetched surmise. It
defeats the Congressional purpose and conflicts with the
legislative history and administrative construction of the
statute.
. MR. JUSTICE

REED, MR.

JUSTIcE FRANKFURTER

JUSTICE BYRNES join in this opinion.

and MR.

