U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
326

339

Syllabus.

material. The point is that the general policy indicated
by those cases need not be disregarded by the rule-making
authority in its segregation of non-deductible expenses.
There is no reason why, in absence of clear Congressional
action to the contrary, the rule-making authority cannot
employ that general policy in drawing a line between
legitimate business expenses and those arising from that
family of contracts to which the law has given no sanction.
The exclusion of the latter from "ordinary and necessary"
expenses certainly does no violence to the statutory language. The general policy being clear it is not for us to
say that the line was too strictly drawn.

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part
or disposition of this case.

in the consideration

UNITED STATES, AS GUARDIAN OF THE HUALPAI INDIANS OF ARIZONA, v. SANTA FE PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 23.

Argued November 12, 13, 1941.-Decided December 8,1941.

1.,Lands included in the grant made to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company by the Act of July 27, 1866, were subject to any
existing Indian right of occupancy until such right was extinguished by the United States through a voluntary cession of the
Indians, as provided by § 2 of the Act. P. 344.
2. Indian occupancy necessary, to establish aboriginal possession is
a question of fact. P. 345.
3. "Indian title" exists where it is established as a fact that the
lands in question were included in the ancestral home of a tribe
of Indians, in the sense that they constituted definable territory
occupied exclusively by that tribe as distinguished from being
wandered over by many tribes. P. 345.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

4. By the policy of the Government, the Indian right of occupancy
is as sacred as the fee and can be interfered with or terminated
only by the United States. P. 345.
5. Lands within the Mexican Cession were not excepted from this
policy. P. 345.
6. A tribal claim to any particular lands need not be based upon
treaty, statute, or other formal governmental action. P. 347.
7. In the matter of the extinguishment of Indian title based upon
aboriginal occupancy, the power of Congress is supreme and its
exercise is not open to inquiry by the courts. P. 347.
8. If the right of occupancy of the Walapai Indians to lands within
the area granted to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company in
Arizona was not extinguished prior to the definite location of
the railroad in 1872, then the grantee took the fee subject to the
encumbrance of Indian title. On that date the title of the railroad attached as of July 27, 1866, the date of the Act. P. 347.
9. The Act of February 27, 1851, by extending the Indian Trade
and Intercourse Act of June 30, 1834, over the Indian tribes in
the Territories of New Mexico (then including Arizona) and Utah,
exhibited the desire of Congress to continue in those Territories
the general policy of the Government to recognize the Indian right
of occupancy, but did not create such rights where they did not
previously exist. P. 347.
10. The Act of July 22, 1854, which established the office of Surveyor
General of New Mexico, etc., and the Act of July 15, 1870, which
directed the Surveyor General of Arizona (then separated as a
Territory from New Mexico) to ascertain and report upon land
claims under the laws, usages and customs of Spain and Mexico
for the information of Congress, did not extinguish any Indian
title based upon aboriginal occupancy, such as may have been had
by the Walapai Indians. P. 348.
11. The Act of March 3, 1865, which provided for setting aside a
tract of land in Arizona as a reservation for certain tribes on the
Colorado River, including the Walapais, was not intended, in default of their voluntary acceptance, to extinguish their right of
occupancy of other lands. P. 351.
Forcible removal of the Walapais to this Reservation in 1874
was not sanctioned by Congress and could not affect their right of
occupancy over lands outside the Reservation.
12. The creation of the Walapai Indian Reservation in Arizona by
Executive Order, January 4, 1883, at the request of the Walapais,
and its acceptance by them, amounted to a relinquishment of any

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Argument for Petitioner.

tribal claims which they might have had to lands outside that Reservation, and that relinquishment was tantamount to an extinguishment by "voluntary cession," within the meaning of § 2 of the
Act of July 27, 1866, supra. P. 357.
13. The United States is entitled to an accounting from the Railroad
Company on behalf of the Walapais for any rents, issues and profits
derived from leasing or use of lands in their Reservation which
can be proved to have been occupied by the Walapais from time
immemorial. P. 359.
114 F. 2d 420, affirmed, with a modification.
CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 675, to review a decree affirming
a decree which dismissed a bill, by the Government, seeking to establish the right of the Walapai Indians to lands
claimed by the Railroad Company inside and outside of
the Indians' Reservation, and for an accounting.
Mr. Nathan R. Margold, with whom Messrs. Richard
H. Hanna, William A. Brophy, and Felix S. Cohen were
on the brief, for the United States. Assistant Solicitor
General Fahy filed a memorandum.
The term "Indian title" used in § 2 of the Act of 1866,
had a well-understood meaning. It connoted the Indian
possessory right based on aboriginal occupancy, whether
or not that occupancy had been recognized by treaty,
statute, or otherwise. Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheat.
543; United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U. S. 111. The
Act applied within a roughly located area from Missouri
to the Pacific Coast, and the term "Indian title" applied
equally to all lands within that area and hence to all Indian rights of occupancy which then existed within that
area. The provision had the same meaning and application with respect to lands in the Mexican Cession area as
with respect to any other lands. United States v. Candelaria,271 U. S. 432. The right was preserved and safeguarded until extinguished by the United States in conformity with the provisions of the Act. Buttz v. Northern
Pacific Railroad, 119 U. S. 55.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Petitioner.

314 U. S.

This Court has consistently held that, in the absence
of express language to the contrary, a federal grant of
public lands does not constitute an extinguishment of
Indian occupancy rights. Johnson v. McIntosh, supra,
574.
This Court has continuously recognized that aboriginal
possession creates a possessory right legally enforceable
against everyone except the United States. Worcester
v. Georgia,6 Pet. 515; Mitchel v. United States,9 Pet. 711;
Choteau v. Molony, 16 How. 203; Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall.
211, 244; Buttz v. Northern Pacific Railroad, 119 U. S.
55; Cramerv. United States, 261 U. S. 219.
This Court has consistently rejected attempts to exclude Indians of the Mexican Cession area from the benefit
of rules generally applicable outside that area for the protection of Indian rights. United States v. Joseph, 94 U. S.
'614; UnitedStates v. Chavez, 290 U. S. 357; United States
v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28; United States v. Candelaria,
271 U. S. 432; United States y. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375;
Cramer v. United States, supra; Lane v. Pueblo of Santa
Rosa, 249 U. S. 110; Pueblo of Santa Rosa v. Fall, 273
U. S. 315, 321.
Federal legislation applicable to the Walapai Tribe as
well as to other tribes protects the Indian right of occupancy based on aboriginal possession. [Referring to
numerous statutes.]
Except in the present case, no considered decision has
ever been made by the Executive branch of the Government as to the relative rights of the Walapai Tribe and
the respondent railroad.
Spanish and Mexican law was at least as generous in
its recognition of the legality of Indian aboriginal occupancy as the law of the United States. Indeed, experts on
this subject have concluded that the law of the United
States, recognizing the occupancy rights of Indian tribes,
was derived from Spanish sources. See Johnson v. Mc-

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

Intosh, 8 Wheat. 543, 573; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet.
515, 546; Chateauv. Molony, 16 How. 203, 229; Mitchel
v. UnitedStates, 9 Pet. 711,759; Carinov. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449.
Such rights of the Walapai Tribe as existed on July
27, 1866, have not been extinguished or abandoned. [Referring to the 1870 Act appointing a Surveyor General for
Arizona; the temporary removal in 1874 of part of the
Tribe to the Colorado River Reservation; the establishment of an Executive order reservation of the Walapai
Indians in 1883; the 1925 Exchange Act.]
The United States and the Walapai Tribe have been
deprived of a right to trial upon issues of fact, through a
misapplication of the doctrine of judicial notice.
Messrs. Joyce Cox and Max Radin, with whom Messrs.
Charles H. Woods, Lawrence Cake, and Richard M.
Fennemore were on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Joe Conway, Attorney General of Arizona, -and
Earl Anderson, Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief
on behalf of that State and Coconino, Mohave, and
Yavapai Counties, Arizona, as amici curiae, in support of
respondent.
MR. JUsTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit brought by the United States, in its own
right and as guardian of the Indians of the Walapai
(Hualpai) Tribe in Arizona (28 U. S. C. § 41 (1), § 24
Judicial Code) to enjoin respondent from interfering with
the possession and occupancy by the Indians of certain
land in northwestern Arizona. Respondent claims full
title to the lands in question under the grant to its predecessor, the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Co., provided for
in the Act of July 27, 1866,14 Stat. 292. The bill sought to
establish that respondent's rights under the grant of 1866

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

are subject to the Indians' right of occupancy both inside
and outside their present reservation which was established by the Executive Order of President Arthur, January 4, 1883. The bill consists of two causes of actionthe first relating to lands inside, and the second, to lands
outside, that reservation. The bill prayed, inter alia,
that title be quieted and that respondent "account for all
rents, issues and profits derived from the leasing, renting
or use of the lands subject to said right of occupancy" by
the Indians. Respondent moved to dismiss on the ground
that the facts alleged were "insufficient to constitute a
valid cause of action in equity." The District Court
granted that motion. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 114 F. 2d 420. We granted the petition for
certiorari because of the importance of the problems raised
in the administration of the Indian laws and the land
grants.
Sec. 2 of the Act of July 27, 1866, the Act under which
respondent's title to the lands in .question derived,' provided: "The United States shall extinguish, as rapidly as
may be consistent with public policy and the welfare of
the Indians, and only by their voluntary cession, the Indian title to all lands falling under the operation of this
act and acquired in the donation to the road named in
the act."
Basic to the present causes of action is the theory that
the lands in question were the ancestral home of the
Walapais, that such occupancy constituted "Indian title"
within the meaning of § 2 of the 1866 Act, which the
United States agreed to extinguish, and that in absence of
such extinguishment the grant to the railroad "conveyed
'Earlier cases inyolving this grant are United States v. Southern
Pacific R. Co., 146 U. S. 570; Atlantic & Pacific R. Co. v. Mingus, 165
U. S. 413; Santa Fe Pacific R. Co. v. Lane, 244 U. S. 492; Santa Fe
Pacific R. Co. v. Fall, 259 U. S. 197; Santa Fe Pacific R. Co. v. Work,
267 U. S. 511.

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

the fee subject to this right of occupancy." Buttz v.
Northern Pacific Railroad,119 U. S. 55, 66. The Circuit
Court of Appeals concluded that the United States had
never recognized such possessory rights of Indians within
the Mexican Cession 2 and that in absence of such recognition the Walapais had no such right good against grantees
of the United States.
Occupancy necessary to establish aboriginal possession
is a question of fact to be determined as any other question
of fact. If it were established as a fact that the lands in
question were, or were included in, the ancestral home of
the Walapais in the sense that they constituted definable
territory occupied exclusively by the Walapais (as distinguished from lands wandered over by many tribes), then
the ,Walapais had "Indian title" which, unless extinguished, survived the railroad grant of 1866. Buttz v.
Northern Pacific Railroad, qupra.
"Unquestionably it has been the policy of the Federal
Government from the beginning to respect the Indian
right of occupancy, which could only be interfered with
or determined by the United States." Cramer v. United
States, 261 U. S.219, 227. This policy was first rec9gnized
in Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 543, and has been repeatedly reaffirmed. Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515;
Mitchel v. United States, 9 Pet. 711; Chouteauv. Molony,
16 How. 203; Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211; Buttz v. Northern Pacific Railroad, supra; United States v*.Shoshone
Tribe, 304 U. S. 111. As stated in Mitchel v. United
States, supra, p. 746, Indian "right of occupancy is considered as sacred as the fee simple of the whites." Whatever may have been the rights of the Walapais under
Spanish law, the Cramer case assumed that lands within
the Mexican Cession were not excepted from the policy to
respect Indian right of occupancy. Though the Cramer
'See Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, 9 Stat. 922.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

case involved the problem of individual Indian occupancy,
this Court stated that such occupancy was not to be
treated differently from "the original nomadic tribal occupancy." (p. 227.) Perhaps the assumption that aboriginal possession would be respected in the Mexican Cession was, like the generalizations in Johnson v. M'Intosh,
supra, not necessary for the narrow holding of the case.
But such generalizations have been so often and so long
repeated as respects land under the prior sovereignty of
the various European nations, including Spain,8 that, like
other rules governing titles to property (United States v.
Title Insurance & Trust Co., 265 U. S. 472, 486-487) they
should now be considered no longer open. Furthermore,
treaties 'negotiated with Indian tribes, wholly or partially
within the Mexican Cession, for delimitation of their occupancy rights or for the settlement and adjustment of
their boundaries, constitute clear recognition that no
different policy as respects aboriginal possession obtained
in this area than in other areas. And see United States v.
Kagama,118 U. S. 375,381. Certainly it would take plain
and unambiguous action to deprive the Walapais of the
benefits of that policy. For it was founded on the desire
to maintain just and peaceable relations with Indians.
The reasons for its application to other tribes are no less
apparent in case of the Walapais, a savage tribe which in
early days caused the military no end of trouble.
Chouteau v. Molony, supra; Buttz v. Northern Pacific Railroad,
8upra; Cramer v. United States, 8upra; United States v. Shoshone
Tribe, supra. See Royce, Indian Land Cessions in the United States,
18 Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution, Pt. 2 (1899) pp. 539-561, 639-643.
'Treaty of July 1, 1852, 10 Stat. 979 (Apache Nation); Treaty of
October 7, 1863, 13 Stat. 673, 674 (Tabeguache Band of Utah Indians); Treaty of March 2, 1868, 15 Stat. 619, Act of April 29, 1874,
18 Stat. 36, Act of June 15, 1880, 21 Stat. 199 (Ute Indians); Treaty
of June 1, 1868, 15 Stat. 667 (Navajo Tribe). For a schedule of Indian

land cessions see Royce, op. oit., eupra note 3, pp. 648 et seq.

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. 0O.
339

Opinion of the Court.

Nor is it true, as respondent urges, that a tribal claim
to any particular lands must be based upon a treaty, statute, or other formal government action. As stated in the
Cramer case, "The fact that such right of occupancy finds
no recognition in any statute or other formal governmental
action is not conclusive." 261 U. S. at 229.
Extinguishment of Indian title based on aboriginal
possession is of course a different matter. The power of
Congress in that regard is supreme. The manner, method
and time of such extinguishment raise political, not justiciable, issues. Buttz v. Northern Pacific Railroad,
supra,p. 66. As stated by Chief Justice Marshall in Johnson v. M'Intosh, supra, p. 586, "the exclusive right of the
United States to extinguish" Indian title has never been
doubted. And whether it be done by treaty, by the sword,
by purchase, by the exercise of complete dominion adverse
to the right of occupancy, or otherwise, its justness is not
open to inquiry in the courts. Beecher v. Wetherby, 95
U. S. 517, 525.
If the right of occupancy of the Walapais was not extinguished prior to the date of definite location of the
railroad in 1872, then the respondent's predecessor took
the fee subject to the encumbrance of Indian title. Buttz
v. NorthernPacificRailroad,supra. For on that date the
title of respondent's predecessor attached as of July 27,
1866. United States v. Southern PacificR. Co., 146 U. S.
570; Nelson v. Northern PacificRy. Co., 188 U. S.108.
Certainly, prior to 1865 any right of occupancy of the
Walapais to the lands in question was not extinguished;
nor was the policy of respecting such Indian title changed.
The Indian Trade and Intercourse Act of June 30, 1834,
4 Stat. 729, was extended over "the Indian tribes in the
Territories of New Mexico and Utah" by § 7 of the Act of
February 27, 1851, 9 Stat. 574, 587. The 1834 Act, which
derived from the Act of July 22, 1790, 1 Stat. 137, made it
an offense to drive stock to range or feed "on any land

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
-Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

belonging to any Indian or Indian tribe, without the consent of such tribe" (§ 9); gave the superintendent of Indian affairs authority "to remove from the Indian country

all persons found therein contrary to law" (§.10); made-it
unlawful to settle on "any*lands belonging, secured, or
granted by treaty with the United States to any Indian
tribe" (§ 11); and made invalid any conveyance of lands
"from any Indian nation or tribe of Indians." § 12. The
Act of 1851 obviously did not create any Indian right of
occupancy which did not previously exist. But it plainly
indicates that in 1851 Congress desired to continue in these
territories the unquestioned general policy of the Federal
Government to recognize such right of occupancy. As
stated by Chief Justice Marshall in Worcester v. Georgia,
supra, 6 Pet. p. 557, the Indian trade and intercourse acts
"manifestly consider the several Indian nations as distinct
political communities, having territorial boundaries,
within which their authority is exclusive, and having a
right to all the lands within those boundaries, which is
not only acknowledged, but guarantied by the United
States."
The court below laid considerable stress upon the Act
of July 22, 1854, 10 Stat. 308, as indicating that Congress
recognized no rights of the Indians in Arizona and New
Mexico other than those existing under Mexican law or
created by reservations after the Mexican Cession. But
we do not agree that, so far as the respondent's rights are
concerned, that Act instituted a policy of non-recognition
of Indian title. Nor do we think that it effected any
extinguishment of that title.
The Act of 1854 established the office of Surveyor General of New Mexico. It donated land to certain qualified
citizens (§ 2) with the exception, inter alia, of "military
or other reservations." §4. Unlike the Pre-emption Act
of September 4, 1841, § 10, 5 Stat. 453, the 1854 Act did
not extend only to "the public lands to which the Indian

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

title had been at the time of such settlement extinguished."
It did provide, however, that "any of the lands not taken"
under it should "be subject to the operation" of the Preemption Act. § 7. Moreover, the 1854 Act provided as respects the Territories of Nebraska and Kansas that the
grants should extend only to lands "to which the Indian
title has been or shall be extinguished." § 12.
From that it is argued that since Congress recognized
Indian title in Nebraska and Kansas and under the Preemption Act but did not recognize it as respects the lands
in this area, a shift of policy in the Mexican Cession was
indicated. The issue here, however, is not between a settler claiming under the 1854 Act and the Walapais.
Whether in such a case the 1854 Act should be construed
as extinguishing any Indian title to land taken under it
we need not decide.' Respondent does not claim under
that Act and hence can derive no rights from it.
Some stress is likewise placed on § 8 of the Act of July
22, 1854, and on the Act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 291, 304.
The former required the Surveyor General for New Mexico
"to ascertain the origin, nature, character, and extent of
all claims to lands under the laws, usages, and customs
of Spain and Mexico"; and to make a report "on all
such claims as originated before the cession of the territory
to the United States by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo . . . denoting the various grades of title, with his

decision as to the validity or invalidity of each of the
same under the laws, usages, and customs of the country
before its cession to the United States." Such reportwas
to be "laid before Congress for such action thereon as may
be deemed just and proper, with a view to confirm bona
'The Act of 1854 is cited in Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian
Law (1941) p. 308, for the statement that, "Only where it was neces-

sary to give emigrants possessory rights to parts of the public domain,
tribal lands in disregard of tribal possessory

'has Congress ever granted
rights."

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

fide grants, and give full effect" to the treaty. It was also
provided that "until the final action of Congress on such
claims, all lands covered thereby shall be reserved from
sale or other disposal by the government, and shall not
be subject to the donations granted by the previous provisions of this act." The 1870 Act directed the Surveyor
General for Arizona (which was separated as a Territory
from New Mexico in 1863, 12 Stat. 664) "to ascertain and
report upon the origin, nature, character, and extent of
the claims to lands in said Territory under the laws,
usages, and customs of Spain and Mexico." His report
was to be "laid before Congress for such action thereon
as shall be deemed just and proper."
These Acts did not extinguish any Indian title based
on aboriginal occupancy which the Walapais may have
had. In that respect they were quite different from the
Act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, passed to ascertain
and settle certain land claims in California. Under § 13
of that Act "all lands the claims to which shall not have
been presented" to the commissioners, appointed to receive
and act upon all petitions for confirmation of land claims,
"within two years after the date of this act, shall be
deemed, held, and considered as part of the public domain
of the United States." This Court passed on that Act in
Barker v. 'Harvey, 181 U. S. 481. The plaintiff there
claimed under two Mexican grants. The defendants were
Indians who claimed a right of permanent occupancy;
but they had not presented their claims to the commissioners within the time specified by § 13. This Court held
that as a result of that failure their claims were barred.
And see United States v. Title Insurance & Trust Co.,
supra, 265 U. S. 472. That is to say, the Act of 1851 was
interpreted as containing machinery for extinguishment
of claims, including those based on Indian right of occupancy. Since Congress had provided a method for extinguishment, its appropriateness raised only a political,

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

not a justiciable, issue. The Acts of 1854 and 1870, unlike
the Act of 1851, merely called for a report to Congress
on certain land claims. If there was an extinguishment
of the rights of the Walapais, it resulted not from action
of the Surveyor General but from action of Congress
based on his reports.' We are not advised that Congress
took any. such action. In its absence we must conclude
that these Acts were concerned not with the problem of
ascertaining the boundaries of Indian country but with
the problem of quieting titles originating under Spanish
o Mexican grants. For it should be noticed that § 8
of the 1854 Act contemplated confirmation by Congress
of "bona fide grants."
This brings us to the Act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 541,
559, which provided: "All that part of the public domain
in the Territory of Arizona, lying west of a direct line from
Half-Way Bend to Corner Rock on the Colorado River,
containing about seventy-five thousand acres of land, shall
be set apart for an Indian reservation for the Indians of
said river and its tributaries." It is plain that the Indians
referred to included the Walapais. The suggestion for
removing various Indian tribes in this area to a reservation
apparently originated with a former Indian agent, Superintendent Poston, who was a Territorial Representative in
Congress in 1865. His explanation I on the floor of the
"The various reports of the Surveyor General are found in the
annual reports of the Secretary of the Interior from 1855 through
1890, when the Court of Private Land Claims was constituted. Act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 854. Sec. 15 of that Act repealed § 8 of
the Act of 1854. Under § 13 of the 1891 Act it was provided: "No
claim shall be allowed that shall interfere with or overthrow any
just and unextinguished Indian title or right to any land or place."
'Cong. Globe, 38th Cong., 2d Sess., March 2, 1865, p. 1320: "As
superintendent of Indian affairs, I called the confederated tribes of the
Colorado in council together. The council was attended by the principal chiefs and headmen of the Yumas, Mojaves, Yapapais, Hualapais,
and Chemihuevis. These tribes have an aggregate of ten thousand

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

House of the bill, which resulted in the creation of the
1865 reservation, indicates that he had called a council
of the confederated tribes of the Colorado, including the
Walapais, and had told them that "they should abandon"
their lands and confine themselves to the place on the Colorado river which was later proposed for a reservation. He
entered into no agreement with them nor did he propose a
treaty. He merely stated that if elected to Congress he
would try to get Congress to provide for them. As stated
-by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs in 1864, "Assuming
that the Indians have a right of some kind to the soil,
Mr. Poston's arrangement proposes a compromise with
these Indians, by which on their confining themselves to
their reservation, and yielding all claims to lands beyond
it, they shall, in lieu of an annuity in money or supplies,
souls living near the banks of the Colorado, from Fort Yuma to Fort
Mojave....
"But as the representative of the Government of the United States
at that time, I did not undertake to make a written treaty with these
Indians, because I considered that the Government was able and
willing to treat them fairly and honestly without entering into the
form of a written treaty, which has been heretofore so severely criticised in both Houses of Congress, and with some reason. These Indians
there assembled were willing, for a small amount of beef and flour, to
have signed any treaty which it had been my pleasure to write. I
simply proposed to them that for all the one hundred and twenty
thousand square miles, full of mines and rich enough to pay the public
debt of the United States, they should abandon that Territory and
confine themselves to the elbow in the Colorado river, not more than
seventy-five thousand acres. But I did not enter into any obligation
on account of the United States to furnish them with seeds and agricultural implements. I simply told them that if I was elected to
represent that Territory in this Congress, I would endeavor to lay their
claims before the Government, which they understood to be magnanimous, and that I hoped that this Congress would have the generosity and the justice to provide for these Indians, who have been
robbed of their lands and their means of subsistence, and that they
may be allovd to live there where they have always made their homes.
They dsire to live as do the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico and

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

be furnished by government with an irrigating canal, at a
cost estimated at something near $100,000, which, by insuring them their annual crops, will enable them to support themselves, independently of other aid by the
government." 8
We search the public records in vain for any clear and
plain indication that Congress in creating the Colorado
River reservation was doing more than making an offer to
the Indians, including the Walapais, which it was hoped
would be accepted as a compromise of a troublesome ques-

tion. We find no indication that Congress by creating
that reservation intended to extinguish all of the rights
which the Walapais had in their ancestral home.'

That

Arizona. Those Pueblo Indians live in settlements, in towns, in reservations, according to the wise policy of the Spanish Government,
which colonized the Indians in reservations and made their labor valuable in building improvements for their own sustenance, for churches,
and public improvements, and in that manner made them peaceable
Indians, instead of having everlasting and eternal war with the people
whom they had robbed of their land.
"These people havingbeen citizens of the Mexican Government, are
not, according to our theory, entitled to any right in the soil; -and
therefore no treaty with these Indians for the extinction of their title
to the soilwould be recognized by this Government. It is a-fiction of
law which these Indians, in their ignorance, are not able to understand.
They cannot see why the Indians of the Northeast have been paid
annuities since the foundation of this Government for the extinction.
of their title, while the Indians who were formerly subject to the
Spanish and Mexican Governments are driven from their lands without a dollar. It is impossible for these simple-minded people to understand this sophistry. They consider themselves just as much entitled
to the land which their ancestors inhabited before ours landed on
Plymouth Rock as the Indians of the Northeast. They have never
signed any treaty relinquishing their right to the public domain."
8
Report of the Secretary of the Interior, Dec. 5, 1864, p. 165.
'Respondent also places some stress on the Act of April 20, 1871,
17 Stat. 19, in which Congress permitted respondent's predecessor to
mortgage its property. But as stated in Leavenworth,.L. & G. R?. Co."
v. United States, 92 U. S. 733, 753, ".. title to lands is-not strength6ed
428670'-42-

28

3M4

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

Congress could have effected such an extinguishment is
not doubted. But an extinguishment cannot be lightly
implied in view of the avowed solicitude of the Federal
Government for the welfare of its Indian wards. As
stated in Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 675, the rule of
construction recognized without exception for over a century has been that "doubtful expressions, instead of being
resolved in favor of the United States, are to be resolved in
favor of a weak and defenseless people, who are wards of
the nation, and dependent wholly upon its protection and
good faith." And see Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S.
373, 395-896. Nor was there any plain intent or agreement on the part of the Walapais to abandon their
ancestral lands if Congress would create a reservation.
Furthermore, the Walapais did not accept the offer which
Congress had tendered. In 1874 they were, however,
forcibly removed to the Colorado River reservation on
order from the Indian Department. 10 But they left it in
a body the next year. 1 And it was decided "to allow them
to remain in their old range during good behavior."
They did thereafter remain in their old country and enby giving a mortgage upon them; nor can the fact that it has been
given throw any light upon the prior estate of the mortgagor." And

see Atlantic & Pacific R. Co. v. Mingu, 165 U. S. 413, 430, where this
Court in speaking of the purpose of the Act of April 20, 1871, said:
"The original act being silent upon the subject of mortgaging the grint,
there is reason to suppose that Congress passed the act for the purpose
of resolving any doubts that capitalists may have entertained with
respect to such power. The mortgagees, standing in the place of the
mortgagor, had no greater rights than it had, and must be held to
have known that they were taking an estate which was defeasible upon
condition broken."
'Walapai Papers, S. Doc. No. 273, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 96-98.

Though the Walapais were at peace with the whites prior to 1866
(id. p. 92) the killing of their head chief by a white led to hostilities

which continued for a few years. Id. pp. 37-94.
"Walapai Papers, op. cit., p. 104.
"' Walapai Papers, op. cit., p. 104.

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

gaged in no hostilities against the whites. No further
attempt was made to force them onto the Colorado River
reservation, even though Congress had made various appropriations to defray the costs of locating the Arizona
Indians in permanent abodes (Act of March 3, 1865, 13
Stat. 541, 559; Act of July 27, 1868, 15 Stat. 198, 219; Act
of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 335, 357), including the Colorado
River reservation. Act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 492,
515; Act of May 29, 1872, 17 Stat. 165, 188. On these
facts we conclude that the creation of the Colorado River
reservation was, so far as the Walapais were concerned,
nothing more than an abortive attempt to solve a perplexing problem. Their forcible removal in 1874 was not pursuant to any mandate of Congress. It was a high-handed
,endeavor to wrest from these Indians lands which Congress
had never declared forfeited.13 No forfeiture can be
"See Walapai Papers, op. cit., p. 108. General Schofield reported on
May 24, 1875, to the Adjutant General as follows:
"The Hualpai Indians have been our firm friends for many years,
and our active allies whenever their services-have been required against
the hostile Apaches. In return for their fidelity they have been treated.
with great injustice and cruelty. They were forced to leave their
homes in the mountains and go upon a reservation in the Colorado
desert, where they have suffered from the extreme heat, to which they
were unaccustomed, from disease, and from hunger.
"This was done in spite of the protest of the Military commanders
who were familiar with the wants of these Indians and were anxious
to repay by kind treatment the faithful services they had rendered.
The Indians were bitterly opposed to this change, and it was only the
great influence which Genl. Crook and Captain Byrne had acquired
over them that enabled the removal to be made without war.
"The Indian Agent, having seen fit to relinquish the aid of this powerful influence, the effect was at once manifest in the return of the
Hualpais to their former homes.
"I am decidedly opposed to the use of any coercive measures to force
them back upon the Colorado reservation.
"The injustice and bad faith shown by the government toward
the Hualpais and the Indians which Gen'l. Crook had collected upon
the Verde reservation are calculated to undo as far as possible the

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

predicated on an unauthorized attempt to effect a forcible
settlement on the reservation, unless we are to be insensitive to the high standards for fair dealing in light of
which laws dealing with Indian rights have long been
read.' Certainly, a forced abandonment of their ancestral
home was not a "voluntary cession" within the meaning
of § 2 of the Act of July 27, 1866. Atlantic & Pacific R.
Co. v. Mingus, 165 U. S. 413, 438-439.
The situation was, however, quite different in 1881.
Between 1875 and that date there were rather continuous
suggestions for settling the Walapais on some reservation." In 1881 the matter came to a head. A majority
of the tribe, "in council assembled," asked an officer of
the United States Army in that region "to aid them and
represent to the proper authorities" the following proposal:1 "They say that in the country', over which they
used to roam so free, the white men have appropriated
all the water; that large numbers of cattle have been
introduced and have rapidly increased during the past
year or two; that in many places the water is fenced in and
locked up; and they are driven from all waters. They
say that the Railroad is now coming, which will require
more water, and will bring more men who will take up all
the small springs remaining. They urge that the following reservati6n be set aside for them while there is still
good work .which Gen'l. Crook and his troops had accomplished with
so much wisdom and gallantry. It is useless to attempt to disguise
the fact that such treatment of the Indians is in violation of the just
and humane policy prescribed by the President and a disgrace to any
civilized country."'
Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 113-131.
Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 134-135. For a strikingly close versiqn
of this episode as related in 1931 by a member of the Walapai tribe
who was present at the conference in 1881 between the council of the
tribe and the'United States Army officer, see Walapaf Papers, pp.
247-249.

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

time; that the land can never be of any great use to the
Whites; that there are no mineral deposits upon it, as it has
been thoroughly prospected; that there is little or no
arable land; that the water is in such small quantities,
and the country is so rocky and void of grass, that it
would not be available for stock raising. I am credibly
informed, and from my observations believe, the above
facts to be true. I, therefore, earnestly recommend that
the hereafter described Reservation be, at as early a date
as practicable, set aside for them."
Pursuant to that recommendation, the military reservation was constituted on July 8, 1881, subject to the approval of the President." The Executive Order creating
the Walapai Indian Reservation was signed by President
Arthur on January 4, 1883."7 There was an indication
that the Indians were satisfied with the proposed reservation.18 A few of them thereafter lived on the reservation.;
many of them did not.19 While suggestions recurred for
the creation of a new and different reservation, ' ° this one
was not abandoned. For a long time it remained unsurveyed.2 Cattlemen used it for grazing, and for some
years the Walapais received little benefit from it.22 But
in view of all of the circumstances, we conclude that its
creation at the request of the Walapais and its acceptance
by them amounted to a relinquishment of any tribal claims
1

,Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 135-136.
"Walapai Papers, op. cit., p. 146. As to the validity of a reservation

established by Executive Order, see United States v. Midwest Oil Co.,
236 U. S. 459. Spalding v. Chandler, 160 U. S. 394. General Indian
Allotment Act of February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388, § 1; 34 Op. A. G.
181, 186-189.
SWalapai Papers, op. cit., p. 136.
Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 163, 165-168, 178, 198.
Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 151, 161-165.
,Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 192, 196.

Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 179, 183.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

to lands 8 which they might have had outside that reservation and that that relinquishment was tantamount to an
extinguishment by "voluntary cession" within the meaning of § 2 of the Act of July 27, 1866. The lands were fast
being populated. The Walapais saw their old domain
being preempted. They wanted a reservation while there
was still time to get one. That solution had long seemed
desirable in view of recurring tensions between the settlers and the Walapais. In view of the long standing
attempt to settle the Walapais' problem by placing them
on a reservation, their acceptance of this reservation must
be regarded in law as the equivalent of a release of any
tribal rights which they may have had in lands outside
the reservation. They were in substance acquiescing in the
penetration of white settlers on condition that permanent
provision was made for them too. In view of this historical
setting, it cannot now be fairly implied that tribal rights
of the Walapais in lands outside the reservation were
preserved. That would make the creation of the 1883
reservation, as an attempted solution of the violent problems created when two civilizations met in this area,
illusory indeed. We must give it the definitiveness which
the exigencies of that situation seem to demand. Hence,
acquiescence in that arrangement must be deemed to have
been a relinquishment of tribal rights in lands outside the
reservation and notoriously claimed by others. Cf. Marsh
v. Brooks, 14 How. 513; Shoshone Tribe v. United States,
299 U.S. 476.
On January 23,1941, the date of the filing of this petition
for certiorari, respondent quitclaimed to the United States,
under § 321 (b), Pt. IiI of the Interstate Commerce Act
"As distinguished from individual rights of occupancy, if any, as
were involved in Cramer v. United States, supra, 261 U. S. 219, but
which, not being in issue here, are not foreclosed or affected by the
judgment in this case.

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

(Transportation Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 929, 954), all lands
claimed by it under the Act of July 27, 1866, within the
Walapai Indian Reservation. Since the decree below
must stand as to the second cause of action and since by
virtue of the quitclaim deeds the United States has received all the lands to which the first cause of action relates,
the decree will not be reversed. It is apparent, however,
that it must be modified so as to permit the accounting as
respects lands in the first cause of action. It does not
appear whether those lands were included , in the ancestral
home of the Walapais in the sense that they were in whole
or in part occupied exclusively by them or whether they
were lands wandered over by many tribes. As we have
said, occupancy necessary to establish aboriginal possession is a question of fact. The United States is entitled
to an accounting as respects any or all of the lands in the
first cause of action which the Walapais did in fact occupy
exclusively from time immemorial.2 ' Such an accounting
is not precluded by the Act of February 20, 1925, 43 Stat.
954, which authorized the Secretary of the Interior "to
accept reconveyances to the Government of privately
owned and State school lands and relinquishments of
any valid filings, under the homestead laws, or of other
valid claims within the Walapai Indian Reservation."
The implication is that there may be some land within
the reservation that is not subject to Indian occupancy.
But that Act certainly cannot be taken as an extinguishment of any and all Indian title that did exist or as a
repeal by implication of § 2 of the Act of July 27, 1866,
requiring such extinguishment by "voluntary cession."
"In case of any lands in the reservation which were not part of
the ancestral home of the Walapais and which had passed to the
railroad under the 1866 Act, the railroad's title would antedate the
creation of the reservation in 1883 and hence not be subject to the
incumbrance of Indian title.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

It was passed so that lands "retained for Indian purposes
may be consolidated and held in a solid area so far as
may be possible." 25 Such statements by the Secretary
of the Interior as that "title to the odd-numbered sections" was in the respondent 2' do not estop the United
States from maintaining this suit. For they could not
deprive the Indians of their rights any more than could the
unauthorized leases in Cramerv. UnitedStates, supra.

Hence, an accounting as respects such lands in the reservation which can be proved to have been occupied by the
Walapais from time immemorial can be had. To the
extent that the decree below precludes such proof and

accounting, it will be modified. And, as so modified, it is
Affirmed.
NEW YORK, CHICAGO & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD
CO. v. FRANK.
APPEAL FROM THE APPELLATE TERM OF THE SUPREME
COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 15.

Reargued October 16, 17, 1941.-Decided December 8, 1941.

The attempt of a consolidated interstate carrier to escape liability
for debts of a constituent, upon the ground that permission to
assume such liability was never applied for or obtained under § 20a
of the Interstate Commerce Act, although according to the state
law under which the consolidation took place the liability was
one which attached to the -consolidated corporation upon its creation, can not be upheld in this case in view of a consistent and
long-standing interpretation placed upon § 20a by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, in relation to this particular carrier system, and with full knowledge of its affairs, as not requiring such
H. Rep. No. 1446, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1. So far as appears there
were no reconveyances under that Act. It apparently was, however,
the occasion for precipitating the present litigation.
"Id. And see Walapai Papers, op. cit., pp. 320-321.

