INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
44

63

Syllabus.

courts and in the relations of the federal courts inter se.
Cf. Gay v. Ruff, 292 U. S. 25.
The CHIEF
this opinion.

JUSTICE

and

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS join in

INDIANAPOLIS ET AL. V. CHASE NATIONAL BANK,

TRUSTEE,

ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 10 and 11. Argued February 6, 7, 1941. Reargued October 15,
16, 1941.--Decided November 10, 1941.
1. To sustain federal jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of citizenship, there must exist an actual, substantial controversy, on one
side of which the parties must all be citizens of States different from
those of which the parties on the other side are citizens. P. 69.
2. Diversity jurisdiction can not be conferred upon the federal courts
by the parties' own determination of who are plaintiffs and who
are defendants; and it is the duty of this Court, as well as of the
lower courts, to look beyond the pleadings and arrange the parties
according to their sides in the dispute. P. 69.
3. Whether there exists the necessary collision of interests to sustain
diversity jurisdiction, must be ascertained from the principal purpose of the suit and the primary and controlling matter in dispute.
P. 69.
4. Upon the facts of this case, which was a suit brought, in a federal
court of Indiana, by a New York bank against two Indiana gas companies and an Indiana city, this Court holds that the "primary and
controlling matter in dispute" is whether a lease, whereby one of the
gas companies conveyed all of its gas plant property to the other, was
binding upon the city, to which the property had been afterwards
conveyed by the lessee corporation pursuant to its franchise; that,
with respect to that dispute, one of the gas companies and the city
("citizens" of the same State) are on opposite sides; and that, there*Together with No. 12, Chase National Bank, Trustee, v. Citizens
Gas Co. et al.; and No. 13, Chase National Bank, Trustee, v. Indianapolis Gas Co. et al., also on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for the Bank.

314 U. S.

fore, federal jurisdiction, which depends on diversity of citizenship,

is lacking. Pp. 70, 74.
5. This Court's earlier denial of certiorari to review a judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a judgment of the District
Court which dismissed this suit for want of jurisdiction, could not
confer on the federal courts a jurisdiction which Congress has
denied. P. 75.
6. The policy of the statute conferring diversity jurisdiction upon the
district courts calls for its strict construction. P. 76.
113 F. 2d 217, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 636, 637, to review the reversal
of a judgment which held a lease invalid. A petition for
certiorari to review the case in an earlier phase, 96 F. 2d
363, was denied, 305 U. S. 600.
Mr. Howard F. Burns, with whom Messrs. John Adams
and Harvey J. Elam were on the brief, for the Chase National Bank, at both hearings.
The Circuit Court of Appeals properly refused to realign Indianapolis Gas with Chase as a party plaintiff.
It is inconceivable that a party against whom plaintiff
is entitled to recover a judgment for approximately
$1,700,000 can be aligned with the plaintiff under any
circumstances.
The City's argument is based entirely on the fact that
the City, as successor lessee, has been held primarily
liable and Indianapolis Gas secondarily liable for the
amount of the judgment, and that the City is well able to
pay the judgment out of the funds of the public charitable
trust. A parity of reasoning would require a realignment
whenever a creditor sues a principal and surety on a
debt.
The situation here is substantially the same as when
a mortgagor sells the mortgaged property to a third
person, who agrees to pay the mortgage debt. The mortgagor becomes the surety and the irantee of the mortgaged property becomes the principal debtor. Union

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

65

Argument for the Bank.

Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Hanford, 143 U. S. 187; Birke v.
Abbott, 103 Ind. 1; Todd v. Oglebay, 158 Ind. 595.
The relationship of principal and surety is similarly
involved where, as here, the mortgagor merely leases the
property to a third person, who in turn agrees to pay the
interest on the mortgage as rent. Central Trust Co. v.
Berwind-White Coal Co.; 95 F. 391.
When there has been an assumption of the mortgage
obligations, either by a vendee or a lessee, and the mortgagee sues to recover the debt, he ordinarily joins as defendants both the original mortgagor and the vendee or
lessee who has assumed the mortgage obligations. The
mortgagor may be vitally interested in having an adjudication that his vendee or lessee did assume the mortgage
and that he, the mortgagor, is merely a surety on the obligation; but that does not require a realignment of the
mortgagor with the mortgagee. The mortgagee has a
bona fide claim for relief against both defendants and it is
wholly immaterial that one of them is liable only as
surety.
The plaintiff here has a bona fide claim for unpaid
interest against Indianapolis Gas, Citizens Gas, and the
City, and they are all properly aligned as defendants, even
though some of them may be primarily and others only
secondarily liable.
The City has not cited a single case in which the
plaintiff had even one substantial controversy with a
defendant and such defendant was realigned with the
plaintiff for jurisdictional purposes. The fact that plaintiff and such defendant may be in accord as to some of the
other issues in the case is wholly immaterial. To be sure,
realignment is required where there is no bona fide prayer
for relief against a particular defendant, as in City of
Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178, but that is
not the situation in the case at bar.
Sutton v. English, 246 U. S. 199, supports federal jurisdiction of this case. See also Republic National Bank &

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for the City.

314 U. S.

Trust Co. v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co., 68 F. 2d
445,447; Detroit Tile & Mosaic Co. v. Mason Contractors'
Assn., 48 F. 2d 729, 731; Franz v. Franz, 15 F. 2d 797,
799; Feidlerv. Bartleson, 161 F. 30, 35.
In each of those cases there was at least one controversy between the plaintiff and the defendant sought to
be realigned, and this single controversy prevented such
realignment, despite the fact that plaintiff and such defendant were in accord as to some of the other controversies. The rule of law applied in these cases and in the
case at bar on the first appeal-that a defendant against
whom plaintiff asks relief and with whom plaintiff has
distinct conflicts of interests cannot be realigned with the
plaintiff in determining federal jurisdictiort-has been
universally recognized. The federal courts have continued to apply this rule since the decision of the jurisdictional question in this case in 1938. See Rex Co. v. InternationalHarvesterCo., 107 F. 2d 767, 768, citing Sutton v.
E2nglish and the first decision of the Court of Appeals in
the case at bar in support.
The City's contention that the question as to the validity of the lease is the dominant controversy in this case
and inust govern the question of realignment, without regard to any other controversies, is based on the proposition th3,t plaintiff and Indianapolis Gas are on the same
side of -hat controversy. The fact is that plaintiff asks
precisely the same relief against Indianapolis Gas on this
issue tha , it asks against the City and Citizens Gas,
namely, that the lease b-. held binding on each. The fallacy in the'City's argument is its assumption that a defendant can destroy the controversy upon which federal
jurisdiction depends by admitting its liability, or even by
consenting to have its liability enforced. The law is well
settled to the contrary. Re Metropolitan Railway Receivership, 208 U. S. 90.
Mr. William 1.r . Thompson, with whom Messrs. PerryE.
O'Neal, Patrick .7. Smith, and Edward H. Knight were on

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

67

Argument for the City.

the brief, for the City of Indianapolis et al., at both
hearings.
The suit was brought by Chase as mortgagee, i. e.,
trustee, under a deed of trust securing an issue of bonds
of Indianapolis Gas. Chase sought a decree declaring
that the ninety-nine year lease between Indianapolis Gas,
lessor, and Citizens Gas, lessee, was binding upon and
enforceable against the City.
The Circuit Court of Appeals correctly held that Indianapolis Gas was an indispensable party. Chase National Bank v. Citizens Gas Co., 96 F. 2d 363.
The controlling controversy is whether the pleaded
lease has become enforceable against the City. No other
cause of action is alleged against the City except claims
for damages which are dependent upon the determination
of the validity of the lease.
The City contends that the leaseis invalid and unenforceable against it; Chase maintains that the lease is
valid and binding against the City; Indianapolis Gas
maintains that the lease is valid and binding against the
City. Chase and Indianapolis Gas thus have a similar
and identical interest against the City on the question of
the validity of the lease.
The City has been held bound by the lease and required
to pay the obligations of Indianapolis Gas under the mortgage. No matter what the form of the judgment may
be, no one can realistically suppose that Indianapolis
Gas has been harmed by the entry of this judgment or
that it will be required to pay a single penny as a result
of it. On the contrary, it will have obtained exactly what
it sought from.the commencement of this litigation: a
decree requiring the City to make the payments under the
lease.
The other subsidiary relief asked against Indianapolis
Gas by Chase has either not been prosecuted beyond the
allegation in the complaint'and prayers, is dependent

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

upon a decision respecting the validity of the lease, or is
relief against which Indianapolis Gas is completely
insulated.
If the interests of Chase and Indianapolis Gas were not
in accord, Indianapolis Gas would not have opposed review by this Court of a judgment against it for more than
$1,000,000.
By arranging the parties according to their real interest in the case-viz., the enforceability of the 99 year
lease against the City-it is clear that the interests of
Indianapolis Gas and of Chase are identical. They should
be realigned as parties plaintiff. Diversity of citizenship
would thus be destroyed, and the sole ground of jurisdiction of the federal District Court would be lost. Compare City of Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co., 197 U. S.
178,181; Niles-Bement-Pond Co. v. Iron Moulders Union,
254 U. S. 77, 81.
Mr. William G. Sparks, with whom Mr. Paul Y. Davis
was on the brief, for the Citizens Gas Co.
Mr. William R. Higgins for the Indianapolis Gas Co.,
at both hearings. Mr. Louis B. Ewbank was with him on
the brief and at the first hearing.
MR. JusTiCE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit instituted b the Chase National Bank,
a New York corporation, in the federal District Court for
the Southern District of Indiana, naming as-defendants
the Indianapolis Gas Company, the Citizens Gas Company of Indianapolis (Indiana corporations), and the City
of Indianapolis. (For brevity's sake the parties 'will be
referred to as Chase, Indianapolis Gas, Citizens Gas, and
the City, respectively.) The power of the District Court
to entertain this litigation was sustained by the Circuit

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

69

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit under the provision of the Judicial Code conferring upon the district
courts jurisdiction "Of all suits of a civil nature . ..
where the matter in controversy exceeds . . . three thousand dollars, and . . . is between citizens of different
States . . ." 36 Stat. 1091; 28 U. S. C. ยง 41 (1). The
correctness of this jurisdictional ruling must be determined
before the merits of Chase's claims can be considered.
The specific question is this: Does an alignment of the
parties in relation to their real interests in the "matter in
controversy" satisfy the settled requirements of diversity
jurisdiction?
As is true of many problems in the law, the answer is
to be found not in legal learning but in the realities of the
record. Though variously expressed in the decisions, the
governing principles are clear. To sustain diversity jurisdiction there must exist an "actual," Helm v. Zarecor, 222
U. S. 32, 36, "substantial," Niles-Bement-Pond Co. v.
Iron Moulders Union, 254 U. S. 77, 81, controversy between citizens of different states, all of whon on one side
of the controversy are citizens of different states from all
parties on the other side. Strawbridge v. Cw'tiss, 3
Cranch 267. Diversity jurisdiction cannot be conferred
upon the federal courts by the parties' own determination
of who are plaintiffs and who defendants. It is our duty,
as it is that of the lower federal courts, to "look beyond
the pleadings and arrange the parties according to their
sides in the dispute." Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co.,
197 U. S. 178, 180. Litigation is the pursuit of practical
ends, not a game of chess. Whether the necessary "collision of interests," Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co., supra,at
181, exists, is therefore not to be determined by mechanical
rules. It must be ascertained from the "principal purpose
of the suit," East Tennessee, V. & G. R. v. Grayson, 119
U. S. 240, 244, and the "primary andcontrolling matter in
dispute," Merchants' Cotton Press Co. v. Insurance Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

151 U. S. 368, 385. These familiar doctrines governing
the alignment of parties for purposes of determining diversity of citizenship have consistently guided the lower
federal courts I and this Court
And so we turn to the actualities of this litigation.
Chase is the trustee under a mortgage deed, to secure a
bond issue, executed by Indianapolis Gas in 1902. In 1906
Citizens Gas was formed to compete with Indianapolis Gas
in the distribution of light, heat, and power to the people
of Indianapolis. Its franchise provided that after the expiration of twenty-five years and the performance of
certain specified conditions, the company should be wound
up and its property conveyed to the City subject to the
company's "outstanding legal obligations." The competition between the two gas companies continued until 1913,
when Indianapolis Gas leased all of its gas plant property
to Citizens Gas for a term of ninety-nine years. Citizens
Gas agreed to pay as rental (a) the interest on the lessor's
outstanding bonded indebtedness, and (b) annual sums
equal to a six per cent return on Indianapolis Gas's common stock. For twenty-two years thereafter Citizens Gas
operated the mortgaged property and paid the interest on
the bonds. In 1935, pursuant to its franchise, Citizens Gas
conveyed its entire property, including that covered by
its lease from Indianapolis Gas, to the City. But the City
refused to regard itself bound by this lease. On March 2,
'E. g., Pittsburgh, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,

61 F. 705; Cilley v. Patten,62 F. 498; Board of Trustees v. Blair,70 F.
414; Allen-West Commission Co. v. Brashear, 176 F. 119; Lindauer v.
Compania Palomas, 247 F. 428; DeGraffenreidv. Yount-Lee Oil Co.,
30 F. 2d 574.
In addition to the cases cited in the text, see Removal Cases, 100
U. S. 457; 468-70; Pacific R. Co. v. Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289, 298-99;
Corbin v. Van Brunt, 105 U. S. 576; Evers v. Watson, 156 U. S. 527,
532; Doctor v. Harrington, 196 U. S. 579; Venner v. Great Northern
Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 24; Steele v. Culver, 211 U. S. 26, 29; Lee v. Lehigh
Valley Coal Co., 267 U. S. 542; Sutton v. English, 246 U. S. 199.
2

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

71

Opinion of the Court.

1936, the City and Indianapolis Gas agreed that, pending
the settlement of the "presently existing controversy" between them as to whether the lease was valid and binding
upon the City, the latter would deposit in escrow sums
equal to the interest and dividend payments falling due.
The agreement expressly provided that it was made without prejudice to either party's "position or rights."
Chase thereupon filed a bill of complaint in the District
Court, naming as defendants Indianapolis Gas, Citizens
Gas, and the City. It prayed that the lease from Indianapolis Gas to Citizens Gas be declared valid and binding
upon the defendants, and as such be deemed part of the
security for the performance of the mortgage obligations;
that the City be ordered to perform all of the lessee's
obligations in the lease and to pay directly to the plaintiff
all of the interest payments as they shall become due; that
judgment for overdue interest be entered against the defendants "liable therefor"; and that the plaintiff be
awarded costs and attorneys' fees. The City and Citizens
Gas specifically denied that the lease was valid and binding
upon them; they alleged, further, that the controversy existed solely between Indianapolis Gas and the City, "citizens" of the same state. In its answer, Indianapolis Gas
denied that it had "ever contended or admitted that the
said ninety-nine year lease was not and is not a valid and
binding obligation" upon the defendants.
Finding "no collision between the interests of the plaintiff and the interests of the Indianapolis Gas Company,"
the District Court realigned the latter as a party plaintiff,
and finding identity of citizenship between some of the
plaintiffs and the remaining defendants, dismissed the suit
for want of jurisdiction. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed, one judge dissenting, 96 F. 2d 363, and certiorari
was denied, 305 U. S. 600.
On remand to the District Court, Chase filed a supplemental bill alleging dtfault as to interest payments falling

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

due and praying judgment against the defendants in the
amount of the unpaid coupons. It alleged that "neither
The Indianapolis Gas Company nor Citizens Gas Company, nor both of them, have property sufficient to pay
the interest in default on the Bonds, other than the property now in the possession and under the control of the
City of Indianapolis." This was admitted by Indianapolis Gas. The District Court held on the merits that
the lease was not enforceable against either Citizens Gas
or the City; that the former had no power under its franchise to bind the latter to the lease, and that by conveying
the leased property to the City, Citizens Gas thereby
discharged itself of its lessee obligations. Accordingly,
the Court ordered that judgment be entered only against
Indianapolis Gas for the amount of the unpaid interest.
Asserting that the District Court erred in not holding
the lease valid and enforceable against the defendants,
both Chase and Indianapolis Gas appealed. The Circuit
Court of Appeals sustained their position and again reversed, 113 F. 2d 217. The court held, further, that Chase
was entitled to a judgment for unpaid interest against the
parties in the following order of liability: the City, Citizens Gas, and Indianapolis Gas. We granted certiorari,
311 U. S. 636, because of the important jurisdictional issue
involved in the litigation.
The facts leave no room for doubt that on the merits
only one question permeates this litigation: Is the lease
whereby Indianapolis Gas in 1913 conveyed all its gas
plant property to Citizens Gas valid and binding upon the
City? This is the "primary and controlling matter in
dispute." The rest is window-dressing designed to satisfy
the requirements of diversity jurisdictioii. Everything
else in the case is incidental to this dominating controversy,
with respect to which Indianapolis Gas and the City,

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

73

Opinion of the Court.

"citizens" of the same state, are on opposite sides.3 That
the case presents "only one fundamental issue" and that
that is the obligation of the City under the lease, Chase
admits and indeed insists upon in its brief on the merits.
Chase and Indianapolis Gas have always been united on
this issue: both have always contended for the validity
of the lease and the City's obligation under it. The opinion of the District Court' lays bare the heart of this
controversy:
"There can be no doubt that both plaintiff and the defendant, The Indianapolis Gas Company, have at all times
asserted that the lease in question is valid and is binding
upon the City, as Trustee. Neither is there any doubt as
to their interest in sustaining the validity of such lease at
the time of the institution of this action, prior hereto, and
at all times subsequent thereto, and that many conferences
have been held by and between them, through their attorneys, and many letters have passed between them relat"It is contended that, notwithstanding their indissoluble bond on the
controlling issue, there are "sufficient matters in controversy" between
Chase and Indianapolis Gas to preclude their alignment on the same
side. Chase, of course, did not bring this suit in order to obtain a
declaration that, regardless of the validity of the lease, Indianapolis
Gas is still ultimately responsible for the interest payments on its
bonded indebtedness. That was not really in issue, and by its answer,
Indianapolis Gas took it out of the case. The further argument is
made that, by entering into the escrow agreement with the City,
Indianapolis Gas has asserted a claim to the interest payments adverse
to that of Chase and the bondholders. But the facts are against this
contention. The agreement. deals merely with the disposition of the
interest falling due during the pendency of the litigation. Moreover,
the lease between Indianapolis Gas and Citizens Gas contains no provisions requiring payment of the interest direct to Chase or the
bondholders. Nor can diversity jurisdiction be rested upon so flimsy
a basis as Chase's prayer for reimbursement of costs and attorneys'
fees. The tail flies with the kite.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to this subject ....

314 U. S.

Later, when the parties [i. e.,

Indianapolis Gas and the City] were unable to adjust their
differences and arrive at an agreement, it was decided by
The Indianapolis Gas Company and the plaintiff thAt a
suit should be instituted. The common stockholders of
that company, of course, had a vital interest in the question of the validity of the lease because, if the lease is
valid, they are assured of a six per cent return upon their
stock for many years. If, however, a foreclosure suit
should have been begun, or if the lease is invalid, no such
return is assured. It was natural, therefore, that the Gas
Company should take an active interest in the litigation
and attempt to guide it along the course that would be
most advantageous to it and to its stockholders."
Plainly, therefore, Chase and Indianapolis Gas are,
colloquially speaking,. partners in litigation. The property covered by the lease is now in the City's possession;
Chase is simply acting to protect the bondholders' security.
As to Indianapolis Gas, if the lease is upheld, it will continue to receive a six per cent return on its capital, and
the burden of paying the interest on its bonded indebtedness will be not upon it but upon the City. ' What Chase
wants, Indianapolis Gas wants, and the City does not want.
Yet, the City and Indianapolis Gas were made to have a
common interest against Chase when, as a matter of fact,
the interests of the City and of Indianapolis Gas are opposed to one another.. Therefore, if regard be had to the
requirements of jurisdictional integrity, Indianapolis Gas
and Chase are on the same side of the controversy not only
for their own purposes but also for purposes of diversity
jurisdiction. But such realignment places Indiana
"citizens" on both sides of the litigation, and precludes
assumption of jurisdiction based upon diversity of citizenship. We.are thus compelled to the conclusion that the

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

75

Opinion of the Court.

District Court was without jurisdiction.'

And, of course,

this Court, by its denial of certiorari when the case was
here the first time, could not confer the jurisdiction which
Congress has denied.
' Comparp Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178, a suit by a
Pennsylvania mortgagee of a Georgia waterworks company to restrain
a Georgia city from building a new waterworks and to compel specific
performance of the city's contract with the waterworks company- The
latter was joined as a defendant, on the theory that it was a party to
the contract sought to be enforced. The Court held that the bill should
be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction: ".

.

. the court will look beyond

the pleadings and arrange the parties according to their sides in the
dispute. When that is done it is obvious that the Water Works Company"is on the plaintiff's side." 197 U. S. at 180. Ayres v. Wiswall,
112 U. S. 187, and Coney v. Winchell, 116 U. S. 227, are not applicable
here. They hold merely that in a foreclosure suit the mortgagee may
ioin the mortgagor and his assignee as defendants; they did not involve
any controversy between the mortgagor and the "assignee" as to
whether the assignment is binding upon the latter.
Sutton v. English, 246 U. S. 199, clearly holds that the parties must
be aligned according to their "attitude towards the actual and substantial controversy." 246 U. S. at 204. The plaintiffs, who included
all of the heirs of Mary Jane except Cora, sought to establish their
right to certain property claimed to have belonged to 4Mary Jane.
The claimants could not recover unless they proved that a residuary
bequest to Cora was invalid-and, with respect to this issue, their position was completely adverse to Cora's. "But, as already pointed out,
even could complainants succeed in showing that Mary Jane Hubbard
at the time of her death was entitled to the community property, her
will giving all the residue of her property to Cora D. Spencer still
stands in the way of their succeeding to it as heirs-at-law, and hence
their prayer to have that will annulled with respect to the residuary
clause is essential to their right to any relief in the suit." #246 U. S. at
207. If the plaintiffs prevailed on this issue of the validity of the
residuary gift to Cora, their interests and hers would then be the same
with respect to the remaining issues in the case. But the Court held
that in relation to the "actual and substantial ccntroversy," Cora and
the plaintiffs were on opposite sides, thereby sustaining diversity jurisdiction. In Sutton v. English, alignment of the parties with respect

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

This is not a sacrifice of justice to technicality. For the
question here is not whether Chase and Indianapolis Gas
may pursue what they conceive to be just claims against
the City, but whether they may pursue them in the federal
courts in Indiana, rather than in its state courts. The fact
that Chase prefers the adjudication of its claims by the
federal court is certainly no reason why we should deny
the plain facts of the controversy and yield to
illusive artifices. Settled restrictions against bringing
local disputes into the federal courts cannot thus be
circumvented.
These requirements, however technical seeming, must
be viewed in the perspective of the constitutional limitations upon the judicial power of the federal courts,' and
of the Judiciary Acts in defining the authority of the
federal courts when they sit, in effect, as state courts. See
Madisonville Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239,
255, and Ex parte Schollenberger,96 U. S.369, 377. The
dominant note in the successive enactments of Congress
relating to diversity jurisdiction, is one of jealous restriction, of avoiding offense to state sensitiveness, and of relieving the federal courts of the overwhelming burden of
"business that intrinsically belongs to the state courts,"
in order to keep them free for their distinctive federal
business. See Friendly, The Historic Basis of Diversity
Jurisdiction,41 Harv. L. Rev. 483,510; Shamrock Oil Corp.
v. Sheets, 313 U. S.100, 108-09; Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S.
263, 270. "The policy of the statute [conferring diversity
jurisdiction upon the district courts] calls for its strict
construction. The power reserved to the states, under the
to their real interests sustained diversity; such alignment here precludes jurisdiction. That case and this are applications of the same
principle.
'Cf. Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch 267; California v. Southern
Pacific Co., 157 U. S. 229, 261; Treinies v. Sunshine Mining Co., 308
U. S. 66, 71.

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

JACxSON,

77

J., dissenting.

Constitution, to provide for the determination of controversies in their courts may be restricted only by the action
of Congress in conformity to the judiciary sections of the
Constitution. . . .Due regard for the rightful independence of state governments, which should actuate federal
courts, requires that they scrupulously confine their own
jurisdiction to the precise limits which the statute has
defined." Healy v. Ratta,supra, at 270. In defining the
boundaries of diversity jurisdiction, this Court must be
mindful of this guiding Congressional policy. See Hepburn & Dundas v. Ellzey, 2 Cranch 445; New Orleans v.
Winter, 1 Wheat. 91; Morris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315,
328-29.; Coal Company v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172; Shamrock Oil Corp. v. Sheets, 313 U. S. 100; and compare Old
Grant v. M'Kee, 1 Pet. 248; Elgin v. Marshall, 106 U. S.
578; Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S. 263; McNutt v. General
Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON:
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE
REED and I are unable to concur in this disposition of
these writs, in view of what we consider to be the controlling facts of this controversy.
Chase is trustee under a mortgage executed in 1902 by
Indianapolis Gas to secure a bond issue. The mortgage
covered a public utility gas plant and distribution system,
together with after-acquired property, including intangibles.
In 1913, Indianapolis Gas turned the mortgaged utility
system over to Citizens Gas, a competitor, under a lease
for a term of ninety-nine years. Citizens Gas undertook,
among other things, to pay the interest "as the same shall
from time to time fall due" on the bonds secured by the
mortgage, and also to pay certain sums, subject to some
variation by reference to the price received for gas, to the
stockholders of Indianapolis Gas. Citizens Gas unified

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

this leased plant with its own, and in 1935 conveyed to the
City the entire property in conformity to statute which it
is contended obligates the City to assume the obligations
of the lease. The City took possession of the property but
refused to accept the cbligations of the lease. The City
and Indianapolis Gas then agreed that, pending settlement of the controversy thus precipitated, sums payable
under the lease as interest should be deposited in escrow,
instead of being paid to Chase. Accordingly, there was
default in the payment to the trustee of interest on the
bonds.
For jurisdictional purposes, Indianapolis Gas, the mortgage debtor, and the City, whose possession of the property
under the circumstances was alleged to result in an assumption of the debt, as well as Citizens Gas, the intermediate
owner (which seems of no consequence to the issues under
discussion), were all citizens of the State of Indiana, while
Chase, the trustee, was a citizen of New York. Under
these circumstances, Chase began an action in the federal
District Court for the Southern District of Indiana, joining Indianapolis Gas, Citizens Gas, and the City as defendants. It asked that the interest of Indianapolis Gas
in the lease be adjudged a part of its security for the performance of the mortgage obligations; that the lease be
declared valid and binding upon all the defendants; that
the City be ordered to pay directly to the trustee all of the
interest payments as they fell due; that judgment for
overdue interest be entered against the defendants liable
therefor, including Indianapolis Gas; and that plaintiff
be awarded costs and attorneys' fees.
This Court now destroys federal jurisdiction of the case
by a transposition of parties, the radical nature of which
appears most clearly from the judgments rendered below.
It forces into the position of co-plaintiff one party which
the District Court adjudged entitled to recover over a million dollars, and another which the District Court ad-

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

JACKSON,

79

J., dissenting.

judged solely liable to pay that sum. This same adversity
was found by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which held
the one entitled to receive, and the other obligated to pay,
this sum with increase due to the lapse of time. It modified the judgment only by including two additional judgment debtors on whom it fixed primary and secondary
liability, but continued the judgment against Indianapolis
Gas with a tertiary liability for its satisfaction. The
subtlety by which a judgment debtor is transfigured into a
creditor for jurisdictional purposes deserves analysis, if for
no other reason than because of its novelty.
The Court cannot resort to a decision of the merits of
the case, over which it holds itself to be without jurisdiction, in order to justify its characterization of some of the
trustee's claims as "window dressing" and "artifice." The
measure of jurisdiction should be taken from the pleadings, unless the claims are frivolous on their face. That
is not the case here. In ultimate effect, Chase. alleged a
cause of action and sought judgment against the City upon
its personal undertaking to assume and pay the indebtedness upon the mortgage given by Indianapolis Gas to the
plaintiff. It also alleged a cause of action and sought
judgment against Indianapolis Gas for the amount of the
coupon interest. Both demands were in excess of $3,000.
If the plaintiff had asserted these demands in two separate
actions, no one would doubt that both were within the
jurisdiction of the District Court. In each, there is an
adequate diversity of citizenship, and each involves the
requisite jurisdictional amount, and each is "actual" and
"substantial" enough to support the jurisdiction, if this
means anything more than that a demand exceeding $3,000
must be involved. A United States District Court is not
without jurisdiction to render a judgment exceeding $3,000
on confession if there is the requisite diversity of citizenship. Re MetropolitanRailway Receivership, 208 U. S. 90
at 108. The trustee's right to judgment against the mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

gagor, even though uncontested, is a matter of substance,
for the judgment is the important-indeed indispensablemeans of pursuing the mortgaged property into the hands
of the City, in the event that it should turn out in the suit
against the City that it had not become personally liable
for any part of the mortgage debt.
Jurisdiction of the federal courts is indeed a variable and
illusory thing, if the jurisdiction which a District Court
admittedly has of two separate causes of action is lost
when they are united in one, agreeably to the federal rules
of procedure, because the one defendant as a surety seeks to
enforce its equitable right to be exonerated by the other,
who is alleged to be the principal debtor.
The doctrine of realignment permits and requires a
nominal defendant to be treated as a plaintiff for the purpose of defining the real controversy, where no real cause of
action is asserted against him by the plaintiff; but it does
not admit of such treatment of a defendant against whom
the plaintiff asserts a cause of action within the jurisdiction of the court. The plaintiff cannot rightly be deprived of the benefit of that jurisdiction, conferred upon
him by laws enacted pursuant to the Constitution of the
United States, because the court may think that such a
cause of action is relatively less important than that
asserted against another defendant, or because one action
"dominates" the other, or because one is more "actual" or
"substantial" than the other. The statute itself sets up
the criterion of substantiality by fixing the jurisdictional
amount at $3,000. Moreover, in this case, whether either
of the rights asserted is more substantial than the other
depends on the outcome of the litigation, which can hardly
be used to determine jurisdiction which must exist at the
beginning of the litigation.
If we examine this controversy in detail, it appears that
the conflicts between the trustee and its mortgagor were

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

JACKSON,

81

J., dissenting.

not feigned or merely formal. While the mortgage and
the debt, which created the opposition inherent in the relation of mortgagor and mortgagee or between debtor and
creditor, were undenied, Chase was asking that its lien
be judicially construed to cover not merely the physical
property described therein but also the entire interest
of Indianapolis Gas in the lease, which required payments
to stockholders over and above the interest payments for
the bondholders. Furthermore, Chase asked the Court
to set aside the escrow agreement by which Indianapolis
and the City had assumed to exclude Chase from dominion
over the escrow funds. Chase demanded that Indianapolis Gas be denied future control over such funds and
that they be paid directly to itself. These were conflicts
as to the extent of its interest in, and control over, any
cause of action against the City. They existed between
Chase and the defendant Indianapolis Gas, and concerned
them alone.
There was also an issue as to the aggregate amount of
the trustee's claim, which all defendants had a common
interest in minimizing. The trustee claimed to be entitled
to interest at 6%, after default, on coupons which bore a
5% interest rate, and it also claimed interest on overdue
interest. This Court has held that where the only issue
concerns the amount of the debt, as to which a mortgagor
agrees with the plaintiff, but the issue is contested only
by another mortgagor who has assumed the entire mortgage debt, the mortgage and the debt are the real subject
matter of the controversy; that the decree when the
amount is ascertained must run against all debtors; and
that the uncon'testing mortgagor is a necessary party on
the side opposite the mortgagee. Ayres v. Wiswall, 112
U. S. 187.
There were other issues on which the defendants were
in sharp conflict between themselves. Indianapolis Gas

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

and Chase both served their respective interests by contending against the City that its acts had the legal effect
of binding it to the terms of the lease. But their common
attitude in relation to this issue sprang from different
legal origins. The rights of Chase had their source and
their measure in the mortgage. The mortgage might or
might not, depending upon the outcome of the litigation,
be construed to give Chase a right to enforce for its own
benefit the lease terms as against the City. Indianapolis
Gas, on the other hand, derived no rights against the City
from that instrument and was not, like Chase, limited by
it. Indianapolis Gas's rights had no other measure than
that found in the terms of the lease itself.
We would be diligent, no less than the majority, to prevent imposition on the jurisdiction of the federal courts
by means of "window dressing" or "artifice." We find in
this case nothing that warrants either characterization,
and we think that the precedents invoked to support today's action reveal the gap which divides the doctrine of
realignment, as heretofore applied by this Court, from the
application made of it today.
The majority opinion leans heavily on Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co.,,197 U. S. 178. Mr. Justice Holmes in
that case said: ". . . it is obvious that the Water Works
Company is on the plaintiff's side and was made a defendant solely for the purpose of reopening in the United States
Court a controversy which had been decided against
it in the courts of the State." And he said again: "...
when the arrangement of the parties is merely a contrivance between friends for the purpose of founding a jurisdiction which otherwise would not exist, the device cannot
be allowed to succeed." And so say we. But there is not
the slightest indication of this kind of connivance in the
case before us.
In Helm v. Zarecor, 222 ',7. S. 32, this Court refused to
align with the plaintiffs a corporation although its board

INDIANAPOLIS v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
63

JACKSON,

83

J., dissenting.

and officers were in entire agreement with the position of
complainants on the merits of the case. Another of the
cases invoked is Niles-Bement Co. v. Iron Moulders
Union, 254 U. S. 77. Here a New Jersey corporation
sought to break a strike by filing a bill in an Ohio District
Court against labor unions, individual strikers, and an
Ohio corporation, all citizens of Ohio. The New Jersey
plaintiff owned a controlling interest in the Ohio defendant, the two had common officers and directors, and no relief whatever was asked against the Ohio company, which
the bill alleged was being delayed in delivery of goods
because of the strike. The Court refused to allow such an
imposition on its jurisdiction. In Sutton v. English, 246
U. S. 199, this Court held it to be error to align one of the
defendants with the plaintiff for jurisdictional purposes
where her interest was adverse to plaintiff on one out of
four issues, although with plaintiff as to three of the four.
We take the statement in the opinion of the Court, that
its basis is "not in legal learning but in the realities of the
record," to be another way of saying that it disagrees with
the lower court's view of the facts rather than with its
view of the law. Review of facts is not the conventional
function of this Court, and resort to it at this stage of this
litigation is somewhat less than fair to the courts below
as well as to the litigants.
Three years ago this Court refused to review the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals that this controversy was
within the federal jurisdiction. Indianapolis v. Chase
National Bank, 305 U. S. 600. Of course, a denial of certiorari is not to be taken as a ruling on the merits of any
question presented. However, -where the case is again
brought here after some years of litigation, jurisdiction
ought not to be overturned on light or inconsequential
grounds, or on disagreements with the court below on
matters of fact. To do so here is likely to result in further
and, as we see it, needless delay in settling the status of

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

an important utility and the obligations and rights of a
populous municipality. We think it the duty of the Court
to end this controversy by p'roceeding to judgment on the
merits, and that nothing' in this record justifies ousting
these parties from the federal courts. If, as the opinion
intimates, the forefathers are thought to have been unwise in creating a federal jurisdiction based on diversity
of citizenship, we should think the'remedy of those so
minded would be found in Congressional withdrawal of
such jurisdiction, rather than in the confusing process of
judicial constriction.
We would follow the words of the jurisdictional statute
when it is sought to restrict its application, quite as faithfully as when the effort is to enlarge it by recourse to doctrines which conflict with its words. Compare Healy v.
Ratta, 292 U. S. 263, 270.
CUNO ENGINEERING CORP. v. AUTOMATIC
DEVICES CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 37.

Argued October 22, 23, 1941.-Decided November 10, 1941.

1. Claims 2, 3, and 11 of the Mead patent, No. 1,736,544, for improvements in lighters (commonly used in automobiles) for cigars,
cigarettes, and pipes, held invalid for want of invention. P. 88.
2. Mead's addition to the so-called wireless or cordless lighter of a
thermostatic control-which, after the plug was set "on" and the
heating coil had reached the proper temperature, automatically
returned the plug to its "off" position-was not invention but a
mere exercise of the skill of the calling, and an advance plainly
indicated by the prior art. P. 89.
3. That Mead's combination performed a new and useful function
did not make it patentable. The new device, however useful,
must reveal the flash of creative genius, not merely the skill of the
calling. P. 90.
117 F. 2d 361, reversed.

