OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

314 U. S.

since the surety would have been entitled to share on the
basis of the full amount if it had satisfied the creditor's
obligation at the very outset. The answer to that is that
we would then have to determine whether the Merrill
case has survived the Weed case (See Clark, Proof by
Secured Creditors in Insolvency and Receivership Proceedings, 15 Ill. L. Rev. 171), and, if so, whether it should
be overruled. It is sufficient at this time to say that, in
view of the flimsy basis on which the Merrill case rests,
and the oppressive nature of the rule it fashioned, it should
not be extended.
MR. JuSTICE BLACK concurs in this dissent.

TEXTILE MILLS SECURITIES CORP. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CE3RTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued November 10, 1941.-Decided December 8, 1941.

1. A Circuit Court of Appeals may be composed of all the circuit
judges of the circuit in active service, more than three in number,
sitting en bane. P. 333.
2. The expenses of lobbying and propaganda paid by an agent employed
to secure legislation from Congress authorizing the recovery of
German properties seized during the World War under the Trading
with the Enemy Act, are not deductible as "ordinary and necessary
expenses" of the agent within the meaning of § 23 (a) of 'the Revenue
Act of 1928, construed by Art. 262 of Treasury Regulaticns 74.
P. 335.
117 F. 2d 62, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 677, to review a judgment reversing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 38 B. T. A.
623, which had overruled a deficiency assessment based on
the disallowance of certain deductions.

TEXTILE MILLS CORP. v. COMM'R.
326

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Edmund S. Kochersperger for petitioner.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Attorney GeneralBiddle,
Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Miss Helen R.
Carloss and Mr. Samuel H. Levy were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents two problems: (1) whether a Circuit
Court of Appeals may be composed of all the circuit judges
of the circuit in active service, more than three in number,
sitting en banc; (2) whether petitioner may deduct under
the Revenue Act of 1928 (45 Stat. 791) certain expenses incurred by it under contracts in coinection with the presentation of claims to Congress on behalf of former enemy
aliens for the procurement and enactment of amendatory
legislation authorizing the payment of the claims. We
granted the petition for certiorari because of the public
importance of the first problem and the contrariety of
the views of the court below (117 F. 2d 62) and judges of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Lang's
Estate v. Commissioner, 97 F. 2d 867) as respects its
solution.
First: There are five circuit judges,' in active service,
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. All
five heard and decided this case. Though they divided
three to two on the deductibility of the expenses in question, they were unanimous in the conclusion that five were
authorized to hear and decide the case.'
Judicial Code § 118, 28 U. S. C. § 213; Act of June 10, 1930, c. 438,
46 Stat. 538, 28 U. S. C. § 213d; Act of June 24, 1936, c. 753, 49 Stat.
1903, 28 U. S. C. § 213d-1.
'As distinguished from judges retired under the provision of § 260
of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 375.
'The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit has promulgated rules in accord with that view. Rule 4 (1) provides: "The court

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The problem arises because § 117 of the Judicial Code
(28 U. S. C. § 212; 36 Stat. 1131) provides that "There
shall be in each, circuit a circuit court of appeals, which
shall consist of three judges, of whom two shall constitute
a quorum, which shall be a court of record, with appellate
jurisdiction, as hereinafter limited and established."
That provision derives from § 2 of the Act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 826, which established the circuit court of
appeals.' Though Congress by that Act created these
new courts, it did not make provision for the appointment
to them of a new group of judges. It provided, however,
by § 3 of that Act that the Chief Justice and Associate
Justices of the Supreme Court assigned to each circuit and
the circuit judges and district judges within each circuit
"shall be competent to sit as judges of the circuit court
of appeals within their respective circuits." Thus it is
apparent that the newly created circuit court of appeals
was to be composed of only three judges' who were to be
consists of the circuit justice, when in attendance, and of the circuit
judges of the circuit who are in active service. District judges and
retired circuit judges of the circuit sit in the court when specially
designated or assigned as provided by law. Three judges shall sit in
the court to hear all matters, except those which the court by special
order directs to be heard by the court en banc."
' Sec. 2 provided in part: "That there is hereby created in each
circuit a circuit court of appeals, which shall consist of three judges,
of whom two shall constitute a quorum, and which shall be a court
of record with appellate jurisdiction, as is hereafter limited and
established."
'Sec. 3 of that Act provided: "In case the full court at any time
shall not be made up by the attendance of the Chief-Justice or an
associate justice of the Supreme Court and circuit judges, one or more
district judges within the circuit shall be competent to sit in the
court according to such order or provision among the district judges
as either by general or particular assignment shall be designated by
the court

. .

."

And it should be noted that after the passage of the

Act of March 3, 1891, there were three circuit judges in the Second
Circuit and two in each of the others. 'Act of April 10, 1869, c. 22,

TEXTILE MILLS CORP. v. COMM'R.
326

329

Opinion of the Court.

drawn from the three existing groups of judges--the circuit justice, the circuit judges, and the district judgcs.
That arrangement continued until enactment of the
Judicial Code. Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat.
1087. The Judicial Code abolished the existing circuit
courts. § 297. It carried over into § 117 without substantial change the provision of § 2 of the Act of March 3,
1891 that there should be a circuit court of appeals in each
circuit "which shall consist of three judges." Though
this section was said merely to represent existing law,6
§ 118 of the Judicial Code provided for four circuit judges
in the Second, Seventh, and Eighth Circuits, two in the
Fourth Circuit, and three in each of the others. An anomalous situation was presented if § 117 were to be taken
at that juncture as meaning that the circuit court of appeals would continue to be composed of only three, in
face of the fact that there were more than three circuit
judges in some circuits. Though § 3 of the Act of March
3, 1891, made the circuit judges "competent to sit as
judges of the circuit court of appeals within their respective circuits," § 120 of the Judicial Code into which the
provisions of § 3 were carried eliminated the circuit judges
from the groups of judges "competent to sit." Yet it retained the provision that the circuit justices and the district judges were so qualified. We agree, however, with
the view of the court below that the circuit judges became
ex officia judges of the respective circuit courts of appeals
when the circuit courts were abolished. Though § 120
did not designate them as "competent to sit," its other provisions made clear that they were intended to sit. Thus,
it was provided that the district judges should be drawn
upon only in case the court could not be made up by the
§ 2, 16 Stat. 44; Act of March 3, 1887, c. 347, 24 Stat. 492; Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 1, 26 Stat. 826.
'S. Rep. No. 388, 618t Cong., 2d Sess., Pt. 1, p. 49, Pt. 2, p. 310.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

circuit justices and the circuit judges.' Yet, if § 117 were
to be ready literally, the circuit court of appeals was to
"consist" of only- three judges in spite of the fact that
Congress had already provided in some circuits for more
than three circuit judges. Clearly, where there were four,
all could not be members of a court of three. Yet there
was plainly inferable a Congressional purpose to constitute in some circuits a circuit court of, appeals of four
judges
Any doubts on that score I were resolved by the Act of
January 13, 1912, c. 9, 37 Stat. 52, which amended § 118
of the Judicial Code by the addition of the provision that
"The circuit judges in each circuit shall be judges of the
circuit court of appeals in that circuit, and it shall be the
duty of each circuit judge in each circuit to sit as one of
the judges of the circuit court of appeals in that circuit
from time to time according to law." Senator Sutherland
who had charge of the bill in the Senate stated on the
floor: "It makes no change whatever in the existing law
except to make it clear that the circuit judges in the various
circuits of the United States shall constitute the circuit
""In case the Chief Justice or an associate justice of the Supreme
Court shall attend at any session of the circuit .court of appeals, he
shall preside. In the absence of such Chief Justice, or associate justice,
the circuit judges in attendance upon the court shall preside in the
order of the seniority of their respictive commissions. In case the full

court at any time shall not be made up by the attendance of the Chief
Justice or the associate justice, and the circuit judges, one or more

district judges within the circuit shall sit in the court aiccording to
such order or provision among the district judges as either by general
or particular assignment shall be designated by the court . . ."
8Thus the Senate Report, 8upra note 6, in speaking of § 118 (§ 116
in the bill) stated, p. 50: ".... the section states in concise language

the number of judges now provided by law for the several judicial
circuits."
'See the letter by Albert H. Walker in 74 Central L. J. 12.

TEXTILE MILLS CORP. v. COMM'R.
326

Opinion of the Court.

court of appeals." "0 The purpose seems plain: the size
of each circuit court of appeals was not to be less than the
number of circuit judges authorized by law."
And so we reach the question as to whether the avowed
purpose of § 118 was defeated by § 117. We do not think
it was.
That purpose was not thwarted by the provision in the
1912 amendment to § 118 that "it shall be the duty of each
circuit judge in each circuit to sit as one of the judges of
the circuit court of appeals in that circuit from time to
time according to law." It has been suggested that "ac1047

Cong. Rec., Pt. 3, p. 2736.

Senator Sutherland also said: "It

has been thought, as I said, that the existing law did not make it

quite clear that the circuit judges shall be the constituent members of
the circuit court of appeals, and it is to remove that doubt, and that

only, that this bill has been reported from the Judiciary Committee."
Id., p. 2736. H. Rep. No. 199, 62d Cong., 2d Sess., stated, "This bill
deals with a defect in existing law. It makes it clear that the circuit
judges shall constitute the circuit court of appeals." And see the statements on the floor of the House by Representative Clayton, chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee (48 Cong. Rec., Pt. 1, p. 667) and
Representative Moon, chairman of the House Committee on the Revisions of the Laws, who had been in charge of the House bill providing
for the Judicial Code. Id., p. 668.
Possible inferences looking the other way are such statements by
Representative Mann that "in those circuits where there were four
circuit judges, one of them might be put at work in the district court."
48 Cong. Rec., Pt. 1, p. 667. And see 48 Cong. Rec., Pt. 2, p. 1272.
Yet such statements are not inconsistent with the conclusion that while
the ordinary complement of circuit judges would be three, all might
sit.
"In this connection it should be noted that § 120 of the Judicial
Code makes the "Chief Justice and the associate justices of the Supreme
Court assigned to each circuit .

.

. competent to sit as judges of the

circuit court of appeals within their respective circuits." Thus while
the circuit court of appeals is composed primarily of circuit judges,
the circuit justice is made a "component part" of that court. See
statement by Representative Moon, op. cit., supra, note 10, p. 668.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

cording to law" refers to § 117. In our view,. however, it
is the time of the sitting which is to be "according to law."
Hence, the reference must be to § 126 of the Judicial Code
(28 U. S. C. § 223) which regulates the times when the
circuit courts of appeals shall sit.
If § 117 could reasonably be construed to provide that
the court, when sitting, should consist of three judges
drawn from a panel of such larger number as might from
time to time be authorized, reconciliation with § 118 would
be obvious. Sec. 117, however, contains no such qualification. And since it establishes the court as a "court of
record, with appellate jurisdiction," it cannot readily be
inferred that the provision for three judges is a limitation
only on the number who may hear and decide a case.
There are numerous functions of the court, as a "court of
record, with appellate jurisdiction," other than hearing
and deciding appeals. Under the Judicial Code these embrace prescribing the form of writs and other process and
the form and style of its seal (§ 122); the making of rules
and regulations (§ 122); the appointment of a clerk
(§ 124) and the approval of the appointment and removal
of deputy clerks (§ 125); and the fixing of the "times"
when court shall be held. § 126. Furthermore, those
various sections of the Judicial Code provide that each of
these functions shall be performed by the "court." In
that connection it should be noted that most of them derive, as does § 117, from § 2 of the Act of March 3, 1891.
The first sentence of § 2 provided that the court "shall
consist of three judges." The next sentence stated that
"Such court shall prescribe the form and style of its seal
and the form of writs and other process and procedure,"
etc. In that setting it is difficult to perceive how the word
"court" in the second sentence was used in a different sense
than in the preceding sentence. And we look in vain for
any indication 12 that when those separate sentences were
Sec. 122 of the Judicial Code (§ 120 in the bill) giving the court
power to prescribe the form of writs and other pmcess and the form

TEXTILE MILLS CORP. v. COMM'R.
326

Opinion of the Court.

sectionalized in the Code, they acquired a meaning which
they did not have in § 2 of the Act of March 3, 1891.
We cannot conclude, however, that the word "court" as
used in those other provisions of the Judicial Code means
only three judges. That would not only produce a most
awkward situation; it would on all matters disenfranchise
some circuit judges against the clear intendment of § 118.
Nor can we conclude that the word "court" means only
three judges when the court is sitting, but all the judges
when other functions are performed. Certainly there is
no specific authority for that construction. And it is difficult to reach that conclusion by inference. For to do so
would be to imply that Congress prohibited some circuit
judges from participation in the most important function
of the "court" (the hearing and the decisioh of appeals),
though allowing all of them to perform the other functions.
Such a prohibition as respects the ordinary responsibilitids of a judicial office should be inferred only under
compelling necessity, since a court usually will consist of
all the judges appointed to it. That necessity is not present here. The ambiguity in the statute is doubtless the
product of inadvertence. Though the problem of construction is beset with difficulties, the conclusion that
§ 117 provides merely the permissible complement of
judges for a circuit court of appeals results in greater harmony in the statutory scheme ' than if the language of
and style of its seal, and the power to make rules and regulations was
stated in S. Rep. No. 388, supra, note 6, p. 51 to represent "existing

law."
"It is suggested by respondent that if the Circuit Court of Appeals
may sit en banc, difficulties arise in connection with that provision of
§ 120 of the Judicial Code which reads: "In case the full court at
any time shall not be made up by the attendance of the Chief Justice
or the associate justice, and the circuit judges, one or more district
judges within the circuit shall sit in the court according to such order
or provision among the district judges as either by general or particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

§ 117 is taken too literally. And any sacrifice of literalness
for common sense does no violence to the history of § 117.
That history is largely negative in the sense that there is
no clear statement by sponsors of this legislation that
§ 118, read in light of § 117, prevents the conclusion which
we have reached." Certainly, the result reached makes for
assignment shall be designated by the court .. ." The difficulty
suggested is that § 120 would imply that, if all the circuit judges compose
the "court," then district judges should be called in whenever the
court was composed of less than that number. And the argument
goes further and suggests that since the circuit justice is "competent
to sit" (see note 11, supra) then a district court judge could be brought
in, when the circuit justice is absent, to makb up the "full court"
even though all circuit judges sat. The answer, however, is that "full
court" as used in § 120 refers to the court which contains the permissible complement of judges as distinguished from a quorum of
two. Under our interpretation, a bench of three judges is the permissible complement under § 117.
"'Beginning in 1938 the Judicial Conference of Senior Circuit Judges
recommended an amendment to the Code which would enable a majority of the circuit judges in circuits where there were more than three to
provide for a court of more than three judges. Report of the Attorney
General (1938) p. 23; id. (1939) pp. 15-16; Report of the Judicial
Conference of Senior Circuit Judges (1940) p. 7. A bill was introduced
during the present session of Congress in both the House (H. R. 3390)
and the Senate (S. 1053) to amend § 117 of the Judicial Code by adding
thereto the following: "Provided, That, in a circuit where there are
more than three circuit judges, the majority of the circuit judges may
provide for a court of all the active and available circuit judges of
the circfiit to sit in banc for the hearing of particular cases, when in
their opinion such action is advisable."
Thiq bill has passed the House. 87 Cong. Rec. 8328. In the House,
the Committee on the Judiciary reported the bill favorably (H. Rep.
No. 1246, 77th Cong., 1st Sess.) stating:
"Under existing law provision is made that there shall be in each
circuit a circuit court of appeals which shall consist of three judges,
of whom two shall constitute a quorum. The bill adds a provision that
in a circuit where there are more than three circuit judges, the majority
of the circuit judges may provide for a court of all the active and

TEXTILE MILLS CORP. v. COMM'R.
326

335

Opinion of the Court.

more effective judicial administration. 15 Conflicts within
a circuit will be avoided. Finality of decision in the circuit courts of appeal will be promoted. Those considerations are especially important in view of the fact that in
our federal judicial system these courts are the courts of
last resort in the run of ordinary cases. Such considerations are, of course, not for us to weigh in case Congress
has devised a system where the judges of a court are prohibited from sitting en banc. But where, as here, the case
on the statute is not foreclosed, they aid in tipping the
scales in favor of the more practicable interpretation.
Second" The expenses in question are sought to be deducted as "ordinary and necessary expenses" within the
meaning of § 23 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928. Petitioner, a Delaware corporation, was employed to represent
certain German textile interests, whose properties in this
available circuit judges of the circuit to sit in banc for the hearing
of particular cases, when in their opinion such action is advisable.
"If the court can sit in bane the situation where two three-judge
courts may reach conflicting conclusions is obviated. It also will obviate
the situation where there are seven members of the court and as sometimes happens a decision of two judges (there having been a dissent)
sets the precedent for the remaining judges. A similar result would be
avoided with a court of five judges.
"It seems desirable that where the judges feel it advisable they might
sit in bane for hearing particular cases. Legislation to this effect has
been recommended by the judicial conference of senior circuit judges
since 1938, and at its January 1941 session the conference approved the
form of the present bill."
But we do not deduce that this effort at clarification was or purported
to be any definitive interpretation that § 117 as it stands prohibits a
circuit court of appeals of more than three judges from sitting
en bane.
" See H.Rep. No. 1246, supra,note 14; 69 Central L. J. 217. And see
the testimony of Chief Justice Taft and Mr. Justice Van Devanter,
Hearings, Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives,
70th Cong., 2d Sess., Serial 23, Pt. 2, on H. R. 5690, 13567, 13757,
pp. 69, 72.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

country had been seized during the World War under the
provisions of the Trading with the Enemy Act. 40 Stat.
411. Petitioner's employment was made with a view
towards procuring legislation which would permit ultimate
recovery of the properties. The estimated aggregate value
of the properties was $60,000,000. Petitioner was to be
compensated on a percentage basis in case it was successful. It, however, was to bear all the costs and expenses.
Petitioner launched its campaign. A publicist was retaibled to arrange for speeches, news items, and editorial
comment. Two legal experts were retained to prepare
propaganda concerning international relations, treaty
rights and the policy of this nation as respects alien property in time of war. The objective of the campaign
was accomplished by the passage of the Settlement of War
Claims Act of 1928, 45 Stat. 254. Deductions for the
amount paid to the publicist and the two lawyers were
taken in 1929 and 1930, thereby producing a net loss
in each of those years. Pursuant to § 117 of the 1928 Act,
the net loss was carried forward two years and applied
against income for 1931. The Commissioner disallowed
the deductions and determined a deficiency. The Board
of Tax Appeals disagreed, holding that there was no deficiency. 38 B. T. A. 623. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed the Board.
We agree that the expenses in question were not deductible. Art. 262 of Treasury Regulations 74, promulgated under the 1928 Act, was entitled "Donations by corporations" and provided:
"Corporations are not entitled to deduct from gross
income contributions or gifts which individuals may deduct under section 23 (n). Donations made by a corporation for purposes connected with the operation of its
business, however, when limited to charitable institutions,
hospitals, or educational institutions conducted for the
benefit of its employees or their dependents are a proper

TEXTILE MILLS CORP. v. COMM'R.
Opinion of the Court.

326

deduction as ordinary and necessary expenses. Donations
which legitimately represent a consideration for a benefit
flowing directly to the corporation as an incident of its
business are allowable deductions from gross income.
For example, a street railway corporation may donate a
sum of money to an organization intending to hold a convention in the city in which it operates, with the reasonable expectation that the holding of such convention will
augment its income through a greater number of people
using the cars. Sums of money expended for lobbying purposes, the promotion or defeat of legislation, the exploitation of propaganda, including advertising other than trade
advertising, and contributions for campaign expenses, are
not deductible from gross income."
If this is a valid and applicable regulation, the sums
in question were not deductible as "ordinary and necessary
expenses" under § 23 (a), since they clearly run afoul of
the prohibition in the last sentence of the regulation.
Plainly, the regulation was applicable. The ban against
deductions of amounts spent for "lobbying" as "ordinary
and necessary" expenses of a corporation derived from
a Treasury Decision in 1915. T. D. 2137, 17 Treas. Dec.,
Int. Rev., pp. 48, 57-58. That prohibition was carried
ifito Art. 143 of Treasury Regulations 33 (Revised, 1918)
under the heading of "Expenses" in the section on "Deductions." ' 6 Beginning in 1921 the regulation was entitled
"Donations." (Art. 562, Treasury Regulations 45.) And
in the regulations here in question Art. 262 appeared under
§ 23 (n), which covered "Charitable and other contribu"'Art. 143 provided: 'Lobbying expenses.-Sums of money expended for 'lobbying purposes, the promotion or defeat of legislation, the exploitation of propaganda, and contributions for campaign
expenses are held not to be an ordinary and necessary expense in the
operation and maintenance of the business of a corporation, and are
therefore not deductible from gross income in arriving at the net income
upon which the income tax is computed."
428670°-42-22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

tions" by individuals. It assumed that form and content
in 1921 and appeared since then without change in all
successive regulations."7 Sec. 23 (n) and § 23 (a) both
deal with deductions; and a "donation" by a corporation
though not deductible under the former might be under
the latter. Art. 262 purports to specify when a certain
type of expenditure or donation by a corporation may or
may not be deducted as an "ordinary and necessary" expense. The argument that it was not applicable because it
was not specifically incorporated under § 23 (a) is
frivolous.
Petitioner's argument that the regulation is invalid
likewise lacks substance. The words "ordinary and necessary" are not so clear and unambiguous in their meaning
and application as to leave no room for an interpretative
regulation. The numerous cases which have come to this
Court on that issue bear witness to that. Welch v. Helvering, 290 U. S. 111; Deputy v. du Pont, 308 U. S. 488,
and cases cited. Nor has the administrative agency
usurped the legislative function by carving out this special
group of expenses and making them non-deductible. We
fail to find any indication that such a course contravened
any Congressional policy. 8 Contracts to spread such insidious influences through legislative halls have long been
condemned. Trist v. Child, 21 Wall. 441; Hazelton v.
Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71. Whether the precise arrangement
here in question would violate the rule of those cases is not
"1Art. 562, Regulations 62, Revenue Act of 1921; Art. 562, Regulations 65, Revenue Act of 1924; Art. 562, Regulations 69, Revenue Act
of 1926; Art. 262, Regulations 74, Revenue Act of 1928.
'"In the Revenue Act of 1936 (26 U. S. C. § 23 (q), 49 Stat. 1648)
Congress specifically provided for deductions of certain contributions
by corporations to specified corporations, trusts, funds, or foundations,
"no substantial part of the activities of which is carrying on propaganda, or otherwise attempting, to influence legislation." And see the
Revenue Act of 1938, 26 U. S. C. § 23 (q), 52 Stat. 447.

U. S. v. SANTA FE PACIFIC R. CO.
326

339

Syllabus.

material. The point is that the general policy indicated
by those cases need not be disregarded by the rule-making
authority in its segregation of non-deductible expenses.
There is no reason why, in absence of clear Congressional
action to the contrary, the rule-making authority cannot
employ that general policy in drawing a line between
legitimate business expenses and those arising from that
family of contracts to which the law has given no sanction.
The exclusion of the latter from "ordinary and necessary"
expenses certainly does no violence to the statutory language. The general policy being clear it is not for us to
say that the line was too strictly drawn.

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part
or disposition of this case.

in the consideration

UNITED STATES, AS GUARDIAN OF THE HUALPAI INDIANS OF ARIZONA, v. SANTA FE PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 23.

Argued November 12, 13, 1941.-Decided December 8,1941.

1.,Lands included in the grant made to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company by the Act of July 27, 1866, were subject to any
existing Indian right of occupancy until such right was extinguished by the United States through a voluntary cession of the
Indians, as provided by § 2 of the Act. P. 344.
2. Indian occupancy necessary, to establish aboriginal possession is
a question of fact. P. 345.
3. "Indian title" exists where it is established as a fact that the
lands in question were included in the ancestral home of a tribe
of Indians, in the sense that they constituted definable territory
occupied exclusively by that tribe as distinguished from being
wandered over by many tribes. P. 345.

