244

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

'PARKER, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, UNITED
STATES EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION COMMISSION, v. MOTOR BOAT SALES, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 46. Argued November 19, 1941.-Decided December 8, 1941.
1. In this proceeding under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers'
Act for compensation for the death of an employee, the evidence was
clearly sufficient to support the Deputy Commissioner's finding
that the deceased, at the time of his death, was acting in the
course of his employment; and therefore the finding was conclusive.
P. 246.
2. The application of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act
to a case where the employee, at the time of his death, was acting
in the course of-his employment and was riding in a boat on a
navigable river, is exclusive, even though the employee usually was
engaged in'the performance of non-maritime duties. P. 246.
The case is not within the provision of § 3 (a) excepting from
the coverage of the Act cases in which recovery may validly be
provided by state law.
3. A contention that an award under the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Act was void under § 5 of the Act, because the claim for
compensation was made by the widow rather than by the "legal
representative" of the deceased, comes too late when raised for the
first time in the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 251.
116 F. 2d 789, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 554, to review the reversal of a
decree sustaining an award of compensation under the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act.

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Assistant
Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Melvin H. Siegel were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Minitree Jones Fulton for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcx delivered the opinion of the Court.

August 18, 1938, George Armistead was drowned when
a motor boat in which he was riding capsized on the James

PARKER v. MOTOR BOAT SALES.
244

245

Opinign of the Court.

River off Richmond, Virginia. The boat was navigated
by one Johnnie Cooper. Both Armistead and Cooper
were employees of the respondent, Motor Boat Sales, Incorporated, which sold small boats, maritime supplies, and
outboard motors. the object of the ill-fated boat trip
was to test one of the respondent's outboard motors, which
it desired to sell, and later did sell, to the owner of the boat.
The petitioner, Deputy Commissioner of the United States
Employees' Compensation Commission, under authority
of § 19 of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act,
44 Stat. 1424, after complaint, investigation, and hearings,
ordered the respondent to pay compensation to Armistead's widow for the benefit of herself and three minor
children. Among the findings on which the Deputy based
his order were these: that Armistead's death by drowning,
"arose out of and in the course of his employment; that
his death occurred upon navigable waters; and that at the
time of his death he was 6ngaged in maritime employment." Section 21 (b) of the Act provides that if a Deputy
Commissioner's award is not made in accordance with law,
Federal District Courts may enjoin enforcement of it upon
petition of any party in interest. In proceedings initiated
by the respondent under this section, the District Court
sustained the award, dismissing the bill on the ground that
the findings of fact were supported by evidence and were
therefore conclusive, and that the Commissioner's conclusions and award were in accordance with law. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, advancing two reasons
for its conclusion: (1) Armistead was not acting in the
course of his employment at the time of the accident; and
(2) even if he had been, recovery was barred by § 3 (a)
of the Act making compensation payable "only if . . . recovery for the disability or death through workmen's compensation proceedings may not validly be provided by
State law."
(1) The Circuit Court's conclusion that Armistead was
not acting in the course of his employment rests upon a

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

revaluation of the evidence before the Deputy Commissioner. It is true that the respondent's president testified
that "George was cautioned never to go into a boat or have
anything to do with a boat or motor," but this rule was
laid down "prior to November 1937" and the accident
occurred in August, 1938. Against whatever inferences
to be drawn from testimony regarding this *general and
rather remotely announced rule, are the inferences to be
drawn from testimony that on the morning of the accident Armistead was sent to the river with specific instructions to help Cooper in placing the outboard motors on the
boat; that there were no specific instructions as to whether
or not Armistead was to stay out of the boat; that either
Armistead or Cooper was told that Armistead was "to go
and help" Cooper; that Cooper, the superior of the two
employees, at least acquiesced in Armistead's remaining
in the boat to "keep a lookout" for hidden objects in the
muddy water; that Cooper regarded Armistead's acting
as lookout as "helpful"; that employees of the respondent
would sometimes make trips in boats for testing purposes,
in furtherance of respondent's business; and that in one
such instance an employee had taken a boat on a trip of
at least fifty miles in respondent's behalf. Granting that
more than one possible conclusion could have been reached
upon the evidence, we think it was clearly sufficient to
support the Deputy Commissioner's finding that Armistead was acting in the course of his employment. The
Circuit Court of Appeals should therefore have accepted
it as final. Voehl v. Indemnity Ins. Co., 288 U. S. 162.
(2) The Circuit Court was of the opinion that even if
Armistead had acted in the course of his employment, the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act would not apply because his employment was "so local in character"
that Virginia could validly have included it under a state
workmen's compensation Act. 116 F. 2d 789. This proposition cannot be rested on the ground that Armistead,

PARKER v. MOTOR BOAT SALES.
244

247

Opinion of the Court.

hired primarily as a janitor and porter, was predominantly
a non-maritime employee. For, habitual performance of
other and different duties on land cannot alter the fact that
at the time of the accident he was riding in a boat on a
navigable river, and it is in connection with that clearly
maritime activity' that the award was here made. Cf.
Northern Coal Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S.142, 144; Liability
Assurance Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 233, 236. Moreover,
§ 2 (4) of the Act expressly provides for its application to
"employees [who] are employed . . .in whole or in part
upon the navigable waters of the United States."
If the conclusion of the Circuit Court can be supported
at all, it must be On the basis that the employment, even
though maritime and therefore within an area in which
Congress could have established exclusive federal jurisdiction, is nevertheless subject to state regulation until Congress has exercised its paramount power. Cf. Liability
Assurance Co. v. Cook, supra, 237. Congress having expressly kept out of the area in which "recovery . . .may
. . . validly be provided by State law," the argument may

be made that Virginia would have been unhampered in
providing for compensation here.
The decision of this Court in Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S.205, however, severs a link in this chain
of reasoning. For under the holding of that case, even in
the absence of any Congressional action,2 federal jurisdic'Cf. The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, 427; Atlantic Transport Co. v.
Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 58-63; Industrial Comm'n v. Nordenholt Co.,
259 U. S. 263, 272-273; Smith & Son v. Taylor, 276 U. S. 179, 181;
London GuaranteeCo. v. IndustrialComm'n, 279 U. S. 109, 123, 125..
'While reference was made in the majority opinion of the Jensen
case to § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 76, 77, there is no
implication that the Court regarded this statute as an "occupation"
by Congress of a field otherwise of concurrent jurisdiction. And in
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, 157-158, the Court
explained the Jensen case entirely in terms of the exclusive federal
jurisdiction created by Article III, § 2, and Article I, § 8, of the Con-

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

tion is exclusive and state action forbidden in an area
which, although of shadowy limits,' doubtless embraces
the case before us. The basis of the decision, that Article
III, § 2, of the Constitution, extending the judicial power
of the United States "to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," is tantamount to a command that no
state may interfere with the harmony and uniformity of
admiralty law, and that on the facts of that case recovery
under a state statute would work such an interference,
was rejected by four dissenting members of the Court.
And when the doctrine of the Jensen case was reaffirmed
in Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, and
Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S. 219, sharp disagreement was again expressed in dissenting opinions.
We have not been called upon here, however, to reconsider
the constitutional principles announced in those cases, and
we are convinced that such a reconsideration is not necessary for disposition f the case before us.
What we are called upon to decide is not of constitutional magnitude. For, regardless of whether or not the
limitation on the power of states set out in the Jensen case
is to be accepted, it is not doubted that Congress could
constitutionally have provided for recovery under a federal statute in this kind of situation. The question is
whether Congress has so provided in this statute. The
proviso of § 3 (a) aside, there would be no difficulty whatever in concluding it has. For the Act expressly includes
within its ambit accidents "arising out of and in the course
of employment" in the case of employees engaged "in
stitution. Reference to § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 was made
only for the purpose of pointing out that a clause embodied in it,
which saved certain common law remedies, "had no application."
'Cf.: "In view of these constitutional provisions and the federal act
it would be difficult, if not impossible, to define with exactness just
how far the general maritime law may be changed, modified, or affected'
by state legislation. That this may be done to some extent cannot
be denied." Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, supra,216.

PARKER v. MOTOR BOAT SALES.
244

-249

Opinion of the Court.

maritime employment, in whole or in part, upon the
navigable waters of the United States," and Armistead's
death was the result of such an accident. While the
proviso of § 3 (a) appears to be a subtraction from the
scope of the Act thus outlined by Congress, we believe that,
properly interpreted, it is not a large enough subtraction
to place this case outside the coverage which Congress
intended to provide.
In the report of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary
accompanying the bill which was enacted as the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, S. R.
973, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., 16, this avowal of Congressional purpose appears:
"If longshoremen could avail themselves of the benefits
of State compensation laws, there would be no occasion
for this legislation; but, unfortunately, they are excluded
from these laws by reason of the character of their employment; and they are not only excluded but the Supreme Court has more than once held that Federal legislation can not, constitutionally, be enacted that will apply
State laws to this occupation. (Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart,
253 U. S. 149; Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S.
219.)
"It thus appears that there is no way of giving to these
hard-working men, engaged in a somewhat hazardous employment, the justice involved in the modern, principle
of compensation without enacting a uniform compeisation statute."
There can be no doubt that the purpose of the Act was
to provide for federal compensation in the area which the
specific decisions referred to placed beyond the reach of
the states. The proviso permitting recovery only where
compensation "may not validly be provided by State
law" cannot be read in a manner that would defeat this

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

purpose. An interpretation which would enlarge or contract the effect of the proviso in accordance with whether
this Court rejected or reaffirmed the constitutional basis
of the Jensen and its companion cases cannot be acceptable. The result of such an interpretation would be to
subject the scope of protection that Congress wished to
provide, to uncertainties that Congress wished to avoid.
The main impetus for the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Compensation Act was the need to correct a gap
made plain by decisions of this Court. We believe that
there is only one interpretation of the proviso in § 3 (a)
which would accord with the aim-of Congress; the field in
which a state may not validly provide for compensation
must be taken, for the purposes of the Act, as the same
field which the Jensen line of decision excluded from state
compensation laws. Without affirming or rejecting the
constitutionalimplications of those cases, we accept them
as the measure by which Congress intended to mark the
scope of the Act they brought into existence.
,(3) The respondent further contends that the award
was void under § 5 of the Act. This section, set out in
full in the margin below, 4 states that "an injured em" Sec. 5. The liability of an employer prescribed in section 4 shall
be exclusive and in place of all other liability of such employer to the
employee, his legal representative, husband or wife, parents, dependents, next of kin, and anyone otherwise entitled to recover damages
from such employer at law or in admiralty on account of such injury
or death, xcept that if an employer fails to secure payment of compensation as required by this Act, an injured employee, or his legal representative in case death results from the injury, may elect to claim
compensation under this Act, or to maintain an action at' law or in
admiralty for damages on account of such injury or death. In such
action the defendant may not plead as a defense that the injury was
caused by the negligence of a fellow servant, nor that the employee
assumed the risk of his employment, nor that the injury was due to the
contributory negligence of the employee."

PARKER v. MOTOR BOAT SALES.
244

Opinion of the Court.

ployee, or his legal repesentative in case death results from
the injury, may elect to claim compensation under this
Act . . ." The record does not indicate that a "legal
representative" of Armistead was ever appointed. Here
the claim was filed by his widow. Since the respondent
did not contest the widow's capacity to file a claim, either
before the Deputy Commissioner or in the District Court,
the objection, even if otherwise meritorious, was made
too late. Cf. McCandless v. Furlaud,293 U. S.67. We
may nevertheless point out that the widow's asserted incapacity to sue in her own name can be derived only inferentially from the terms of § 5, and that other sections
of the Act are not in harmony with this inference. Section 12 provides that notice of death may be given "by
any person claiming to be entitled to compensation for
such death or by a person on his behalf." Section 19 (a)
provides that "Subject to the provisions of section 13 a
claim for compensation may be filed . . .in accordance
with regulations prescribed by the commission," and there
is nothing in § 13 which mines filing by a "personal representative" mandatory. Moreover,, administrati've practice
apparently countenances the filing of claims by widows,
since the Commission has prescribed printed forms bearing the caption: "Claim for Compensation in Death Case
by Widow and for Children under the Age of Eighteen."
Form US-262.
We reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and affirm that of the District Court.
-.

Reversed.

