OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Petitioner.

314 U. S.

tary power upon giving a right of election to the surviving
spouse regardless of any waiver, however formally executed; and having recognized the binding effect of a
waiver, it could condition that recognition upon acknowledgment, which was no doubt considered a desirable
safeguard against casual, informal, or ill-considered abandonment of statutory protection, as well as against overreaching or fraud.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the decision of
this case.
MEILINK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. UNEMPLOYMENT RESERVES C 0 M M I S S I0 N OF
CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 61.

Argued December 17, 18, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.

Section 45 of the Unemployment Reserves Act of California provides
that an employer who fails to make the payments required of him
by the Act "shall become additionally liable for interest on such
payments at the rate of twelve per cent per annum." Held, that the

exaction of twelve per cent per annum is not a "penalty" but is
"interest" within the meaning of § 57i of the Bankruptcy Act, and
a claim for the full amount thereof is allowable in bankruptcy.
P. 569.
116 F. 2d 330, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 588, to review the reversal of a decree denying in part a claim in bankruptcy.

Mr. W. Randolph Montgomery, with whom Mr. John
Walton Dinkelspiel-was on the brief, for petitioner.
Allowance of interest in excess of 7% per annum would
permit respondent to share in the bankrupt's estate to an
extent not represented by a pecuniary loss.

MEILINK v. UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N. 565
564

Opinion of the Court.

Merely calling the charge "interest" can not change
its character if it be in fact a penalty. United States v.
LaFranca,282 U. S. 568,572; In re J. Menist & Co., 290 F.
947,949; In re Denver & R. G.W. R. Co., 27 F. Supp. 983;
In re Ashland Emery & Corundum Co., 229 F. 829, 832.
. Interest on delinquent tax payments due to a State or
any subdivision thereof will not be allowed in a bankruptcy proceeding in excess of the general rate of interest
permitted by the applicable state law. New York v.
Jersawit, 263 U. S. 493; In re Pressed Steel Car Co., 100
F. 2d 147,153; In re Denver & R. G. W. R. Co., 27 F. Supp.
983; In re 168 Adams Building Corp., 27 F. Supp. 247,
aff'd 105 F. 2d 704, cert. den., 308 U. S. 623; In re A. E.
Fountain, Inc., 295 F. 873; In re Wells, 4 F. Supp. 329.
Distinguishing Beardsley & Wolcott Mfg. Co., 82 F. 2d
239; Horn v. Boone Co., 44 F. 2d 920; Martin case, 75 F.
2d 618; United States v. Childs, 266 U. S. 304.
Federal and other California state taxing authorities
demand only six per cent per annum interest on bankruptcy proofs of claim.
The Attorney General of California hap himself characterized § 45 of the California Unemployment Reserves
Act as a penalty section.
Mr. John J. Dailey, Deputy Attorney General of California, with whom Messrs. Earl Warren, Attorney General, and Maurice P. McCaffrey were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion* of the

Court.
The petitioner is the trustee of a bankrupt which was
indebted to the California Unemployment Reserves Commission for contributions which had accrued under the
California Unemployment Reserves Act. Section 45 of
that Act provided that, in the event of default in payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

of contributions due, the employer "shall become additionally liable for interest on such payments at the rate of
twelve per cent per annum from the date such payment
becomes due, both principal and interest b iMg payable
in the same manner as the co(itributions." Deering's
Gen. Laws, 1937, Act 8780d, § 45. The Commission filed
proof of a prior.ity claim in the bankruptcy'proceeding for
the principal amount of the accrued contributions and
interest thereon at the rate of twelve per cent.
The trustee paid the principal sum with interest at six
per cent, but refused to pay more, relying on § 57j of the
Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § I93j, which provides that
"Debts owing to the United States, a State, a county, a
district, or a municipality as a penalty or forfeiture shall
not be allowed, except for the amount of the pecurtiary
loss sustained by the act, transaction, or proceeding .out
of which the penalty or forfeiture arose, with reasonable
and actual costs occasioned thereby and such interest as
may have accrued thereon according to law." The trustee
asserted that any exaction in excess of six per cent, which
he claimed was the "reasonable and customary rate of
interest," was a penalty; the bankruptcy court decreed
that all above seven per cent (a common, though not an
invariable, legal rate in California) was a penalty and refused to allow so much of the claim; and the Circuit Couiti
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed on the ground
that no part of the twelve p6r-eent was a penalty. 116
F. 2d 330. We granted certiorari because of the conflict
between this decision and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in In re Pressed Steel Car Co.
of New Jersey.1
Petitioner seeks to establish that the twelve per cent
exaction here in question is not "interest" by pointing to
Article XX, § 22 of the California Constitution, which
1 100

F. 2d 147, certiorari denied sub nom. Wick v. New Jersey,

306 U. S. 648.

MEILINK v. UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N. 567
564

Opinion of the Court.

provides that, except for specified institutions, the rate
of interest on loans, and on accounts 'after 'demand or
judgment, shall be seven per cent, and leaves the parties
free to contract in writing for a rate not exceeding ten
per cent.2 We do not understand that as a matter of
State law the California legislature was thereby forbidden to prescribe the higher rate here involved. And
the mere difference in rates does not establish that the
twelve per cent rate is not "interest" within the meaning
of § 57j of the Bankruptcy Act.
It is common knowledge that interest rates vary not
cnly according to the general use value of money but
also according to the hazard of particular classes of loans.
Delinquent taxpayers as a class are a poor credit risk;
tax default, unless an incident of legitimate tax litigation, is, to the eye sensitive to credit indications, a signal
of distress. A-rate of interest on tax delinquencies which
is low in comparison to the taxpayer's borrowing rateif he can borrow at all-is a temptation to use the state
as a convenient, if involuntary, banker by the simple
practice of deferring the payment of taxes.
Another variable is the amount necessary to compensate for the trouble of handling the item. The legislature may include compensation to the state for the
increased costs of administration in the exaction for delay in paying taxes without thereby changing it from
interest to penalty.
2This

reads in part as follows:
"The rate of*interest upon the loan or forbearance of any money,
goods or things in action, or on accounts after demand or judgment
rendered in any court of the State, shall be seven per cent per annum
but it shall be competent for the parties to any loan or forbearance
of any money, goods or things in action to contract in writing for a
rate of interest not exceeding ten per cent per annum."
Expressly excepted are building and loan associations, industrial
loan companies, credit unions, pawnbrokers, personal property brokers.
state and national banks, and co5perative associations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

These factors--risk, and the expenses of handling-are reflected in the interest rates permitted by California
to certain types of financial institutions: for example,
credit unions may charge interest at the rate of one per
cent per month; . pawnbrokers, at two per cent per
month on the first one hundred dollars of indebtedness; '
and personal property brokers, two and one-half per cent
per month on the first three hundred dollars.' A differentiation of treatment for particular types of loans similar in principle is commonly made by other states6
New York v. Jersawit, 263 U. S. 493, is thought by
petitioner to require a decision in his favor. That case
involved a New York statute visiting tax delinquents
with an additional liability of ten per cent of the tax;
and adding thereto a further liability of one per cent
per month, which was not denominated interest. The
Circuit Court of Appeals had held that such provision
was penal, but had allowed interest at the usual legal
rate on the theory that it represented actual damage.
In re Ajax Dress Co., 290 F. 950. This Court, speaking
through Mr. Justice Holmes, said:
"There can be no doubt that the additional ten per
centum charged for failure to pay by January 1 is a
penalty, disallowed by the Bankruptcy Act, § 57j, but
it is urged that the one per centum for each month of
default is statutory interest and that the State is entitled
to that and otherwise would be entitled to none. As
the one per centum is more than the value of the use of
the money and is added by the statute to the ten to
make a single -sum it must be treated as part of one
corpus and must fall with that. We presume that in
this event the State does not object to receiving the
aDeering's Gen. Laws, 1939 Supp., Act 1887, § 3 (5).
' Deering's Gen. Laws, 1939 Supp., Act 5826, § 2.
5Deering's Gen, Laws, 1939 Supp., Act 5825 (2d), § 17.
*Clark, Financing the Consumer (1933), Appendix I.

MEILINK v. UNEMPLOYMENT COMM'N. 569
564

Opinion of the Court.

simple interest allowed. That part of the order will
stand." 263 U. S. at 496.
Here the exaction computed according. to lapse of time
is not lumped together with another percentage computed
without reference to lapse of time; here the exaction is
denominated interest by the statute, and there it was
not; and we cannot be so confident here that twelve per
cent "is more than the value of' the use of the money,"
or of the validity of the implied major premise that an
exaction in excess of such value cannot be merely an
interest charge.!
The decision which controls here-is the more recent one
of United States v. Childs, 266 U. S. 304, where the
statute separately denominated a flat five per cent exaction as a penalty, and an additional one of one per cent
a month as interest. The latter was held to be "interest"
within the meaning of § 57j of the Bankruptcy Act.
The distinction from the fact that the exaction in that
case was by the United States and in this case by a State
calls for no difference in result. We must give credit to
a state legislature acting within its Constitutional sphere
like that accorded to Congress acting in its Constitutional
7 Compare the following exactions, provided by -the various Unemployment Compensation Acts for non-payment of contributions
due:
"Interest" at 6% per annum or its equivalent on a monthly basis:
United States, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Massachusetts,
New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Utah, Wisconsin; at 8%: Ohio;
at 81/100% per month: Kansas; at 9%: Connecticut, Michigan;
at 12%: District of Columbia, Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado,
Illinois, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Mississippi,
Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey,
New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island,
South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wyoming.
"Penalty" at 12%: Kentucky, Texas; at 2% to 25% per month:

Idaho.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

sphere. And the distinction which Congress made in the
legislation considered in the Childs case, and in other revenue legislation, between penalty as a fixed ad valorem
amount taking no account of time, and interest which
does depend on time, is persuasive that its use of the
word "penalty" in the Bankruptcy Act will bear a like
differentiation from interest.
Finally, it may be observed that Congress itself has
provided in the District of Columbia Unemployment
Compensation Act that, in the event contributions are
not paid when due, "there shall be added, as part of the
contributions, interest at the rate of 1 per centum per
month." (Italics supplied.)
D. C. Code (Supp. V.
1939) tit. 8, § 314 (c).
Affirmed.
MP. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the decision of
this case.

