B. B. CHEMICAL. 00. v. ELLIS.
Opinion of the Court.

B. B. CHEMICAL CO. v. ELLIS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE cimcuIT COURT OF APP9ALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 75. Argued December 10, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.
The owner of a method patent who authorizes manufacturers to use
it only with materials furnished by him may not enjoin infringement

by one who supplies the manufacturer with materials for use by
the patented method and aids in such use. Morton Salt Co. v.
G. S. Suppiger Co., ante, p. 488. P. 497.

117 F. 2d 829, affinned.

CtarIoRARI, 313 U. S. 558, to review the affirmance of a
decree of the District Court, 32 F. Supp. 690, which dismissed the bill in a suit to enjoin infringement of a patent,
and for an accounting.
Mr. Harrison F. Lyman, with whom Messrs. C. E.
Hammett, Jr., and Arnoll C. Rood were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. William Gates, Jr., with whom Messrs. Robert
Cushman and James R. Hodder were on the brief, for
respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Arnold, and Messrs. Richard H. Demuth and James C.
Wilson filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE STONE delivered

the opinion of

the Court.
This is a companion case to Morton Salt Co. v. G. S.
,uppiger Co., ante, p. 488, and involves the question
whether the owner of a method patent who authorizes
manufacturers to use it only with materials furnished
by him may enjoin infringement by one who, supplies

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

the manufacturer with materials for use by the patented
method and aids in such use.
Petitioner brought the present suit for an injunction
and an accounting for infringement of the Ellis Patent,
No. 1,830,428, of November 3, 1931, for a method of
reinforcing insoles in shoe manufacture. Respondents
denied infringement and set up as a further defense petitioner's misuse of the patent by permitting its use only
with the unpatented materials sold by petitioner. The
district court sustained this defense, 32 F. Supp. 690,
and the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit affirmed.
117 F. 2d 829. We granted certiorari, 313 U. S. 558,
because of the importance of the question presented and
because we wished to consider this with the Morton Salt
Company case.
Claim 4 of the patent is for a method "of reinforcing
insoles which comprises applying, at room temperature,
to a strip of reinforcing material provided with a dry
coating of a cement having a substantial rubber content,
a coating of adhesive containing a relatively large
amount of rubber and of such a character that it will be
effective even when freshly applied to cause quick adhesion of the reinforcing material and the material of
the insole, and applying to each other, still at room
temperature, a portion of the coated strip and the insole
to be reinforced." Both courts below sustained the
validity of claim 4 and held it was infringed by respondents' selling to purchasers of petitioner's materials like
material for use with the patented process. But both
held that petitioner was debarred from, enjoining the
infringement because of the manner of conducting its
business, which is to supply shoe manufacturers, for use
in reinforcing insoles, pre-coated fabric which it has slit
into strips of suitable width for use by the patented
method. If the manufacturer desires, he provides the
fabric and petitioner pre-coats and slits it. Petitioner

B. B. CHEMICAL CO. v. ELLIS.
495

Opinion of the Court.

supplies adhesive of high rubber content to be applied
to the pre-coated fabric at the factory, just before the
application of the reinforcing material to the insole. It
also 'furnishes patented machines suitable for applying
the adhesive to the strips, the machines remaining
petitioner's property.
As compensation, petitioner makes a single charge to the
shoe manufacturer at a rate per web yard of fabric used,
and if the manufacturer does not furnish the fabric the
price of that is added to the charge. Petitioner has not
granted to shoe manufacturers, or asked them to take,
written licenses. The courts below held that petitioner's
sale to manufacturers of the unpatented materials for use
by the patented method operated as a license to use the
patent with that material alone and thus restrained coinpetition with petitioner in the sale of the unpatented
material, as in Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp.,
283 U. S. 27, and Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U. S.
458.
Petitioner insists that the respondents' acts of infringement, as found by the district court, were not limited to
the sale of material for use by the patented method, as in
the Carbice and Leitch cases, but amounted to active inducement of infringement by the shoe manufacturers and
to coperation with their infringing acts. Petitioner
argues that, even though under the Carbice and Leitch
cases it has "no right to be free from competition in the
sale" of the materials, it has the right under the patent
law to restrain infringement in any manner other than by
the competitive sale of the unpatented materials.
We may assume, for purposes of decision, that respondents' infringement did extend beyond the mere sale of. the
materials to the manufacturers. " But in view of petitioner's use of the patent as the means of establishing a limited
monopoly in its unpatented materials, and for the reasons
given in our opinion in the Morton Salt Company case,
428670-42-.,2

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

we hold that the maintenance of this suit to restrain any
form of infringement is contrary to public policy, and that
the district court rightly dismissed it.
It is without significance that, as petitioner contends, it
is not practicable to exploit the patent rights by granting
licenses because of the preferences of manufacturers and
of the methods by which petitioner has found it convenient to conduct its business. The patent monopoly is not
enlarged by reason of the fact that it would be more convenient to the patentee to have it so, or because he cannot
avail himself of its benefits within the limits of the grant.
Despite this contention, petitioner suggests that it is
entitled to relief because it is now willing to give unconditional licenses to manufacturers on a royalty basis, which
it offers to do. It will be appropriate to consider petitioner's right to relief when it is able to show that it has
fully abandoned its present method of restraining competition in the sale of unpatented articles and that the consequences of that practice have been fully dissipated.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the decision of this

case.
ILLINOIS NATURAL GAS CO. v. CENTRAL ILLINOIS PUBLIC SERVICE CO. ET AL.
APPEAL' FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 100. Argued December 19, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.
1. A corporation, engaged within a State in the business of piping
natural gas and selling it wholesale to distributors, whose supply of
gas comes from sources outside of the State and moves in continuous streams from the pipeline of an affliate at the state border
to points where the corporation delivers it to its customers, is subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Power Commission under the
Natural Gas Act of June 21, 1938, and can not be required by state.

