OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

an important utility and the obligations and rights of a
populous municipality. We think it the duty of the Court
to end this controversy by p'roceeding to judgment on the
merits, and that nothing' in this record justifies ousting
these parties from the federal courts. If, as the opinion
intimates, the forefathers are thought to have been unwise in creating a federal jurisdiction based on diversity
of citizenship, we should think the'remedy of those so
minded would be found in Congressional withdrawal of
such jurisdiction, rather than in the confusing process of
judicial constriction.
We would follow the words of the jurisdictional statute
when it is sought to restrict its application, quite as faithfully as when the effort is to enlarge it by recourse to doctrines which conflict with its words. Compare Healy v.
Ratta, 292 U. S. 263, 270.
CUNO ENGINEERING CORP. v. AUTOMATIC
DEVICES CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 37.

Argued October 22, 23, 1941.-Decided November 10, 1941.

1. Claims 2, 3, and 11 of the Mead patent, No. 1,736,544, for improvements in lighters (commonly used in automobiles) for cigars,
cigarettes, and pipes, held invalid for want of invention. P. 88.
2. Mead's addition to the so-called wireless or cordless lighter of a
thermostatic control-which, after the plug was set "on" and the
heating coil had reached the proper temperature, automatically
returned the plug to its "off" position-was not invention but a
mere exercise of the skill of the calling, and an advance plainly
indicated by the prior art. P. 89.
3. That Mead's combination performed a new and useful function
did not make it patentable. The new device, however useful,
must reveal the flash of creative genius, not merely the skill of the
calling. P. 90.
117 F. 2d 361, reversed.

CUNO CORP. v. AUTOMATIC DEVICES CORP.

85

Opinion of the Court.

84

CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 553, limited to the question

whether claims 2, 3, and 11 of the Mead patent No.
1,736,544 are valid. In a suit for infringement, the judgment of the District Court that the claims were not infringed, 34 F. Supp. 146, was reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, which held them valid and infringed.
Messrs. Robert StarrAllyn and CarltonHill, with whom
Messrs. Hyland R. Johns and Roberts B. Larson were on
the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. Drury W. Cooper, with whom Messrs. Henry M.
Huxley and Thomas J. Byrne were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUsTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the .opinion of the
Court.
This is an action in equity brought by respondent for
infringement, inter alia, upon claims 2, 3, and 11 of patent
No. 1,736,544, granted November 19, 1929, on the application of H. E. Mead, filed August 24, 1927, for a cigar
lighter. The District Court held these claims not infringed. 34 F. Supp. 146. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed, holding them valid and infringed. 117 F. 2d 361.

We granted the petition for certiorari, limited to the question whether claims 2, 3, and 11 of the Mead patent are
valid, because of a conflict between the decision below

and Automatic Devices Corp. v. Sinko Tool & Manufacturing Co., 112 F. 2d 335, decided by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
The claims in question'. are for improvements in lightIn a device of the class described, a removable heating member
having an electrical heating unit, 9, socket for receiving and holding
said heating member, electrical current supply terminals, means for
moving said heating member to a position for establishing an energizing
1 "2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

ers, commonly found in automobiles, for cigars, cigarettes
and pipes. There were earlier lighters of the "reel type."
The igniter unit was connected with a source of current
by a cable which was wound on a spring drum so that the
igniter unit and cable could be withdrawn from the socket
and be used for lighting a cigar or cigarette. As the removable plug was returned to the socket, the wires were
reeled back into it. The circuit was closed either by
manual operation of a button or by withdrawal of the
igniter from its socket. In 1921, the Morris patent (No.
1,376,154) was issued for a so-called "wireless" or "cordless" lighter. This lighter eliminated the cables and the
mechanism for winding and unwinding them, it provided
for heating the ignited unit without removing it from its
socket, and it eliminated all electrical and mechanical
connection of the igniter unit with the socket once it was
removed therefrom for use. Several types of the "wireless" or "cordless" lighter appeared.! Morris represented
a type in which the circuit was open when the plug rested
circuit to said heating unit, and means responsive to the temperature
of said heating unit for interrupting said energizing circuit.
"3. In a lighting device for cigars and the like, a removable heating
member having an electric heater, a support for receiving and holding
said heating member, current supply terminals on said support, said
heating member being movable on said support to a position where
said heating unit is energized from said terminals and means responsive
to the temperature of said heating unit for controlling the heating
thereof.
"11. In an electric lighter of the class described, a base member, a
heater member movably mounted on said base member, an electric
heater on said heater member, electrical supply terminals on said base
member, said heater member being movable between an energized
position where a circuit is established from said terminals to said heater,
and an off position where said circuit is interrupted, and automatic
means for withdrawing said heater member from the on position to
the off position upon heating of said heater."
'Some of these are reviewed in Casco Products Corp. v. Sinko Tool
&Mfg. Co., 116 F. 2d 119.

CUNO CORP. v. AUTOMATIC DEVICES CORP.
84

87

Opinion of the Court.

in the socket and closed when the plug was pushed farther
into the socket against the resistance of a spring. In Zecchini (No. 1,437,701) the operator pressed and held down
a push-button to close the circuit. In Metzger (No. 1,622,334) the operator closed the circuit by depressing and
rotating the plug. In each the operator was obliged to
hold the plug, or the circuit-closing part, in place until the
heating coil became hot enough for use. After he concluded that it had become hot enough (by observation or
guesswork), he removed the plug, using it like a match
or hot coal, and then replaced it in the socket. Thus,
these lighters were said to require rather continual attention on the part of the person using them, so that there
would be no over-heating or burning out of the heating
coil.
This inconvenience and hazard were eliminated, according to respondent,' by the automatic feature of the
Mead patent. Mead added to the so-called "wireless" or
"cordless" lighter a thermostatic control responsive to the
temperature of the heating coil. In operation it automatically returned the plug to its "off" position after the
heating coil had reached the proper temperature. To
operate Mead's device, the knob on the igniter plug was
turned to a point where an electrical connection was established from the battery through the heating coil. There
the plug remained temporarily latched. When the heating coil was sufficiently hot for use, the bimetallic elements
in the thermostat, responsive to the temperature condition of the heating coil, caused the igniter plug to be released and to be moved by operation of a spring to
open-circuit position. The plug might then be manually
removed for use in the manner of a match, torch, or ember.
'A patent holding company which holds the Mead patent under
mesne assignments.

statute.

No issue, however, is raised under the assignment

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

When replaced in the socket after use, it was held in opencircuit position until next needed.
Petitioner makes several objections to the validity of
the claims: that they do not comply with the standards
for full, clear and concise description prescribed by 35
U. S. C. § 33, R. S. § 4888; that they are indefinite and
broader than any disclosed invention; and that they are for
a device so imperfect and unsuccessful that a construction
of the claims broad enough to include it is not permissible.
See Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, 155 U. S. 286,
295. We do not, however, stop to consider these objections. For it is our opinion that the Mead device was not
the result of invention but a "mere exercise of the skill of
the calling," an advance "plainly indicated by the prior
art." Altoona Publix Theatres v. American Tri-Ergon
Corp., 294 U. S. 477, 486.
Thermostatic controls of a heating unit, operating to
cut off an electric current energizing the unit when its temperature had reached the desired point, were well
known to the art when Mead made his device. They had
been employed in a wide variety of electrical designs since
Hammarstrom, in 1893 (No. 493,380), showed a bimetallic thermostat to break a circuit when it got overcharged.
A few examples will suffice. Harley, in 1907 (No.
852,326), included stich a thermostat in an electric heater
for vulcanizing, so as to limit automatically the temperature attainable. Andrews, in 1912 (No. 1,025,852),
showed a bimetallic thermostat in an electrical flat iron,
designed to open the circuit at a predetermined temperature. In 1919, Newsom (No. 1,318,168), showed an electric coffee cooker in which a thermostat, actuated by the
temperature within the receptacle, operated to open and
close the circuit intermittently. Stahl, in 1921 (No.
1,372,207), showed an electric switch automatically released by operation of a thermostat. Hurxthal, in 1925
(No. 1,540,628), showed an electric bread toaster with a

CUNO CORP. v. AUTOMATIC DEVICES CORP.
84

89

Opinion of the Court.

thermostat for stopping the toasting when the bread
reached a given degree of temperature. Copeland (No.
1,844,206), filed April 18, 1927, before Mead, showed an
electric lighter for cigars and cigarettes with thermostatic
control. It differed from Mead in several respects. Thus,
in Copeland's device a cigar was inserted in a tube at the
end of which was a heating coil. By pressing the cigar
against the heating coil (or in another form, by pressing a
push-button) a spring was overset and the circuit closed.
When the desired temperature of the heating unit was
reached, a thermostatic bar pushed back the spring and
opened the circuit. Thus, in the Copeland device the
cigar (or the push-button) was the "means for moving"
the "heating member" of the Mead claims so as to establish the energizing electric heating circuit. The advance
of Mead over Copeland was the use of the removable plug
bearing the heating unit, as in Morris, to establish the
automatically controlled circuit of Copeland.
And so the question is whether it was invention for one
skilled in the art and familiar with Morris and Copeland,
and with the extensive use of the automatic thermostatic
control of an electric heating circuit, to apply the Copeland
automatic circuit to the Morris removable heating unit
in substitution for a circuit manually controlled.
To incorporate such a thermostatic control in a so-called
"wireless" or "cordless" lighter was not to make an "invention" or "discovery" within the meaning of the patent
laws. As we have shown, both the thermostatically controlled heating unit and the lighter with a removable plug
bearing the heating unit were disclosed by the prior art.
More must be done than to utilize the skill of the art in
bringing old tools into new combinations. Hailes v. Van
Wormer, 20 Wall. 353, 368; Pickering v. McCullough, 104
U. S. 310, 318; Thatcher Heating Co. v. Burtis, 121 U. S.
286, 294; Concrete Appliances Co. v. Gomery, 269 U. S.
177, 184-185; Powers-Kennedy ContractingCorp. v. Con-

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

crete Mixing & Conveying Co., 282 U. S.175,186; Carbice
Corp. v. American Patents Dev. Co., 283 U. S. 420. Respondent, however, contends that wholly new functions
were involved in Mead's conception, viz., relieving the
operator of the necessity of manually holding the plug
in closed-circuit position, and automatically and permanently opening the circuit when the heating coil was at
the temperature predetermined for its proper use. And
respondent argues, Mead's new combination had an entirely different mode of operation from any "wireless"
lighter then in existence and from any thermostatically
controlled electric device.'
We may concede that the functions performed by Mead's
combination were new and useful. But that does not
necessarily make the device patentable. Under the statute (35 U. S. C. § 31; R. S. § 4886) the device must not
only be "new and useful," it must also be an "invention"
or "discovery." Thompson v. Boisselier, 114 U. S. 1, 11.
Since Hotchkiss v. Greenwood, 11 How. 248, 267, decided
in 1851, it has been recognized that if an improvement is to
obtain the privileged position of a patent more ingenuity
must be involved than the work of a mechanic skilled in
the art. Hicks v. Kelsey, 18 Wall. 670; Slawson v. Grand
Street R. Co., 107 U. S.649; Phillips v. Detroit, 111 U. S.
604; Morris v. McMillin, 112 U. S.244; Saranac Automatic Machine Corp. v. Wirebounds Patents Co., 282
'Respondent argues that Mead's combination was different from any.
prior thermostatic device because, in the latter, the operation of the

thermostat was placed either under the control of some other thing,
such as the sole plate of an electric iron, or under the control of an
auxiliary resistance. The point is that in Mead's combination the
effective operation of the thermostat was placed under the sole control
of the temperature of the working resistance. We agree, however, with

the court below that any such difference was merely one of detail of
design, on which Mead's invention cannot rest. In any case, it is
the temperature created in the vicinity of the thermostat that is
effective. The manner in which it is transmitted to the thermostat
does not rise to the dignity of a patentable device.

CUNO CORP. v. AUTOMATIC DEVICES CORP.
84

91

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 704; Honolulu Oil Corp. v. Halliburton,306 U. S.
550. "Perfection of workmanship, however much it may
increase the convenience, extend the use, or diminish expense, is not patentable." Reckendorfer v. Faber,92 U. S.
347, 356-357. The principle of the Hotchkiss case applies
to the adaptation or combination of old or well known
devices for new uses. Phillips v. Detroit,supra;Concrete
Appliances Co. v. Gomery, supra; Pt:wers-Kennedy ContractingCorp.v. ConcreteMixitig & Conveying Co., supra;
Electric Cable Joint Co. v. Brooklyn Edison Co., 292 U. S.
69; Altoona Publix Theatres v. American Tri-ErgonCorp.,
supra; Textile Machine Works V. Louis Hirsch Textile
Machines, Inc., 302 U. S. 490; Toledo PressedSteel Co. v.
Standard Parts,Inc., 307 U. S. 350. That is to say, the
new device, however useful it may be, must reveal the
flash of creative genius, not merely the skill of the calling.
If it fails, it has not established its right to a private grant
on the public domain.
Tested by that principre, Mead's device was not patentable. We cannot conclude that his skill in making this
contribution reached the level of inventive genius which
the Constitution (Art. I, § 8) authorizes Congress to reward. He merely incorporated the well-known thermostat into the old "wireless" lighter to produce a more efficient, useful, and convenient article. Cf. Electric Cable
Joint Co. v. Brooklyn Edison Co., supra. A new application of an old device may not be patented if the "result
claimed as new is the same in character as the original
result" (Blake v. San Francisco, 113 U. S. 679, 683), even
though the new result had not before been contemplated.
Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Locomotive Engine Safety Truck
Co., 110 U. S. 490, 494, and cases cited. Certainly, the use
of a thermostat to break a circuit in a "wireless" cigar
lighter is analogous to, or the same in character as, the
use of such a device in electric heaters, toasters, or irons,
whatever may be the difference in detail of design. In-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE, C. J., concurring.

314 U. S.

genuity was required to effect the adaptation, but no more
than that to be expected of a mechanic skilled in the art.
Strict application of that test is necessary lest in the
constant demand for new appliances the heavy hand of
tribute be laid on each slight technological advance in
an art. The consequences of the alternative course were
forcefully pointed out by Mr. Justice Bradley in Atlantic
Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192, 200: "Such an indiscriminate creation of exclusive privileges tends rather to obstruct than to stimulate invention. It creates a class of
speculative schemers who make it their business to watch
the advancing wave of improvement, and gather its foam
in the form of patented monopolies, which enable them to
lay a heavy tax upon the industry of the country, without
contributing anything to the real advancement of the arts.
It embarrasses the honest pursuit of business with fears
and apprehensions of concealed liens and unknown liabilities to lawsuits and vexatious acountings for profits made
in good faith." Cf. Mr. Justice Campbell dissenting in
Winans v. Denmead, 15 How. 330,344, 345, 347; Hamilton,
Patents and Free Enterprise, Mon. No. 31; Investigation
of Concentration of Economic Power, Temporary National Economic Committee, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., ch. VIII
(1941).
Such' considerations prevent any relaxation of the rule
of the Hotchkiss case as respondent would seem to
desire.
Reversed.
MR. JusTicE FRANxFURTER concurs in

the result.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE:

I concur in the result.
I agree that the use of the well known thermostatically
controlled heating circuit exemplified by Copeland, with
the removable wireless heating unit plug of Morris, in
substitution for the manually controlled circuit which had

CUNO CORP. v. AUTOMATIC DEVICES CORP.
84

93

STONE, C. J., concurring.

previously been used with the plug, exhibited no more
than the skill of the art. The doubt which the court below
resolved in favor of patentability because Copeland's invention was "still-born" should, I think, have been resolved in favor of petitioners, because Mead was likewise
still-born so far as its substantial commercial success is
concerned.
The commercially successful structure for which respondent claims the protection of the Mead patent, and
which the court below thought satisfied a felt need, is not
the structure described by Mead. Both embody the combination of a thermostatically controlled heating circuit
with a heating unit borne on a removable wireless plug
and used as a means to close the circuit. But they differ
structurally in a number of particulars.
To mention only the more important, Mead showed a
rotatable socket which is turned by manually rotating
the plug when placed in the socket, so as to close the heating circuit. A laterally extending pin projecting from
the side of the plug, in the Mead structure, engages with
a spring latch outside the socket to hold the plug and
,socket in the circuit-closing position to which they have
been rotated, until the latch is released by the thermostatic
control, thus permitting the plug and the socket, which
is activated by a spring, to rotate back to the open circuit
position. The base required for the accommodation of
the rotating socket and its externally operated mechanism
was large and cumbersome. Respondent's commercial
structure, like the alleged infringing device, utilizes a fixed
socket within which the thermostatic circuit control is
located and into which the heat-unit-carrying plug may
be. inserted without necessity of rotating it as in the case
of the rotating plug with the projecting pin shown by
Mead. The thermostatically controlled circuit is closed
by pressing the plug further into the socket, the plug being
restored to an open circuit position by a spring carried on

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

314 U. S.

the plug, when the latch maintaining the closed circuit
is thermostatically released.
The commercially exploited device, because of the differences in its structure from that shown by Mead, is the
more compact and easily operated. Its utility as a lighter
to be located on the dash of an automobile, which is said
to be the merit of the Mead invention, is obvious. If the
improvements resulting in such utility involved invention,
it is not the invention of Mead. If they exhibited only the
skill of the art, their success cannot be relied on to establish
invention by Mead, who did not show or make them. Tho
case is therefore not one for the application of the doctrine
that commercial success or the manifest satisfaction of
a felt need will turn the scale in favor of invention.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

joins in this opinion.

AUTOMATIC DEVICES CORP. v. SINKO TOOL &
MANUFACTURING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 6. Argued October 22, 1941.-Decided November 10, 1941.
Decided on the authority of Cuno Engineering Corp. v. Automatic
Devices Corp., ante, p. 84.
112 F. 2d 335, affirmed.

CERTIoRARI, 312 U. S. 711, limited to the question
whether claims 2, 3, and 11 of the Mead patent No.
1,736,544 are valid. In a suit foi infringement, a judgment of -the District Court holding the claims valid and
infringed was reversed by-the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which held them invalid and not infringed.

Mr. Drury W. Cooper, with whom Messrs. Henry M.
Huxley and Thomas J. Byrne were on the brief, for
petitioner.

