SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. PAINTER.
Argument for Respondent.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. PAINTER,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24. Argued October 20, 21, 1941.-Decided November 17, 1941.
Section 265 of the Judicial Code forbids a federal court to enjoin
proceedings in a state court though such injunction be in support
of a suit, under the Federal Employers' Liability -Act, begun earlier
and then pending in the federal court. P. 159.
117 F. 2d 100, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 556, to

review the affirmance of a

decree of injunction.
Mr. Sidney S. Alderman, with whom Messrs. H. O'B.
Cooper, Rudolph J. Kramer,-Bruce A. Campbell, and

S. R. Prince were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Roberts P. Elam, with whom Mr. Mark D. Eagleton
was on the brief, for respondent.
The federal District Court had jurisdiction, as to both
subject matter and parties, over the action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
That the plaintiff under § 6, as amended, had an unqualified right to bring the action in the federal court in
Missouri, is plain from the language and the legislative
history -of that section.
This right to select the forum is an absolute federal
right. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1,
58; Hoffman v. Missouri ex'rel. Foraker, 274 U. S. 21;
McKnett v. St. Louis & S. F.R. Co., 292 U. S. 230; see, also, '
Missouri ex rel. St. Louis, B. & M. R. Co. v. Taylor, 255
U. S. 200.
The Tennessee Chancery Court was without jurisdiction of the subject matter of the Railway's complaint.
Its injunction was unauthorized and void.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Respondent.

314 U. S.

Where the state and federal courts have concurrent
jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the absolute right to elect the
forum in which he will bring his action.
When a federal court is properly appealed to in a case
over whc'h it has by law jurisdiction, it is not only the
right, but the duty, of that court to take and exercise jurisdiction. Dist'g Canada Malting Co. v. PatersonSteamships, Ltd., 285 U. S. 413; Penn General Casualty Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 294 U. S. 189; Pennsylvania v. Williams,
294 U. S. 176; and Harkin v. Brundage, 276 U. S.-36.
The doctrine of forum non conveniens is one which is
applicable only by a court to a case pending before it, as
the decisions relied upon by petitioner railway well illustrate; it cannot be applied by one court to a case pending before a court in another jurisdiction-and petitioner
railway made no attempt to have the federal District
Court below apply that doctrine to this respondent's case,
but, on the contrary, sought a "back-handed" application
of the doctrine by the state court of Tennessee. In the
second place, the doctrine of forum non conveniens is not
to be applied merely upon considerations of convenience
or expense, but is to be applied only where the trial of the
cause in the forum in which it is pending will produce an
injustice. In the third place, the doctrine of forum non
conveniens is never to be applied where it will result in an
injustice to the plaintiff.
The courts of a State have no authority or jurisdiction
to restrain or enjoin proceedings in the federal courts.
A court of equity, in a proper case and to prevent harassing, vexatious and iiequitable- consequences, may restrain. and enjoin parties within its jurisdiction from instituting or prosecuting proceedings in the courts of Qther
jurisdictions. Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107. But
that doctrine is subject to the exception, based upon necessity, that state courts cannot enjoin parties from proceeding in federal courts. The doctrine applies only in cases

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. PAINTER.
155

Argument for Respondent.

where both parties to the proceedings in the foreign court
are residents within the jurisdiction of the court of equity
wherein relief is sought from the prosecution of the proceeding in the foreign court.
Furthermore, the effect of the specific provision of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act is to supersede the law
of the States, common law as well as statutory.
The injunction by the Tennessee Chancery Court, without authority, undertook (1) to deprive respondent entirely of her right to bring her action in the federal court
at the place first provided for by the Act, viz., in the district of the residence of petitioner railway at Richmond,
Virginia; (2) to impair and limit the right of respondent
to bring her action in a federal court in the places last
provided for by the Act, viz., the various federal districts
in which the petitioner railway was doing business; and
(3) to direct respondent to bring her action in the federal
court at a place not.provided for by the Act, viz., the district of plaintiff's residence, where the railway might not
be doing business.
That the employee's election of a venue may cause, incidentally, a burden on interstate commerce, cannot affect
his right to make it, pursuant to the Act.
The general rule that, ordinarily, an administrator or
executor cannot sue or be sued in his official capacity
in the courts of a jurisdiction foreign to that from which
he derives his authority, is without application to an administrator or executor who brings an action under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Respondent did not bring her action in the federal District Court in Missouri by virtue of her inherent right as
the representative of the estate of her decedent, but by
virtue of her designation by the federal statute as trustee
for designated dependent survivors of the decedent and
for them alone.
The injunction of the Chancery Court is not entitled
to "full faith and credit." The District Court had occa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

sion and power and authority to grant the injunction
against the railway.
No state or federal court, other than the federal District
Court below in Missouri, is open or available to respondent for the prosecution of her cause of action, for the injury
to and death of her decedent, because the two-year time
limitation of the Act (before the amendment of § 6) applies, and the time has expired.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion Of the

Court.
On August 31, 1939, respondent brought an action
against petitioner in the federal District Court for the
Eastern District of Missouri to recover damages under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act,_35 Stat. 65; 45 U. S. C.
§ 51 et seq., for the wrongful death of her husband while
employed by petitioner as a fireman on an interstate train
operated between points in Tennessee and North Carolina.
While this action was pending, petitioner filed a bill in the
Chancery Court of Knox County, Tennessee, alleging that
respondent and the deceased were citizens of Tennessee;
that rititioner, a Virginia corporation having its principal
office i Richmond, Virginia, does no business in Missouri
other than of an interstate character; that the accident
occurred in Madison County, North Carolina, "just beyond the North Carolina-Tennessee line"; that the Missouri federal court is more than 500 miles distant from
respondent's residence, the residence of petitioner's witnesses, and the place where the accident occurred; that
petitioner could not transport its witnesses to Missouri
except at "enormous expense"; that respondent's purpose
in bringing suit in Missouri was to evade the law of Tennessee and North Carolina; and that petitioner maintains
agents in Tennessee and North Carolina upon whom
process can be served. The chancellor thereupon enjoined
respondent from further prosecuting her action in the

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. PAINTER.
155

Opinion of the Court.

Missouri federal court and from instituting any similar
suits against petitioner except in the state and federal
courts in Tennessee and North Carolina. Respondent did
not appeal from this decree. Instead, she filed a "supplemental bill" in the Missouri federal court to enjoin the
proceedings in the Tennessee state court. Holding that
the commencement of respondent's action for damages
gave the federal court "specific, complete, sole and exclusive jurisdiction" which could not be "intrenched upon"
by proceedings in another court, the District Court, by an
appropriate interlocutory decree, forbade petitioner from
further prosecuting its suit in the Tennessee state court
and ordered it to dismiss the state suit. This decree was
affirmed by the Circuit Court; of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, 117 F. 2d 100. We brought the case here, 313
U. S. 556, in view of the relation of its jurisdictional problems to those in Toucey v. New York Life Insurance Co.
and PhoenixFinance Corp. v. Iowa-W;-.onsin Bridge Co.,
ante, p. 118.
•The limitations imposed on the power of the federal
courts by § 265 of the Judicial Code, as we have applied
them this day in the Toucey and Phoenix cases, supra,
govern the disposition of this case. The restrictions of
§ 265 upon the use of the injunction to stay a litigation in
a state court confine the district courts even though such
an injunction is sought in support of an earlier suit in the
federal courts. Congress has endowed the federal courts
with such protective jurisdiction neither generally nor in
the specific instance of claims arising under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. Ever since the Act of March
2, 1793, 1 Stat. 334, § 5, Congress has done precisely the
opposite. Because of its views of appropriate policy in the
interplay of state and federal judiciaries, Congress has forbidden the exclusive absorption of such litigation by the
federal courts. If a state court proceeds as the Chancery

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U.S.

Court of Tennessee acted, the ultimate vindication of any
federal right lies with this Court.
The District Court was here without power to enjoin
petitioner from further prosecuting its suit in the Tennessee state court.
Reversed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS
JUSTICE REED, concurring:

and

MR.

The reasons which led to dissent in Toucey v. New York
Life Insurance Co., and Phoenix Finance Corp. V. IowaWisconsin Bridge Co., ante, p. 118,.do not exist in this case.
There is no federal decree and therefore no need of an
injunction to protect the decree or prevent relitigation.
EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA IN AND
FOR THE COUNTY OF YUBA.

No. 17.

Argued April 28, 29, 1941. Reargued October 21, 1941.Decided November 24, 1941.

'L. Transportation of persons from one State into another'is interstate

commerce. P. 172.
2. A statute of California making it a misdemeanor for anyone knowingly to bring or assist in bringing into the State a nonresident
"indigent person," held invalid as an unconstitutional burden on
interstate commerce. P. 174.
For the purposes of this case it is assumed that the term, "indigent
person," though not confined to the physically or mentally incapacitated, includes only persons who are presently dstitute of
property and without resources to obtain the necessities of life,
and who have no relatives or friends able and willing to support
them. P. 172.
How far the regulatory power of Congress extends over such
transportation, and whether the attempted state regulation is also
prohibited by other provisions of the Constitution, are questions not
decided in this case and upon which the, majority of the Court
expresses no opinion. Pp. 176, 177.

