OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

Under the order of June 20, 1889, directing the receiver to
turn over the property to the purchasers at the foreclosure
sale, the court undoubtedly had the authority to charge the
property with such claims against the receiver as it might
thereafter allow, but that reservation of power did not make
it the duty of the court to allow the claim of the intervening
petitioner.
The lease having no legal validity without the sanction of
the court, the equitable considerations in favor of the purchasers of the trust property at the foreclosure sale are
stronger than those of the appellant.
We are, therefore, of opinion that there was no error in the
decree of the court below, and the same is accordingly
Affirmed.
LOUD v. POMONA LAND AND WATER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF AUcHIGAN.
No. 194. Argued April 13,16, 1894. - Decided May 19, 1894.

By an agreement under seal the party of the first part agreed that, after
the making of the payments and the full performance of the covenants
as agreed to by the party of the second part, he would convey to the party
of the second part, certain described lands in California, together with
a specified number of shares in the stock of an irrigation company,
representing a certain pressure of water, to be delivered to the party of
the second part on making payment in full for the land. The party of the
second part agreed to pay for the land in fixed consecutive payments,
and both parties agreed that the instrument should not be construed as a
conveyance, equitable or otherwise, and that, until delivery of the formal
deed or tender of all payments precedent thereto, the party of the second
part should have no title, equitable or otherwise, to the premises. Held,
(1) That these covenants were independent, and that the payment or
tender of payment of the purchase price for the land was a condition precedent to the right to the conveyance;
(2) That the party of the second part, on making the contract payments,
became entitled to receive the agreed number of shares in the
irrigation company, subject to the by-laws of such company, but
not stock which represented the title to water or water rights to
the extent of such pressure.

LOUD v. P00NOA LANITD & WATER CO.
Statement of the Case.

THE Pomona Land and Water Company, defendant in
error, a corporation duly organized under the laws of the
State of California, brought this action of covenant against
Henry M. Loud, a citizen of the State of Michigan, to recover
various sums of money due upon agreements under seal, embodied in twenty contracts and nine applications for the sale
and purchase, at different prices, of separate and distinct parcels of land lying and being in the State of California,
together with designated shares of stock in certain irrigation
companies.
The twenty contracts declared on in counts one to forty
inclusive are substantially the same in form, the difference
between them being in the dates, description of land, purchase price, time of payment, and the number of shares of
stock in the irrigation companies. The applications declared
on in counts forty-one to forty-nine inclusive, while relating to different parcels of land, and varying in dates,
purchase price, time of payment, etc., are also substantially
alike.
These several contracts and applications need not be separately noticed or considered. One class is represented and
illustrated in the contract set out in the first count of the
declaration, while the other is set out according to its legal
effect in the forty-first count of the declaration. The contract declared on in the first count is as follows:

"This agreement made the eighth day of April, 1887,
between Pomona Land and Water Company, a corporation
duly organized under the laws of the State of California, and
having its office and principal place of business in the town of
Pomona, county of Los Angeles, State of California, party
of the first part, and H. M. Loud of Oscoda, Michigan, party
of the second part, witnesseth, that in pursuance of a resolution of its board of directors, adopted October 25, A.D.
1883, and in consideration of twenty-five hundred and thirty-

nine dollars, paid by the party of the second part, the party
of the first part does covenant and agree that after the making of the payments and full performance of the covenants

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

hereinafter expressed to be made and performed by the party
of the second part, the party of the first part will, in consideration thereof, convey by deed of grant, bargain, and sale,
to the party of the second part, his heirs or assigns, the following-described real property situated in the county of Los
Angeles, State of California, to wit: Lot seventeen (17) of
the northeast Pomona tract, according to the map of said
tract duly recorded in book 5, page 461 of miscellaneous records of Los Angeles County, California, estimated to contain
forty and .62 acres of land, together with 406.2 shares of
stock of the Del Monte Irrigation Company, representing
four and .062 inches of water under four-inch pressure, measured from centre of aperture, said stock to be delivered by
the party of the first part and accepted by said party of the
second part, subject to the by-laws of the said Del Monte Irrigation Company, when payment in full is made for the abovedescribed land.
"The party of the first part reserves the exclusive right of
way for laying pipes and aqueducts for conveyance of water;
also the right to enter upon said lands and make necessary
excavations for laying pipes and aqueducts, and to inspect,
repair, replace, and control the same.
"And for and in consideration of the foregoing agreement, and as the purchase price of the above - described
premises, the party of the second part do covenant and
agree to pay to the party of the first part, its successors or
assigns, the sum of ten thousand one hundred and fifty-five
dollars, United States gold coin, to be paid in the following
manner:
"$2539 on or before delivery of this contract,
3808 on or before April 8, 1888,
3808 on or before April 8, 1889,
and interest upon said respective sums from April 8, 1887,
until paid, at the rate of eight per cent per annum, payable
annually; and if not so paid, at option of said company, to be
added to principal and bear like interest.
"And the party of the second part, in consideration that

LOUD o. POMONA LAND & WATER CO.
Statement of the Case.

the party of the first part does hereby agree that the party
of the second part may at once enter upon, occupy, and enjoy
the above-described premises, does further covenant and agree
to pay and discharge all taxes, assessments, and water rates
that may be levied or assessed during the pendency of this
agreement, on the said described premises, and in default of
the party of the second part doing so, the party of the first
part may pay the same, and before the final payment of
purchase money the party of the second part hereby expressly agrees to refund all amounts so paid, with interest
from the date of such payment at the rate of one per cent
per month.
"CAnd the party of the second part further agrees that
during the pendency of this agreement he will not commit or
suffer any strip or waste of said premises, or of any improvements now existing or hereafter to be placed thereon; and if
any default shall be made in any of the above payments for
the space of sixty days after the same shall become due, then
it shall be lawful for the party of the first part, its successors
or assigns, at their option, to rescind this agreement to convey,
to reeuter upon, and to repossess said premises and all improvements existing thereon; removing the party of the second part
and all claiming under him therefrom, and it is agreed that in
such case all payments theretofore made shall be retained by
the party of the first part as compensation and liquidated
damages for the previous use, enjoyment, and occupation of
the premises by the party of the second part. And it is
hereby expressly covenanted and agreed between the parties
hereto that this instrument is not and shall not be construed
as a conveyance, equitable or otherwise, and that until the
delivery of said final deed of conveyance or tender of all
payments precedent thereto the party of the second part, his
heirs or assigns, shall have no title, equitable or otherwise, to
said premises.
"It is further expressly agreed that time is of the essence of
this contract.
"In witness whereof, the party of the first part has caused
its corporate name and seal to be subscribed and affixed by

OCTOBER TERM1, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

its president and secretary thereunto duly authorized; and the
party of the second part-has hereunto set his hand and seal
this third day of May, 1887. Executed in duplicate.
"PoMtoNA

LAND AND WATE CoMPANY,
By H. A. PATEr, President.

"[Seal of the Company.]
"By F. L. PALMER, Secretwry.
"H. M. LouD.
"Sealed and delivered in the presence of -

[L.

s.]

"B . F. NiCHoLs."

The applications are in the following form:
"Applicationfor Purchase.
"POMONA, CAL., April 15tht, 1887.
"Received from H. AT. Loud seventy-five dollars deposit on
application for purchase of northeast quarter (N. E. J) of lot
twenty-two, (22,) containing ten (10) acres of land according
to map of the San Antonio tract, duly recorded in book 3, p. 7,
of map records of San Bernardino County, with usual water
rights pertaining to said tract, at the price of fifteen hundred
dollars and on the following terms; Seventy-five dollars cash
deposit as above:

"First payment, $300.00, within sixty days from date;
second payment, $562.50, on or before April 15th, 1888; third
payment, $562.50, on or before April 15th, 1889; second and

third payments to bear interest from date at the rate of eight
per cent per annum, interest to be payable annually. In consideration of the premises I, H. M. Loud, hereby agree to purchase said property and pay for the same at the price and
on the terms above set out; and in consideration that the
Pomona Land and Water Company has withdrawn from the
market the above-described land for sixty days, so that the said
H. M. Loud may purchase the same at the above agreed on
price in case the said H. Ml. Loud fails or refuses to make said
first payment, as above, within the time above mentioned, then.
the deposit herein made shall be retained by the Pomona
Land and Water Company as the estimated damages suffered

LOUD v. PONIONA LAND & WATER CO.
Statement of the Case.

and the liquidated damages received by said company on
account of the withdrawal of the land from the market as
aforesaid. Time is hereby declared to be of the essence of
the fulfilment of the obligation of the said IH. M. Loud to
purchase the above land under the terms and conditions above
expressed. No title, legal or equitable, nor any right to the
possession of the above-described land, shall inure to said
IH. M. Loud until the Pomona Land and Water Company
shall have delivered an executed contract to him for the same.
"H. Mx.LouD.
[SEAL.]
"THoAs & EAsToN.
[SEAL.]
"F.

xAORPnEiSON, Ag't.

"Endorsed: Pomona, June 20th, 1887. Rec'd $300.00, being
balance of first payment on the within application. Pomona
Land and Water Company. F. L. Palmer, treas."
The ninth application for the purchase of lot eleven (11) of
the northeast section of the Pomona tract differed from the
rest in the fact that only part of the first payment was made.
The declaration, after alleging the refusal and failure of the
defendant below to pay the respective sums due under the
several contracts, averred that the plaintiff had been at all
times, and was still ready and willing, upon the making of the
payments in said contracts expressed to be made and performed by the said Henry M. Loud, to convey by deed of
grant, bargain, and sale to the said Loud, his heirs or assigns,
the property described in said contracts, together with the
shares of stock of the respective irrigation companies referred
to in the contracts. There was no averment in the declaration of any tender of a conveyance or conveyances of the lands
or of the stock in the irrigation companies, nor of any tender of
any conveyance or contracts referred to in the applications.
The record contains no plea on the part of the defendant
below, but there was served upon the plaintiff's attorney a
copy of the plea of the general issue, with notice of special
matters of defence, which the parties have treated as a pleading by the defendant. The special matters of defence set out
in the notice were in effect as follows: That if the contracts

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

were made they were obtained by fraud and were therefore
void; that the use and value of the lands depends upon their
proper irrigation by artificial means; that to induce defendant
below to make the purchase of the lands the plaintiff represented that it had a good, clear title in fee to the lands; that
it controlled and possessed water and water rights by means
of shares of stock in the Del Monte, the Palomares Irrigation
Companies, and the Irrigation Company of Pomona to furnish
ample and sufficient water to fully and sufficiently irrigate
said lands, so that each parcel of land should have water to
irrigate the same; that the plaintiff below, knowing that
defendant's only purpose in making the contracts was to resell the lands at a profit, represented that it had not and
would not place any other lands upon the market for sale;
that defendant relied upon these -representations and statements, which proved to be false; that the plaintiff was insolvent and irresponsible; that it did not have a good title to
the lands, but that they were heavily encumbered with mortgages, and therefore the defendant could not convey a good
title to them; that the plaintiff land company did not possess
or control sufficient water or water rights to fully and sufficiently irrigate the lands, and water sufficient to irrigate said
lands was not represented by means of the stock in the irrigation companies named, and could not be furnished by said
stock; that the supply of water furnished thereby was not
and could not be continuous; that the irrigation companies
had not sufficient supplies of water to furnish such water or to
furnish it continuously or in the quantities called for by the
contracts; that the irrigation companies were not responsible
for furnishing such supply which was not brought on, or supplied, to said lands; that notwithstanding the agreement of
the plaintiff below that it would not put other lands on the
market, it at once, after the making of the contracts, placed
large quantities of land on the market, and became such a
strong competitor that the defendant was prevented from
making a sale of said lands; that to some of the lands no
water was brought, and to none was it brought in sufficient
quantities to irrigate them; that he was a stranger in Cali-

LOUD v. POxONA LAND & WATER CO.
Statement of the Case.

fornia; that he hesitated to enter into the contracts because
he was unfamiliar with the laws of the State and of the business methods in common use by the plaintiff, and did not
know the risk or the extent of the liabilities he would incur;
but that plaintiff induced him to make such contracts, representing that they were upon the common printed forms it had
adopted, and that defendant would not be liable under the
laws of the State beyond the amount he should pay upon the
contracts, and the loss of the land in case of failure to make
payments; that plaintiff only dealt in that manner in its land
sales, and in no event would it hold, or seek to hold, the
defendant to any personal liability beyond the amount paid;
that defendant relied upon these representations in entering
into the contracts, and that this suit was in violation of such
representations and a fraud upon defendant.
As a further special defence the defendant set up "that the
plaintiff did not, on the day when the last instalment of the
purchase-price was made payable by the terms of said alleged
contracts respectively, nor at any time, convey or tender a
conveyance of the land or stock described in said contracts
respectively, or in either or any of them, to this defendant."
Upon the trial of the cause the Circuit Court directed a
verdict for the plaintiff for the various sums due and unpaid
under the contracts, amounting with interest to $79,819.30.
On motion for a new trial, heard before the Circuit Justice,
(Mr. Justice Brewer,) and the District Judge, who tried the case,
(Judge Brown,) it was ordered that judgment be entered on
the verdict, but that execution should be stayed "until thirty
days after the plaintiff had deposited with the clerk of the
court for the benefit of the vendee all the deeds to the lands
and certificates of stock, so that defendant may have an opportunity of examining the same to see if the titles are perfect,
and the transfers of stock are made in accordance with the
laws of the State of California."
In compliance with this order the plaintiff below deposited
deeds for the land and certificates for the stock in the irrigation companies in accordance with the terms of the several
contracts, but the defendant declined to accept the benefits of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the order or to receive the deeds and stock so deposited, and
prosecuted the present writ of error to reverse the judgment
of the court below.
Mr. George F. Edmunds and .r. Benton ffanchett for
plaintiff in error.
I. We contend that the intent of the contracts is that upon
payments being made, and when they are made, the conveyance of the land and delivery of the stock will be made.
The acts of payment and of conveyance and delivery of the
stock are to be concurrent; the undertakings are dependent.
The provision that the stock shall be delivered and accepted
when payment in full is made for the land is decisive as to the
time when the conveyance of land and the stock are to be
made by the vendor. They are not to be made at some indefinite time, or some reasonable time after payment, but they
are to be delivered when payment is made.
Under these provisions, in order for the plaintiff below to
recover, in an action at law, the purchase-money, after the last
payment became due, the plaintiff must aver and prove that
on the date when the last payment became due, the plaintiff
tendered to the defendant a conveyance of the land and shares
of stock, and tendered the stock itself. Bank of Columbia v.
Hagner, 1 Pet. 455; Washington, v. Ogden, 1 Black, 450; Hill
v. Grigsby, 35 California, 656; Bokall v. Diller, 41 California,
532; Englander v. Rogers, 41 California, 42,2; Heireln v. Treadwell, 72 California, 217; Johnson v. lMygant, 11 Wend. 48;
Parker v. Parmele,20 Tohns. 129; S. C. 11 Am. Dec. 253;
iane v. Hood, 13 Pick. 281; Carman v. Pultz, 21 N. Y. 547;
Berryhill v. Byington, 10 Iowa, 223; Wilson v. .relson, 75
Iowa, 710; Goodwin v. Morey, 111 Indiana, 68; Ackley v.
Richman, 5 Halsted, (10 N. J. Law,) 304; Egbert v. Chew,
2 Green, (14 N. J. Law,) 447; Shinn v. -Roberts,1 Spencer, (20
N. J. Law,) 435; S. C. 43 Am. Dec. 636; Biddle v. Coryell,
3 Harrison, (18 R. J. Law,) 377; S. C. 38 Am. Dec. 521;
Headley v. Shaw, 39 Illinois, 354; Eddy v. -Davis,116 N. Y.
247; Beecher v. Conradt,13 N. Y. 108; S. . 54 Am. Dec. 535.
While there has been great diversity in the decisions of the

LOUD v. POMONA LAND & WATER CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

courts upon the question whether, in cases of land contracts,
the undertaking of the vendor to convey and of the vendee
to pay were dependent or independent covenants, this court
has laid down a rule which is simple, clear, and easy of application, in the case of Bank of Columbia v. Hagner, 1 Pet.
455. If it is adhered to by this court it forbids the plaintiff's
recovery.
Each of the contracts provides that the plaintiff shall deliver
stock in the irrigation company named in the contract, representing the amount of water at the rate of one inch for every
one hundred shares of stock, measured from the centre of aperture, when payment is made in full for the land.
This stock is the title to be given to the defendant of the
water right which he purchases, and is as much required as a
conveyance of the property purchased as the deed is required
as a conveyance.
It is insisted that the plaintiff cannot recover on any of
these contracts without averment and proof of the tender of
such stock on the day when the last payment became due.
The authorities above cited are to this point.
II. There is no averment whatever of a tender, or readiness
to deliver the stock itself in either of the irrigation companies.
There is no proof of any tender or offer of such stock.
The stock to be delivered to the defendant is a particular
stock described in the contract, which stock is to represent a
certain amount of water measured in a certain way. It is
contended that the declaration should aver the ability of the
plaintiff to deliver such stock, as well as a tender of it, and
that proofs should be made to sustain the averment in order to
warrant a recovery. The defendant is not bound to accept a
defective title. lfaskington v. Ogden, 1 Black, 450, at 456,
458 ; Bank of Columbia v. Htag-ner, 1 Pet. 455 ; Swan v. Drury,
22 Pick. 485; Courtwright v. Deeds, 37 Iowa, 503; Bqurwell v.
Jackson, 9 N. Y. 535; Eddy v. Davis, 116 NI. Y. 247; James
v. Burczell, 82 N. Y. at 108.
By the articles of incorporation of the irrigation companies,
the Pomona Land & Water Company may sell the whole of
the water to whom it pleases, without reference to any lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

or any stock. By by-law 9 the said company may sell the
capital stock without reference to water.
The only provision which purports to connect the capital
stock with water is by-law 9, which undertakes to limit the
transfer of stock to the transfer of land, "on which the water
represented by the stock is issued." Provided,that the company or stockholders may transfer their stock to the Pomona
Land & Water Company, and it may transfer the stock without the transfer of land.
The right of transfer of capital stock in a corporation cannot be taken away, or limited by by-laws. Anglo Cal. Bank
v. Grangers'Bank, 63 California, 359 ; Driscoll v. West Bradley .Mfg. Co., 59 N. Y. 96 ; Bullard v. Bank, 18 Wall. 589;
Bank v. Lanier,11 Wall. 369 ; Hennebeo & PortlandRailroad
v. Eendall, 31 Maine, at 477; Sargent v. Franklin Ins. Co., 8
Pick. 90; S. C. 19 Am. Dec. 306; Taylor v. Griswold, 2
Green, (14 N. J. Law,) 222; S. C. 27 Am. Dec. 33; Farmers'
Bank v. WVasson, 48 Iowa, 336; Pufordv. FireDepaartmentof
Detroit, 31 Michigan, 458; .1[organ v. Struthers, 131 U. S. 246.
This attempted limitation of the right to transfer being void,
there is nothing which makes this stock different in its character from the capital stock of a gas company, a railroad company, or any other corporation, as representing property, or
property rights. It does not and cannot represent any right
to a specific amount of water, or any right to a quantity of
water. Yet the plaintiff's contract is to deliver stock representing one inch of water for each one hundred shares of stock,
measured from centre of aperture.
-Mr. Don . Dickinson and .Mr. Hen'ry -31. Duffleld for
defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE JAOIKSON, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Many of the special matters set up by the defendant below
were clearly irrelevant and unavailable as defences to the suit.
Thus, the various matters of inducement for entering into
contracts, and the alleged representations made by agents
of the plaintiff prior to their execution, and the purpose of

LOUD v. POMONA LAND & WATER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant in making the purchases with a view to the
resale of the lands at a profit, together with his being a
stranger in California, unacquainted with the laws of that
State, the business methods in common use, or those used
by the plaintiff; and his hesitancy about entering into the
contracts; his want of knowledge as to the extent of the risk
and liability he would incur thereby; and his reliance upon
representations that he would not under such contracts, by
the laws of the State, incur any liability beyond the amounts
he should pay and the loss of the lands, were matters, which,
if true, could constitute no answer to the suit upon the sealed
contracts. The errors assigned to the action of the court in
excluding testimony relating to these matters are not well
taken. The deeds to Charles W. Brown and to other parties,
antedating the contracts in suit, and having no connection
with the lands covered thereby, offered for the purpose of
showing what constituted water rights and water stocks; the
representations of the plaintiff's agent as to title to the land
and stock, made before the execution of the contracts; the
defendant's lack of knowledge of the by-laws of the irrigation companies; the abandonment of the lands since 18S8;
the transcript of the patent of the United States of January
20, 1875, to Henry Dalton and others of the San Jos6 ranch,
without an official seal attached and wanting a proper certificate from the presiding judge of the court, were incompetent
to control the terms of the written contracts, or to show any
-defect in plaintiff's title.
The other matters set up and relied upon, so far as the
same were material or available as defences to the suit,such as fraud in obtaining the contracts from defendant, want
of title in the plaintiff to the lands and stock in the irrigation
companies representing water rights, - were not supported by
proof. These irrelevant and unestablished matters of defence
need not be further discussed.
The defendant presented twenty-seven requests to charge,
the legal questions arising under which are embodied in the
general proposition covered by the last special ground of
defence that the plaintiff did not, when the last instalment

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of the purchase money matured, nor at any time, convey
or tender a conveyance of the land and stock described in
the contracts in suit, respectively, or in either or any of them,
to the defendant. This presents the real controverted question in the case, and its determination turns upon the point
whether the covenants in the contracts are dependent or independent; that is to say, whether the covenant upon the part
of the defendant below to pay the stipulated price for the
lands purchased, or agreed to be purchased, is a condition
precedent to the performance by the plaintiff of his covenant
to convey such lands?
The contention of the plaintiff in error is that the covenants are dependent and concurrent, and that he is not bound
to perform his agreement to pay the purchase price without
a tender of performance on the part of the land company.
On the contrary, the defendant in error insists, as held by
the court below, that the covenants were independent, and
the plaintiff in error is bound to pay the stipulated price as a
condition precedent to its obligation to convey or tender any
conveyance of the lands described.
If the acts to be performed by the land company and the
purchaser, respectively, are dependent and concurrent, neither
party would be entitled to an action against the other without the averment of performance, or the tender of performance, on his part. If, however, the payment of the purchase
price for the lands is a. condition precedent to the land company's covenant to convey, then it is entitled to enforce pay-.
ment without conveyance or tender of conveyance, and the
allegation of its readiness and willingness to convey, upon
payment of the purchase money, was sufficient.
The question whether covenants are dependent or independent must be determined in each case upon the proper
construction to be placed on the language employed by the
parties to express their agreement. If the language is clear
and unambiguous it must be taken according to its plain meaning as expressive of the intention of the parties, and under
settled principles of judicial decision should not be controlled
by the supposed inconvenience or hardship that may follow

LOUD v. POMONA LAND & WATER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

such construction. If parties think proper, they may agree
that tlhe right of one to maintain an action against another
shall be conditional or dependent upon the plaintiff's performance of covenants entered into on his part. On the other hand,
they may agree that the performance by one shall be a condition precedent to the performance by the other. The question in each case is, which intent is disclosed by the language
-employed in the contract?
In this case there is no ambiguity in the language of the'
.contracts. The covenant and agreement of the land company
is that "after the making of the payment and full performance
.of the covenants hereinafter to be made and performed by the
party of the second part, (Loud,) the party of the first part
(the land company) will, in consideration thereof, convey by
deed of grant, bargain, and sale to the party of the second
part, his heirs or assigns," the described lands, together with
the designated shares in the irrigation companies. A subsequent clause of the contract provides that "this instrument is
not and shall not be construed as a conveyance, equitable or
,otherwise, and until the delivery of the final deed of conveyance, or tender of all payments precedent thereto, the party of
the second part, his heirs or assigns, shall have no title, equitable or otherwise, to said premises," and it is further provided
that time is of the essence of the contract.
If these terms and provisions of the contracts are to be
understood in their plain and obvious meaning, they clearly
express the intention of the parties to be that the purchaser
shall first pay the purchase price of the lands contracted for
before he is entitled to demand a conveyance therefor. It is
also clear that the purchaser (the defendant below) c9uld not
have legally demanded from the land company a deed or conveyance for the lands until after the purchase money had been
fully paid. The payment or tender of payment of the purchase price for the land was a condition precedent to the right
to the conveyance. The authorities, both in England and in
this country, fully sustain this construction of the contract. A
brief reference will be made to some of the principal cases on
the subject.
VOL. cLnI-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In the learned note of Serjeant Williams to the early case of
Pordage v. Cole, 1 Saund. 320 a, it is said that "if a 'day be
appointed for payment of money, or part of it, or for doing
any other act, and the day is to happen, or may happen, before
the thing which is the consideration of the money, or other
act, is to be performed, an action may be brought for the
money or for not doing such other act before performance;
for it appears that the party relied upon his remedy, and did
not intend to make performance a condition precedent; and so
it is where no time is fixed for performance of that which is
the consideration of the money or other act."
In Porterv. Shephard, 6 T. R. 665, involving the right of a
lessee to terminate the lease, it was held that the words "froz,
and after payment of rent and performance of covenants,"
constituted a condition precedent.
In the subsequent case of G-rey v. Friar,4 H. L. 0. 565,
where the opinion of the judges was asked by the House of
Lords as to whether a proviso constituted a condition precedent, the case of Porter v. Sheykard was followed, and the
proviso held to be a condition precedent.
In Goldsborough v. Orr, 8 Wheat. 217, it is said that where
the acts are stipulated to be done at different times, the covenants are to be construed as independent of each other.
So, in Goodwin v. Lynn, 4 Wash. C. 0. 714, the rule was
laid down that to ascertain whether covenants are dependent
or independent, the intention of the parties is to be sought for
rather in the order of time in which the acts are to be done,
than from the structure of the instruments.
In Phillips' Constr. Co. v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646, 650, it
was said by Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court, that
"where a specified thing is to be done by one party as the
consideration of the thing to be done by the other, it is undeniably the general rule that the covenants are mutual, and
are dependent, if they are to be performed at the same time;
and if by the terms or the nature of the contract one is first to
be performed as the condition of the obligation of the other,
that which is first to be performed must be done, or tendered,
before that party can sustain a suit against the other. There

LOUD v. POMONA LAND & WATER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

is no doubt that in this class of contracts, if a day is fixed for

performance, the party whose duty it is to perform or tender
performance first must do it on that day, or show his readiness and willingness to do it, or he cannot recover in an action
at law for non-performance by the other party."
In many cases, both in England and in the United States,
the rule of construction is adopted that an agreement to pay
by instalments or at different times would make the covenants
independent, since such an agreement manifests a willingness
to rely on the covenants of the other contracting party for
title or performance as the consideration for such payments.
Also, where the acts stipulated to be done are to be done at
different times, the covenants are generally construed to be
independent of each other.
The land company's contention as to the proper construction
of the contracts is supported by the following authorities,
amongst others that might be cited: Davis v. Heady, 7
Blackford, (Ind.,) 261; Gale v. Best, 20 Wisconsin, 44; Sayre
v. Craig, 4 Arkansas, 10; Mayers v. Rogers, 5 Arkansas, 417;
11ill v. Fisher, 34 Maine, 143; and Leftwioh v. Coleman,
3 How. (Miss.,) 167.
The cases of Bank of £olumbia v. Hagner, 1 Pet. 455, and
Washington v. Ogden, 1 Black, 450, are not in conflict with
the foregoing decisions and the propositions they announce.
The stipulations of the contract in the former case were not
similar to those in the case under consideration, while in
Washington v. Ogden the agreement was expressly made
dependent on the surrender and cancellation of a previous
contract, made by the plaintiff for the sale of the same lands
to a third party, without which surrender the vendor could
not give a good title.
Neither do the cases of Hill v. Grigsby, 35 California, 656,
658, and Bohall v. Diller, 41 California, 532, cited on behalf
of the plaintiff in error, control the present case. In Hill v.
Grigsby the instrument provided that the plaintiff should
convey "as soon as" the purchase money was paid. In Bohall
v. Diller the terms of the contract were that the plaintiff,
"upon payment of the purchase money, was to convey."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

These stipulations were properly held to be dependent covenants, and that neither party could sue without performing,
or an offer to perform, on its part. But in the case at bar the
terms of the contract contain no stipulation that the covenants
of the respective parties are to be performed at the same time
or concurrently. On the contrary, the clearly expressed intention was that the payment of the purchase price of the
lands should precede the performance of the land company's
covenant to convey the lands and water stocks. The consideration to be paid covered both the lands and the stocks, and
its payment was a condition precedent to a transfer of either,
or both. The provision'that the stock was to be delivered by
the land company and accepted by the purchaser, (subject to
the by-laws of the irrigation companies,) "when payment in
full is made for the above-described land," in no way changes
the proper construction of the contracts, or establishes that
the stock was to be transferred concurrently with the payment
for the lands. The expression, "when payment in full is made
for the above-described land," confirms the construction that
the payment was a condition precedent to the conveyance of
either stock or land, or both. The purchaser had no right to
a transfer of the stock before he became entitled to a conveyance of the land.
We cannot accede to the contention of the plaintiff in error
that the contracts should be so construed as to make payment
of the first instalment of purchase money a condition precedent to the covenant to convey, but that the last instalment
of purchase money should be treated as dependent or concurrent with the covenant to convey. The covenants are to be
interpreted as of the date of the execution of the contract, and
as applying to each and all the instalments of purchase money
alike. Covenants like those in the case under consideration
are not of a shifting character, independent at one time and
dependent at another, or independent as to one or more instalmeats of purchase money and dependent in respect to others,
unless there is a clearly expressed intention on the part of the
contracting parties that such should be the case. No such
intention is either expressed or implied in the language of the

LOUD v. POMONA LAND & WATER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

contracts in suit. The payment of all the instalments of purchase money is a condition precedent to the performance of
the land company's covenant to convey.
In respect to the nine applications for purchase declared in
counts forty-one to forty-nine, inclusive, of the declaration,
while the terms are not so clearly expressed as in the twenty
contracts already considered, it is fairly implied that the instalments of purchase-money were to be paid before the land
company was under any obligation to convey.
The forty-ninth count, based upon the application to purchase lot 11, does not stand upon any different principle from
the rest. It is true that the purchaser did not pay the first
instalment in full, but the land company had the right to
accept the partial payment, and treat the contract as a subsisting one; and it was so treated by Loud, who took possession
of the lot, and exercised acts of ownership over it up to 1888
at least. Under these circumstances he is not in a position to
claim that the contract was terminated because of his own
failure to pay the first instalment in full.
It is earnestly urged on behalf of the plaintiff in error that
the contracts declared upon required the land company to
deliver stock in the irrigation companies, which should represent and convey title to water or water rights to the extent
of one inch of water under four-inch pressure, measured from
centre of aperture, for each one hundred shares of stock. In
other words, that the purchaser's contracts entitled him to
water rights as distinguished from stock in the irrigation
companies, by means of which water could be procured in the
quantity designated. This position cannot be sustained, for
the contracts by their express terms stipulated for the transfer
of stock in the designated irrigation companies, which stock
was to be delivered and accepted subject to the by-laws of
such companies. The statement that this stock represented so
many inches of water, under a certain pressure, were words of
description as to the quantity of water which the irrigation
company would undertake to furnish to the owner of the designated shares of stock.
It is urged that the stock which the land company had

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

transferred to Loud, and produced for his acceptance at the
trial, was not shown to have been fully paid up. This
objection is not well taken. It appears by the testimony of
the secretary of the land company that the land company
delivered water until February, 1887- before the organization
of the irrigation companies. It is further shown that the
land company had numerous artesian wells, pipe lines, flumes,
and ditches from which water supplies were furnished for
irrigating purposes; and it further appears that these wells,
water facilities, pipe lines, etc., were transferred by the land
company to the several irrigation companies, which, in consideration thereof, delivered fully paid up stock to the land
company, or to a trustee for its benefit. Certificates of this
stock were, under proper directions of the officers of the land
company, made out in the name of Loud, and produced and
tendered at the trial. There is no evidence showing that the
consideration given by the land company for the shares of
stock in the irrigation companies was in any way inadequate,
so as to impair its right and title thereto as fully paid up stock.
It is further said on behalf of the plaintiff in error that the
stock proposed to be transferred to him gave no special rights
or privileges, and constituted no easement to the lands purchased. This is, however, a mistake. In the articles of
association of each of the irrigation companies, which were
put in evidence, it is declared: "That the purpose for which
this corporation is formed is to acquire water, water rights,
flumes, ditches, aqueducts, reservoirs, and other property that
may be necessary or convenient for the supplying of water to
such person or persons or their assigns in the counties of Los
Angeles and San Bernardino, State of California, to whom
the Pomona Land and Water Company has sold water rights,
or to whom it may hereafter sell water rights, or to whom it
may transfer water stock of this corporation, but to no other
person or persons whomsoever."
In addition to this provision in the charters of the irrigation
companies, it is provided by § 552, Deering's Anno. Stats. and
Code of California, relating to the right to water, to irrigate
lands sold by water or irrigating companies, that "whenever

LOUD v. POMONA LAND & WATER 00.
Opinion of the Court.

any corporation organized under the laws of this State
furnishes water to irrigate lands which said corporation has
sold, the right to the flow and use of said water is and shall
remain a perpetual easement to the land so sold, at such rates
and terms as may be established by said corporation in pursuance of law."
Those provisions are recognized and sustained by the courts
of California in .JfcFadden v. County of Los Angeles, 74 California, 571, and Applegara v. .McQuiddy, 77 California, 408.
It is shown that the defendant in error had the requisite
amount of stock in the irrigation companies to perform its
contracts with the plaintiff in error, and the land company
offered to prove, as a matter of fact, that the stipulated
quantity of water was attached to the lands by the stock in
the irrigation companies, but this offer was withdrawn on the
objection of the defendant below that it was immaterial. The
proper construction of the contracts was that the defendant in
error was to deliver stock in the designated irrigation companies which would attach to the land and entitle the purchaser to the quantity of water represented by the stock, and
the stock which the land company thus held and proposed to
transfer was clearly within the terms of the contract.
There are other points of minor importance presented on
behalf of the plaintiff in error, but the controlling question in
the case turns upon the character of the covenants contained
in the contracts, and in the view we have taken of that matter
the defendant in error had the right to enforce the payment
of the purchase money for the lands agreed to be purchased
without first having conveyed or tendered a conveyance of
the lands purchased. This question of law, depending upon
the proper construction of the contracts, was not affected by
any evidence, either introduced or offered.
Our conclusion is that there is no error in the judgment of
the court below, and it is accordingly
Afflrmed.

