OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

Upon the whole, we conclude that the court below erred in
refusing the defendant's request to hold the law to be that
the port of New York was the port of original importation,
and not the port of Chicago; and as this was a case of a special finding which ascertained all the facts of the case, there
is no reason for awarding a new trial. Allen v. St. louis
Bank, 120 U. S. 20, 40.
Judgment reversed and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directionsto enterjudgmentforthe originaldefendant.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1080. Submitted March 5,1894.-Decided May 14, 1894.

A warrant issued by a commissioner of a court of the United States is not
void for the want of a seal, the commissioner having no seal, and not
being required by statute to affix one to warrants issued by him.
The same result is reached under the laws of Arkansas, which prescribed
th6 form of warrant as attested under hand, but not under seal.
The settled rule that where a person having authority to arrest, and using
the proper means for that purpose is resisted, he can repel force with
force, and, if the party making the resistance is unavoidably killed, the
homicide is justifiable, may be invoked by a person who resists and kills
the officer if he was ignorant of the fact that he was an officer; and,
when such a defence is set up to an indictment for murder, it is error to
charge the jury that, if the threatening or violent conduct of the prisoner prevented the officer from giving notice of his official character,
he would not be required to give notice.
The possession of a conscience void of offence towards God and man is
not an indispensable prerequisite to justification of action in the face
of imminent and deadly peril, nor does the intrinsic rightfulness of the
occupation or situation of a party, having in itself no bearing upon or
connection with an assault, impose a limitation upon the right to repel it.
The motive of a person, accused of murdering an officer trying to arrest
him, in being where he was at the time of the killing, has nothing to do
with the question of his right of self-defence in itself, and his previous

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
unlawful conduct should form no element in the solution of that question,
except as it throws light on his belief that his arrest was sought by the
officer.
While it is well settled in Federal courts that the presiding Judge may
sum up the facts to the jury, and express an opinion upon them, he
should take care to separate the law from the facts, and leave the latter
in unequivocal terms to the judgment of the jury.
The circumstances of this case apparently aroused the indignation of the
Judge who presided at the trial of it in an uncommon degree, and that
indignation was expressed in terms which were not consistent with due
regard to the right and duty of the jury to exercise an independent
judgment in the premises, or with the circumspection and caution which
should characterize judicial utterances ; and this court is constrained to
express its disapprobation of this mode of instructing and advising a jury.

HENRY STARR was convicted of the murder of Floyd Wilson,
a white man and not an Indian, on December 13, 1892, at the
Cherokee Nation in the Indian Territory, and, November 4,
1893, sentenced to be hanged on February 20, 1894, and
thereupon sued out this writ of error.
It appeared on the trial that on November 18, 1892, a varrant was issued by a United States commissioner for the
Western District of Arkansas for the arrest of Starr and
others on a charge of larceny, which was delivered for execution to Henry E. Dickey, a deputy United States marshal;
and that the marshal summoned Floyd Wilson, the deceased,
as his posse to aid in the execution of the warrant. The
evidence tended to show that they proceeded on horseback to
the neighborhood of the place where Starr was to be found,
and, after visiting several points, came to the house of one
Dodge, where they concealed themselves to await his coming;
that Starr passed Dodge's house on horseback, whereupon
Wilson mounted his horse and pursued him; that the two
jumped from their horses and stood facing each other a short
time, apparently talking; that it looked as if Starr "was trying to work off away from Wilson," when Wilson mounted
his horse again and rode up to within twenty-five or thirty
feet of Starr, who made no effort to flee; that Wilson then
sprang from his horse, threw his gun to his shoulder and fired
at Starr, who was then standing with his gun in both hands
holding it down, but, upon Wilson's shooting, returned the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

fire and continued to fire rapidly; that Wilson fell, raised
himself in a sitting position, jerked his six shooter out and
fired four times, when Starr ran up to him and fired point
blank into him; Wilson died immediately afterwards. The
evidence further tended to show that during the affray Starr
fired one shot at the marshal; that he picked up Wilson's
gun, found the lever out of order, could not fire it, and turned
to go away, and, as he turned, the marshal fired at him; that
the marshal's and Starr's horses ran away, but Starr caught
Wilson's horse, and, mounting it, rode off. The marshal
testified that at the time of this occurrence he had the writ in
his possession, and had instructed Wilson as to his duties, and
told him, " Now, don't kill this boy if possible to get along
without it. We will call on him to surrender."
One Mrs. Padget testified that she saw the transaction from
a distance, called a quarter of a mile, and understood Wilson
to say: "Hold up; I have a warrant for you;" and that Starr
said: "You hold up." She also, in answer to a question put
by the district attorney, stated that three or four weeks before
the shooting Starr told her that he guessed a marshal named
Cowden was hunting for him, "for jumping his bond." And
Dickey said in the course of his testimony that he went up in
Starr's neighborhood to see a person "shortly after Henry
started, got out and jumped his bond."
The witnesses agreed that Wilson fired the first shot, and
also that during the time he was riding up to Starr, Starr did
not raise his gun or make any effort to stop Wilson. Starr
was a Cherokee Indian, and at that time between eighteen and
nineteen years of age.
The warrant was signed by Stephen Wheeler, "Commissioner U. S: Court, Western District of Arkansas," and tested
as under seal, but no seal was affixed, and counsel for defendant objected to the warrant for the want of a seal, and took
exception to its admission on that ground, though in answer
to questions by the court they admitted that Wheeler was
a United States commissioner for the Western District of
Arkansas at the time the writ issued, and that the signature
thereto was genuine.

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Ab'. A. H. Garland for plaintiff in error.
Mr. A.ssistant Attorney General Conrad for defendants in
error.
MR. CHmIF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
1. Exception was taken to the admission of the warrant in
evidence, and also to the reference thereto as valid process in
the charge of the court, upon the single ground that it bore
no seal.
It was not contended that a seal is required to such a warrant
by any act of Congress or any statute of the State of Arkansas, but the argument is that a warrant of arrest at common
law was void if it were without seal, and that the common
law rule so asserted was applicable.
In PadA ,dv. Cabell, Willes, 411, it was held that a warrant need not be under seal unless required by statute, and
Willes, C. J., said: "A warrant does not ex vi termini apply
to an instrument under seal; it signifies no more than an
authority. All the books in which it said that a warrant
must be under seal are founded on a case in the year books,
14 Hen. 8, 16, a, where it is said that a justice of the peace is
a judge of record, and hath a seal of office; and that the inferior officer when he sees the seal must give credit thereto."
In Aylesbury v. Harvey, 3 Levinz, 204-, the defendant seized a
cup under a warrant by justices of the peace, on a conviction
under the excise law, to levy twenty shillings; and in answer
to an objection taken to the plea, that the warrant was not
pleaded with a profert, the court said: "The statute does not
require that the warrant be under hand and seal, but only in
writing; and no writing is to be so pleaded, except it be a
deed," etc.
Hawkins, P. C. bk. 2, c. 13, § 21, follows Lord Hale in stating the necessity of the seal to a warrant of a justice of the
peace, but what Lord Hale says is this (1 Hale, P. C. 577): "It
must be under seal, though some have thought it sufficient to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

be in writing, subscribed by the justice;" and he refers to.
Dalton's Justice, wherein it is laid down that "their warrant
or precept in writing should be under their hand and seal, orunder their hand at least." First ed. 1618, 287. In the third
edition, (1630,) this is repeated, and it is further said: "Also
the warrant of the justice of the peace should be under the
seal of the said justice; for every justice of the peace (being a
judge of record) hath a seal of his office; and when he maketh
a warrant under his seal to the officer, then the officer ought
to give credence to the seal, for that is his authority. Per
Brudenel, 14 H. 8, 16."
This was the ground of Lord Coke's statement (2 Inst. 590)
that a mittimus "must be in writing, in the name and under
the seal of him that makes the same, expressing his office,
place, and authority, by force whereof he maketh the mittimus."
Lord Chief Justice Willes, in Padield v. Cabell, thus explains the language of Coke, and points out that Dalton "puts
two instances of warrants only under hands: one by Lord
Chancellor Ellesmere for a contempt, A.D. 1607; the other by
Chief Justice Popham, 3 Jac. 1. There is also reference in
Dalton to two precepts or warrants by justices only under
their hands."
Blackstone states that the "warrant ought to be under the
hand and seal of the justice," (4 B1. Com. 290,) but Chitty's
note on that passage is that "it seems sufficient if it be in
writing and signed by him, unless a seal is expressly required
by a particular act of Parliament," citing Willes, 411; Buller,
N. P. 83. And this is repeated in 1 Chitty Crim. Law, 38.,
In Davis v. Clements, 2 N. HI. 390, it was thought to be
well settled on the authority of the cases in Willes and Levinz,
and Buller's N. P., that a seal was not essential when not
specifically required or provided for; and in State v. ]Taughn,
1 Harp. 313, the Supreme Court of South Carolina announced
a similar conclusion in relation to a warrant of arrest, the
court saying: "There appears to be no reason why the
official act of a magistrate should be under seal, as it derives
its character from the law which prescribes it." The authori-

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ties were reviewed by Foster, J., in the carefully considered
case of -Millettv. Baker, 42 Barb. 215, and it was held that at
common law a seal was not necessary, even in criminal cases,
unless required by statute.
We are of opinion that there was no settled rule at common
law invalidating warrants not under seal unless the magistrate
issuing the warrant had a seal of office or a seal was required
by statute, and that the warrant of a commissioner of the
United States not having a seal of office, and not being
required to affix a seal thereto, cannot be held void for its
omission. The same result is reached under the laws of
Arkansas, by see. 1993 of which the requisites and form of
warrant, where the offence charged is felony, are given, the
form being attested "under hand" but not "under seal."
Dig. St. Ark. 1884, 505, c.46, sub. iv, § 1993; 26 Stat. 81, 96,
c. 182, § 33.
2. Counsel for defendant asked the court to give to the jury
four instructions. Of these, the first does not appear to have
been given, but no exception was taken to its refusal, except
as involved in an exception to the action of the court in refusing the request as to all. The court modified the last three
and gave them, and the defendant excepted to the modifications and the giving of the instructions as modified in each
instance. As the case will be sent back for a new trial on
other grounds, we will not review the action of the court in
respect of these instructions further than to indicate our views
as to a particular modification of instruction numbered 3.
That instruction was as follows, the additions and modifications by the court being italicized:
"The court instructs the jury that if the defendant, being
placed in a position in which his life is imperilled, slay an
officer of whose official character he has no notice, or had no
reasonableground to know his charaeder, this is homicide in
self-defence, if the killing was apparently necessary to save
the defendant's life, nor does it matter that the officer was
legally seeking to arrest the defendant, the defendant having
no notice [of that fact] of the facts or no reason to know what
the purpose of the party was: Providedthe defendant did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

by his threatening and violent conduct prevent the oflcer from
making his character and mission known. This is given in
connection with the principle I have given you, that if a man
stands up and'obstructs arrest, prevents arrest, armed with
deadly weapons, and using them in a way that is threatening,
then the olecer has no time, nor is he called upon to make proclamation. The officer can stand on the defensive and overcome
the danger and take his man or overcome him by violence, if
necessary.
" If the jury believe from the evidence that the defendant
was placed in a position at the time of the killing in which
his life was imperilled by the deceased, and he slew him without having any notice of his official character, and the killing
was apparently necessary to save his own life, then the killing
of the deceased was homicide in self-defence; nor does it
matter that the deceased was legally seeking to arrest the
defendant, if the defendant had no notice of the fact, or no
reasonable grounds to know that he was an officer.
"It is not necessary to know that it is Floyd Wilson, but an

offieer. But if the defendant prevented Floyd WTilson from
giving notice of his character or mission by threatening or
violent conduct, then, of course, he would not be required to
give notice.
ie can stand, as upon the other proposition,
on the defensive. These propositionsare given on the theory
that you believe that no proclamation was made. If a
proclamation was made, then the defendant had express notice,
he hadpositive notice, of it."
The doctrine expressed in this instruction, as originally
drawn, was taken from section 419 of Wharton's Criminal
Law, vol. I, p. 419, where many authorities are cited in its
support, and was accepted as correct by the learned trial
judge. But he felt called upon to qualify it, not only in the
direction whether the defendant had reasonable ground to
know that Wilson was an officer, but also to the effect that
if the accused prevented Wilson from giving notice that he
was acting officially, then the rule invoked would not apply.
The text-books lay it down as a general proposition that
where a person, having authority to arrest and using the

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

proper means for that purpose, is resisted in so doing, he can
repel force with force and need not give back; and if the
party making the resistance is unavoidably killed in the
struggle, the homicide is justifiable. (1 Russ. on Crimes, 9th
Am. ed. 892; Hale, Hawkins, East, and Foster as there cited;
2 Bish. Grim. Law, § 647; 1 Whart. Or. L. § 415; and cases
referred to.) But the question did not arise here in respect
of homicide by the officer, but by the person whom he was
trying to arrest, and if defendant had no knowledge, was not
informed, and was not chargeable with notice of Wilson's
mission or official character, the fact, if there was evidence
tending to show it, that defendant prevented the giving of
notice, had no such relation to defendant's claim of exemption
from liability founded on his ignorance and the appearance
of the facts to him as to justify the modification.
His conduct was part of the res gestam and important in
other aspects of the case, but the qualification went too far
as applied to the instruction under consideration.
3. In the case of Commonwealth v. Sefridge the following
propositions were laid down by Mr. Justice Parker, afterwards Chief Justice of Massachusetts: "First. A man, who,
in the lawful pursuit of his business, is attacked by another
under circumstances which denote an intention to take away
his life, or do him some enormous bodily harm, may lawfully
kill the assailant, provided he uses all the means in his power,
otherwise, to save his own life or to prevent the intended
harm -such
as retreating as far as he can, or" disabling his
adversary without killing him, if it be in his power. Secondly.
When the attack upon him is so sudden, fierce, and violent,
that a retreat would not diminish, but increase his danger,
he may instantly kill his adversary without retreating at all.
T~tirdly. When from the nature of the attack, there is reasonable ground to believe that there is a design to destroy his
life, or commit any felony upon his person, the killing of the
assailant will be excusable homicide, although it should afterwards appear that no felony was intended."
(Selfridge's
Trial, p. 160.)
The learned judge in his charge in the present case, refer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ring to the law as thus declared, said: "Now, what is the first
proposition? Before I read it I say to you it contemplates a
state of actual danger, real danger, in this case to this defendant at the time of the killing, springing from the hands of
Floyd Wilson, and danger that he did not create, or bring
into existence by a wrongful act of his, because when we
undertake to enter upon the execution of as grave a design as
the taking of the life of individuals, we must enter upon it with
clean hands and a pure heart. If we have created a condition
that leads to a deadly result, the law of self-defence does not
apply to it; if we create that condition by doing a wrongful
thing upon our part which would naturally or reasonably or
probably produce a deadly result, the law says there is no selfdefence for us, because we are in the wrong in the first place;
and especially does that principle apply to a case when we are
doing an act which from its nature and the way we are doing
it death would be naturally produced in the conflict that may
ensue, because of the act that we do. I say, then, we must enter
upon the execution of this grave act upon our part with clean
hands and a pure heart, or, as this law expresses it, we must
be in the lawful pursuit of our business. It says that a man
who is in the lawful pursuit of his business -that means doing
what he had a right to do - in the right at the time -

is

attacked by another under circumstances which denote an
intention to take away his life, or, it may be, to do some enormous bodily harm, may lawfully kill the assailant - when? provided he use all the means in his power, otherwise, to save
his own life, or prevent the intended harm, such as retreating
as far as he can, or disabling his adversary without killing
him if it be in his power. Now, that is the first proposition of
the law of self-defence. Now, let us see again, by enumerating each condition that must enter into it, what they are.
First, we must be in the right; we must be doing what we
had a right to do at the time of the killing, and when we are
so situated we are attacked by another. How? What sort
of attack? . . . Now, in this case, this contemplates as
far as this case is concerned, that at the time that Floyd
Wilson was killed: this defendant was in the right; that he

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

was doing exactly what he bad a right to do, and when so
situated he was attacked by Wilson in such a way as to indicate a deadly purpose upon his part."
We presume that the learned judge intended to express the
view that the existence of a state of facts which might render
the homicide excusable was subject to the qualification that
wrongful action on defendant's part towards Wilson did not
occasion the attack. But we are of opinion that the language
just quoted was open to a different construction and tended
fatally to mislead. Whether the right of self-defence is legitimately exercised, depends upon the circumstances of the particular transaction, and we take it that the possession of a
conscience void of offence toward God and men is not an
indispensable prerequisite to justification of action in the face
of imminent and deadly peril, nor does the intrinsic rightfulness of the occupation or situation of a party, having in itself
no bearing upon or connection with an assault, impose a limitation on the right to repel it.
This Cherokee, when riding across the country, was entitled
to protect his life, although he may have forfeited a bail bond
and been seeking to avoid arrest on that account, of which
there was some slight evidence incidentally given. Butif such
were the fact, he could not be considered as doing exactly
what he had a right to do, or as having an especially pure
heart and clean hands. In a subsequent part of the charge
the learned judge said, referring to the defendant: "He was a
fugitive from justice if he had jumped the bond he had in this
court, as they say; if he had forfeited his bond, and was up in
that country hiding out from his usual place of abode to avoid
arrest, he was then a fugitive from justice, and you have a
right to take that condition into consideration; and in passing
upon the question as to what was the probable action of these
parties at that time, as to what would be the rights of the
officer and of this defendant, you have a right to see this
transaction in the condition that surrounded it, and as it was
characterized by the position of the parties towards it. You
have a right to look at that condition, and see if he was
expecting officers to pursue him; if he was hiding away from

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

them, he was then a fugitive from justice, and if that was true
it is a fact that becomes pertinent for you to take into consideration, and the question whether he had reasonable ground
from what transpired to know that Floyd Wilson was an officer and was seeking to arrest him." This was duly excepted
to, but, apart from the exception, and assuming that the circumstance that he may have anticipated arrest for the reason
suggested tended to show that he knew or believed that such
was the mission of Wilson, these comments put it beyond question that the defendant was not doing what he had a right to
do, and if the jury understood that the scope of what had previously been said embraced the rightfulness of his conduct
generally, rather than his conduct in respect of the immediate
transaction, they could not but have been materially influenced
to his prejudice.
In Selfridge's case, the defendant was walking up State
Street in Boston on an errand to the bank, and undoubtedly
was in the lawful pursuit of his business when he was attacked,
and it was in reference to that fact that the first proposition
in the charge in that case was laid down; but here the particular words were inapplicable, and their use calculated to
create an erroneous impression.
The motive of the accused in being where he was had
nothing to do with the question of his right of self-defence in
itself, and the unlawfulness of his previous conduct formed in
itself no element in the solution of that question, but was to
be considered only in so far as it threw light on his belief that
his arrest was sought by the officer.
We are not insensible to the consideration that the learned
judge probably did not intend that his words should bear so
sweeping a signification, but they were used more than once,
and were not withdrawn or so qualified that it can be fairly
held that they were not substantially prejudicial.
4. We are compelled to add some further observations in
relation to the charge before us.
It is true that in the Federal courts the rule that obtains is
similar to that in the English courts, and the presiding judge
may, if in his discretion he think proper, sum up the facts to

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury; and if no rule of law is incorrectly stated, and the
matters of facts are ultimately submitted to the determination
of the jury, it has been held that an expression of opinion upon
the facts is not reviewable on error. Rucker v. Wheeler, 127
U. S. 85, 93; Lovejoy v. United States, 128 U. S. 171, 173.
But he should take care to separate the law from the facts and
to leave the latter in unequivocal terms to the judgment of the
jury as their true and peculiar province. 21'Lanahan v. Univel'sal Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 170, 182. As the jurors are the
triers of facts, expressions of opinion by the court should be so
guarded as to leave the jury free in the exercise of their own
judgments. They should be made distinctly to understand
that the instruction is not given as to a point of law by which
they are to be governed, but as a mere opinion as to the facts
to which they should give no more weight than it was entitled
to.* Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 80, 96; Games v. Stiles, 14
Pet. 322. The same rule prevails in the courts of many of the
States, and in the charge in Commonwealth v. Sefr'idge, referred to by the court below, these views were expressed upon
the subject: "As to the evidence, I have no intention to guide
or interfere with its just and natural operation upon your
minds. I hold it the privilege of the jury to ascertain the
facts, and that of the court to declare the law, to be distinct
and independent. Should I interfere, with my opinion, with
the testimony in order to influence your minds to incline either
way, I should certainly step out of the province of the judge
into that of an advocate. All that I can see necessary and
proper for me to do in this part of the cause, is to call your
attention to the points or facts on which the cause may turn,
state the prominent testimony in the case which may tend to
establish or disprove these points, give you some rules by which
you are to weigh the testimony, if a contrariety should have
occurred, and leave you to form a decision according to your
best judgment, without giving you to understand, if it can be
avoided, what my own opinion of the subject is. Where the
inquiry is merely into matters of fact, or where the facts and
law can be clearly discriminated, I should always wish the jury
to leave the stand without being able to ascertain what the
VOL. CI-40

OCTOBER TERAI, 1S9o
Opinion of the Court.

opinion of the court as to those facts may be, that their minds
may be left entirely unprejudiced to weigh the testimony and
settle the merits of the case."
So the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania says : "When there
is sufficient evidence upon a given point to go to the jury,
it is the duty of the judge to submit it calmly and impartially. And if the expression of an opinion upon such evidence becomes a matter of duty under the circumstances of
the particular case, great care should be exercised that such
expression should be so given as not to mislead, and especially
that it should not be one-sided. The evidence, if stated at all,
should be stated accurately, as well that which makes in favor
of a party as that which makes against him; deductions and
theories not warranted by the evidence should be studiously
avoided. They can hardly fail to mislead the jury and work
injustice." Bureke v. Afaxwell, 81 Penn. St. 139, 153. See
also 2 Thompson on Trials, §§ 2293, 2294, and cases cited.
It is obvious that under any system of jury trials the influence of the trial judge on the jury is necessarily and properly
of great weight, and that his lightest word or intimation is
received with deference, and may prove controlling. Hicks
v. United States, 150 U. S. 44:2, 452. The circumstances of
-this case apparently aroused the indignation of the learned
judge in an uncommon degree, and that indignation was ex'pressed in terms which were not consistent with due regard
to the right and duty of the jury to exercise an independent
ijudgment in the premises, or with the circumspection and
,caution which should characterize judicial utterances.
In addition to what has already been quoted, the following
rremarks, among others, were made:
-"UHow unjust, how cruel, what a mockery, what a sham,
what a bloody crime it would be upon the part of this governrment to send a man out into that Golgotha to officers, and
-command them in the solemn name of the President of the
IUnited States to execute these processes, and say to them,
Men may defy you; men may arm themselves and hold you
:at bay-; -they may obstruct your process; they may intimi,date your execution of it; they may hinder you in making

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the arrest; they may delay you in doing it by threats of
armed violence upon you, and yet I am unable as chief executive of this government to assure you that you have any protection whatever."

.

.

"What was this posse to do?

What was he commanded to do? To go into the Indian
country and hunt up Mr. Starr, and say to him that on a certain day the judge of the Federal court at Fort Smith will
want your attendance at a little trial down there wherein you
are charged with horse stealing, and you will be kind enough,
sir, to put in your attendance on that day; and the judge
sends his compliments to you, Mr. Starr. Is that his mission?
Is that the message from this court that is to be handed to
Mr. Starr upon a silver platter with all the formalities of
polite society? Is that what Floyd Wilson was empl9yed
or engaged to do? No. This court did not have anything
to do with that command; it does not go in the name of this
court; it goes in the name of the chief executive officer, the
President of the United States. What does he say, of course
acting for the people?"
"Without these officers
what is the use of this court? It takes men who are brave
to uphold the law here. I say, because of this, and because
there is no protection unless the law is upheld by men of this
kind, if it be true that you are satisfied of the fact beyond
a reasonable doubt that Floyd Wilson was a man of this kind,
that he was properly in the execution of the high duty devolving upon him, and while so properly executing it by the
light of these principles of the law I have given you, his life
was taken by this defendant, your solemn duty would be to
say that he is guilty of the crime of murder, because if the
law has been violated it is to be vindicated; you are to stand
by the nation; you are to say to all the people that no man
can trample upon the law wickedly, violently, and ruthlessly;
that it must be upheld if it has been violated."
These expressions are qualified to some extent by other
parts of the charge, which we cannot give at length, but we
are constrained to express our disapprobation of this mode
of instructing and advising a jury.
Whatever special necessity for enforcing the law in all its

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

rigor there may be in a particular quarter of the country, the
rules by which and the manner in which the administration
of justice should be conducted are the same everywhere, and
argumentative matter of this sort should not be thrown into
the scales by the judicial officer who holds them.
The judgment is reversed and the cause 'eranded with a
direction to grant a new trial.

NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO TEE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 591.

Argued April 23, 1894. -Decided May 14,1894.

The New York and Erie Railroad Company was a corporation organized
under the laws of, and having its principal place of business in, the
State of New York. Its object was to construct and operate a railroad
between the Hudson River and Lake Erie. In 1841 the legislature of
Pennsylvania granted to it the right to construct a few miles of its proposed road in the county of Susquehanna in that State. In 1846, no
work having been done on the road, the legislature of Pennsylvania
granted to it the further right to construct a portion of its road in Pike
County, and further enacted that, after the road should be completed to
Lake Erie, the company should pay annually into the treasury of the
State of Pennsylvania the sum of ten thousand dollars, and that the stock
of the road should be subject to taxation in Pennsylvania to an amount
equal to the construction of so much of the road as was in that State.
The road was then completed from the Hudson to Lake Erie, passing
through portions of Pike County and of Susquehanna County, and the
requisite payments have been made, first by the original company, and
since by its successors through foreclosures of mortgages. The plaintiff
in error is now possessed of the property and of the rights under the
acts of 1841 and 1846, and has its principal place of business in the city
of New York. In 1885 the legislature of Pennsylvania assessed an annual tax of three mills on the dollar on moneys, loans, stocks, moneyed
capital, etc., in the hands of individual citizens of that State, and required the treasurer of each private corporation, incorporated under the
laws of any other State and doing business in Pennsylvania, when making payment of interest upon its bonds, etc., held by residents of that
State, to assess the tax upon it, and to report to the auditor general of

