SLIDE & SPUR GOLD MNES v. SEYMOUR.

509

Statement of the Case.

ence explains why the Supreme Courts of Mississippi and
Tennessee arrived at different conclusions.
In a certain line of cases, absolute exemptions from taxation
have been recognized as secured in consideration of certain
amounts to be paid, sometimes called taxes, although really
merely the consideration paid as under contract; but the principle of commutation has no application here.. °
I concur with the Supreme Court of Tennessee in regarding
the last part of the eleventh section as prescribing a special
and discriminative rule of taxation; and as that court held it
void as such, because in conflict with the equality and uniformity clause of the Constitution of 1834, that conclusion should
be accepted.
I am constrained, therefore, to dissent from the opinion and
judgment just announced, and am authorized to say that Mr.
Justice Gray, Mr. Justice Brewer, and Mr. Justice Shiras concur
in this dissent.

SLIDE AND SPUR GOLD MINES v. SEYMOUR.
APPERAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 284. Argued March 15,1894.- Decided May 14, 1894.
The courts of the United States enforce vendor's and grantor's liens, if in
harmony with the jurisprudence of the State in which the action is
brought.
It being conceded that a vendor's lien is recognized in Colorado, such a
lien will be recognized and enforced in a Federal court in that District.
On the contracts in this case, set forth in the opinion of the court, and the
circumstances attending the making of them as therein detailed, this
court holds that the plaintiffs below retained a vendor's lien upon their
mining property in Colorado which they conveyed to the defendants
below, and affirm the decree of the court below to that effect.

THE facts in this case are as follows: In and prior to the
month of October, 1886, the plaintiffs below, Ellen R. Seymour
and William G. Pell, were the owners of certain mining prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

erty in the Gold Hill mining district, Boulder County, Colorado, known as the "Slide and Spur lodes." There had been
some negotiations with one John Haldeman, with the view
to a sale of this property, and on October 19, 1886, the plaintiffs, by their agents, made the following proposition to him:
"DEAR Sin: .I agree that in case you cannot raise the required sum within the specified time in your contract, dated
about the 9th day of October, between W. F. Bruff, acting
under our authority, and yourself, to change the conditions as
follows, viz.: To sell you the Slide mine for $750,000; 25 (Al)
thousand dollars to be paid one week after the receipt in
London of Foster's report, this to be the first payment on the
-property, the balance of the purchase price, $725,000, to be
paid within two months from the date of the payment of $25
Mvi; one j in cash and one-half in fully-paid common shares of
the company to be formed. In case the second and last payment is not made when due, the agreement cancels itself, and
the $25 Mv[ is forfeited. No ore to be taken from the mine
after first payment. I further agree to give you a call at par
for two months from date of issue upon the shares received as
part payment for the property.
"(Signed)
J. F. SEYMOUR.
"A. B. DAvIs."
Thereafter said Haldeman, in accordance with the understanding at the time of giving this option, went to England
and secured the organization, under the laws of Great Britain,
,of the defendant corporation. The purpose for which this
corporation was organized was, as expressly stated, to purchase
and develop the "Slide and Spur mines," though the articles
of incorporation gave authority for the purchase and development of other properties. So far, however, as appears from
the testimony in this case it was simply an organization on
paper, with a view of acquiring title to and subsequently
working these mines.
The provision in its charter as to capital stock was as
follows:

SLIDE & SPUR GOLD MINES v. SEYMOUR.

511

Statement of the Case.

"The capital of the company is 400,000 pounds, divided
into four hundred thousand shares of 1 pound each, the whole
or any portion of which and any future capital of the company
may be issued as full or partly paid shares and at a discount
or premium and with the benefit of any preference or priority
in the distribution of assets or payment of dividends, and with
power also to increase or decrease such capital stock and to
issue any part or parts of the intreased or decreased capital as
consolidated stock or any shares at such times, in such manner,
and on such terms as the company shall determine."
The organization of this corporation was completed on the
24th of May, 1887. On August 18, 1887, Haldeman having
theretofore made partial payments to the plaintiffs, an agreement was entered into between himself and J. Fenton Seymour, as their agent, which agreement was as follows:
"Memorandum of agreement made this 18th day of August,
1887, between John Haldeman, of 38 Old Jewry, in the city
of London, and J. Fenton Seymour, of Denver, Colorado, in
the United States of America, acting for himself and partners,
the owners of the Slide and Spur gold mines, situate in Boulder
County, Colorado, United States of America:
"The said John Haldeman agrees to pay forthwith the sum
-of ten thousand pounds sterling in addition to twelve thousand five hundred pounds already paid on account of the purchase money of the said mines, such sum of ten thousand
pounds to be paid through Messrs. Wells, Fargo & Co., (who
now hold the deeds of the said property in escrow,) and to be
held by them and paid over to the said J. Fenton Seymour
upon the titles of the said mines being registered in the name
-of the ' Slide and Spur gold mines,' limited, free from all
charges and encumbrances; and the said J. Fenton Seymour
hereby undertakes and agrees to register the titles as above
upon the said ten thousand pounds being -deposited with
Messrs. Wells, Fargo & Co.
"The said J. Fenton Seymour hereby undertakes and
agrees to have the ' Slide mine' worked to its full capacity,
.and after the due and legal registration of the title to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

said company he further agrees that the returns from the
said mine shall be cabled weekly to the said company in
the form of cables sent herewith, it being understood and
agreed that the money value of the first weekly returns so
cabled shall not be less than the sum of two hundred pounds
sterling, and that each successive weekly return shall show a
moderate increase over that sum.
"The said J. Fenton Seymour hereby undertakes and agrees
to take the control of the management of the said property
until the payments hereinafter mentioned are completed, and
it is understood and agreed that he shall retain such control
until the said payments are completed. The said John Haldeman agrees that three hundred and seventy-five thousand
shares of one pound each in the above company shall be
transferred to Mr. Clarence Preston Elder as trustee and deposited with Messrs. Wells, Fargo & Co. in London, to the
intent that the said shares shall be held as security for the
due performance of the following conditions, viz.:
"1st. The payment of ten thousand pounds, in addition to
the above-mentioned twenty-two thousand (J. F. S.) five hundred pounds within three days (J. F. S.) after the receipt of
the third successive weekly return from the mine, as hereinbefore mentioned; and,
"2d. The balance of forty-five thousand pounds at the
expiration of ten days after the receipt of eight successive
weekly returns of the nature and value above specified.
Upon the completion of the above-mentioned payments the
said J. Fenton Seymour hereby undertakes and agrees to release the above-mentioned three hundred and seventy-five
thousand shares, less seventy-seven thousand five hundred, to
which he is entitled, and also less the number of shares sold
with the consent and under the supervision of the aforesaid
Clarence Preston Elder, acting for the said J. Fenton Seymour.
"In case the" weekly returns cabled from the mine shall
from any caus6 fall below the sum of two hundred pounds
sterling per week, then, in that case, such returns shall not
count, but the time for paying the second ten thousand
pounds and the balance of forty-five thousand pounds shall

SLIDE & SPUR GOLD MINES v. SEYMOUR.

513

Statement of the Case.

be extended pro r'ata; but should the successive weekly returns amount to two hundred pounds sterling per week,
,(J F. S.,) with a moderate increase weekly, as hereinbefore
mentioned, and the said John Haldeman shall make default in
the payment of the balance of forty-five thousand pounds, then
in that case, the said J. Fenton Seymour shall have the right
to forfeit the amounts already paid and to claim the abovementioned three hundred and seventy-five thousand shares.
"As witness the hands of the said parties the day and date
first above written.
"(Signed)
J. FENTON SEYmouR.
."
A.
"JNO. ]ALDEMA

Subsequently there were some further payments. On October 5, 1888, the larger portion of the purchase money still
remaining unpaid, the plaintiffs, through their agent, J. Fenton
Seymour, made to the company this proposition:
"1st. On payment of 3500 pounds to Wells, Fargo & Co.,
we agree to start the mine at work in name of Co., said sum
to or. of Col. Seymour.
"2d. Company to send cashier and engineer (if they think
fit) & Col. Seymour to be resident manager and director for
the period of one year.
"3d. All proceeds to be transmitted to company bankers.
"4th. Mr. Elder to deliver '75,000 shares to the Scotch
subscribers and 45,000 to Mr. Rust on payment of said sum.
"5th. The balance of shares to remain in Mr. Elder's hands,
as trustee, until a final settlement can be made, inside of three
months after acceptance of this proposition.
"6th. Col. Wilson, or whoever pays the £3500, to receive
15,000 shares from Mr. Elder on the final settlement, (not
later than three months,) and meantime receive a legal obligation from Mr. Elder as trustee.
" 7th. On resignation of Mr. Elder as a director, Mr. Allen
to be elected.
"8th. £3500 to be paid so soon as the company can register
the transfer of the 75,000 shares.
"(Signed)
J. F. SErmou."
voL. cLm-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

This proposition was accepted and the thirty-five hundred
pounds mentioned in the first clause were paid on December
15, 1888. In pursuance of the agreement of August 18, 1887,
the plaintiffs delivered to the defendant a deed for the property, which deed was duly recorded in the office of the recorder of Boulder County on September 16, 1887. A large
portion of the purchase money still remaining unpaid, on
February 16, 1889, the plaintiffs filed their bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Colorado, in
which bill they prayed for an accounting, that the amount of
purchase money found due be adjudged a lien upon the property, and that such lien be foreclosed and a sale ordered.
The defendants answered, proofs were taken, and on July 8,
1890, a decree was entered finding the amount of the unpaid
purchase money to be $250,800, decreeing it a lien upon the
property, and ordering a foreclosure and sale. From such
decree the defendant appealed to this court.
-Yr. Harvey Riddell for appellant.
The circumstances surrounding this transaction and sale
show that the appellees waived or abandoned any right to a
vendor's lien.
I. The objects, purposes and ends for which the sale was
made are inconsistent with the intention to retain such lien.
Gilman v. Brown, 1 Mason, 191, 204, 218. When lands are
conveyed to enable the purchaser to raise money thereon by
mortgage for the purpose of paying the purchase money, the lien
is abandoned. Glower v. Rawlings, 9 Sm. & Marsh. 122; S. C.
47 Am. Dec. 108; Strong v. Strong, 126 Illinois, 301; 8pringteld &c. Railroadv. Stewart, 51 Arkansas, 285. See also Fisk
v. Potter,2 Abb. (1N. Y.) App. 138; S.C.2 Keyes, 64; MoeGonigal v. Plummer, 30 Maryland, 422; Cordova v. Hood, 17
Wall. 1; Fisher v. Shropskire, 147 U. S. 133; In re Brentwood Brick & Coal Co., 4 Ch. D. 562; Jettlewell v. Watson,
21 Ch.D. 685, 703; S. C. on appeal, 26 Ch. D. 501.
II. The contract of August 18 and 19 expressly says that the
stock was taken and held in trust "to the intent that the said
shares shall be held as security for the due performance" of

SLIDE & SPUR GOLD IIINES v. SEYMOUR.

515

Argument for Appellant.

the conditions of the contract as to making deferred payments; that said shares were to be issued by the company to
Haldeman "in payment in full for said mines against a clean
transfer of . the property to the company, free of all encumbrances and liabilities whatsoever, and the due registration of
said transfer, and which shares are immediately, upon the
same being so issued to be transferred to the said Clarence
Preston Elder, . . . as trustee for behoof of all concerned, and the said shares are to be then deposited with
in the name of . . . Elder,
Wells, Fargo & Co. .
as a guaranty for the fulfilment by the said John Haldeman of
the terms of said agreement so far as incumbent upon him, as
fully set forth in the said agreement."
The bill itself virtually contains the same allegations, but
seeks to escape the effect thereof by alleging that the sale
was made to the company.
But, leaving out of consideration the deductions to be
drawn from the subsequent forfeiture of the pledged stock,
or, if such forfeiture be denied, the subsequent dealings of
Seymour with such stock, the evidence is very clear that it
was taken as security.
Taking collateral security, unless the merely personal obligation of the vendee, which is construed as a means of payment, is a waiver of a vendor's lien. Brown v. Gilman, 4
Wheat. 255 ; S. C. 1 Mason 191 ; Cordova v. Hood, 17 Wall. 1 ;
Chilton v. Braiden,2 Black, 458 ; Fisherv. Shropshire,147 U. S.
133; . farshall v. Christmas,3 Humph. 616; S. C. 39 Am. Dec.
99 ; Kauffelt v. Bower, 7 S.& R. 64; Clower v. Rawlings, 9 Sm.
& Marsh. 122; 8. C. 47 Am. Dec. 108; Coos Bay Wagon Co.
v. Crocker, 4 Fed. IRep. 577; -Dudley v. -Dickson, 14 N. J.
Eq. 252; Selby v. Stanley, 4 Minnesota, 65; Young v. Wood,
11 B. Mon. 123; Stuart v. Harrison, 52 Iowa, 511; Eyle v.
Bellenger,79 Alabama, 516 ; Strong v. Strong, 126 Illinois, 301;
Crans v. Hamilton County, 87 Indiana, 162; Fish v. Howland,
1 Paige, 20; Blet v. Collins,103 Illinois, 74; Nairn v. Prowse,
6 Ves. Jr. 752; McGonigal v. Plummer, 30 Maryland, 422;
Frandis v. Wells, 2 Colorado, 660; Richards v. .McPherson, 75
Indiana, 158.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

III. We contend, also, that appellees are estopped from
asserting a vendor's lien. The °following cases, heretofore
cited, are in point: Strong v. Strong, 126 Illinois, 301; Fisk
v. Potter, 2 Abb. (N. Y.) App. 138 (S. 0. 2 Keyes, 64); -McGonigal v. Pluwmmet, 30 Maryland, 422, where it was said
that since the lien is "the mere creation of a court of equity,
existing in the nature of a secret trust, it should not, for that
reason, be implied and maintained, where it would operate as
a means of deception, or in prejudice of good faith."
Appellees certainly agreed that a deed should be delivered
and the title conveyed free and clear of all incumbrance
whatsoever -free and clear to the full extent that the stock
might be put upon the market without any latent liens whatsoever, and that the company might issue 375,000 shares of
fully paid up stock in full payment therefor, and they would
look to the stock for payment under a pledge thereof.
It is certain that the company, as well as all other parties in
interest, so understood it. It would be to allow appellees to
entrap the directors into the commission of a fraud, as well as
to a subjection to a penal statute, to hold that the stock might
be issued under the circumstances disclosed in this case, and
then that appellees might still assert a vendor's lien.
Mr. Willard Teller for appellees.
MR.

1USTic.

BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is conceded that a vendor's lien is recognized in Colorado,
Francis v. IFells, 2 Colorado, 660, and such a lien, therefore,
will be recognized and enforced in a Federal court. As said
in Fisher v. Shropshire, 147 U. S. 133, 139: "The courts of
the United States enforce grantor's and vendor's liens if in
harmony with the jurisprudence of the State in which the
action is brought, and the principle upon which such a lien
rests has been held to be that one who gets the estate of another ought not in conscience to be allowed to keep it without
paying the consideration. Chilton v. Braiden'sAdministratrix, 2 Black, 458; Story's Eq. Jur. § 1219."

SLIDE & SPUR GOLD MINES v. SEYMOUR.

517

Opinion of the Court.

Such a lien is one which appeals strongly to the favorable
consideration of a court of equity. In Baum v. Grigsby, 21
California, 172, 176, it was declared to be a right not arising
from any agreement of the parties, but a creattire of equity,
"founded upon the natural justice of allowing a party to reach
the property which he has transferred to satisfy the debt
which constitutes the consideration of the transfer." So, in
Refeld v. Woodfolk, 22 How. 318, 327, this court said: "A
court of chancery regards the transfer of real property in a
contract of sale and the payment of the price as correlative
obligations. The one is the consideration of the other; and,
the one failing, leaves the other without a cause." An intent
to abandon it is not to be presumed, and while, of course, like
any other right, it may be abandoned or waived, the evidence
of an intent to so abandon or waive should be clear and satisfactory. 2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 1226, and cases cited in notes.
In Cordova v. Ulood, 17 Wall. 1, it was held that while the
taking of security may raise a presumption of a waiver of
the lien, it is a presumption which is open to rebuttal. In
2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 1224, the author says that "if, under all
the circumstances, it (the waiver) remains in doubt, then the
lien attaches." And in the case of Fisher v. Shropshire,
supra, the Chief Justice observed: "Undoubtedly, a lien of
the character we are considering may be defeated if the
grantor or vendor do any act manifesting an intention not to
rely on the land for security; but this must be an act substantially inconsistent with the continued existence of the lien, and
cannot be inferred from the mere fact that the parties may
not have contemplated the assertion of the lien in the first
instance."
There is nothing in the cases cited from the English courts
inconsistent with the authorities heretofore cited, or questioning the general rule therein laid down in respect to a waiver
of vendor's lien. The case In re Brentwood Brick and Coal
Company, 4 Ch. D. 562, 565, was one in which the property
was transferred to a corporation, not for a fixed sum to be
paid absolutely, but, as stated, thus: "Fifty per cent of all
sum or sums of money received, or to be received, by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

company on the sale of its shares, and the like sum of fifty
per cent upon all money by way of capital to be at any time
borrowed by the company until the payments so made" should
amount to the sum of 6000 pounds. It was held that the
vendor had waived his lien. James, L.J., saying: "I am of
opinion that the order of the Vice Chancellor must be affirmed. The case of the appellant may be a hard one, but
the nature of the transaction excludes vendor's lien. This is
not the case of a simple agreement to sell for £6000. No
doubt the vendor got a higher price by agreeing to accept
payment in the way he did, and taking his chance of capital
being subscribed or capital being borrowed to an amount
sufficient to pay him. He says in fact, ' half of the first capital moneys that come in to the extent of £6000 is to be my
purchase money.' No day for payment was named; he agreed
to receive his purchase money if and when capital should come
in. He got for his property a charge upon and a right to the
capital of the company to the extent of £6000 when it came
in. To my mind it is clear that he intended to rely on that
fund for payment, and intended that the company should
have the means of borrowing. This is quite inconsistent
with a lien which would probably make the company unable
to pledge their property. I am, therefore, of opinion that the
Vice Chancellor came to a correct conclusion."
And Baggallay, J. A., adding: " I think it is evident that the party
selling did not intend to rely on the security of the estate but
on the funds of the company." In Kettlewell v. Watson, 21
Oh. D. 685; on appeal, 26 Oh. D. 501, 510; the appelliate court
held, while recognizing the general rule that the vendor has a
lien for his purchase money, that the circumstances disclosed
a knowledge on the part of the vendors or their agent that
the vendees sought a registry of the deed of conveyance for
the purpose of subdividing the property and selling it in lots,
and with that knowledge assented to such registry, and also
knowledge that the vendees were selling lots, and hence that
they should not be permitted to assert a lien as against the
bonafide purchasers of such lots,who had paid full price therefor to the vendees. The decision was rested on the doctrine

SLIDE & SPUR GOLD MINES v. SEYMOUR.

519

Opinion of the Court.

of estoppel, the court saying: "In our opinion the conduct of
Dibb (plaintiffs' agent) induced purchasers of the portions of
the estate sold reasonably to believe that Richardson & Watson
[the vendees] had power to deal with the estate as absolute
owners free from the lien now insisted on; and as he so acted,
the plaintiffs, who left everything to him, cannot, in our opinion, assert their lien against lots purchased without notice that
the trustees desired to insist on their lien even though such
purchasers have an equitable title only."
It is not questioned in this case that a large part of the
money consideration for the sale of these mines remains still
unpaid, and the defendant is in the attitude of one who, admitting that the vendors have not received the money for
which he sold the land, nevertheless insists upon retaining
the property discharged of any obligation for its payment.
Its contention is that the plaintiffs sold to Haldeman and that
Haldeman sold to it, and that inasmuch as the terms of the
original proposition of October 19, 1886, were not complied
with, a new agreement was made on August 18, 1887, by which
the plaintiffs were to pass a title "free from all charges and
incumbrances," and to rely for their security upon a portion
of the stock of the grantee deposited with one of its directors.
But the provision that the property should be free from
charges and incumbrances obviously refers to prior charges
and incumbrances, and does not exclude any which arise out
of the conveyance itself. It means simply that the grantors
shall have removed all burdens which rested upon the property prior to the time of making their deed, and that that
deed shall pass the title perfect and unencumbered, but not
that the grantee shall take it free from all obligation of
payment or discharged from the lien for the purchase price
which rests upon real estate until such price is paid. The
language of the covenants in the deed is in harmony with
this thought; for, after the covenant of seizin and of the
right to sell, follows one that the premises "are free and clear
from all former and other grants, bargains, sales, liens, taxes,
assessments, and incumbrances of whatever kind or nature
soever." It will be iloticed that this agreement was not be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tween the grantors and grantee, but between the grantors
and a third party who was seeking to accomplish, with profit
to himself, a sale from the plaintiffs to the defendant at the
price they demanded, and who was seeking to utilize the
stock of the defendant in securing money for the cash part
of the consideration. There is no presumption from the delivery of the deed that the plaintiffs intended to waive their
lien for the purchase money. Indeed, it is characteristic of a
vendor's lien, as distinguished from a contract lien, that it
arises upon a transfer of title. It is a doctrine of equitable
jurisprudence which says that land, which is immovable, is
the best security for its own price, and that title thereto
should therefore pass subject to the equitable burden of such
security. The actual conveyance of the title to the company
was not for the interest or the benefit of the plaintiffs. They
were not thereby placed in any better position or given, any
new advantage. It is said that the agreement in terms provides that 375,000 out of 400,000 shares of stock in the defendant company shall be transferred to one of its directors,
as trustee for the plaintiffs, and held as security for the payment to them of the unpaid purchase money; but the obligation of the company, its duty to pay, an obligation and a
duty resting upon it as the representative of all its shares of
stock, are clearly of more value than the security obtained
by the deposit of a portion of its shares. For, in the one
case, even if there were no personal liability of the stockholders, the promise of the company could be enforced to the
extent of the appropriation of all of its property, and thus
the exhaustion of the value of all its shares, while in the
other the transfer of a portion of its shares of stock would
enable the vendor in case of a failure of payment to obtain
relief, not to the full extent of the property owned by the
corporation, but only to that fractional portion thereof, represented by the number of such shares. It must be borne in
mind that this corporation had no other properties than these
mines. It had a nominal capital stock of 400,000 pounds,
with authority, apparently, to increase it without limit; yet
this thing of paper contends that it bought of Haldeman

SLIDE & SPUR GOLD

IINES v. SEYMOUR.

521

Opinion of the Cohrt.

these valuable mining properties upon the sole consideration
of 4-ths of its shares of stock, and that the plaintiffs sold to
Haldeman, and intended by their agreement and conveyance
to part absolutely with the title, to abandon every lien, and
trust for the payment of the purchase money entirely to the
security of these shares, transferred to one of the directors
of the corporation. It will be perceived that at first there
was not even this security, for the agreement provides for
the registry of the title not upon the issue, transfer, and
deposit of the shares, but upon the deposit with Wells, Fargo
& Co. of 10,000 pounds. Is it to be supposed that they
delivered the deed upon the deposit of that money to their
credit, and, waiving all lien upon the property, were relying
alone upon the promise of Haldeman to obtain from the company (their vendee) the issue of 375,000 shares, and to then
make transfer to Elder and deposit with Wells, Fargo & Co.?
If there had been no stipulation in respect to the control of
the property it would be difficult to sustain the contention
that the provision for the transfer and deposit of a portion of
the shares of the company was sufficient evidence of an intent
to abandon the vendor's lien. But the agreement furnishes
direct evidence to the contrary. It is made by J. Fenton
Seymour, "acting for himself and partners, the owners" of
the property, (the plaintiffs in this case,) and contains this
clause: "The said J. Fenton Seymour hereby undertakes and
agrees to take the control of the management of the said
property until the payments hereinafter mentioned are completed, and it is understood and agreed that he shall retain
such control until the said payments are completed." This
negatives the idea that the plaintiffs were relying for the
payment of the unpaid purchase money solely upon the
security of these shares of stock. It is an express affirmation
that their dominion over the property is not to cease until
the purchase money is all paid. It thus makes the property
itself the security for the price. In the face of this stipulation
it would require very cogent testimony to convince any one
that the plaintiffs had abandoned all lien upon the property
itself, and were resting alone upon the security of the shares.
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

There is no such testimony; nothing which makes against
this express purpose of the plaintiffs to retain control of the
property until the purchase price was paid.
The transaction with what is called in the record the
Scotch syndicate does not seem to us to have the significance
which counsel contends, and this notwithstanding the recitals
in the agreement respecting it. That transaction was this:
The 10,000 pounds which, by the agreement of August 18,
1887, Haldeman was to pay immediately, were advanced by
that syndicate, and on the 19th of August, the day after the
contract between Haldeman and Seymour, Seymour entered
into an agreement with the representatives of the syndicate
that 75,000 of the 375,000 shares should be held for its benefit. This, instead of supporting defendant's contention, tends
to show that the plaintiffs were not relying upon these shares
as their security, but, having a lien upon the propertyitself,
were willing that Haldeman, or the corporation, should use
the shares for the purpose of securing money with which to
make payment. And while there is in the agreement signed
by J. Fenton Seymour a recital which, to some extent, makes
against the claim of the plaintiffs in that it states that by the
agreement of August 18 the company was to issue to John
Haldeman 375,000 fully paid up shares "in payment in full
for the said mines against a clean transfer of the property to
the company free of all incumbrances and liabilities whatsoever," yet that recital is qualified by that which follows
immediately thereafter, to the effect that the shares are "to
be transferred to the said Clarence P. Elder, a director of the
company, as trustee for behoof of all concerned," and also to
be deposited with Wells, Fargo & Co. "as a guarantee for
the fulfilment by the said John Haldeman of the terms of
said agreement so far as incumbent upon him, all as fully set
forth in the said agreement."
These last words refer to the agreement of August 18 as
disclosing fully the agreement between the plaintiffs, Haldeman, and the defendant. Evidently there was no thought in
this of enlarging the scope or adding to the significance of that
agreement. If it be said that here is an interpretation by the

SEYMOUR v. SLIDE & SPUR GOLD MINES.

523

Syllabus.

parties of its meaning, it will be seen that all that it asserts is
that the corporation transfers to Haldeman the shares in full
payment for the property. Or, in other words, that it leaves
to him the perfecting of the title free from incumbrances,
and in consideration therefor issues the 375,000 shares. It
contains no assertion, directly or by implication, that the
plaintiffs either take these shares in payment or accept them
as the only security for payment. It recites that they are
transferred to the trustee, not for the plaintiffs, but for beboof
of all concerned, thus plainly implying that they are to be
used by Haldeman with the assent of the plaintiffs as a means
of obtaining money for the purpose of completing the payment to them; but there is in none of these recitals, either in
terms or by fair implication, an agreement or a statement on
the part of the plaintiffs that they forego their vendor's lien,
and that they intend to look thereafter simply to those shares
and to the good faith of the trustee and the depositary for
the payment of the purchase price. There surely is in all this
nothing to convince that the plaintiffs intended to abandon
the lien upon the property which existed when they executed
the deed to the company and which the agreement for a
retention of control by their agent directly asserted.
We see, therefore, no reason to question the conclusions
reached by the Circuit Court, and its decree is

Affirmed.

SEYMOUR v. SLIDE AND SPUR GOLD MINES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 263. Argued March 15, 1894. -Decided

May 14,1894.

One who holds possession of real estate as manager for or under another
cannot, when sued in ejectment by his principal, dispute the principal's
title.
When such agent admits the relation and the title of his principal, there is
no impropriety in the court's directing a verdict for the plaintiff.
The State only can challenge the right of a foreign corporation to take and
hold real estate within its limits.

