METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
Statement of the Case.

M-ETCALF v. WATERTOWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 18. Argued April 18, 1894.-

Decided May 14, 1894.

The right of action upon a judgment or decree of a court of record of the
United States, sitting within the State of Wisconsin, is limited by the
Revised Statutes of that State of 1858, to twenty years after the cause
of action accrued.

Tins was an action brought June 29, 1883, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Wisconsin, by a citizen of Ohio, the assignee of certain persons
who were assignees in different proportions of a judgment for
the sum of $10,207.86, recovered April 9, 1866, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, by a
citizen of Tennessee against a municipal corporation of Wisconsin. The petition having been amended, (in accordance
with the opinion delivered by this court when the case was
before it at a former term, and reported in 128 U. S. 586,) by
showing that this plaintiff's assignors were citizens of other
States than Wisconsin, the defendant answered that the cause
of action did not arise within ten years before this action was
brought, and that the action was therefore barred by the
statute of limitations of Wisconsin. The case having been
submitted to the Circuit Court for trial without a jury, that
court, on August 2, 1889, so held, and, having filed findings of
fact and conclusions of law, rendered judgment for the defendant. The plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
The Revised Statutes of- Wisconsin of 1849, c. 127, § 41,
applied one limitation to all judgments of courts of record
within the United States, as follows: "Every judgment and
decree in any court of record of the United States, or of any
State or Territory of the United States, shall be presumed to
be paid and satisfied at the expiration of twenty years after
the judgment or decree was rendered."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893. .
Opinion of the Court.

The Revised Statutes of 1858, c. 138, contain the following
provisions :
"SEcr. 1. Civil actions can only be commenced within the
periods prescribed in this chapter, except when in special cases
a different limitation is prescribed by statute."
"SEcT. 14. The periods prescribed in section one of this
chapter, for the commencement of actions other than for the
recovery of real property, shall be as follows:
" SE cT. 15. Within twenty years: 1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of this State. 2. An
action upon a sealed instrument, when the cause of action
accrues within this State.
"SET. 16. Within ten years: 1. An action upon a judgment
or decree of any court of record of any State or Territory
within the United States, or of any court of the United States.
2. An action upon a sealed instrument, when the cause of
action accrued without this State."
In the Revisod Statutes of 1878, § 4220, 4221, the language
of the provisions as to actions on judgments is modified, so as
to include in the limitation of twenty years "an action upon
a judgment or decree of any court of record of this State, or
of the United States, sitting within this State;" and to confine
the limitation of ten years to "an action upon a judgment or
decree of any court of record of any other State or Territory
of the United States, or of any court of the United States,
sitting without this State." By reason of a saving clause in
§ 4984, the case at bar is not governed by these statutes, but
by the statutes of 1858.
MAfr. C. E. .Monroe and Xr. G. A. Jenks for plaintiff in
error.
Mrbt. George T. Bird, (with whom was Mr. Daniel Hall on
the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It will 'be perceived that the questions arising upon the

METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

record in this case relate to the meaning, applicability, and
validity of the first paragraph of section 16 of the Revised
Statutes of Wisconsin of 1858, which, taken in connection
with sections 1 and 14, barred "an action upon a judgment or
decree of any court of record of any State or Territory within
the United States, or of any court of the United States," in
ten years. The contention of the plaintiff is that, under a
proper construction of the paragraph, judgments or decrees of
the courts of the United States sitting within the State of
Wisconsin are not included therein, and that if this were not
so, it would be so far unconstitutional. Defendant claims that
such judgments or decrees plainly fall within the statute, no
room being left for construction; and that it is valid as to
suits on Federal judgments or decrees in the state courts, and
therefore valid as to suits on such judgments or decrees in
Federal courts, under the 34th section of the Judiciary Act of
1789.
By that section it was provided that "the laws of the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes
of the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall
be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law in the
courts of the United States, in cases where they apply;" and
this was carried forward into section 721 of the Revised Statutes. And from the beginning this court has recognized statutes of limitations of actions, real and personal, as enacted by
the legislature of a State, and as construed by its highest
court, as rules of decision in the courts of the United States.
Bausermmai v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 64=7, 652, and cases cited.
2c.Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312, 327, is an early and leading case on the subject cited, and largely quoted from by
counsel for defendant. The statute of limitations of Georgia
involved in that case required "actions of debt upon judgments obtained in courts other than the courts of this State"
to be brought "within five years next after the judgments
shall have been obtained," and an action having been brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Georgia upon a judgment rendered in a court of the State of
South Carolina, it was held that the statute could be pleaded
VOL. crLm-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in bar thereof. Mr. Justice Wayne delivered the opinion of
the court, and after stating that judgments recovered in one
State "are record evidence of a debt, or judgments of record,
to be contested only in such way as judgments of record may
be, and consequently are conclusive upon the defendant in
every State, except for such causes as would be sufficient to
set aside the judgment in the courts of the State in which it
was rendered;" but that a plea of the statute of limitations
was "well settled to be a plea to the remedy, and consequently
that the lex fori must prevail;" proceeded as follows: "It
would be strange, if in the now well understood rights of
nations to organize their judicial tribunals according to their
notions of policy, it should be conceded to them in every other
respect than that of prescribing the time within which suits
shall be litigated in their courts. Prescription is a thing of
policy, growing out of the experience of its necessity; and the
time after which suits or actions shall be barred has been,
from a remote antiquity, fixed by every nation in virtue of
that sovereignty by which it exercises its legislation for all
persons and property within its jurisdiction. This being the
foundation of the right to pass statutes of prescription or limitation, may not our States, under our system, exercise this
right in virtue of their sovereignty? Or is it to be conceded
to them in every other particular than that of barring the
remedy upon judgments of other States by .the lapse of time?
The States use this right upon judgments rendered in their
own courts; and the common law raises the presumption of
the payment of a judgment after the lapse of twenty years.
May they not then limit the time for remedies upon the judgments of other States, and alter the common law by statute,
fixing a less or larger time for such presumption, and altogether barring suits upon such judgments, if they shall not
be brought within the time stated in the statute? It certainly
will not be contended that judgment creditors of other States
shall be put upon a better footing in regard to a State's right
to legislate in this particular, than the judgment creditors of
the State in which the judgment was obtained. And if this
right so exists, may it not be exercised by a State's restraining

IETCALF v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

the remedy upon the judgment of another State, leaving those
of its own courts unaffected by a statute of limitations, but
subject to the common law presumption of payment after the
lapse of twenty years? In other words, may not the law of a
State fix different times for barring the remedy in a suit upon
a judgment of another State, and for those of its own tribunals? We use this mode of argument to show the unreasonableness of a contrary doctrine. But the point might have
been shortly dismissed with this safe declaration, that there is
no direct constitutional inhibition upon the States, nor any
clause in the Constitution, from which it can be even plausibly
inferred that the States may not legislate upon the remedy in
suits upon the judgments of other States, exclusive of all interference with their merits. It being settled that the statute of
limitations may bar recoveries upon foreign judgments; that
the effect intended to be given under our Constitution to judgments is, that they are conclusive only as regards the merits;
the common law principle then applies to suits upon them,
that they must be brought within the period prescribed by the
local law, the lexfori, or the suit will be barred."
Reference is also made to Ross v. Duhval, 13 Pet. 45, in
which it was held that an act of the legislature of Virginia
providing that judgments of any court within the State,
when execution had not been issued, might be revived within
ten years from that date by scire faciong or action of debt
thereon, and that when execution had been issued and not
returned, other executions and proceedings on the judgment
might be had within ten years and not after, was a statute of
limitations and applicable to a judgment obtained in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Virginia.
That was no more than applying to the judgments of the
United States courts the same rule that applied to the judgments of the state courts, and in neither of these cases did the
precise question arise presented in the case before us.
By the act of May 26, 1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122, and the supplement thereto of March 27, 1801, c. 56, 2 Stat. 299, now
embodied in Rev. Stat. § 905, it is provided that the records and
judicial proceedings, not only of the courts of any State, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

also of any Territory or of any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, authenticated as therein prescribed,
"shall have such faith and credit given to them, in every court
within the United States, as they have by law or usage in the
courts of the State from which they are taken;" that is to say,
such faith and credit as they are entitled to in the courts of
the State, Territory, or other country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States from which they are taken.
In Dupaeseur v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130, 135, Mr. Justice
IBradley, speaking for the court, said: "The only effect that
can be justly claimed for a judgment in the Circuit Court of
the United States, is such as would belong to judgments of the
state courts rendered under similar circumstances ;" and "it is
apparent, therefore, that no higher sanctity or effect can be
claimed for the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States rendered in such a case under such circumstances than
is due to the judgments of the state courts in a like case and
under similar circumstances." The same vfews were expressed
by the court through Mr. Justice Matthews in Embry v.
Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, 7, 9, 10; Crescent -ive Stock Co. v.
But chers' Union, 120 U. S. 141, 146, 147. It cannot be
doubted that, in respect of their effect under section 905, the
judgments and decrees of the Circuit Courts of the United
States are entitled to the same sanctity and effect in the courts
of each State, when those courts are held within the State, as
their own judgments, nothing more, but nothing less.
So far as that section relates to the effect to be given to the
judicial proceedings of the States, it is founded on article IV,
section 1, of the Constitution; but the power to prescribe what
effect shall be given to the judicial proceedings of the courts of
the United States is conferred by other provisions of the Constitution, such as those which declare the extent of the judicial
power of the United States; which authorize all legislation
necessary and proper for executing the powers vested by the
Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any
department or officer thereof; and which declare the supremacy of the power of the national government within the limits
of the Constitution.

METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

The judicial power of the United States is vested in one
Supreme Court and in such inferior courts as the Congress may
from time to time ordain and establish. Congress has accordingly established Circuit Courts; the judicial power vested in
them extends to controversies between citizens of different
States; and the citizens of each State are entitled to the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.
It is argued that this legislation, if given the construction
contended for, would involve the assertion of power over the
Federal courts, and by discrimination impair their jurisdiction
and authority ; and also in effect deprive the citizens of other
States of privileges secured to them by the supreme law of
the land; that as long as a limitation prescribed by state law
is equally applicable to all judgments rendered within or without a State, there is no discrimination against judgments rendered in the Federal courts; but when there is a discrimination between judgments rendered in the courts of a State and
those rendered in the Federal courts held in the same State, it
is an attack upon the judicial authority of the United States,
and in limitation of the right of citizens to invoke that jurisdiction. Hence, that this statute of 1858, if it have the scope
insisted on, cannot apply as a rule of decision in this case
under section 721, because the Constitution of the United
States otherwise requires; that that section does not concede
to the States the right to make laws that in any way discriminate against the judgments of the courts of the United States
in a particular State, but simply prescribes the rule that whatever the state laws are in respect of the conduct and course of
the judgments of its own courts should be the guide within
constitutional limits for the action of courts of the United
States in proceedings in respect of the judgments of those
courts in that State; and that in that view the first paragraph
of section 15, providing that actions could be brought within
twenty years upon a judgment or decree of any court of record
of Wisconsin, applied, while the first paragraph of section 16
did not apply except in reference to judgments of any court of
the United States other than in the State of Wisconsin.
-Massingill v. Downs, 7 How. 760, 766, is cited by plaintiff,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

which, however, did not involve the limitation of actions.
There a lien upon real estate acquired by virtue of a judgment
recovered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi in 1839, when, by a law of the
State, it was a valid lien, was held not to be lost by non-compliance with a subsequent statute of the State, passed in 1841,
making it a condition of the validity of liens under judgments
theretofore rendered that the judgments should be recorded
within four months of the passage of the statute, in the office
of the Circuit Court of the county in which the land was.
And this court said: "In those States where the judgment or
the execution of a state court creates a lien only within the
county in which the judgment is entered, it has not been
doubted that a similar proceeding in the Circuit Court of the
United States would create a lien to the extent of its jurisdiction. This has been the practical construction of the power of
the courts of the United States, whether the lien was held to
be created by the issuing of process or by express statute.
Any other construction would materially affect, and in some
degree subvert, the judicial power of the Union. It would
place suitors in the state courts in a much better condition
than in the Federal courts." Cooke v. .Avery, 147 U. S.375,
387.
But we do not understand defendant's counsel to contend
that a State has power to regulate or vary the proceedings or
judgments of the United States courts as such, or that Congress can either delegate its own powers or enlarge those of a
State, but that as a mere question of power a State may prescribe limitations upon judgments without regard to the court
pronouncing them; that a judgment is simply record evidence
of the debt or liability as between the parties; that there is
no constitutional prohibition upon the power to limit actions
thereon, and that while actions on judgments in the courts of
the United States cannot be controlled by the exercise of this
power, that result is reached under section 721, which makes
the law of the State in that regard a rule of decision.
As a general rule this court follows the .decisions of the
highest court of a State in the construction of the statutes of

METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

the State, unless they conflict with or impair the efficacy of
some provision of the Constitution of the United States or
of an act of Congress; but we think we are at liberty, and
perhaps required, under the circumstances existing here, to
interpret this statute for ourselves.
In June, 1870, the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Wisconsin, in the case of Cole v. TFeil, Judge
Drummond and District Judge Miller holding the court, sustained a demurrer to the plea of the ten years' limitation in
bar of an action upon a judgment recovered in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin. In
January, 1885, the Circuit Court held otherwise in the case
before us and found for the defendant on the defence now
under consideration, and, judgment having been rendered, the
cause was brought on error to this court, the record being filed
October 9, 1885. On December 10, 1888, that judgment was
reversed upon a question of jurisdiction and the cause remanded. 128 U. S. 586. While that writ of error was pending in this court, and in August, 1886, an action was brought
in one of the state Circuit Courts against the town of Waterloo, upon, among other causes of action, a judgment obtained
in the United States Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin. To this the ten-year bar was pleaded and sustained, and
the case carried to the state Supreme Court, which, September
20, 1887, decided that the judgment came within the words of
subdivision one of section sixteen, c. 138, IRev. Stats. 1858,
and that the action thereon was barred by the lapse of ten
years. Taterman v. Waterloo, 69 Wisconsin, 260.
In Ballin v. Ioeb, 78 Wisconsin, 401, decided December 16,
1890, plaintiffs obtained judgment against a corporation in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin, and execution was issued thereon and returned no
property found, whereupon they filed a bill in the state court
under a state statute in that behalf for the sequestration of
the property of the corporation and to have a receiver appointed in order to a fair and equal division of the assets of
the corporation among all its creditors. The question was
raised whether they, having obtained their judgment in the

OCTOBER

TERI,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of the United States, could avail themselves of
the statutory remedy.
The Supreme Court held that they could, and said: "It is
contended by the learned counsel of the appellant that the
return of an execution on a judgment in a Federal court will
not sustain this action, and that such a judgment is that of
a foreign court or the same as one of a sister State. There
may have been late decisions to such effect, but the current
of authorities, as well as the laws of the United States and
of this State, establish the rule that the judgments of the
United States courts of the Wisconsin districts are to be
treated as domestic judgments of a superior court of this
State." The court referred to various acts of Congress under
which proceedings and judgments in Federal courts are assimilated to those of state courts, and to the fact that in state
courts they "are treated in all respects as to remedies like
domestic judgments in the States in which they were rendered;" and after citing to the point that United States
courts are not foreign within the State where they are held,
Turrell v.
~arren, 25 Minnesota, 9 ; TFandling v. Straw, 25
W. Va. 692, 705; Thomson v. Lee County, 22 Iowa, 206; )8t.
.Albans v. Bush, 4 Vermont, 58 ; Barney v. Patterso'sLessee,
6 liar. & Johns. 182; -eMCauley v. Hamgroves, 48 Georgia, 50;
Williams v. Iilkes, 14 Penn. St. 228; -Embryv. Palmer, 107
U. S. 3, thus concluded: "We are disposed to adopt this
rule, so well established, as against any adverse decisions, as
it appears more in the spirit of comity and reasonable. In
this proceeding the judgment of the plaintiff will have the
same effect as if rendered by any superior court of this State,
because it was rendered in a Wisconsin district of a United
States court."
It seems to us that if the Supreme Court had arrived at
this conclusion, at the time Waterman v. Waterloo was under
consideration, a different result might have been reached. It
is true that in that case the Supreme Court said: "That the
Circuit Courts of the United States are properly called domestic courts of the States wherein they are held could not
possibly change the meaning of this language, 'or of any

METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

court of the United States,' without destroying it entirely.
What other United States courts, except the District and
Circuit Courts of the United States, render judgments upon
which the statute of limitations can run?" But we think we
may be permitted to assume that if the Supreme Court had
then definitely adjudicated that judgments of the United
States courts held in Wisconsin were not to be regarded as
those of a foreign court or of a sister State, but were to be
treated as domestic judgments of a superior court of that
State, it would have found a sufficient subject for the operation of the first paragraph of section 16 in respect of judgments and decrees "of any court of the United States," in
the judgments and decrees of such courts when held in other
States. Moreover, it should be observed that the question of
the power under the Constitution to control in any way or to
discriminate as to Federal judgments rendered in the State
does not seem to have been brought to the attention of the
court and was not adverted to.
Since the domestic character of the Federal courts sitting
in the State of Wisconsin is conceded, and the principle fully
recognized that their judgments are to be treated in all respects as to remedies like the judgments of the state courts,
it would seem to follow that the words "judgment or decree
of any court of record of this State" in section 15 of chapter
138 of the Revised Statutes of 1858 included the judgments
and decrees of Federal courts rendered within the State, and
but for the words " or of any court of the United States," in
section 16, there would be no difficulty in arriving at that
conclusion. And in view of all the legislation upon the subject, we think we are not obliged to take those words literally,
but that they are open to construction.
By the Revised Statutes of 1849 a limitation of twenty
years was prescribed for actions upon all judgments of record,
wherever rendered, and upon all specialties, wherever the
cause of action accrued. Rev. Stats. 1849, c. 127, §§ 14, 20, 41.
By an act of 1866, as amended in 1868, it was provided that
executions might be issued any time within five years, and at
any time thereafter "upon any judgment which has heretofore

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

been or may hereafter be rendered or docketed in any court
of record in this State, . . . _provided, that no execution
shall issue, nor any action or proceedings be had upon any
such judgment after twenty years from the time of the rendition or docketing thereof." (Laws 1866, c. 14, p. 16; Laws
1868, c. 11, p. 14.)
The Revised Statutes of 1878 provided that actions must be
commenced within twenty years "upon a judgment or decree
of any court of record of this State, or of the United States,
sitting within this State," and "upon a sealed instrument
when the cause of action accrues within this State," with an
exception relating to municipal bonds; and within ten years
"upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of any other
State or Territory of the United States, or of any court of the
Unitdd States sitting without this State," and "upon a sealed
instrument when the cause of action accrued without this
State," with a similar exception as to municipal bonds. Rev.
Stat. 1878, §§ 4220, 4221.
The provisions of the Revised Statutes of 1858 under consid.
eration (c. 138, p. 821) were that the period of time for the
commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real
property should be:
"SECTION 15. Within twenty years: 1. An action upon a
judgment or decree of any court of record of this State.
2. An action upon a sealed instrument, when the cause of
action accrues within this State.
"SE TION 16. Within ten years: 1. An action upon a judg-

ment or decree of any court of record of any State or Territory within the United States, or of any court of the United
States. 2. An action upon a sealed instrument when the
cause of action accrued without this State."
Thus it is seen that under the statute of 1849 there was no
discrimination; under the statute of 1878 a discrimination was
made between causes of action accruing on judgments, decrees,
and sealed instruments, within, and without, the State; under
the acts of 1866 and 1868 judgments of courts of record in the
State were treated alike.
Was it intended by the statute of 1858 to make any other

METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

discrimination than that more accurately expressed in the
statute of 1878? Was it intended to discriminate against the
judgments and decrees of the Federal courts in Wisconsin as
if they were foreign courts or courts of another State? Was
it intended to disparage the jurisdiction and authority of the
Federal courts? It is said in Harrington v. Smith, 28 Wisconsin, 43, 59, that "the true rule for the construction of statutes is, to look to the whole and every part of the statute, and
the apparent intention derived from the whole, to the subjectmatter, to the effects and consequences, and to the reason and
spirit of the law; and thus, to ascertain the true meaning of
the legislature, though the meaning so ascertained may sometimes conflict with the literal sense of the words."
If we take the words in section 16, "any court of record of
any State or Territory of the United States," literally, they
include the courts of Wisconsin as they did in the statute of
1849; yet we should say that the first paragraph of section
15 was not thereby repealed, but, on the contrary, that the
cases therein mentioned were to be taken as excepted. And
so, while the words in section 16, "any court of the United
States," are broad enough to cover the courts of the United
States in Wisconsin, we do not consider that the latter were
embraced thereby, but that section 16 applied to those courts
of the United States which were not included in section 15, as
those holding courts in Wisconsin were. The distinction intended was between causes of action accruing within, and causes
of action accruing without, the State, and the statute of 1878
was declaratory of a meaning which already existed. .Koshkonong v. Burton, 104 U. S. 668, 671, involved a different
question, but it will be found that in the statement of the
statute of 1858 the distinction was indicated.
We cannot attribute to the legislature. of Wisconsin any design to discriminate against the judgments and decrees of the
courts of the United States rendered in that State by reducing the statutory, period for the commencement of actions
thereon to a less number of years than obtained as to the
judgments and decrees of the state courts, and so to compel
citizens of other States to bring their suits originally in those

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Names of Counsel.

courts rather than in the Federal courts, as secured to them
by the Constitution, or their own citizens to do so if they had
causes of action arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States. We do not entertain the least idea that
the legislature was actuated by any such disposition, and are
persuaded that the language of the act of 1858 produced no
such result.
We are of opinion that the ten-year bar constituted no
defence to the action of plaintiff, and, therefore, the judgment is
Reversed, and the cause remanded,with a direction to enter
judgment for plaintiff on the fmndings.

McKANE v. DURSTON.
APPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORX.
No. 1185.

Submitted April 23, 1894.-Decided May 14, 1894.

In the State of New York the committal to prison of a person convicted of
crime, without giving him an opportunity, pending an appeal, to furnish
bail, is in conformity with the laws of that State when no certificate is
furnished by the judge who presided at the trial or by a Justice of the
Supreme Court of the State, that in his opinion there is reasonable doubt
whether the judgment should stand; and such committal under such
circumstances violates no provision of the Constitution of the United
States.
An appeal to a higher court from a judgment of conviction is not a matter
of absolute right, independently of constitutional or statutory provisions
allowing it, and a State may accord it to a person convicted of crime
upon such terms as it thinks proper.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Lr. Thomas A. Atchison and .Afr. Robert H. Griffln for
appellant.
.Afr. Benjamin F. Tracy and Mr,. Edward X. Shepard for
appellee.

