OCTOBER TERM[, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

WEST v. CABELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 259. Submitted February 2, 1894.-

Decided April 16, 1894.

A warrant of a commissioner of a Circuit Court of the United States, commanding the arrest of a person of a certain name, not otherwise designating or describing him, upon a charge of murder, will not justify the
arrest of a person who has never been known or called by that name,
notwithstanding the commissioner testifies that he was the person intended.

THIS was an action brought November 5, 1887, by Vandy
i. West against William L. Cabell and six other persons, upon
a bond, dated May 19, 1886, given by Cabell, the marshal of
the United States for the Northern District of Texas, as principal, and by the other defendants, as his sureties, with condition that Cabell, "by himself and by his deputies, shall
faithfully perform all the duties of the said office of marshal."
The breach alleged was that Edward W. Johnson, one of the
deputies of Cabell, on August 16, 1887, unlawfully arrested
and imprisoned the plaintiff upon a warrant issued by a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United States "to arrest
the body of James West" upon a charge of murder of John
Cameron in the Indian country in the Western District of
Arkansas; to the damage of the plaintiff in the sum of
$10,000.
The answer denied the allegations of the petition; and
alleged that the arrest and imprisonment were upon a valid
warrant issued by the commissioner, charging the plaintiff
with the crime of murder.
At the trial, there was evidence tending to prove the following facts: The plaintiff's name was Vandy M. West, and he
was never known or called by any other name. He resided
and did business as a grocer at Mineral Wells, Texas, having
come there from Colorado in December, 1886; and had for
many years before his arrest borne a good character as a

WEST v. CABELL.
Statement of the Case.

peaceable man, and was not the murderer of Cameron. On
August 16, 1887, having gone with a wagon load of wheat to
Weatherford, twenty miles from his home, he was there
arrested by Johnson upon the warrant above mentioned; and
protested against the arrest, on the ground that he was the
wrong man, that his name was not James West, but Vandy
West, and that he was innocent of the crime charged, and
offered to make proof of his identity, if permitted to go with
Johnson to his home, or to wait for an answer to a telegram;
but Johnson refused to permit him to do either, and carried
him, against his will, in a hack and in irons, sixty miles to
Graham, and there lodged him in the jail of Young County,
and immediately informed the commissioner of the arrest.
On the next day, the commissioner issued and placed in the
hands of Johnson a subpoena for William Sturdevant, who
resided sixty miles off at Henrietta, and on whose information
principally Johnson had made the complaint on oath against
James West, on which the warrant was issued. Sturdevant
was then too ill to travel; but on September 1, 1887, and after
seeing the plaintiff in jail, he appeared before the commissioner, and stated on oath that the plaintiff was not the West
who killed Cameron. Because of the absence of Johnson,
who was serving civil process elsewhere, the plaintiff was detained in jail, and was never brought before the commissioner,
until September 5, 1887, when Johnson returned, and, by
order of the commissioner, discharged him. No order was
ever issued by the commissioner for the arrest or commitment
of the plaintiff, other than the warrant aforesaid,%-_ verbal
order to Johnson, when he reported the arrest, to hold the
prisoner until the commissioner was ready to try him.
The defendants offered oral evidence tending to show that
the warrant by virtue of which the arrest was made was issued
for the arrest of the plaintiff, although by a wrong name;
that Johnson, upon whose complaint the warrant was issued,
had made inquiries from different sources concerning the
identity of the plaintiff with the West who was charged with
the murder of Cameron; and that the commissioner, upon the
complaint made to him, issued the warrant for the arrest of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

James West, but intending it for the arrest of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff objected to the introduction of this testimony,
because, the warrant commanding the arrest of James West,
it was not competent to show by parol testimony that the
plaintiff, who bore another name, was the person for whose
arrest the warrant was intended by the commissioner issuing
it. But the court overruled the objection, and admitted the
testimony; and the plaintiff excepted to its admission.
The commissioner, being called as a witness for the defendants, testified that he had no personal acquaintance with
V. MM.West, and that the only time he ever saw him was
when he discharged him from imprisonment, and did not at
that time know him to be V. M. West; that Johnson, at the
time of making the complaint, informed him that "he had
located a man by the name of West near Mineral Wells who
was charged with murder in the Western District of Arkansas," and that he had written to the United States marshal for
that district, and received a reply from him; that the commissioner had no other knowledge "of the charge against
West," and of his own knowledge "did not know of any
other West living at or near Mineral Wells," and, "from the
information received from Johnson, the West living at or
near Mineral Wells was the one the warrant was issued for."
On cross-examination, the commissioner testified that he "put
the name James West in the warrant of arrest, because James
West was the man complained against."
Johnson testified that in the spring of 1887 Sturdevant informed him that "James West, sometimes called Bud West,
who had killed John Cameron in the Indian Territory in 1886,
was at or near Mineral Wells, Palo Pinto County, Texas,"
and gave him "a personal description of the West who killed
said Cameron," and he then wrote to the United States marshal of the Western District of Arkansas, who replied that he
did want West for the murder of Cameron; that Johnson
then went to Palo Pinto County to investigate the matter, and
there examined the tax books, and submitted to the sheriff of
the county the description given by Sturdevant of the West
who killed Cameron, and ascertained that the plaintiff was

WEST v. CABELL.
Statement of the Case.

the only West in the county; and in personal appearance corresponded to Sturdevant's description; that, before he made
the complaint, he informed the commissioner of these facts;
and that "in that section of the country it was frequently
the case that men were known by other than their correct
names, so much so that witness attached but little importance
to the name by which a man was called."
The plaintiff requested the court to instruct the jury "that
the warrant for the arrest of James West will not authorize
the arrest of Vandy M. West, though Vandy A. West may
have been the party intended, he not being named or described
in the warrant."
The court refused so to instruct the jury; and instructed
them as follows: "There is no proof in this case tending to
show that the plaintiff was ever known by the name of James
West, or by any other name than V. M. West and Vandy
West. There is proof tending to show that for a number of
years and in various places he has been always known by the
name of Vandy West. The defendants claim, however, that
the plaintiff is the man for whose arrest the warrant was issued,
and it has been suggested to you in the argument of the
defendants' counsel that Ed. Johnson, being the man who
made the complaint, knew what man he had in his mind
when he made the complaint. It is not material what was in
the mind of Johnson when he made the complaint, but what
was in the mind of the commissioner when he issued the
warrant; and if you believefrom, all the evidence that theTlaintiff is the man for whose arrest the commissioner issued the
warrant,you 'will find that the defendants are not liable for
damages on account of the mere fact of the arrest. If, in
making the arrest or in holding the prisoner, any harsher
means were used than were reasonably necessary for taking
and safely keeping him, considering the gravity of the charge,
the defendants would be liable for any damages thereby
occasioned the plaintiff."
The plaintiff excepted to the refusal to give the instruction
requested, and to that part of the instructions given which is
above printed in italics; and, after verdict and judgment for
VOL. CLII-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

the defendants, tendered a bill of exceptions, and sued out
this writ of error.
-Mr.I. IF.Ste2 hens for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. A.

. Garland for defendants in error.

The question at issue is to be determined by the provisions
of the Texas Code, in force at the time of the arrest, which,
by Art. 26, are to be liberally construed so as to attain the
object intended by the legislature. Those provisions are as
follows:
"Art. 458. A capias shall be held sufficient if it have the
following requisites: (1) That it run in the name of ' The
State of Texas.' (2) That it name the person whose arrest is
ordered, or, if unknown, describe him," etc.
"Art. 512. When the defendant is arraigned his name, as
stated in the indictment, shall be distinctly called, and unless
he suggest by himself or counsel that he is not indicted by
his true name, it shall be taken that his name is truly set
forth, and he shall not thereafter be allowed to deny the
same by way of defence.
"Art. 513. If the defendant or his counsel for him suggest
that he bears some name different from that stated in the
indictment, the same shall be noted upon the minutes of the
court, the indictment corrected by inserting therein the name
of the defendant as suggested by himself, the style of the
cause changed so as to give his true name, and the cause proceed as if the true name had been first recitnd in the indictment."
In Mfartin v. The State, 40 Texas, 23, 25, the court, after
citing several provisions of the Criminal Code, and Code of
Criminal Procedure, and especially that as to how the latter
should be construed, say, "With these general provisions
borne in mind, we can more readily comprehend the great
changes sought to be effected by them; for these rules of
construction are wholly variant from, and, indeed, in conflict
with, the strictness of construction and the technical nicety of

WEST v. CABELL.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

phraseology and circumlocution of statement which marred
and embarrassed the administration of justice under the common law rules and practice."
Applying the primary rule of construction to the provisions
with reference to warrants, capiases, etc., that is, give them a
tiberal constrction,so as to attain the objects and purposes
of their enactment, to prevent, suppress, and punish crime, the
result is obvious. The name of the accused was required to
be given in the warrant, or, if not known, a description of him
is intended alike for the protection of the citizen and officer
executing the same. It was to so identify the accused that
the officer could with certainty arrest the identical person for
whose arrest the warrant was intended.
In the very recent case of Calell v. Ainolrd, 23 S. W. :Rep.
695, which was an action for damages for illegal arrest and
false imprisonment, a complaint had been made before the
United States commissioner at Dallas, charging Arnold with
the offence of robbing the United States mail carrier of the
mail, a warrant was duly issued and placed in the hands of
Cabell, the then United States marshal, who was at Dallas.
Cabell telegraphed to his deputy, then at Weatherford, that
the warrant had been issued and placed in his hands for
Arnold, and for the deputy to go to Palo Pinto County and
arrest Arnold and bring him to Dallas. This was done, and
on arriving at Dallas the deputy delivered Arnold to the marshal, who still held the warrant. The contention which was
successfully maintained in the trial court and Court of Civil
Appeals, was that as the deputy did not have the possession
of the warrant at the time he made the arrest, it was an
illegal arrest and detention, and therefore entitled Arnold to
a recovery for the damages. But upon writ of error, the
Supreme Court of Texas reversed the judgment, holding
that the arrest was legal and that Arnold was not entitled to
recovery.
This and the Martin case both show the liberal construction given to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure by the court of last resort in this State.
No description of West was given either in the warrant or

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

information for the simple reason that both Johnson and the
commissioner believed that his name was James West. From
the information received and the investigation made, they believed that they had found and located, in the person of the
plaintiff in error, the identical James West who had committed the murder in the Indian Territory. If they had been
correct in this, of course there would have been no place for
any other name than "James West" in the warrant. It is
an indisputable fact that these officers believed that plaintiff
in error was the offender James West, and he was the identical person that was intended in the complaint and warrant.
If this had been a case against Johnson and the commissioner
for malicious prosecution, then the inquiry might be material as
to whether they had probable cause for proceeding as they did.
But here the naked question presented is, that although the
plaintiff in error was the identical person against whom the
warrant issued, was the arrest illegal because of the mistake
in his name? It seems that if the code is to be construed as
directed by the legislature, there is neither substance nor
shadow in the contention of plaintiff in error.
The case of Williams v. Tidball, by the Supreme Court*of
Arizona, 8 Pac. IRep. 351, is in point, and upon similar facts,
and it was there held that the plaintiff could not recover.
While the case of Allen v. Leonard, 28 Iowa, 529, is directly
in point; there the name given in the warrant was "James
Allen," the true name of the party was "William V. Allen,"
the action was for false imprisonment, the court held, "if the
plaintiff was the party against whom the information was
ifled, and for whose arrest the warrant was issued, although
there was a mistake in his name, he could not recover as for
false imprisonment or for assault and battery done under the
authority of the process, even if innocent of the offence
charged." See also Bailey v. Wiggins, 5 Harrington, (Del.) 462.
_R. JUSTICE GPAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This was an action upon a marshal's bond, in the usual

WEST v. CABELL.
Opinion of the Court.

form, the condition of which was that the marshal, by himself
and his deputies, should faithfully perform all the duties of
his office, and upon which any person injured by a breach of
the condition might maintain an action.

784; Lammon v. _Feusier, 111 U. S. 17.

Rev. Stat. bยง 783,

The breach relied on

by Vandy M. West, the plaintiff in this case, was his arrest,
against his protest, by a deputy of the marshal, under a warrant issued by a commissioner, commanding the arrest of
"James West," and not otherwise designating or describing
the person to be arrested, upon a complaint of the deputy
marshal, charging James West with the murder of John Cameron. The defence was that the arrest of the plaintiff under
that warrant was lawful. At the trial, it appeared that the
plaintiff had never been known or called by the name of
James West, or by any other name than his own. Notwithstanding which, the court, against the objections and exceptions of the plaintiff, admitted oral testimony of the commissioner and of the deputy marshal that the warrant was issued
and intended for the arrest of the plaintiff; and instructed
the jury that, if they believed that the plaintiff was the man
for whose arrest the commissioner issued the warrant, the defendants were not liable for damages on account of the mere
fact of arrest.
By the common law, a warrant for the arrest of a person
charged with crime must truly name him, or describe him sufficiently to identify him. If it does not, the officer making the
arrest is liable to an action for. false imprisonment; and if, in
attempting to make the arrest, the officer is killed, this is only
manslaughter in the person whose liberty is invaded. 1 Hale
P. C. 577, 580; 2 Hale P. C. 112, 114; Foster's Crown Law,
312; 1 East P. C. 310; 1 Chit. Crim. Law, 39, 40; -Huckle v.
Honey, 2 Wilson, 205 ; .3foney v. Leach, 3 Burrow, 1742, 1766,
1767; 8. C. 1 W. Bl. 555, 561, 562; Rex v. Hood, 1 Moody
C. C. 281; Hoye v. Bush, 1 Man. & Gr. 775; 8. 0. 2 Scott
N. R. 86. Likewise, a warrant of arrest in a civil action,
which does not name or describe the person to be arrested, is
no justification of the officer. Cole v. Hindsom, 6 T. R. 234;
Shadgett v. Clipson, 8 East, 328 ; Finchv. Cocken, 2 Cr., M. & IR.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

196; S. C. 1 Gale, 130, and 3 Dowling, 678; Kelly v. Lawrence, 3 H. & 0. 1.
The principle of the common law, by which warrants of
arrest, in cases criminal or civil, must specifically name or describe the person to be arrested, has been affirmed in the
American constitutions; and by the great weight of authority
in this country a.warrant that does not do so wiJ not justify
the officer making the arrest. Commonwealth v. Crotty, 10
Allen, 403; Griswold v. Sedgwick, 6 Cowen, 456, and 1 Wend.
126; Mead v. Haws, 7 Cowen, 332; -Holley v. Mix, 3 Wend.
350, 354; Scott v. -Ey, 4 Wend. 555; G rnsey v. Lovell, 9
Wend. 319; felvin v. Ffisher, 8 N. I. 407; Cla'ke v. Bragdon, 37 N. H. 562, 565; Johnston v. Riley, 13 Georgia, 97,
137; Scheer v. KYeown, 29 Wisconsin, 586; Raferty v. People,
69 Illinois, 111.
In Commonwealth v. Crotty, for instance, in which M orris
Crotty and others were indicted and convicted for a riot in
resisting the arrest of Crotty upon a warrant commanding the
arrest of "John Doe or Richard Roe, whose other or true
name is to your complainant unknown," the conviction was set
aside by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, upon
the grounds that the warrant was insufficient, illegal, and void,
because it did not contain Crotty's name, nor any description
or designation by which he could be known and identified as
the person against whom it was issued, and was in effect a
general warrant, upon which any other person might as well
have been arrested, as being included in the description; and
that "the warrant being defective and void on its face, the
officer had no right to arrest the person on whom he attempted
to serve it; he acted without warrant, and was a trespasser;
the defendant whom he sought to arrest had a right to resist
by force, using no more than was necessary to resist the unlawful acts of the officer; an officer who acts under a void
precept, and a person doing the same act who is not an officer,
stand on the same footing; and any third person may lawfully
interfere to prevent an arrest under a void warrant, doing no
more than is necessary for that purpose." 10 Allen, 404,
405.

WEST v. CABELL.
Opinion of the Court.

The Fourth Article of Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States declares that "the right of the people to be
secure in their persons, houses, papers and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated; and no
warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath
or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized."
The provision of section 1014 of the Revised Statutes,
which authorizes an offender against the laws of the United
States to be arrested and imprisoned or bailed, by a judge of the
United States or a commissioner of the Circuit Court, in any
State where the offender may be found, "and agreeably to
the usual mode of process against offenders in such State," is
necessarily subordinate to the declaration of the Constitution
that all warrants must particularly describe the person to be
seized.
The laws of the State of Texas in this regard are in conformity with this article of the Constitution of the United
States. By the constitution of Texas, art. 1, see. 9, "no warrant to search any place or to seize any person or thing shall
issue, without describing them as near as may be, nor without
probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation." And by
the statutes of the State the warrant, as well as the complaint,
"must specify the name of the person whose arrest is ordered,
if it be known; if not known, then some reasonably definite
description must be given of him;" and "the officer or person
executing a warrant of arrest shall take the person whom he
is directed to arrest forthwith before the magistrate." Penal
Code of Texas, arts. 233, 236, 24:7; Alford v. State, 8 Texas
App. 545, 562; Hays v. Creary, 60 Texas, 445; Forrawalt v.
-Hylton,66 Texas, 288.
The only cases cited by the defendants in error, which have
any tendency to support the rulings at the trial, were in Delaware, in which the Chief Justice dissented, and in Iowa and
Arizona, whose statutes provided that "the warrant must
specify the name of the defendant, and, if it be unknown to
the magistrate, may designate him by any name;" and in
none of those cases was any notice taken of opposing prece-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dents or constitutional injunction. Bailey v. TWiggins, 5 Harrington, (Del.) 462; Allen v. Leonard, 28 Iowa, 529; Code of
Iowa of 1860, ยง 4535; Williams v. Tidball, 8 Pac. Rep. 351;
Compiled Laws of Arizona of 187, c. 11, ยง 89.
In the case at bar, the effect of the rulings and instructions
of the court was to give the jury to understand that the private intention of the magistrate was a sufficient substitute for
the constitutional requirement of a particular description in
the warrant. For this reason,
The judgment is reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.

UNITED STATES v. SHIELDS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1130. Submitted Marcb 26, 1894.-Decided April 16, 1894.

A District Attorney, whose place of abode is at a distance from the place
at which court is held, is not entitled to mileage for travel in going to
his home every Saturday, and in returning to the place of holding court
the following Monday morning, during the continuous session of the
court.
Sunday is a non-judicial day, which does not interrupt the continuity of a

term of court.
Fees allowed to public officers depend upon the provisions of the statute
granting them, and are not open to equitable construction by the courts
or discretionary action on the part of officials.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Assistant Attorney General Dodge for appellants.
.Mr. Charles 0. -Lancasterfor appellee.
]MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears from the record that Robert S. Shields was United
States District Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio from
July 1, 1885, to December 31, 1889. During this period he

