SOUTH CARbOLINA v. SEYIMOUfr.
Opinion of the Court.

SOUTH CAROLINA v. SEYMOUR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLU]ABIA.
No. 1140. Submitted April 9, 1894. - Decided May 14, 1894.

On a writ of mandamus in behalf of a State to the Commissioner of Patents
to register, under the act of March 3, 1881, c. 138, a trade-mark used
by the State on intoxicating liquors in commerce with a foreign nation,
and which the Commissioner of Patents has refused to register, on the
ground that the State by its own laws had no authorized trade in liquors
outside of its limits, the validity of an authority exercised under the
United States is not drawn in question; and therefore, in the absence of
evidence of the value of the registration, a judgment of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, denying the writ of mandamus,
cannot be reviewed by this court on writ of error, under the act of
February 9, 1893, c. 74, § 8.

Tins was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction a writ
of error to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, denying a writ of mandamus to the
Commissioner of Patents to register a trade-mark under
the act of March 3, 1881, c. 138. 21 Stat. 502. The case is
stated in the opinion.
.1b'. John. I Hall and Mr. Ievinr H. Campbe l for the motion.
.Mr. John Altheus Johnson opposing.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The earliest legislation of Congress for the registration and
protection of trade-marks was contained in the Patent Act of
1870, and substantially re~nacted in the Revised Statutes.
Act of July 8, 1870, c. 230, §§ 77-84; 16 Stat. 210-212; Rev.
Stat. §§ 4937-4947. That legislation, as well as the act of
August 14, 1876, c. 274, (19 Stat. 141,) for punishing the counterfeiting of trade-marks, was held by this court at October
term, 1879, to be unconstitutional and void, because not limVOL. CI.-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ited to trade-marks used in commerce with foreign nations, or
among the several States, or with the Indian tribes. T'ade.Wark Cases, 100 U. S. 82.
Congress afterwards passed an act limited to the registration ind protection of trade-marks "used in commerce with
foreign nations or with the Indian tribes," and whose owners
were "domiciled in the United States, or located in any foreign
country or tribes which by treaty, convention or law, affords
similar privileges to citizens of the United States." Act of
March 3, 1881, c. 138; 21 Stat. 502.
Sections 1 and 2 of that act provide that such owners may
obtain registration of such trade-marks by "causing to be
recorded in the Patent Office a statement specifying name,
domicil, location and citizenship of the party applying; the
class of merchandise and the particular description of goods
comprised in such class to which the particular trade-mark
has been appropriated; a description of the trade-mark itself,
with facsimiles thereof, and a statement of the mode in which
the same is applied and affixed to goods, and the length of
time during which the trade-mark has been used ;" "paying
into the Treasury of the United States the sum of twenty-five
dollars, and complying with such regulations as may be prescribed by the Commissioner of Patents ;" and "accompanied
by a written declaration verified by the person, or by a member of a firm, or by an officer of a corporation applying, to
the effect that such party has at the time a right to the use
of the trade-mark sought to be registered, and that no other
person, firm or corporation has the right to such use, either
in the identical form or in any such near resemblance thereto
as might be calculated to deceive; that such trade-mark is
used in commerce with foreign nations or Indian tribes, as
above indicated; and that the description and facsimiles presented for registry truly represent the trade-mark sought to
be registered."
By section 3, "no alleged trade-mark shall be registered,
unless the same appear to be lawfully used as such by the applicant in foreign commerce or commerce with Indian tribes,
as above mentioned, or is within the provision of a treaty,

SOUTH CAROLINA v. SEYMOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

convention or declaration with a foreign power; nor which
is merely the name of the applicant; nor which is identical
with a registered or known trade-mark of another and appropriate to the same class of merchandise, or which so nearly
resembles some other person's lawful trade-mark as to be
likely to cause confusion or mistake in the public or to deceive
purchasers."
This section further provides that "in an application for registration the Commissioner of Patents shall decide the presumptive lawfulness of claim to the alleged trade-mark; and in any
dispute between an applicant and a previous registrant, or
between applicants, he shall follow, so far as the same may
be applicable, the practice of courts of equity of the United
States in analogous cases."
The act provides for no direct judicial review, by appeal or
otherwise, of the decision of the Commissioner of Patents upon
the question of registration. But section 7 provides that
"registration of a trade-mark shall be 2rima faoie evidence
of ownership ;" that any person, reproducing, counterfeiting, copying, or colorably imitating and affixing to similar
goods, a registered trade-mark, shall be liable to an action at
law for damages, or a suit in equity for an injunction ; and
that the courts of the United States shall have original and
appellate jurisdiction in such cases, without regard to the
amount in controversy.
On December 24, 1892, the general assembly of South Carolina passed an act, prohibiting the manufacture or sale of
intoxicating liquors within the State, except as therein provided; directing the appointment of a commissioner who
should, under the rules and regulations of a state board of
control, consisting of the Governor, the comptroller general
and the attorney general, "purchase all intoxicating liquors
for lawful sale in this State," and sell to county dispensers no
liquors unless "tested by the chemist of the South Carolina
college and declared to be pure and unadulterated;" that
county dispensers should "alone be authorized to sell and dispense intoxicating liquors;" that manufacturers of intoxicating liquors doing business in the State should "be allowed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sell to no person in this State, except to the state commissioners and to parties outside of the State;" and that every package of intoxicating liquors, sold in the State, or shipped beyond
the limits of the State, should have thereon a certificate of
the commissioner. South Carolina Acts of 1892, c. 2S, pp. 62,
63, 65.
On July 15, 1893, the State of South Carolina, by its Governor, paid into the Treasury of the United States the sum of
twenty-five dollars, and filed with the Commissioner of
Patents, in conformity with the provisions of the act of Congress of 1881, and with the regulations prescribed by the
Commissioner of Patents, a statement and declaration, which
began by stating that "the State of South Carolina, one of
the Commonwealths composing the United States of America,
possessed in this regard of the full rights of a corporation, and
doing business at its capital city of Columbia, in the county of
Richland, State aforesaid, has adopted for its use a trade-mark
for chemically pure distilled liquors," consisting of the word
"Palmetto," and particularly described; was accompanied by
facsimiles of the trade-mark; and was supported by a declaration on oath of the Governor that he verily believed "that the
foregoing statement is true; that the said State at this time
has a right to the use of the trade-mark therein described;
that no other person or firm or corporation has the right to
such use, either in the identical form, or in any such near
resemblance thereto as might be calculated to deceive; that
the said trade-mark is used by the said State in commerce
with foreign nations or Indian tribes, and particularly with
Canada; and that the description and facsimiles presented for
record truly represent the trade-mark sought to be registered."
At the hearing before the Commissioner of Patents, it
appeared that the trade-mark had been adopted by the state
board of control, and that the State had sold in Canada a case
of liquors with this trade-mark.
The Commissioner of Patents refused registration of the
trade-mark, upon the ground that the State of South Carolina,
by its own laws, had no authorized trade in distilled liquors
0

SOUTH CAROLINA v. SEYMOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

outside of its own limits, was not the owner of any trade-mark,
and had not the right to the use of the trade-mark sought to
be registered.
The State of South Carolina, by its attorney general, thereupon presented to the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia a petition for a writ of mandamus to the Commissioner of Patents to register the trade-mark. That court held
that upon the facts proved the duties of the Commissioner of
Patents in regard to registration of trade-marks were merely
ministerial, and that the writ of mandamus should issue. The
Commissioner of Patents appealed to the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia, which held that those duties were
not ministerial, but required the exercise of judgment and
discretion by the Commissioner, and therefore reversed the
judgment and dismissed the petition.
The petitioner sued out this writ of error, and the defendant
in error now moves to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.
By section 8 of the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, establishing a Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, as in
the previous act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, regulating appeals
from the Supreme Court of the District and the Supreme
Courts of the Territories, no case can be brought to this court
by appeal or writ of error, unless either "the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of $5000," or else,
without regard to the sum or value in dispute, it is a case
"wherein is involved the validity of any patent or copyright,
or in which is diawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of or an authority exercised under the United States."
27 Stat. 434; 23 Stat. 443.
In order to bring a case within the first alternative, the
matter in dispute, according to the settled construction, must
be money, or some right the value of which can be estimated
and ascertained in money, and which appears by the record
to be of the requisite pecuniary value. Colurmbiarn Ins. Co. v.
TVheelrigkt, 7 Wheat. 534; .Kurtz v. .1offitt, 115 U. S. 487;
Street v. Feriry,119 U. S. 385; Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S. 167,
176; C0'oss v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82, 88; Mashingtor & Georgetown, Railroadv. District of Golumbia, 146 U. S. 227; Cam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

eron v. United States, 146 U. S. 533, 535, and 148 U. S. 301,
303. In Sparrow v. Strong, 3 Wall. 97, cited by the plaintiff
in error, there was an affidavit, uncontradicted by anything in
the record, that the mining claim in dispute was of the requisite pecuniary value. In Columbian, TIns. Co. v. Wkeelright,
above cited, this court quashed a writ of error to review a
judgment upon a writ of mandamus to admit to an office, the
salary of which was not shown to be of the pecuniary value
required to support the jurisdiction of this court. See also
United States v. Addison, 22 How. 174; SrnitA v. W-hitzney,
116 U. S. 167,173; United States v. TFanamaker,147 U. S. 149.
The matter in dispute in this case is not the right to the
trade-mark, but the right to have it registered; the registration is only primafacie evidence of ownership; and if the
value of the registration is susceptible of an estimate in
money, there is no evidence whatever in the record tending
to show this value.
It is not, and could not be, pretended that in this case there
was "involved the validity of any patent or copyright;" and,
in the light of previous decisions of this court, it is quite clear
that there was not "drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of or an authority exercised under the United
States."
In order to come within this clause, the validity, and not
the construction only, of a treaty or statute of the United
States, or of an authority exercised under the United States,
must be directly drawn in question.
In Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 346, 353, in which it
was contended that a court established by act of Congress,
and admitted to have a lawful existence, and jurisdiction of
the case, misconstrued the act and went beyond the authority
which it conferred, it was held that all that was drawn in
question was whether there was or was not error in the
administration of the statute, and not "the validity of an
authority exercised under the United States," within the
meaning of the act of March 3, 1885, c. 355.
In Baltimore & Potomac Railroad v. llopkins, 130 U. S.
210, which also arose under that act, the question in contro-

SOUTH CAROLINA v. SEY-MOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

versy was whether a railroad corporation authorized by acts
of Congress to establish freight stations, and to lay as many
tracks "as its president and board of directors might deem
necessary," in the District of Columbia, had the right to
occupy a public street for the purposes of a freight yard. It
was argued that the validity of an authority, exercised under
the United States, to so occupy the public streets was drawn
in question. But this court held that only the construction
of the acts of Congress, and the extent of the authority
claimed under them, and not the validity, either of the
statutes, or of the authority, was drawn in question; or, in
other words, it was "a case which depends only on a judicial
construction of an act of Congress, there being no denial of
the power of Congress to pass the act, or of the right to enjoy
whatever privileges are granted by it." Clough v. Curtis,
134: U. S. 361, 370.
In District of Columbia v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227, it was
held that the validity of the authority of the Commissioners
of the District was not drawn in question by contesting the
liability of the District in damages for the negligence of the
Commissioners in failing to keep the streets in repair.
In United States v. Lynch, 137 U. S. 280, in which the
court below had denied a writ of mandamus to compel
accounting officers of the Treasury to allow a claim for
mileage, it was contended that under the acts of CongTess,
and the construction given them by a previous decision of
this court, the duty of the accounting officers "was merely
ministerial, and that by the disallowance of the relator's
claim for mileage these officers exercised a discretion which
they did not possess; that this was an invalid exercise of an
authority under the United States; and that hence the validity
of the authority was drawn in question." To which this
court, speaking by the Chief Justice, answered: "In order
to justify this position, however, the validity of the authority
must have been drawn in question directly and not incidentally. The validity of a statute is not drawn in question every
time rights claimed under such statute are controverted; nor
is the validity of an authority, every time an act done by such

OCTOBER TERf, 1893..
Opinion of the Court.

authority is disputed. The validity of a statute or the validity
of an authority is drawn in question when the existence, or
constitutionality, or legality of such statute or authority is
denied, and the denial forms the subject of direct inquiry."
The court accordingly held that the authority of the accounting officers of the Treasury was not thus denied, nor the
validity of that authority questioned; but that it was only
contended that in the exercise of a valid authority those
officers erred in respect to the allowance, in view of the decision of this court in another case; that if the judgment should
be reversed upon the ground urged, it would not be for want
of power in these officers to audit and pass upon the account,
but because they had disallowed what they ought to have
allowed, and erroneously construed what needed no construction; and that this would not in any degree involve the
validity of their authority. 137 U. S.285, 286.
In the present case, no objection to the validity of the act
of Congress under which the Commissioner of Patents acted
was made, either at the hearings in the Patent Office and in
the courts of the District of Columbia, or in the briefs filed
by counsel in this court. Nor was the existence or the lawfulness of the authority conferred by that act upon the
Commissioner of Patents drawn in question. But from the
beginning to the end of the proceedings the only controversy
was as to the construction of the act of Congress, and consequently as to the nature and extent of the Commissioner's
authority. Neither the question whether the Commissioner
rightly decided upon the presumptive lawfulness of the right
of the State of South Carolina to the trade-mark sought to
be registered, nor the question whether the Commissioner's
duty was of such a character that a writ of mandamus would
lie to compel its performance, involved a question of the
validity of the authority exercised by him under the United
States.
WFit of er'or dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

