OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

general assignee of Maddison & Co., and considered himself
as not only entitled to their rights, but also as the representative of their obligations in connection with the loan and
water works contract, results from the terms of the power of
attorney, in which he authorizes the agent not only to acquire
Maddison & Co.'s rights, but to stipulate for the discharge of
their obligation. In other words, the contract, read in connection with the terms of the power of attorney, leaves no
doubt that Runkle was dealing and treating in the capacity
of a person who was not only entitled to the rights, but was
also subject to the liabilities of all the original parties to the
loan and water works contract. This view is strengthened by
the fact that, although Runkle testified on the trial, the assignment from Maddison & Co. to him was not offered in evidence, nor even referred to. The failure to produce it, or to
testify in reference to it, when its contents were peculiarly
within the knowledge of Runkle, justifies the presumption
that its provisions would have been unfavorable to Runkle's
position.
Judgment ifirmed.

BURKE v. DULANEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IEDAHO.
No. 326. Argued and submitted March 28, 1894. -Decided

April 23, 1894.

In an action by the payee of a negotiable promissory note against the
maker, evidence is admissible to show a parol agreement between the
parties, made at the time of the making of the note, that it should not
become operative as a note until the maker could examine the property.
for which it was to be given, and determine whether he would purchase it.

THIS action was brought by the testator of the appellees,
upon a writing purporting to be the promissory note of the
appellant for forty-three hundred and eight dollars and eighty
cents, dated Salt Lake City, Utah, August 10, 1883, and payable one year after date, for value received, at the bank of
Wells, Fargo & Co. in that city, with interest at the rate of
six per cent per annum from date until paid.

BURKE v. DULANEY.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant, Burke, denied his liability upon the note,
and at the trial below was sworn as a witness on his own
behalf. In support of his defence, as set forth in the answer
filed by him, he stated the circumstances under which the
note was given. He said: "Mr. Dulaney bought this group
of mines - the Live Yankee and the Mary Ellen. He came
to the Walker House in Salt Lake, and wanted me to run
them for him. I said I would not do it unless I got a show
to get some interest in the property. He says, I will carry
an interest for you, and you can take it if you want it, and if
not, you can give it back to me after you see the property."
To this testimony the plaintiff objected, and, the defendant
admitting that the agreement referred to by him was oral,
the objection was sustained. To this ruling he excepted.
Being asked what he did after giving the note in suit, he
answered: "I gave the note. I worked on the property,
which was done some time in September; worked the property until March; settled up all of its debts, paid them,
notified Dulaney I wanted nothing more to do with the property; that I was going to Idaho Territory, to Coeur d'Al~ne
mines, and as I was ready to give him a deed at any time he
would send me my note. That is all." Objection being made
by the plaintiffs to this testimony, the defendant offered to
prove "that at the time of the giving of the note and prior
thereto, Dulaney, the payee of the note, agreed with Mr.
Burke, the maker of the note, that the note should be given
to represent the price of the interest that Mr. Burke was to
have, conditioned upon his demanding it after an inspection
of the mining property mentioned." He offered also to prove
that after inspecting the property and testing it,
the defendant
notified testator that he did not want the interest; that he
was prepared to make a deed for the interest to the latter,
and demanded the delivery of his note. All this evidence
was excluded by the court upon motion of the plaintiffs, to
which ruling the defendant excepted.
The defendant having stated that the conversation with
the testator above referred to, and which was excluded by
the court, took place prior to the execution of the note, he

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellee.

offered to prove that at the time the note was made, the same
agreement was made orally between him and the testator.
This testimony was also excluded, and he excepted.
The following question was propounded to him at the
trial: "State whether or not prior to your making the note
the plaintiff agreed with you that you could explore, work,
and develop the mining claims mentioned in the answer, and
if at any time before the maturity of the said note you should
desire so to do that he would relinquish said option of purchase - that you could relinquish your said option of purchase, and that he, plaintiff, would cancel the note and accept
the deed in full discharge of the note and the cancellation
thereof." The defendant having admitted that the agreement referred to in the question was oral, the court excluded
the evidence, and he excepted. The court also refused to
allow him to state whether he examined, worked, and developed the mining claims mentioned in his answer, and whether
he had refused to take such claim under the agreement with
the plaintiff.
At the trial the defendant offered in evidence a deed executed by him to the plaintiff, conveying to the latter, in consideration of the surrender of the note in question, all his.
right, title, and interest in the above property-the same
deed that had been filed by the defendant with his answer.
The court held this evidence to be inadmissible unless the
defendant proposed to show that the plaintiff accepted the
deed. To this ruling the defendant excepted. The defendant
was not present when Dulaney took a deed from the owner
of the mining property, nor was it ever delivered to him. 2a
Pac. Rep. 915.
.Mr. W. B. Meybmen, for appellant, submitted on his brief.
.6.

Zeigh Robinson for appellee.

It is not easy to conceive of a more complete contradiction
and variation of a promissory note to pay a certain sum, to a
certain party, than the contradiction and variation and trans-

BURKE v. DULANEY.
Argument for Appellee.

formation which would be accomplished by the admission of
proof to turn a precise and distinct negotiable note into an
option to purchase real estate.
If parol evidence of an agreement, made contemporaneously
with a promissory note, which contains an absolute promise
to pay at a specified time, is not admissible in order to extend
the time for payment, or to provide for the payment out of
any particular fund, or in any other way than that specified
in the instrument, or to make the payment depend upon condition, (Brown v. Spoford, 95 U. S. 474, 482,) how can it
be admitted for the revolutionary purposes sought by this
defence?
If "itis a firmly settled principle, that parol evidence of an
oral agreement alleged to have been made at the time of the
drawing, making, or endorsing of a bill, cannot be permitted
to vary, qualify, or contradict, or add to or subtract from the
absolute terms of the written contract," Forsythe v. imball,
91 U. S. 291, 294, and there is no fraud, no accident, no mistake to be corrected, by what principle can parol proof turn
the paper in suit into an option incapable of transfer or negotiation, over which the holder has no control whatever, but
the absolute control whereof is in the maker? An option is
delivered by the one who gives it to him who receives it, but
this alleged option is reversely treated, the sole memorial
thereof being claimed to have been delivered by the donee to
the donor.
It will be observed that the trial judge was willing to
admit evidence in variation or explanation of the written
instrument, if such cotemporaneous agreement was in writing.
His refusal to admit was limited to parol evidence of a different or modified contract. The principle thus applied is not,
as appellant's counsel suggests, subject to the qualification,
that the note must be one which has passed beyond the
original parties. In a suit at law, by the payee against the
maker, "evidence is inadmissible to show that the note was not
intended to be a promissory note, but was given as a memorandum not to be enforced against the maker." Burnes v.
Scott, 117 U. S. 582. In that case thb defence sought to show

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that the note was given by one partner to another partner,
at a time when the partnership affairs had not been settled,
that defendant was requested as trustee of the partners to
make the note, "with the understanding that the same was
not to be sued on, but was to be deemed a mere memorandum
of the amount that should be estimated as the share of said
W. on account of said bonds, in a settlement among said partners;" that the defendant executed the note accordingly, "as
trustee of the partnership and not as his individual note,
and the plaintiff acquired title to the note with knowledge
of these facts." p. 584. But this evidence, in the judgment
of this court, was properly excluded. "Its purpose was to
vary and contradict by an alleged contemporaneous verbal
agreement the contract which the parties had reduced to
writing. It was offered to show that a promissory note in
the usual form was not intended by the parties to be a promissory note, but was a mere memorandum by which the maker
promised nothing; which gave no rights to the payee, and
was to all intents and purposes vain, futile, and of no force
or effect whatever. It is not necessary to cite authority to
show that the evidence was inadmissible for such a purpose."
pp. 585-586.
MR. JUsTiCE IALAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The general rule that a written contract cannot be contradicted or varied by evidence of an oral agreement between
the parties before or at the time of such contract, has been
often recognized and applied by this court, especially in cases
in which it was sought to deprive bona fide holders of or parties to negotiable securities of the rights to which they were
entitled according to the legal import of the terms of such instruments. Renner v. Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheat. 576, 587;
Brown v. TWiley, 20 How. 442; Specht v. Howard, 16 Wall.
564; Forsythe v. Eimball, 91 U. S. 291; Brown v. Spoford,
95 U. S. 474; .Martinv. Cole, 104 U. S. 30; Burnes v. Scott,
117 U. S. 582; Falk v. Aloebs, 127 U. S. 597.

BURKE v. DULANEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Several of these cases were cited in the opinion of the court
below, and have been cited here, as supporting the exclusion
of the evidence which the appellant offered to introduce. 23
Pac. Rep. 915. It is supposed that Burnes v. Scott is particularly in point for the appellees. That was an action by the
indorsee of a negotiable note against the maker. The defendant in that case offered to prove that the note was not intended by him or by the payee as a promissory note, but was
given to and was received by the payee as a mere memorandum of the estimated value of the payee's interest in certain
railroad bonds placed in the hands of the maker, and which
were to be accounted for in the settlement of certain partnership affairs in which the maker and payee were interested;
and that upon such settlement it would appear that the payee
had received, prior to the giving of the note, more than his
proper share of the partnership assets, and, therefore, was not
entitled to claim anything in virtue of such memorandum.
This court held the evidence inadmissible upon the ground
that, by an alleged contemporaneous verbal agreement, it
varied and contradicted the written contract of the parties.
If that action had been brought by the original payee against
the maker, and if the evidence above referred to had been
excluded, a different question would have been presented.
But, as we have seen, the issue in Burnes v. Scott was between
the indorsee of a negotiable note and the maker. The rule is
settled that a negotiable instrument, in the hands of an innocent
holder for value, cannot be contradicted, to his prejudice, by evidence of an oral agreement or understanding between the original parties variant from the terms of their written contract.
The authorities cited do not determine the present case.
The issue here is between the original parties to the note.
And the evidence offered by the appellant, and excluded by
the court, did not in any true sense contradict the terms of the
writing in suit, nor vary their legal import, but tended to
show that the written instrument was never, in fact, delivered
as a present contract, unconditionally binding upon the obligor
according to its terms from the time of such delivery, but was
left in the hands of Dulaney, to become an absolute obligation

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of the maker in the event of his electing, upon examination or
investigation, to take the stipulated interest in the property in
question. In other words, according to the evidence offered
and excluded, the written instrument, upon which this suit is
based, was not - except in a named contingency - to become
a contract, or a promissory note which the payee could at any
time rightfully transfer. Evidence of such an oral agreement
would show that the contingency never happened, and would
not be in contradiction of the writing. It would prove that
there never was any concluded, binding contract entitling the
party who claimed the benefit of it to enforce its stipulations.
The exclusion of parol evidence of such an agreement could be
justified only upon the ground that the mere possession of a
written instrument, in form a promissory note, by the person
named in it as payee, is conclusive of his right to hold it as the
absolute obligation of the maker. While such possession is,
undoubtedly, prima facie, indeed, should be deemed strong
evidence that the instrument came to the hands of the payee
as an obligation of the maker, enforcible according to its legal
import, it is open to the latter to prove the circumstances
under which possession was acquired, and to show that there
never was any complete, final delivery of the writing as the
promnissory note of the maker, payable at all events and according to its terms. The rule that excludes parol evidence in contradiction of a written agreement presupposes the existence in
fact of such agreement at the time suit is brought. But the
rule has no application if the writing was not delivered as a
present contract. The authorities supporting these views are
numerous, and to some of them it will be well to refer.
In Wiare v. Allen, 128 U. S. 590, 595, which was an action
upon a written instrument, the defence was that it was understood between the parties at the time the instrument was signed
that it should not be of any effect unless in certain named contingencies, which, it was shown, never occurred. Mr. Justice
Miller, speaking for this court, said: "We are of opinion that
this evidence shows that the contract upon which this suit is
brought never went into effect; that the condition upon which
it was to become operative never occurred, and that it is not a

BURKE v. D ULA:NEY.
Opinion of the Court.

question of contradicting or varying a written instrument by
parol testimony, but that it is one of that class of cases, well

recognized in the law, by which an instrument, whether delivered to a third person as an escrow or to the obligee in it, is
made to depend, as to its going into operation, upon events to
occur or to be ascertained thereafter" -citing Pymn v. Campbell, 6 El. & Bl. 370, 373; Davis v. Jones, 17 C. B. 625; TFallis
v. Zittell, 11 C. B. (N. S.) 369; Wilson v. Powers, 131 ]Vass.
539; and Pawling v. United States, 4 Cranch, 219.
Pyn , v. Campbell, above cited, was an action upon an
alleged agreement by the defendants to purchase from the
plaintiff an interest in an invention of the latter. The defendants gave in evidence that, in the course of negotiations with
the plaintiff, they got so far as to agree upon the price at
which the invention should be purchased, if bought at all, and
had appointed a meeting at which the plaintiff was to explain
his invention to two engineers, when, if they approved, the
machine would be purchased. At the appointed time the defendants and the two engineers attended, but the plaintiff did
not come, and the engineers went away. Shortly after they
were gone the plaintiff arrived. One of the engineers was
found, and expressed a favorable opinion. The other could
not then be found. It was then proposed that, as the parties
were together and might find it troublesome to meet again, a
writing should be then drawn up and signed, which, if the
absent engineer approved the invention, should be the agreement; but if he did not approve it, should not be one. The
absent engineer did not approve of the invention when he saw
it, and the defendants contended that there was no bargain.
The jury were directed that if it was agreed among the parties
before the paper was signed that it should not operate as an
agreement until the absent engineer approved of the invention,
they should find for the defendants. A verdict was accordingly returned for the defendants. Upon a rule nisi for a new
trial on the ground of misdirection, the cause was heard before
the Court of Queen's Bench. Erle, J., said that, while the
production of a paper purporting to be an agreement of a
party, with his signature attached, affords a strong presump-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion that it is his written agreement, and if, in fact, he did
sign the paper animo contrahendi,the terms contained in it
were conclusive, and could not be varied by parol evidence,
yet, if it were proved that in fact the paper was signed with
the express intention that it should not be an agreement, the
other party could not fix it as an agreement upon those so
signing. "The distinction in point of law," he said, "is that
evidence to vary the terms of an agreement in writing is not
admissible, but evidence to show that there is not an agreement at all is admissible." p. 374. Crompton, J., said that he
knew of no rule of law estopping parties from showing that a
paper, purporting to be a signed agreement, was in fact signed
on the terms that it should not be an agreement till money was
paid or something else done. "The parties," he observed,
"may not vary a written agreement, but they may show that
they never came to an agreement at all, and that the signed
paper was never intended to be the record of the terms of the
agreement; for they never had agreeing minds. Evidence to
show that does not vary an ageeement, and is admissible."
pp. 374, 375. Lord Campbell, C. J.: "I agree. No addition
to or variation from the terms of a written contract can be
made by parol; but in this case the defence was that there
never was any agreement entered into. Evidence to that
effect was admissible; and the evidence given in this case was
overwhelming. It was proved in the most satisfactory manner
that before the paper was signed it was explained to the plaintiff that the defendants did not intend the paper to be an
agreement till Abernethie had been consulted, and found to
approve of the invention; and that the paper was signed before
he was seen only because it was not convenient to the defendants to remain. The plaintiff assented to this, and received
the writing on those terms. That being proved, there was no
agreement." See also Lindley v. Lacey, 17 0. B. (N. S.) 578,
585; Clever v. Kirkman, 33 L. T. (N. S.) 672; Gudgen v.
Besset, 6 El. & B1. 986; 2 Taylor's Ev. (8th ed.) ยง 1135.
The case of ilson, v. Powers, above cited, was an action
brought by the payee against the sureties in a promissory
note. The defence was that the sureties had been discharged

BURKE v. DULANEY.
Opinion of the Court.

from liability by a written agreement between the payee and
the principal, which was delivered to the principal, whereby
the time of payment was extended. To this the plaintiff
replied, and sustained his position by proof, that the writing
signed by him, and which was relied upon as discharging the
sureties, was delivered as a proposition merely, and upon the
agreement that it should become binding only upon the assent
of the sureties. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts said: "The manual delivery of an instrument may
always be proved to have been on a condition which has not
been fulfilled, in order to avoid its effect. This is not to show
any modification or alteration of the written agreement, but
that it never became operative, and that its obligation never
commenced." 131 Mass. 539, 540.
In Benton v. Mawatn,52 N. Y. 570,574, the principle is thus
stated: "Instruments not under seal may be delivered to the
one to whom upon their face they are made payable, or who
by their terms is entitled to some interest or benefit under
them, upon conditions, the observance of which is essential
to their validity. And the annexing of such conditions to the
delivery is not an oral contradiction of the written obligation,
though negotiable, as between the parties to it, or others
having notice. It needs a delivery to make the obligation
operative at all, and the effect of the delivery and the extent
of the operation of the instrument may be limited by the
conditions with which delivery is made. And so, also, as
between the original parties and others having notice, the
want of consideration may be shown." To the same effect
are Juilliar4l v. Chaffee, 92 N. Y. 529, 535, and Reynolds v.
Robinson, 110 N. Y. 654, in the latter of which it was said
that the rule was now well established that "parol evidence is
admissible to show that a written paper which, in form, is a
complete contract, of which there had been a manual tradition, was, nevertheless, not to become a binding contract until
the performance of some condition precedent resting in
parol."
The same doctrine was announced in McFarland v. Sikes,
54 Connecticut, 250, 251, 252. That was an action upon a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

note, which, the defendant alleged, had been executed and
delivered to the plaintiff upon an agreement that it should be
cancelled under certain named circumstances, and in the
event he demanded, by a named day, that it be returned to
him. The trial court having ruled that the facts relied upon
by the defendant did not constitute a defence, the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut, reversing-the judgment, said:
"The error was in applying to the case the familiar and wellestablished rule that parol evidence is inadmissible to contradict or vary a written contract. A written contract must
be in force as a binding obligation to make it subject to this
rule. Such a contract cannot become a binding obligation
until it has been delivered. Its delivery may be absolute or
conditional. If the latter, then it does not become a binding
obligation until the condition upon which its delivery depends
has been fulfilled. If the payee of a note has it in his possession, that fact would be ,rirnafacie evidence that it had been
delivered; but it would be only _prima facie evidence. The
fact could be shown to be otherwise and by parol evidence.
Such parol evidence does not contradict the note or seek to
vary its terms. It merely goes to the point of its nondelivery. The note in its terms is precisely what both the
maker and the payee intended it to be. INo one desires to
vary its terms or to contradict them."
For the reasons stated, and without considering the case in
other aspects, we are of opinion that it was error to exclude
the evidence offered by the defendant tending to show that
the writing sued on was not delivered to or received by
Dulaney as the promissory note of the defendant, binding
upon him as a present obligation, enforcible, according to its
terms, but was delivered to become an obligation of that
character when, but not before, the defendant examined and,
by working them, tested the mining properties purchased by
the plaintiff, and elected to take the stipulated interest in
them. According to the evidence so offered and excluded
the writing in question never became, as between Burke and
Dulaney, the absolute obligation of the former, but was delivered and accepted only as a memorandum of what Burke

CALIFORNIA v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
Statement of the Case.

was to pay in the event of his electing to become interested
in the property, and from the time he so elected, or could be
deemed to have so elected, it was to take effect as his promissory note, payable according to its terms. His election,
within a reasonable time, to take such interest, was made a
,condition precedent to his liability to pay the stipulated price.
The minds of the parties never met upon any other basis, and
a refusal to give effect to their oral agreement would make
for them a contract which they did not choose to make for
themselves.
The judgmen is reversed aad the cause is remanded, that a
new tlial may be oedered, andfurther proceedings had in
Conformity with this opinion.

CALIFORNIA v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC

COMPANY.

ORIGINAL.
No. 9. Original. Submitted March 12,1894. -Decided

April 30,1894.

Depositions placed in the custody of the clerk as taken in this case may
be opened and filed, as well as map exhibits, and an order is made for
the taking of further testimony, and for the receiving of such documents and maps as the city of Oakland may offer touching its title to
the lands in dispute, and for the opening and filing of the same when
returned to the clerk.

THE State of California filed its bill in this suit November
.6, 1893, and its amended bill March 5, 1891, in which it contests the claims of ownership set up by the Southern Pacific
Company to lands under water in the harbor of Oakland,
opposite to San Francisco. On the 5th ofMarch, 1894, the
city of Oakland prayed leave to intervene in the suit, which
motion was denied on the 12th of March, 1894, but leave was
given it to file briefs, accompanied by documents and maps,
illustrative of its alleged title.
On the same 12th day of March the Attorney General of
:the State made the following motion in the case:

