OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

In re CITY NATIONAL BANK OF FORT WORTH,
Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted April 9, 1894.-

Decided April 30, 1894.

Mandamus is the proper remedy when a mandate of this court has been
disregarded.
In this case the court cannot hold that its mandate was disregarded by the
decree rendered under it by the Circuit Court.

court stated the case as follows:
This is an application for leave to file a petition for mandamus directing the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas to vacate or modify a decree
heretofore entered by that court in a certain cause therein
pending, wherein Hunter and others were complainants and
the City National Bank of Fort Worth, Texas, was defendant,
on the ground that in rendering such decree the Circuit Court
departed from the mandate of this court sent down on the
disposition of an appeal from a former decree in the cause
as reported in City .HationalBank v. Hunter, 129 U. S. 557.
We do not feel required to restate the case as set forth at
length when it was then before us. Briefly, on May 20, 1880,
one O'Neal was indebted to Hunter, Evans & Co., and also
to the City National Bank, each of whom claimed to hold a
lien, to secure the indebtedness, on certain cattle owned by
O'Neal. One Dawson was desirous of purchasing the cattle,
and the result was that the parties in interest entered into
three written agreements, under which the cattle were sold
and delivered to Dawson, he executing a note for the purchase
price, payable to the order of Hunter & Co. and the bank, to
be paid and the proceeds distributed according to certain
terms and stipulations agreed on. The note was delivered
upon its execution to Henry E. McCulloch, who was selected
by Hunter & Co. and the bank, as their joint agent, to accomTiE

IN RE CITY BAN K, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

pany the cattle and receive and distribute the proceeds as
srales were made by Dawson. Certain amounts were received
and distributed accordingly.' Shortly after, and on May 31,
Hunter & Co. filed a petition in Montague County, Texas,
against O'Neal and Dawson, to foreclose a mortgage given
by O'Neal to them, on the cattle then in possession of the
latter, and sequestrated the cattle. Thereupon Dawson
replevied the cattle, and gave a bill of sale of them to the
bank, which furnished the security upon the replevin bond
and agreed to hold the parties harmless from any liability
thereon. The bank notified McCulloch that his agency had
ceased, and took possession of the herd through its agent, one
Ellis, who had a power of attorney from the bank to make
title to the cattle as sold off by Dawson and receive the proceeds. The suit of Hunter & Co. in Montague County was
removed to the Circuit Court, and they there filed an amended
bill, September 30, 1881, to which they made the bank a party
defendant, and prayed in the alternative that, if they were
mistaken in seeking a foreclosure, a decree be rendered against
Dawson and the bank for the amount of money coming to
them from the proceeds of the cattle. The cause was heard
in the'Circuit Court and a decree rendered, which, upon appeal
to this court .by the bank, was reversed and the cause remanded, with a direction to enter a decree in conformity with
the opinion. The opinion found the amount due from O'Neal
to Hunter & Co., February 20, 1880, to which certain interest
was to be added as pointed out, down to the date at which
Dawson paid the balance due on his note into the bank, a
matter not made clear on that record, and also directed the
amount of the bank's debt to be ascertained by adding certain
interest to O'Neal's note held by it down to the same date.
From these two indebtednesses the pr'o 'rata to which complainants and the bank were entitled out of the fund to be
distributed was to be computed, and from the amount to come
to complainants according to this computation certain deductions were directed to be made, and the balance to be paid
out of the money deposited by Dawson, as of the date of
such deposit, the bank retaining the remainder. After the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

cause was remanded the parties entered into the following
stipulation:
"It is agreed between Hunter, Evans & Co., on the one
part, and the City National Bank of Fort Worth, Texas, on
the other part, that the proceeds of the cattle in controversy
in this case were paid over to James F. Ellis, one of the
securities on the replevin bond, who, for himself and as agent
for the other securities on said bond, accompanied said
cattle to the Indian Territory and collected the balance due
on the note from Dawson to Hunter, Evans & Co. and said
City National Bank, and that said Ellis, on behalf of himself
and said other securities on said bond, deposited said amount
collected by him in said City National Bank as a general
deposit, with the understanding that said money should
remain on deposit in said bank to abide the determination of
this suit for the purpose of indemnifying them, said securities,
against any loss by reason of their signing said bond.
"Said deposit was made in the name of the ' Dawson bond
account,' and the amount has remained and still remains on
general deposit as aforesaid in said bank.
"It is further agreed that said deposit was made at the
following dates and in the following amounts respectively:
"1. June 26th, 1880, three thousand one hundred and
twenty-eight dollars.
"2. August 3rd, 1880, five thousand dollars.
"3. August 6th, 1880, five thousand six hundred and fortyfour dollars.
"Total amount deposited, thirteen thousand seven hundred
and seventy-two dollars, which, as other general deposits, has
been used by the bank as other of its funds.
"Itis further agreed that this agreement shall stand in lieu
of answer to plaintiff's bill of discovery, and answer to same is
hereby waived."
The Circuit Court thereupon rendered a decree, providing,
among other things, that Hunter & Co. recover of the bank
the sum of $12,081.85, together with interest thereon from
date of decree at the rate of eight per cent per annum, and
the costs after September 30, 1881, the date of the filing of

IN

RE CITY BANK, Petitioner.
Argument for Petitioner.

complainants' amended bill, all prior costs being adjudged
against Hunter & Co. The bank then prosecuted an appeal
to this court, assigning as error that the Circuit Court ineluded, in the recovery against the bank, interest on complainants' portion of the money, and awarded costs. The
contention was that the allowance of the interest was inconsistent with the mandate of this court, and the amount thus
questioned was "nearly or quite 84000." When the appeal
came to be considered we found ourselves compelled to dismiss it, because the sum in dispute was not sufficient to give
us jurisdiction, and no appeal lies from a mere decree for costs.
City Bank v. Hunter, 152 U. S. 512.
Mr. A. H. Garlandfor the petitioner.
That this remedy is the one and only one the petitioner
has, it seems, is beyond question. In re Washington & Georgetown Railroad, 140 U. S. 91 ; Gaines v. Rugg, 148 U. S. 228;
City Bank- v. Hunter, 152 IT. S. 512.
Then, is the bank chargeable with interest on the amount
of the decree?
This court, when it passed on the case before, (129 U. S.
557,) had the whole matter before it, and disposed of it fully,
as far as could then be done, and it was silent as to any interest of this sort, while Rule 23 of this court stood before it, as
a permanent and exacting reminder for justice, by way of
compensation for all improper delays and withholdings in
payment of money. And this rule, differing then in number,
in connection with the statute allowing interest, etc., was
happily commented on by Mr. Justice Story in Boyce v.
Grundy, 9 Pet. 275. This case denied the allowance of
interest by the court below, after the mandate which gives
not interest goes down. The argument might stop here.
But is the bank thus liable on general principles of law?
The agreement of the parties in this case shows the character of this deposit as it was found by this court, 129 U. S. 564,
565, "on the Dawson bond account" to remain as a general
deposit "to await the result of this suit."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Petitioner.

The general law, regardless of the peculiarity of this deposit,
would forbid any demand for interest on this more general
deposit. Hasiwell v. Farmers' and Xechanices' Balnak, 26 Vermont, 100; Duncan v. Xfagette, 25 Texas, 245.
And this court, in passing upon the question of liability of
banks for interest on deposits, rests it on grounds completely
negativing the idea of interest in cases like this -a general
deposit -the bank being a mere stakeholder or depositary at
most. National Bank v. Graham, 100 U. S. 699; Commonwealth Bank v. .Ziechanics' Bank, 94 U. S. 437. And this is
in harmony with the general principle of law as to deposits
where the depositary is a mere stakeholder, and he is not
found to be in default.
But again, section 4507, Tit. 90, Rev. Stat. Texas, (Sayles,)
provides, in short, that if the defendant replevy the property
he should not be liable for the rents, hire, or revenue thereof ;
this is applicable here, for the reason that the money is simply
the proceeds of the cattle, and if the cattle had been returned
in kind there would have been nothing to pay, and certainly
it was optional whether the cattle should be returned in kind
or the value of the cattle accounted for. This local law of
Texas must, in the nature of things, have conclusive weight in
this proceeding, as it is upon Texas laws alone, in the absence
of congressional legislation, the law as to this question is to be
determined. .Massachusetts Benefit Ass'n v. XiAiles, 137 U. S.
689.
Again, the opinion of this court (129 U. S., supra) plainly
indicated that the plaintiffs were at fault in suing out a writ
of sequestration, in that they had no title or right to the property in question; that the writ of sequestration was wrongfully obtained, and that they were not entitled to interest upon
the value of the cattle. And while upon this subject the attention of the court to the strong and emphatic language of the
opinion in this line is most earnestly asked. p. 571, et seq.
That can leave no doubt at all of the correctness of our
view of this transaction. But if the court should hold that
interest is recoverable, then it is certain that the opinion
should be taken as holding, in effect, that interest was recov-

IN RE CITY BANK, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

erable against Dawson, and that it was not intended that the
bank should pay this interest, the bank being, as before said,
simply a stakeholder, or, at most, a depositary.
As for the judgment against the bank for costs, we think
that is palpably erroneous, for the court indicates throughout
that plaintiffs below were in default. Indeed, the court in
such opinion intimated most clearly that were it not for the
fact that the money was shown to be on hand that it would
order plaintiff's bill to be dismissed. And as costs are in the
nature of damages or punishment for default, and we have
shown the 'bank is not in default, the same reasons that relieve it of interest will also relieve it of costs.
It is obvious, then, the lower court did not proceed upon
the mandate in this case, in conformity with the opinion of
this court, but flew in the face of it in awarding interest and
costs, and therefore this court is respectfully asked to direct
that decree to be vacated.
after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
Mr. CHEF

JUSTICE FULLER,

Application is now made for mandamus, and this is the
proper remedy, if the mandate of this court has been disregarded, but if not, the application for leave to file should be
denied.
We are of opinion that whether or not the proceeds of the
cattle were received and retained by the bank under such circumstances as to render it liable to Hunter & Co. for interest
on their jzro rata share, was a matter which was necessarily
so far left at large by our former decree that we cannot hold
that the mandate was disregarded by the decree rendered
thereunder by the Circuit Court.
The Dawson note was held in trust for Hunter & Co. and
the bank, payment to be worked out from the cattle through
the agency of McCulloch, and when the bank terminated McCulloch's agency, took possession of the herd, and received
the proceeds of the cattle from Ellis, it received the pfro rata
share of Hunter & Co. in trust for them, as the litigation

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

turned out, and nothing in the directions we gave prevented
the Circuit Court from holding the bank to a liability to pay
interest thereon if, in its judgment, it was justified in so doing
by the facts disclosed on the hearing. Ellis was the agent of
the bank and the money was kept and used by the bank,
being carried on the books to the credit of the "Dawson bond
account," subject to the determination of this suit. The language of the stipulation that the amount collected was deposited by Ellis as a "general deposit," and used "as other
general deposits," "as other of its funds," does not change
the legal effect of the transaction so far as Hunter & Co.
were concerned, who had nothing to do with the agreement
of the bank to indemnify Dawson's sureties on the replevin
bond. The use of their part of the money under the circumstances may have induced the Circuit Court to arrive at the
result complained of. We are not, however, called on to say
whether the allowance of the interest was or was not correct,
as the only question is whether that court disobeyed the mandate, which we do not think it did.
As to the costs, we are also clear that the action of- the
Circuit Court was not precluded by the former decision.
Leave to file the petition must, therefore, be
Denied.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
CLARK.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1045. Argued April 12,1894. -Decided

April 30, 1894.

No one can be permitted to go into a court of equity to enjoin the collection
of a tax, until he has shown himself entitled to the aid of the court by
paying so much of the tax assessed against him as it can be plainly seen
he ought to pay.
State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, and Arational Bank v. Kimball, 103
U. S. 732, affirmed and followed on this point.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company, having accepted the provisions of
the act of Dakota of March 7, 1889, c. 107, became liable thereby to pay

