OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

of the section which relates to them absolutely useless. It
would be a construction which would read out of the section
by necessary implication, as unnecessary, the provision as to
the waste or scrap tobacco found therein. Manufactured
tobacco and partially manufactured tobacco had been already
provided for. The waste or clippings must have been considered neither manufactured nor partially manufactured, since
they were specially provided for after the manufactured and
partially manufactured tobacco had already been regulated by
the terms of the section. It follows, therefore, that if, under
the rule of pari m cteria, we interpret the provision of the
tariff act of 1883 along with the provision of the internal
revenue acts, thus quoted, we could not hold the scraps or
waste to be a manufactured article, unless we said that that
which is neither manufactured nor partially manufactured was
yet a manufactured article. We think the context of these
sections makes it clear that their general purpose and object
was to regulate the manufacture and disposition of all classes
of tobacco, and that they conform by a fair construction and
interpretation to the view that the scraps are neither a manufactured nor a partially manufactured article. We are here
dealing with the waste or the scraps not from the internal
revenue point of view, but as an article of commerce, separate
from the manufacturer and the factory.
The judgment below is

4ffrred.

SPALDING v. CASTRO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 297. Submitted March 19,1894. -Decided

April 16,1894.

Seebergerv. Castro, ante, 32, followed.
A ruling by the court below, correct when applied to this case, is sustained
without regard to its correctness as a general proposition.

WILSON v. HALEY LIVE STOCK CO.
Syllabus.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistnt Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is covered by that of the same person against Seeberger, collector, just decided. The tobacco was like that imported in the former case, and was likewise assessed. There
was due protest by the importer, seasonable appeal to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and, on his adverse ruling, a timely
suit. The case was tried by a jury. The court instructed the
jury that if they believed from the evidence that the tobacco
in question required to have labor expended upon it in order
to fit it for consumption, then it was unmanufactured tobacco,
as claimed by the plaintiff, etc. Excepting to this ruling, the
case was brought here. Whatever may have been the correctness of the instruction as a general proposition, it was correct
when applied to the case in hand. Evanston v. Gunn, 99
U. S. 660. The judgment is
Affirmed.

WILSON v. HALEY LIVE STOCK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 332. Submitted March 20, 1894. -Decided

April 16, 1894.

A defendant who proceeds to introduce testimony, after denial of his

motion for a verdict in his favor on the close of the plaintiff's evidence
in chief, thereby waives his exception to that denial.
A count in trespass de bonis asportatis,for the taking and detaining of personal property, can only be supported on the theory that plaintiff was
either its owner, or entitled of right to its possession at the time of the
trespass complained of.

