CALIFORNIA v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
Statement of the Case.

was to pay in the event of his electing to become interested
in the property, and from the time he so elected, or could be
deemed to have so elected, it was to take effect as his promissory note, payable according to its terms. His election,
within a reasonable time, to take such interest, was made a
,condition precedent to his liability to pay the stipulated price.
The minds of the parties never met upon any other basis, and
a refusal to give effect to their oral agreement would make
for them a contract which they did not choose to make for
themselves.
The judgmen is reversed aad the cause is remanded, that a
new tlial may be oedered, andfurther proceedings had in
Conformity with this opinion.

CALIFORNIA v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC

COMPANY.

ORIGINAL.
No. 9. Original. Submitted March 12,1894. -Decided

April 30,1894.

Depositions placed in the custody of the clerk as taken in this case may
be opened and filed, as well as map exhibits, and an order is made for
the taking of further testimony, and for the receiving of such documents and maps as the city of Oakland may offer touching its title to
the lands in dispute, and for the opening and filing of the same when
returned to the clerk.

THE State of California filed its bill in this suit November
.6, 1893, and its amended bill March 5, 1891, in which it contests the claims of ownership set up by the Southern Pacific
Company to lands under water in the harbor of Oakland,
opposite to San Francisco. On the 5th ofMarch, 1894, the
city of Oakland prayed leave to intervene in the suit, which
motion was denied on the 12th of March, 1894, but leave was
given it to file briefs, accompanied by documents and maps,
illustrative of its alleged title.
On the same 12th day of March the Attorney General of
:the State made the following motion in the case:

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

To the Honorable Chief Justice and the Associate Justices of
the Supreme Court of the United States:
The plaintiff moves the court as follows:
First-That the court make an order directing that the
depositions heretofore taken upon notice and the stipulation
of the parties in the above entitled action, now in the custody
of the clerk of this court, be opened and filed in this cause,
and the same be printed as a part of the record whenever said
record shall be printed; and that the map exhibits now in the
custody of said clerk, referred to by the witnesses in their
several depositions, be also filed by said clerk in said cause;
and that said depositions and map exhibits may be used as
evidence upon the hearing of said case, subject to the objections therein specified, in the same manner as if the same had
been regularly taken and returned in pursuance of the order
herein applied for, a printed copy of which testimony and of
the map exhibits has been deposited with the clerk of this
court, to which I respectfully refer.
Second- That this honorable court make an order designating one of its members, or some other person or officer,
to take, in the State of California, such further testimony
and evidence in the above entitled cause as may be offered by
either of the parties hereto.
Third -That the person or officer designated to take such
testimony as aforesaid, have the power and be instructed to
return such testimony as may be offered by either of the
parties to said action, and to receive and return such documents and maps illustrative of the alleged title of the city
of Oakland as said city may deem proper to offer, pursuant
to the order of this court made on March 12, 1894, and that
said officer so appointed notify the respective parties and the
city of Oakland of his appointment; and thereupon either of
the parties shall be authorized, within ten days thereafter, or
as soon as convenient, to proceed before said officer or person
to take additional evidence, and said person or officer to receive and take such documents and maps as may be offered
by said city of Oakland under the said order of March 12,
1894, as hereinbefore specified; and that the taking and re-

CALIFORNIA v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
Statement of the Case.

ceiving of said evidence, documents, and maps shall be completed and certified by said person or officer and forwarded
to the clerk of this court on or before the first Monday of
July, 1894; upon the receipt whereof, the clerk of this court
is hereby instructed to open and file the same, and thereafter
to have printed the record in this cause, (embracing the depositions heretofore taken,) upon the parties hereto paying therefor, the record to be thereupon filed in this court; that there
be printed in addition to the requisite number of copies for
this court, ten copies for the plaintiff, ten copies for the defendant, and ten copies for the city of Oakland.
That in printing such record it shall not be necessary for
the clerk to print copies of the map exhibits; provided, there
shall be furnished to the court a sufficient number of the map
exhibits required by the rules of this court, and one copy
thereof to each of the parties hereto, and one copy to the said
city of Oakland.
Fourth-That the jarties hereto and the city of Oakland
are hereby permitted, during the vacation of this court, to file
their briefs and points in said action with the clerk of said
court without further order of the court.
the court make an order setting down this
tfth -That
cause for trial and hearing on the second Monday of October,
1894, or as soon thereafter as may be convenient for the
court.
Sixth - That such other and further orders be made as to
the court may seem meet.
For the purpose of the hearing and consideration of this
motion, I respectfully refer to:
The order of this court made March 12, 1894, a copy of
which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit "A";
The stipulation signed by the parties, hereto attached,
marked Exhibit " B "
The statement of the Attorney General of the State of
California, solicitor for plaintiff, hereto attached, and marked
Exhibit " 0 "
The consent of the defendant to the granting of the orders
asked for, hereto attached, and marked Exhibit "D."
VOL. cIM-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

All of which papers are hereby referred to and made a part
hereof.
Washington, D. 0., March 12, 1894.
Wm. H. H. HART,
Attorney General of California,
Solicitor for Plaintiff.
Exhibit A referred to was the order on the motion of the
city of Oakland for leave to intervene. Exhibit C stated personal reasons why the Attorney General desired to have the
evidence taken and the cause brought to a hearing early in
the next term of the court. Exhibit D was the consent of
the defendant to the granting of the orders asked for. Exhibit B was entitled in the cause and was as follows:
Now come the parties to the above entitled suit, by their
respective solicitors, and state to the court as follows:
That on the 17th day of January, 1894, it was stipulated and
agreed between the parties to the said uit, by their solicitors,
as follows: "The defendant herein having given the plaintiff
notice of the taking of the depositions of Horace W. Carpentier and others, for the purpose of using said testimony as evidence upon the trial of this cause, and whereas some doubt
may arise as to the legality of the taking of the same; and
whereas, the said plaintiff also desires to take certain testimony to be used on the trial of said action, and, in order to
obtain the testimony desired by each of the parties hereto,
therefore, it is hereby stipulated by and between the parties
hereto, that the testimony may be thus taken of said Horace
W. Carpentier, and of such other persons as each of the parties hereto may determine from time to time until the testimony is closed, subject to such objections as either of the
parties may deem proper to make.
"Said testimony may be taken before John A. Robinson,
Commissioner of the United States Circuit Court for the
Northern District of California, and the same may be used
upon the trial of this cause the same as if taken in any other
manner agreeable to the court, and may be used by either
party with the same effect as though taken upon an order

CALIFORNIA v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
Statement of the Case.

regularly made by the honorable Supreme Court of the United
States, and the same may be used upon said trial upon any
and all issues that may be made, either upon amendment of
the pleadings, or otherwise."
That under and in pursuance of the said stipulation the
defendant took, before the said John A. Robinson, Commissioner of the United States Circuit Court for the Northern
District of California, the depositions of certain persons, as
witnesses on its behalf, in the above entitled suit, namely:
Horace W. Carpentier, G. F. Allardt, Calvin Brown, L. J. LeConte, G. L. Lansing, E. B. Ryan, R. J. Wilkinson; and the
plaintiff took before said commissioner the depositions of certain persons, as witnesses on its own behalf, namely: Lyman
Bridges, G. D. Flack, L. J. LeConte, Charles Morris, and J. R.

Wilkinson.
That the defendant, on the examination of the witness,
Horace W. Carpentier, offered in evidence on its behalf certain
documents, which were marked by the said commissioners as
.Defendant'sExhibits,Nos. 1 to 66, inclusive, and the defendant,
in connection with the testimony of its witnesses, introduced
in evidence certain map exhibits, which were marked by the
said commissioner from No. 1 to No. 8, both inclusive.
That the plaintiff, on the examination of witnesses on its
behalf, offered certain exhibits, which were marked by the
said commissioner, respectively, as ".Plaintigs Exhibit A,"
"Plaintif's Exhibit B," and "Plaintif's Exhibit C," and
Map Exhibit Vo. 8.
That on the 9th day of February, 1894, the parties, by W. H.
H. Hart, Attorney General, solicitor for plaintiff, and Harvey
S. Brown, solicitor for defendant, filed a stipulation, in writing,
as to certain facts bearing upon the issues in said suit, wherein
it was agreed as follows:
"It is further stipulated that this case shall be submitted to
the court for its decision upon the amended bill and answer
herein and replication thereto, and upon the depositions and
exhibits hereto annexed, and upon map exhibits referred to in
the said depositions, numbered from 1 to 8, both inclusive, and
upon this stipulation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

(The depositions and exhibits referred to being the depositions and exhibits taken and offered by the parties before the
commissioner, as mentioned.)
That John A. Robinson, the commissioner, transmitted by
mail to the clerk of this court, in sealed packages, the said
stipulation in writing as to facts, and the said depositions and
exhibits, and the said packages are in the hands of the clerk,
unopened.
Wherefore, the said parties, by their solicitors, hereby stipulate that an order be made and entered herein, directing that
the said packages be opened by the clerk of the court, and that
the said stipulation as to facts, and the said depositions of the
said witnesses for the parties, respectively, taken before the
said John A. Robinson, Commissioner of the United States
Circuit Court for the Northern District of California, and the
said exhibits offered by them, and marked by the said commissioner, as mentioned, be filed by the clerk in this cause,
and further directing that the said depositions and the said
exhibits shall and may be used by the parties, respectively,
upon the hearing or trial of the above entitled cause, with the
same effect as if the same had been taken and offered in evidence before the said commissioner, under an order of this
court duly appointing him an examiner to take the testimony
and proofs on behalf of the parties to the said cause, and to
certify and to return such testimony and proof to this court.
Wm. H. H. HART,

As Attorney General of California,
Solicitor for Plaintiff.
HARvEY S. BRzowN,
AYLETT

R.

Solicitor for Defendant.
Co~rox,

Of Counsel for Plaintiff.

.Mr. W-iliam H. . Hart, Attorney General of the State of
California, and .Mr. Aylett R. Cotton for plaintiff.
Mr. Harvey S. Brown for defendant.
PER Cuninm: The motion of the State of California, by

its Attorney General, in this behalf, having been considered:

CALIFORNIA v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
Opinion of the Court.

It is hereby ordered that depositions heretofore placed in
the custody of the clerk of this court, as taken in this cause,
may be opened and filed, together with the map exhibits
therein referred to.
And it is further ordered that William A. Maury, Esq., of
the District of Columbia, be and he is hereby designated and
appointed a commissioner to take testimony herein, and he is
hereby empowered and instructed to take and return such
testimony as may be offered by either of the parties hereto,
and to receive and return such documents and maps illustrative
of the, alleged title of the city of Oakland as said city may
deem proper to offer, pursuant to the order of this court made
herein on March 12, 1894.
It is further ordered that said commissioner notify the
respective parties and the city of Oakland of his appointment;
and, thereupon, within ten days thereafter, or as soon as convenient, he shall proceed to take such evidence as either of the
parties hereto may produce, and he shall receive and take
such documents and maps as may be offered by the city of
Oakland under said order of March 12, 1894, as hereinbefore
specified; and that the taking and receiving of said evidence,
documents, and maps shall be completed and certified by said
commissioner and forwarded to the clerk of this court on or
before the first Monday of September, 1894; upon the receipt
whereof the clerk is hereby instructed to open and file the
same.
It is further ordered that in printing the record it shall not
be necessary for the clerk to print copies of map exhibits;
provided, there shall be furnished to the court a sufficient
number of map exhibits as required by the rules; and that
the parties hereto, and the city of Oakland, are hereby permitted, during the vacation of this court, to file their briefs
and points in said cause with the clerk without the further
order of the court; and the question of setting said cause for
hearing is hereby reserved until the next term.
So ordered.

