OCTOBER TERM, 189&
Syllabus.

the company; that his admissions were not the admissions of
the cdmpany, and that what he said was mere hearsay, and
tended to prejudice the jury against the company. There is
no force in this objection. By the terms of the contract the
amount due the plaintiffs was to be determined by the weighbills. They were in the possession of the bookkeeper, an officer of the company, and one of the plaintiffs applied to that
officer for those bills. The reply of such officer, in possession
of that made by the contract the evidence of the amount due
the plaintiffs, was competent testimony. If there were any
doubt as to its competency, the objection to it would be obviated by the fact that the next day the superintendent practically assented to the truth of the statement, and if the
plaintiffs did not produce the weigh-bills, they certainly had
a right to show why they were unable to do so, the efforts
they had made to obtain them, and how it was that they
failed.
These are all the questions that we deem it important to
consider. We have examined the record very carefully, and
find nothing in the rulings of the court of which the defendant can justly complain; and while, in view of the conflicting
testimony, there is room for difference of opinion as to what
the facts really were, there was testimony which, in amount
and character, was sufficient to uphold the verdict of the jury,
and, of course, under those circumstances, its determination
is conclusive upon those questions of fact. The judgment
will be
Afflrmed.

CHICAGO DEPOSIT VAULT COMPANY v.
MoNULTA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 345. Submitted April 24, 1894.-

Decided May 14, 1894.

A receiver of a railroad, appointed with authority "to make all contracts
that may be necessary in carrying on the business of said railroad, sub-

CHICAGO DEPOSIT VAULT CO. v. MoNULTA.

555

Statement of the Case.
ject to the supervision of this court," has no authority to make a lease for
a term of general offices, without authority from the court, and to bind
his successors and the property therefor for the term, without direction
from or sanction by the court.
The facts that the receiver's accounts showed, monthly, the payment of the
rent under such a lease, and that that rent was reasonable, and that the
accounts as rendered were passed by the master and reported to and
approved by the court, do not amount to a sanction of the lease for the
term.

CHARLES 1H. BEEBS, as the holder of certain bonds of the
Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railroad Company, secured by
a mortgage or trust deed on the Chicago division of that road,
in 1886 filed a bill on behalf of himself and others in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois
for the purpose of foreclosing the mortgage, and prayed that
pending the rendition of the decree in the cause the court
would appoint some disinterested and practical person receiver
of all the mortgaged property, equipment, and appurtenances
to hold and administer the same, and disburse the revenues
and income thereof under the orders of the court from time to
time to be entered in the cause.
On December 16, 1886, the court appointed Thomas M.
Cooley receiver of the mortgaged property.
The order
appointing the receiver contained among other things the
following: "And the said receiver is hereby empowered
and instructed to take possession of all of the said property
described in said mortgage or appurtenant thereto, and to
manage, control, and operate the said railroad described in
said mortgage, preserve and protect all said property, and
collect, as far as possible, all assets, choses in action, and
credits due to said company, acting in all things under the
orders of this court. . . . Said receiver shall also have
authority, subject to the supervision of the court, to make
such repairs to said railway and property as are necessary in
his judgment for carrying on the business thereof, and also to
make all contracts that may be necessary in carrying on the
business of said railroad, subject to the supervision of this
court. . . . It is further -ordered that the said receiver,
out of the income which shall come into his hands by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

operation of said railroads or otherwise, proceed to make
payments as follows: That he pay all current expenses
incident to the creation or administration of his trust and to
the operating of said railroad; That he pay all amounts now
legally due or that shall hereafter become due for taxes on
any of the property over which he is appointed receiver; That
he pay all balances due or to become due to other railroads or
transportation companies on balances growing out of the
exchange of traffic with such railway accruing six months
prior hereto;

.

.

.

That he pay all rentals to become due

upon rolling stock heretofore sold to said railroad company
and partially paid for and necessary for use in the operation
of the road 'over which the said receiver is appointed, covered
by the mortgage described in the bill herein, and which come
into the hands of the receiver under the operation of this
order."
The order further directed that after discharging and
making all the payments and outlays required by the terms
of the order the receiver should retain any surplus remain-0
ing in his hands to be applied to the payment of the
past due and matured interest coupons secured by the mortgage.
The receiver qualified and took possession of the mortgaged
property, and on December 31, 1886, entered into a contract
with the Chicago Deposit Vault Company for the lease of
rooms 523 to 517 inclusive in the Rialto Building in the city
of Chicago, for his use as receiver in the transaction of the
business of the railroad. The term of the lease was from January 1, 1887, to April 30, 1891, a period of four years and four
months, at a yearly rental of $10,500, payable in instalments
of $875 monthly in advance. There was a provision in the
lease that the receiver might cancel it on May 1, 1888, by giving notice to that effect on or before February 1, 1888.
Cooley, as receiver, took possession of the rooms and continued to occupy them until his resignation in April, 1887,
paying the stipulated rent regularly during that time, for
which he took credit in his reports of receipts and disbursements. The monthly items of rent were entered in the

CHICAGO DEPOSIT VAULT CO. v. McNULTA.

557

Statement of the Case.

receiver's reports under the heading of "operating expenses"
as "rent of general offices." These reports were regularly
approved by the court.
Upon Cooley's resignation the court appointed John McNlta
as his successor, who took possession of the rented premises
and continued to occupy them and pay the stipulated monthly
rental until July 31, 1889. Receiver Ac-Nulta made his reports
of receipts and disbursements in the same form as those made
by his predecessor, and they were from time to time approved
by the court.
The mortgaged property was sold under foreclosure decree
and purchased by James F. Joy, Ossian D. Ashley, Thomas
I. Hubbard, and Edgar T. Welles as a purchasing committee.
The sale and purchase having been confirmed, the court on
June 20, 1889, entered an order directing receiver AIc~ulta on
or before July 1, 1889, to turn over all the property in his
possession as receiver to the purchasing committee. This order
contained the following provision: "But this order is made,
and the surrender and delivery of possession by the receiver
shall also be made,

.

.

subject also to the power and

right of this court to consider and determine all questions
which have heretofore arisen or shall hereafter arise herein
concerning expenses of this cause or of the receivership herein,
concerning claims against said receiver or against any of the
property now in his possession as receiver, and concerning
allowances to counsel or to parties, and to charge upon or
against said property any amounts at any time deemed by this
court proper to be charged upon it, and this court hereby
reserves full power and right to consider and determine all
such questions, to make any charges which it deems proper
against said property now in the possession of said receiver,
notwithstanding the surrender thereof, and to resume possession
of all or any of said property, if necessary, at any time hereafter, and to place said property again in the possession of a
receiver, and to resell or otherwise dispose of the same for the
purpose of securing compliance with any orders which it shall
make in this cause."
On June 27, 1889, McNulta, as receiver, gave notice to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Chicago Deposit Vault Company that he would not need the
leased rooms after August 1, 1889, and that on July 31, 1889,
he would surrender possession of the premises to the lessor.
The rent was paid by McNulta up to the latter date, when he
vacated and gave up possession of the premises.
The Chicago Deposit Vault Company on June 29, 1889, filed
an intervening petition in the foreclosure suit of Beers, setting
up the execution of the lease; the taking possession and occupancy of the rooms under it by the receivers Cooley and
McNulta, and the payment of the monthly rental therefor during the period of such occupancy. The petition also set, out
the notice given by MKeulta, receiver, of his intention to surrender possession of the rooms, and that he would cease
paying rent after July 31, 1889. The petition insisted that the
receiver had no right to surrender the lease; that it would be
unjust and inequitable, and prayed that he might be restrained
from so doing, and that the purchasers of the mortgaged
premises at the foreclosure sale should be required to abide by
and perform the terms of the lease; that an adequate fund out
of the trust assets should be retained in the court to assure the
payment of the rent thereafter to accrue, and that the same be
applied to the payment of such rent.
To this intervening petition the receiver and the purchasers
filed an answer, which, after admitting the execution of the
lease by Cooley, as receiver, averred that he had no power,
without the approval of the court, to bind the court or the
funds of the receivership beyond the time the premises should
be required by the receiver, and that the lease was properly
terminated by the last receiver's notice. The answer further
stated that on July 1, 1889, the receiver, under and in pursuance of the order of the court of June 20, 1889, had turned
over all the property to the purchasers at the foreclosure sale.
An amended petition, filed by the intervenor on April 5,
1890, set forth that $7875 had accrued as rental under the
lease since the iling of its original petition, and repeated substantially the same prayer for relief.
Proof was made of the execution of the lease, possession of
the premises by the two receivers, payment of the monthly

CHICAGO DEPOSIT VAULT CO. v. -McNULTA. 559
Argument for Appellant.

rental by them, and the approval of their accounts by the
court, showing such payment. It was also shown by the petitioner that the rental agreed upon was as reasonable as the
receiver could have secured elsewhere.
The monthly reports made by the respective receivers, which
show, under the head of "operating expenses," the payment of
certain sums as "rent for general offices,".did not disclose to the
master by whom the reports were examined, or to the court,
that the lease had been made by the first receiver, or that the
second receiver (iMfeNulta) had occupied the rooms thereunder.
Upon the hearing the court dismissed the petition on the
following grounds: "The order appointing the receiver was
not broad enough to authorize him to enter into the contract
of lease, and the lease was never reported to or confirmed by
the court. It is true that from time to time the receiver's
accounts, embracing payments of rent under the lease, were
submitted to the master and passed by him, and the master's
reports approved by the court. That, however, was not such
a confirmation of the lease as concluded the court. Any contract entered into by the receiver not authorized by the order
of appointment, and not subsequently confirmed by an order of
the court, ended with the termination of the trust. The intervening petition is dismissed, each party paying half the costs."
From this decree the present appeal is prosecuted by the
intervenor and the following errors are assigned for its reversal: (1) The court erred in holding that the order appointing the receiver did not authorize him to enter into the contract
of lease in controversy; (2) in holding that such lease was
never reported to or confirmed by the court; (3) in holding
that the action of the court and the master in chancery upon
the receiver's reports and accounts was not a sufficient confirmation of such lease; (4) in holding that the equities were
with the defendants to the intervening petition; (5) and in
ordering and decreeing that such petition be dismissed, and in
not granting the relief prayed for in said petition.
.M. George E. Paddock and -Mr. Hiicatm T. Gilbert for
.appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

I. The lease was a contract proper for the receiver to make,
and one which, if brought to the attention of the court when
it was made, would not have been disapproved.
II. The lease was valid, in the absence of an express disapproval by the court. Cowdrey v. Railroad Co., 1 Woods,
336; 7Fanderbilt v. Central Railroad Co., 43 iN. J. Eq. 669;
Field v. Herrick, 101 Illinois, 110.
III. Even if the receiver exceeded his authority in making
the lease, it was rendered valid by subsequent ratification by
the court. Supervisors v. Schenck, 5 Wall. 772; Smith v.
United States Express Co., 135 Illinois, 279, 280 ; Fisher v. Attleborough School District,4 Cash. 494; Cowdrey v. Railroad
Co., 1 Woods, 331, 336; Drakely v. Gregg, 8 Wall. 242;
Stark v. Starr, 94 U. S. 477; Coonett v. Chicago, 114 Illinois,
233, 239 ; Ward v. Williams, 26 Illinois, 447, 451 ; S. C. 79
Am. Dec. 385; Harrod v. .fcDaniels, 126 Mass. 413; Whitbread v. Jordan,1 You. & Coll. (Exch.) 303.
IV. The parties interested in the foreclosure suit, the purchasers, the receiver, and the court itself, are estopped from
insisting upon the invalidity of the lease. Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654; Ottawa v. First Nat. Bank, 105 U. S. 342;
Anderson county v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227.
V. The lessor is entitled to the payment of the rent stipulated in the lease.
lr. Wells H. Blodgett for appellees.
MR. JusricE Jcoxsox, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The proof fails to show, as said in the opinion of the court
below, that the lease was ever reported to or confirmed by
the court. The receiver's reports which were approved by
the court did not disclose the fact of the existence of the lease,
or its terms and provisions, in such manner as to make the
court's approval of the reports a confirmation of the lease.
The question then remains whether the order appointing
the receiver conferred upon him the requisite authority to

CHICAGO DEPOSIT VAULT CO. v. MoNULTA.

561

Opinion of the Court.

enter into a contract of lease, involving a large annual expenditure, and extending beyond the receivership so as to
make the contract a proper charge against the trust property
under the administration of the court ?
While there is some want of harmony in the authorities
upon the question as to how far a receiver may make and
enter into contracts without the previous approval or subsequent ratification of the court, which shall be binding upon
the trust, we are of opinion that the order appointing the
receiver in this case was not broad enough in its terms to
authorize him to enter into the lease in question so as to give
it validity without the approval or confirmation of the court.
It is undoubtedly true that a receiver, without the previous
sanction of the court, manifested by special orders, may incur
ordinary expenses or liability for supplies, material, or labor
needed in the daily administration of railroad property committed to his care as an officer of the court; but it seems
equally well settled that the courts decline to sanction the
exercise of this discretion on the part of receivers in respect to
large outlays, or contracts extending beyond the receivership,
and intended to be binding upon the trust. The receiver
being an officer of the court, and acting under the court's
direction and instructions, his powers are derived from and
defined by the court under which he acts. He is not such a
general agent as to have any implied power, and his authority
to make expenditures and incur liabilities- like the one in
question-must be either found in the order of his appointment, or be approved by the court, before they acquire
validity, and have any binding force upon the trust.
In 0owdrey v. Galveston, Houston &c. Railroad,93 U. S.
352, it was held that a receiver is not authorized, without the
previous direction of the court, to incur any expenses on
account of property in his hands, beyond what is absolutely
essential to its preservation and use, as contemplated by his
appointment. Accordingly, the expenditures of a receiver to
defeat a proposed subsidy from a city, to aid in the construction of a railroad parallel with the one in his hands, were
properly disallowed in the settlement of his final account,
VOL CLII-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

although such road, if constructed, might have diminished the
future earnings of the road in his charge.
This same general principle is recognized in Union Trust
Co. v. Illinois lidland Co., 117 U. S. 434, 479, where debts
for considerable sums of money, borrowed by the receiver
without previous authority from the court, were not allowed
any priority out of the trust fund, although the moneys
borrowed were applied to pay expenses of the receivership,
such as supplies, repairs, and pay-rolls, and to replace moneys
which had been so applied, for the reason that no order of the
court had been obtained to borrow funds for those purposes.
In Lehigh Coat and Navigation Co. v. Central Railroad,
35 N. J. Eq. 426; it was said that "the receiver may undoubtedly appropriate moneys in his hands, belonging to the trust,
to such purposes connected with the trust as he may think
proper, always taking the risk that the court will finally approve his action; but he has no authority to bind the trust by
contract without the authority of the court. Until his contracts are approved and ratified by the court the court is at
liberty to deal with them as to it shall appear just, and may
either modify them or disregard them entirely.

.

.

.

All

persons dealing with receivers do so at their peril, and are
bound to take notice of their incapacity to conclude a binding
contract without the sanction of the court."
This states the correct rule upon the subject, especially in
respect to contracts involving large outlays, and which may
extend beyond the life of the receivership. The same general rule is stated in Beach on Receivers, section 257, as
follows: "But a receiver is not allowed to exercise his discretion in applying the funds in his hands. These he holds
strictly subject to the direction of the court, and only to be
disposed of upon its order. Neither can he enter into contracts without the approval of the court. Although, as
receiver, he may enter into negotiations and make such
agreements as would be binding upon him as an individual,
yet, in order to affect the fund in his hands his acts must be
ratified by the court. This rule is so well established that
it has been decided that all persons contracting with a re-

CHICAGO DEPOSIT VAULT CO. v. qcNULTA. 563
Opinion of the Court.

ceiver are chargeable with knowledge of his inability to contract, and enter into contracts with him at their own peril,
and that the court has unquestioned power to modify or even
vacate his agreements." To the like effect is a statement of
the rule made in section 186 of High on Receivers.
What was said by Mr. Justice Bradley in Cowdrey v. Rail'oad Company, 1 Woods, 331, 336, and by the court in Vanderbilt v. Central Railroad,43 N. J. Eq. 669, cited and relied
on by the appellant, does not conflict with the general principle laid down in the authorities above referred to.
In respect to contracts which have been completely performed by a party dealing with a receiver, and when the
claim is merely for compensation, equitable relief is often
granted, although there was no previous approval or subsequent ratification of the receiver's act. This is pointed out
by the chancellor in VFanderbiltv. CentralRailroad, ubi sugpia.
In the case under consideration the intervening petitioner
has been fully paid for the time that its premises were occupied for the benefit of the trust. The receiver not only had
no authority to contract beyond that time, but by the order
of his appointment his expenditure of the funds was limited
and confined to designated objects and purposes. Under
these circumstances the court was not bound to recognize any
equitable right of the intervening petitioner to be paid for
the unexpired term of a lease, which had no legal validity.
The position taken on behalf of the appellant that there
was a confirmation of the lease growing out of the fact that
the receiver's expenditures in the way of rental for general
offices were approved, cannot be sustained. If the doctrine
of ratification could be invoked, it would have no pplication
in the present case, because there was no knowledge on the
part of the court prior to the filing of the intervening petition
that such a lease had been entered into by its receiver; and
in respect to the remaining contention of the appellant, that
the court and the purchasers under the foreclosure sale were
estopped from denying the lease, there is nothing in the,
record on which to predicate such a proposition, even conceding that the doctrine of estoppel could be applied to courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

Under the order of June 20, 1889, directing the receiver to
turn over the property to the purchasers at the foreclosure
sale, the court undoubtedly had the authority to charge the
property with such claims against the receiver as it might
thereafter allow, but that reservation of power did not make
it the duty of the court to allow the claim of the intervening
petitioner.
The lease having no legal validity without the sanction of
the court, the equitable considerations in favor of the purchasers of the trust property at the foreclosure sale are
stronger than those of the appellant.
We are, therefore, of opinion that there was no error in the
decree of the court below, and the same is accordingly
Affirmed.
LOUD v. POMONA LAND AND WATER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF AUcHIGAN.
No. 194. Argued April 13,16, 1894. - Decided May 19, 1894.

By an agreement under seal the party of the first part agreed that, after
the making of the payments and the full performance of the covenants
as agreed to by the party of the second part, he would convey to the party
of the second part, certain described lands in California, together with
a specified number of shares in the stock of an irrigation company,
representing a certain pressure of water, to be delivered to the party of
the second part on making payment in full for the land. The party of the
second part agreed to pay for the land in fixed consecutive payments,
and both parties agreed that the instrument should not be construed as a
conveyance, equitable or otherwise, and that, until delivery of the formal
deed or tender of all payments precedent thereto, the party of the second
part should have no title, equitable or otherwise, to the premises. Held,
(1) That these covenants were independent, and that the payment or
tender of payment of the purchase price for the land was a condition precedent to the right to the conveyance;
(2) That the party of the second part, on making the contract payments,
became entitled to receive the agreed number of shares in the
irrigation company, subject to the by-laws of such company, but
not stock which represented the title to water or water rights to
the extent of such pressure.

