MANN

v. TACOMTA LAND COMAPANY.
Statement of the Case.

appellant's bill was properly dismissed for failing to pay, or
tender to pay, taxes which he ought to have paid on its property, or, in lieu thereof, a percentage of its gross earnings.
Our response, therefore, to the eighth question certified is,
that the bill was without equity, because of the failure to aver
that the plaintiff had tendered or paid the gross earnings percentage for the year 1889, (or the tax assessed by the county
auditors,) and was not entitled to the equitable relief prayed
without first tendering or paying such taxes.
The answer of the court to that question will accordingly be
certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.
Mr. JusTicE BREWER dissented.

MANN v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
TEE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 375. Argued April 18, 19, 1894.-Decided April 30, 1894.

Scrip or certificates for public land,
c. 89, 17 Stat. 649, "for the relief
located on tide land in the State of
by the flow and ebb of the tide.
The general legislation of Congress
extend to tide lands.

issued under the act of April 5, 1872,
of Thomas B. Valentine," cannot be
Washington, covered and uncovered
in respect to public lands does not

ON July 12, 1890, appellant as plaintiff filed his bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Washington to restrain the defendant from entering and trespassing
upon certain premises. Subsequently, by leave of the court,
an amended bill was filed. In that, plaintiff claimed title to
three separate tracts. The allegations as to one were as
follows:
"2. That on the 29th day of October, 1889, the followingVOL. CLin-18

OCTOBER TERMr, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

described premises were unoccupied and unappropriated lands
of the United States, not mineral, and unsurveyed, to wit:
Commencing at a point which is three thousand nine hundred
and sixty feet west of the southeast corner of section 34, in
township 21 north, of range 3 east, of the Willamette meridian, running thence north thirteen hundred and twenty
feet, thence west thirteen hundred and twenty feet, thence
south thirteen hundred and twenty feet, thence east thirteen
hundred and twenty feet to place of beginning, and containing
forty acres.
"3. That on the said 29th day of October, 1889, your orator,
under and by virtue of an act of the Congress of the United
States, entitled IAn act for the relief of Thomas B. Valentine,'
approved April 5, 1872, selected said tract of land as aforesaid
described, at the United States land office at Seattle, Washington Territory, that being the land office for the district in
which said lands were situated, and thereupon filed with the
register and receiver of said land office certificate of location
No.E 222 for forty acres, issued by virtue of a decree rendered
by the Supreme Court of the United States upon the 6th day
of January, 1874, for the claim of Thomas B. Valentine, or
his legal assignee, under said act of Congress aforesaid, together
with a description by metes and bounds of said described
premises and a map of said tract, and on the 30th day of October, 1889, said selection was allowed, and your orator received
from said register and receiver a certificate for said lands,
entitling your orator to a patent to said lands when the same
should have been surveyed by authority of the government of
the United States.
"4. That by virtue of said selection and certificate your
orator is the owner of said described premises and entitled to
the sole and exclusive possession of the same."
The title to the other two tracts was acquired in a similar
way except that plaintiff did not claim to have himself entered
them, but only to hold by deed from the locators. The character of the lands and the use to which plaintiff intended to
put them were thus stated:
"14. That all the lands described in this amended bill are

MANN v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

lands over which the tide ebbs and flows to a distance of 80
chains, and are what are designated on the plats and surveys
of the United States as 'mud flats bare at low water,' and are
overflowed at high water at a uniform depth of from 2 to 4
feet by the waters of Commencement Bay, at the head of
Puget Sound, in Pierce County, State of Washington, and are
situated about three-fourths of a mile from the line of low
water of said Commencement Bay and at the mouth of the
stream known as 'Puyallup River,' and are valuable and suitable for the construction of wharves, warehouses, commercial
purposes, and for agricultural uses."
"19. That your orator intends filling in said lands aforesaid
and erecting thereon warehouses and other buildings, over and
across which lands general traffic may be carried on to and
from the city of Tacoma."
It is upon these lands that the bill alleged that the defendant was trespassing. The certificates of location under which
these tracts were entered, being what is known as "Valentine
scrip," were issued under the authority of the act of Congress
of April 5, 1872, c. 89, 17 Stat. 649, entitled, "An act for the
relief of Thomas B. Valentine," which authorized the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of California to
hear and decide upon the merits of the claim of Thomas B.
Valentine to a certain specified Mexican grant. The third
section of the act is as follows:
"Sxc. 3. That an appeal shall be taken from the final decision and decree of the said Circuit Court to the Supreme Court
of the United States, by either party, in accordance with the
provisions of the tenth section of said act of March third,
eighteen hundred and fifty-one, within six months after the
rendition of such final decision; and a decree under the provisions of this act, in favor of said claim, shall not affect any
adverse right or title to the lands described in said decree;
but in lieu thereof, the claimant, or his legal representatives,
may select, and shall be allowed, patents for, an equal quantity of the unoccupied and unappropriated public lands of the
United States, not mineral, and in tracts not less than the subdivisions provided for in the United States land laws, and, if

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

unsurveyed when taken, to conform, when surveyed, to the
general system of United States land surveys; and the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior, shall be authorized to issue
scrip, in legal subdivisions, to the said Valentine, or his legal
representatives, in accordance with the provisions of this act:
Provided, That no decree in favor of said Valentine shall be
executed nor be of any force or effect against any person or
persons; nor shall land scrip or patents issue as hereinbefore
provided, unless the said Valentine shall first execute and deliver to the Commissioner of the-General Land Office a deed
conveying to the United States all his right, title, and interest
to the lands covered by said Miranda grant."
Proceedings were had under this statute in the Circuit Court,
and a decree was rendered in favor of the claimant, which
afterwards and on January 6, 1874, was affirmed by this court.
The facts respecting this grant are thus stated by the Secretary
of the Interior in a decision quoted by plaintiff's counsel:
"On investigation of the facts relative to the Miranda
grant, I find that on October 8, 1844, Manuel Micheltorena,
Mexican governor of California, granted to Juan Miranda the
place known as IRancho Arroyo San Antonio, bounded by the
laguna and arroyo of the same name and the pass and estero
of Petaluma, containing three square leagues, more or less.
"California was acquired from Mexico by the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, and by the eighth article of said treaty
the United States stipulated to protect the property rights of
all residents within the ceded territory, in the same manner
that the property rights of its own citizens were protected.
"This treaty did not, proprio vigore, operate as a confirmation of Mexican grants, but, on the contrary, being executory
in character, it addressed itself to the political department of
the government, and the duty devolved upon Congress of providing means for its enforcement.
"Congress, therefore, by act approved March 3, 1851, established a board of land commissioners, with power to investigate the validity of said grants and titles, with right to
appeal to the United States District and Supreme Courts.

MANN v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY.
Argument for Baer, Plaintiff in Error.

"The 'Miranda grant was presented for confirmation to the
board of land commissioners by Valentine, and also by the
grantees of one Ortega, who was Miranda's son-in-law. These
parties claimed adversely to each other, and Valentine finally
withdrew his claim, intending, it is alleged, to intervene in the
District Court. Before the case was reached for trial in said
court the Supreme Court had rendered a decision which precluded him from asserting his title by intervention. Ortega's
claim was, therefore, prosecuted by his grantees, until finally
rejected by the Supreme Court of the United States.
"After the claim of the grantees of Ortega was rejected
the lands were disposed of like other public lands, and the
proceeds covered into the treasury.
"Subsequently, Valentine produced satisfactory evidence
that the land had been lawfully granted to Miranda by the
Mexican authorities and conveyed to him by mesne conveyances, and Congress passed the act granting to Valentine an
amount of scrip equal to the amount of land contained in
said grant." 6 Copp's Land Owner, 28.
To this bill a demurrer was filed, and on October 22, 1890,
a decree was entered sustaining the demurrer and dismissing
the bill, from which decree of dismissal plaintiff brought his
appeal to this court. The case was argued with Baer v.
Moran Brothers Uomany, post, 287.
.Mr. Theodore I. N. 3fPherson for Mann, appellant.
X2r. John tt.3itchell, (with whom were Ar. Beriah Brown,
Jr., and Mr. X. L. Baer on the brief,) for Baer, plaintiff in
error.
It is not our purpose to antagonize the deliberate conclusions of this court as set out in the opinions in the two recent
cases of Illinois Central Railroamd v. Chicago, 146 U. S. 387,
and Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, but to endeavor to show
that the decisions in those cases are inapplicable to and not
controlling in the case involving lands of the character involved in this action, namely, a portion of a tract of overflowed lands, bare at low tide, on the outskirts of a bay on

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Baer, Plaintiff in Error.

Puget Sound, including over 3000 acres, and extending for
about two and one-half miles in length to three miles in width,
as shown by the maps of the official surveys of the United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey, copy of which is found
attached in our brief.
This court will take judicial knowledge of the tide flats,
otherwise designated as "mud flats," lying on and adjacent to
the bays and inlets of the waters of Puget Sound. Peyroux
v. Howard, 'I Pet. 324; The Apollorn, 9 Wheat. 362, 374;
United States v. Lawton, 5 How. 10, 15.
It is respectfully submitted there is nothing whatever in
this record from beginning to end to show that the land involved in this action, or any part of it, is what is commonly
designated in the laws as "shore" or "tide land" bordering
on a navigable water, but on the contrary, this record fairly
construed, even in the absence of any consideration of the
public surveys of the United States, shows this tract to be
just what it is in fact, a part of an immense area of "overflowed lands," "mud flats," or "tide flats" overflowed by
high tides and bare at low tides. From the location, in King
County, State of Washington, overflowed presumably by the
unnavigable waters of some bay or inlet of the waters of
Puget Sound. The magnitude of the area included and its
shape, being 40 acres and in a solid square, precludes the supposition that it is ordinary "shore" or "tide water lands."
Furthermore, the description in the complaint, it must be
borne in mind, is not "the shore," or part of "the shore,"
not "tide lands," but "a portion of the tide flats;" clearly
indicating that the land in question is a part of one of the
many vast areas located at different points adjacent to the
bays and inlets of Puget Sound, and designated on the geodetic surveys of the United States as "mud flats." In other
words, the description contained in the complaint, instead of
meaning ordinary shore or tide lands, is equivalent to an averment of "overflowed lands."
The terms "shore" or "tide lands" are synonymous. They
include in their definition the shore lands lying on a navigable
river or arm of the sea, covered and uncovered by the tides,

MANN v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY.
Argument for Baer, Plaintiff in Error.

and in which there is a jus publicu ; while "swamp" or
"overflowed lands," whether made swamp or overflowed by
tide or other waters, -Twinv. San .rancisco Savings Union, 136

U. S. 578, are entirely different. The averment in the complaint that these are "tide flats" is equivalent to an averment
that they are what are technically known in the law as
"overflowed lands," as contradistinguished from "shore" or
"tide lands." The averments in the complaint, taken altogether, are equivalent in description to the term "overflowed
lands" as used in the swamp land acts.
This court, in the case of Shively v. Bowl~y, 152 U. S. 1,
unqualifiedly concedes the power of the Congress of the
United States to dispose of what is known as tide lands
on the shores of navigable waters in any Territory of the
United States, when necessary to do so in order to perform international obligations, or to effect the improvement
of such lands for the promotion and convenience of commerce
with foreign nations and among the several States, or to carry
out other public purposes appropriate to the objects for which
the United States hold the Territory.
It is submitted that the grant under which the plaintiff
claims in this case is clearly one which the Congress of the
United States (and it is the sole judge, and its decision is not
reviewable by the courts) deemed necessary "in order," to
use the language of Mr. Justice Gray in the opinion in
Skively v. Bowlby, "to perform international obligations," 'or,
more properly speaking, an international obligation.
By the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo between this country
and Mexico, the United States obligated themselves to recognize all valid grants of land within the limits of the Territory
ceded, before that time, made by the governments of Mexico
and Spain. Botiller v. Dominguez, 130 U. S. 238.
Juan M iranda was the holder of a Mexican grant called the
Rancho Aroyo de San Antonio, located in the county of
Sonoma and State of California, about 13,000 acres, part of
which were tide flats and overflowed lands, in all respects
similar to the lauds in controversy.
It is submitted the act of April 5, 1872, under which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Baer, Plaintiff in Error.

Valentine scrip was issued, was clearly the performance, upon
the part of the Congress, of an "international obligation." It
was a recognition, upon the part of the United States, of the
validity of the Miranda grant, and of the rights of Miranda,
the grantee thereunder.
Instead, however, of giving Miranda or his grantee, Valentine, the 13,000 acres included in the Mexican grant, part of
which were tide fiats and overflowed land, an exchange was
made, and what was deemed and determined to be, by a judicial court whose decision was affirmed by this court, an
equivalent in value of the public lands of the United States
was granted. This, therefore, was not only a grant of public
lands in any and all of the Territories of the United States
within the power of Congress to grant, but it was clearly the
intention of the Congress to include within its provisions
every character of public lands, whether upland, tide lands,
tide flats, overflowed or swamp land, not otherwise occupied
or appropriated and not mineral, included in the Miranda.
grant. The grant being, moreover, not a gift or donation,
but an exchange of lands, or a grant, in other words, for a
full and adequate consideration.
In this view, therefore, we confidently insist that the doctrine enunciated by this court in Shively v. Bowlby, clearly
supports the contention of the plaintiff in error.
This court, in Shively v. Bowlby, suggests that it has not
been the policy of the government to grant lands between
high and low water mark to individuals piecemeal, though it
isadmitted that it has made and confirmed such grants when
necessary to carry into effect the obligations which it has
assumed by treaty.
If any "policy" has been pursued by the Executive Department of the government on the question of tide lands in the
Territory of Washington, that policy, as it appears, was to
permit their survey and entry under general land laws whenever of sufficient extent and value to warrant the belief that
they could be reclaimed from the sea and cultivated, and
whenever so situated that their reclamation would not injure
the public right of use of waters navigable in fact.

MANN v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY.
Argument for Baer, Plaintiff in Error.

The only manner from which it can be determined what
the policy of a government has been in relation to any subject
is to look for either legislative declarations of that policy, or
executive acts from which it could be concluded.
It is notorious that there have been thousands of acres of
lands lying, below the line of ordinary high tide, and so returned on the government surveys, surveyed and patented
under general laws in the Territory of Washington.
The reason why such lands have been so surveyed and
patented is owing to the peculiar condition of things there, in
the vast extent of such lands, and the further fact that the
upland is covered with an enormous growth of very heavy
timber, making the work of fitting it for cultivation expensive
and slow. In such circumstances, the settlers soon found that
it was far cheaper to reclaim tide lands from the sea, even
by the erection of extremely high and strong dikes, than to
attempt to remove the existing timber on the high land, not
to mention that the reclaimed tide lands formed of alluvial
deposits were infinitely icher than the high land. The earliest and choicest selections of farming land under the general
land laws in western Washington, were made of land lying
wholly below ordinary high water mark, and to-day it is
possible to pass, in an ordinary high water, on a steamer past
farms protected by dikes, where the whole cultivated area of
the farm lies many feet lower than the surface of the water.
It is respectfully submitted that Congress, in disposing of
the public lands, has not, by any means, acted upon the theory
that lands known as ordinary tide lands, between high and
low water mark, on navigable waters, in Territories of the
United States, were not disposable, and should be held as
public highways, unless in case of some international duty or
public exigency by the United States in trust for the future
States. Upon the contrary, it is respectfully and confidently
insisted that the instances in which Congress has acted upon
the contrary theory, are so numerous as to constitute the rule
and not the exception.
But even admitting that it has not been the customary
policy of the Executive Department to permit such lands to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Parties.

be entered under the general land laws, what is the case at
bar? The plaintiff in error is not claiming land under any
general land law, but under a special grant of Congress. He
is not restricted by the act to lands subject to entry under
general land laws, but the exceptions are expressly enumerated in his grant.
It is to be presumed that Congress knew the law, and knew
that it had an unrestricted right to dispose of all the tide lands
in the Territory of Washington. The mind of the legislature
was upon exceptions when the grant was made, and numerous
exceptions were made as to the class of lands which Valentine
was not to be permitted to take by virtue of his grant. But
tide lands or lands below high water mark were not enumerated among those exceptions, and by every rule of construction
of either grants, laws, or contracts - and the act of 1872 partakes of the nature of all - all classes of lands which Congress
had the power to grant, and which were not excluded in
express terms, were among those of which he was authorized
to make selection.
We submit, from the foregoing exposition of the law
and facts, that these lands are public lands of the United.
States and subject to entry under the act of March 5, 1875.
rft.Joseph HI. Parsons filed a brief on behalf of Louis Largie, intervenor, in both cases.
Mrb'. Samuel Dic7mon and Mr. Frederic A
D. McKenney for
the Tacoma Land Company, appellant.
Mir. FredericD. MacKenney, with whom was Mir. Samuel
Field Phillips,filed a brief for Dearborn, intervenor in Baer
v. Moran Brothers Company.
AMr. John P. Fay filed a brief on behalf of Dearborn,
intervenor in Baer v. Moran Brothers Company.
.ir. T. C. Jones, Attorney General of the State of Washington, filed a brief on behalf of the State, intervenor in Baer
v. Moran Brothers Company.

MANN v. TAC0MA LAND COMIANY.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Edwin B. Smith closed for Mann, appellant.
MR. JUSTICE BrIEWEB,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The single question in this case is as to the title of plaintiff
to the premises. The lands are tide lands, covered and uncovered by the flow and ebb of the tide, and are situated in
Commencement Bay, near to the city of Tacoma. He does
not claim by any grant from the State of Washington, nor by
any act of Congress specifically granting him these lands, or in
terms providing for the location of scrip upon tide lands, but
insists that, although the statute under which this scrip was
issued, only authorized its location upon "unoccupied and unappropriated public lands," he had a right to locate it upon
these tide lands, and acquire full title thereto.
That the title to tide lands is in the State is a proposition
which has been again and again affirmed by this court, some
of the earlier opinions going so far as to declare that the
United States had no power to grant to individuals such lands
at any time, even prior to the admission of the State and during the territorial existence. However, in the recent case of
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.1, after a careful review of the
authorities, it was held that the denial in those opinions of the
power of Congress to make such a grant was not strictly correct; but it was also held that, although Congress could, it
had never undertaken by general laws to dispose of such
lands, and in the summing up at the close of the opinion it
was stated: "The United States, while they hold the country
as a Territory, having all the powers both of national and of
municipal government, may grant, for appropriate purposes,
titles or rights in the soil below high water mark of tide waters.
But they have never done so by general laws; and, unless in
some case of international duty or public exigency, have acted
upon the policy, as most in accordance with the interest of the
people and with the object for which the Territories were acquired, of leaving the administration and disposition of the
sovereign rights in navigable waters, and in the soil under

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

them, to the control of the States, respectively, when organized and admitted into the Union."
It is unnecessary, in view of this recent examination of the
question, to enter into any discussion respecting the same. It
is settled that the general legislation of Congress in respect to
public lands does not extend to tide lands. There is nothing
in the act authorizing the Valentine scrip, or in the circumstances which gave occasion for its passage, to make an exception to the general rule. It provided that the scrip might be
located on the unoccupied and unappropriated public lands,
but the term "public lands" does not include tide lands. As
said in NAewhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, 763: "The words
'public lands ' are habitually used in our legislation to describe,
such as are subject to sale or other disposal under general
laws." See also Leavenworth &e. Railroad v. United States,
92 U. S. 733; Doolan v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618.
Further, in the act of February 22, 1889, c. 180, providing
for the admission of Washington, Montana, and the two
Dakotas, into the Union, 25 Stat. 676, 677, among the conditions imposed was this: "That the people inhabiting said proposed States do agree and declare that they forever disclaim
all right and title to the unappropriated public lands lying
within the boundaries thereof." No one can for a moment
suppose that it was the thought of Congress to change the
whole policy of the government and reserve to the nation the
title and control of the soil beneath the tide waters and those
of navigable streams. Indeed, in the constitution of Washington, (art. 17, see. 1,) there is an express assertion of the
title of the State to the tide lands within its borders..
That there was no intent in the Valentine scrip act to make
any exception to the general rule is evident not merely from
the use of a term having such an accepted meaning, but from
the further provision that the land, "if unsurveyed when taken,
to conform, when surveyed, to the general system of United
States land surveys," for under that general system surveys
are not extended to tide lands, nor those under navigable
rivers above tide water.
In Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324, 338, it was said: "The

MANN v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

United States has wisely abstained from extending (if it could
extend) its survey and grants beyond the limits of high
water."
But it is claimed that there is a peculiar equity attaching to
the Valentine scrip because the Miranda grant in fact embraced tide lands, and was of great value- $2,000,000 as
stated in the debate in Congress. It is said by counsel that
the intention of Congress, as indicated by this act, under
the circumstances, was manifestly to give Valentine the right
of selection of lands of the United States belonging to the
same classes as were to be found in the Miranda grant, which
he relinquished. The import of the language is precisely
this, and the contract to be equal requires the construction
which the language plainly means. Any other construction would be against the just intentions of the national
legislature.
So far as respects the great value of the Miranda grant, it
was that which was created by the building up of a city
within its borders, and not something which inhered in the
land itself. So that when Valentine failed to secure a confirmation of that grant, he was not losing property which was
of the value of $2,000,000 when granted by the Mexican
government, but only losing the opportunity to appropriate
$2,000,000 worth of value created by the labors of others
upon lands to which they supposed they had title.
Further, as appears from the statement made by the Secretary of the Interior, he had lost all legal right to this land,
for when a commission had been provided for investigating
the validity of such claims, he presented his claim for confirmation and then withdrew it. Congress had fulfilled all
obligations to him growing out of the treaty with Mexico,
and when by his own act he had forfeited his legal claims to
the land, it was a mere act of grace by which was given to
him the right to select an equal amount of land elsewhere.
If Congress had thought that it was necessary in order to do
justice that he should be permitted to select an equal quantity
of land of like character, it was easy to have expressed that
intention. Having failed to do so, and omitted any reference

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to tide lands, its donation to him is to be construed as any
other grant of the government, and no unexpressed and unsuggested intention should be attributed to Congress- certainly
no intention to make the people of the State of Washington,
who otherwise would receive these tide lands for their
general benefit, suffer by reason of his neglect to properly
assert his claim to lands in the State of California. There is,
therefore, nothing in this matter of the Valentine scrip to
take the case out of the rule laid down in Shively v. Bowlly.
Reliance is also placed on article 17, section 2, of the constitution of the State of Washington, which reads: "The
State of Washington disclaims all title in and claim to all
tide, swamp, and overflowed lands patented by the United
States; provided, the same is not impeached for fraud." In
respect to this it is enough to say that these lands were not
patented. It is doubtless true, as said by this court in Stark
v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402, 418, that "the right to a patent once
vested is treated by the government when dealing with the
public lands, as equivalent to a patent issued." But here
there was no right to a patent. The entry in the local land
,office, and the receipt issued by the local land officers, were
unauthorized acts, and gave no right to a patent; and it cannot be supposed that the State of Washington, when it exeluded from its claim of title lands which the government had
in the due administration of its land department disposed of
by a patent, meant thereby to exclude every tract for which
a local land officer might wrongfully issue a receiver's receipt.
These are all the matters involved in this case. We see no
,error in the raling of the Circuit Court, and its decree is
Affrmed.

