WILSON v. HALEY LIVE STOCK CO.
Syllabus.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistnt Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is covered by that of the same person against Seeberger, collector, just decided. The tobacco was like that imported in the former case, and was likewise assessed. There
was due protest by the importer, seasonable appeal to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and, on his adverse ruling, a timely
suit. The case was tried by a jury. The court instructed the
jury that if they believed from the evidence that the tobacco
in question required to have labor expended upon it in order
to fit it for consumption, then it was unmanufactured tobacco,
as claimed by the plaintiff, etc. Excepting to this ruling, the
case was brought here. Whatever may have been the correctness of the instruction as a general proposition, it was correct
when applied to the case in hand. Evanston v. Gunn, 99
U. S. 660. The judgment is
Affirmed.

WILSON v. HALEY LIVE STOCK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 332. Submitted March 20, 1894. -Decided

April 16, 1894.

A defendant who proceeds to introduce testimony, after denial of his

motion for a verdict in his favor on the close of the plaintiff's evidence
in chief, thereby waives his exception to that denial.
A count in trespass de bonis asportatis,for the taking and detaining of personal property, can only be supported on the theory that plaintiff was
either its owner, or entitled of right to its possession at the time of the
trespass complained of.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
In an action of trespass de bonis asportatisthe plaintiff cannot recover as
upon a count for money had and received, at least without an amendment of the complaint.
Where a cause of action is not proven, not merely in some particular, but
in its entire scope and meaning, the courts treat it, not as a case of
variance merely, but as an entire failure of proof.

T.is was an action by the Haley Live Stock Company
against Wilson and five others to recover damages for the
forcible seizure on July 27, 1888, of 700 head of cattle, and the
extortion from the plaintiff of $12,725.50 as a condition precedent to the defendants surrendering possession of the cattle to
the plaintiff.
The answer of Wilson and Breeze, two of the defendants,
denied the incorporation of the plaintiff, as well as all the allegations of the complaint, and set up in defence that Wilson, as
treasurer of Routt County, and Breeze as his assistant, seized
these cattle under a warrant for taxes for the year 1884 against
one Ora Haley, by which warrant defendant Wilson was commanded to make the said sum of $12,725.50 out of the personal
property of Haley, and by virtue whereof he distrained upon
these cattle, and detained the same from July 27 to August 21,
when Haley voluntarily paid the amount due. During this
time, defendant Wilson .was enjoined by Haley from selling
them, and the cattle were properly cared for and in better
condition than when seized. A similar answer was fied by
the other defendants.
Upon the trial it appeared that articles of incorporation of
the Haley Live Stock Company, under the laws of Iowa, signed
by Ora Haley and Samuel Hass, were filed for record in the
county recorder's office of Pottawattamie County, Iowa, on
July 24, 1888; in Carbon County, Wyoming, on July 30;
and in Routt County, Colorado, on August 10; and in the
office of the Secretary of State of Iowa on August 29, though
nothing appears to have been filed in the office of the Secretary of State of Colorado. The articles provided for a capital
stock of $300,000, divided into 3000 shares; that the corporation should begin business on August 1, 1888, and that Haley
should be superintendent and manager of the company.

WILSON v. HALEY LIVE STOCK CO.
Statement of the Case.

The cattle were seized on July 27, and released on August
21, upon payment of $12,725.50. At this time Wilson, as
treasurer, executed the following receipt:
"YAMPA, ROUTE Co., COLO., Aug. 21, 1888.
"Received of Wilson Rankin for Ora Haley a certified
check of Frank X. Aicher, on the German National Bank of
Denver, Colorado. . . . This payment, it is understood, is
paid in full settlement for the taxes of Ora Haley for the year
1884: under protest, and to release cattle now distrained for
said taxes."
Haley testified that the Haley Live Stock Company became
the owner of these cattle about the 24th of July by purchase
from one Timothy Kinney; that Haley organized the company
with a capital stock of 3000 shares, of which he owned 2990,
the remaining ten shares being owned by four others; that
the consideration for the cattle "1was somewhere near the
capital stock of the corporation;" that he, Haley, originally
owned the cattle and had sold them to Kinney for about
$300,000, taking his note and a chattel mortgage for the
amount; that subsequent to this seizure Kinney brought suit
in equity to enjoin the sale of the cattle for the taxes, upon
the hearing of which suit both Haley and Kinney testified
that the cattle were Kinney's property at the time of the
seizure; that the sale to Kinney was bonafde; but that it was
understood from the beginning that just as soon as the company was formed it was to take the property, Haley being
advised "that that was a better method to get a corporation
and have the property conveyed to it from a third party ;" that
the cattle were transferred to the company for the purpose of
litigating the taxes in the Federal court. Haley further testified that "the minute the corporation had formed and was in
shape to acquire title to it, it was the understanding between
Iass, Kinney, and myself that that property was to be the
property of the Haley Live Stock Company again."
"Q. Then the delivery was a mental operation, was it not?
"A. Yes; I expect it was.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"Q. You heard your affidavit read, made on the 4th of
August, in which you testified that that property belonged to
Timothy Kinney and was then in his possession. Was that
true or was it false?
"A. Well, it was. He was one of the possessors. There
had been no formal delivery of the property; only this understanding with the corporation."
It further appeared that, about 1885, he obtained an injunction against the collection of this tax, which was dissolved,
that he then obtained a second injunction, which was dissolved by the Supreme Court, and the suit dismissed, Breeze
v. Haley, 10 Colorado, 5; that he then obtained a-third injunction, which was again dissolved, and the suit dismissed,
Breeze v. Haley, 11 Colorado, 351; that he thereafter obtained
a fourth and a fifth injunction, both of which were dissolved
by the District Court of Arapahoe County, Colorado; that he
took one of these cases to the Supreme Court of the United
States, Haley v. Breeze, 144 U. S.130; and that he obtained
a release of the cattle under all these injunctions, except the
last one.
The testimony of Wilson IRankin for the plaintiff was to the
effect that he was in charge of the cattle at the time they
were seized; that at the time of the payment he demanded a
receipt in the name of the Haley Live Stock Company, which
was refused, and a receipt taken in the name of Haley; that
at the time of the seizure he was working for Kinney and
knew nothing about the Live Stock Company; that he got a
check from Haley, and that the first time he ever mentioned
to Wilson or any one else the name of the company was when
he asked for the receipt.
Defendants offered testimony tending to support the allegations of their answer; produced the tax roll in evidence; and
showed that the Live Stock Company was never heard of by
them until the day the taxes were paid and the cattle released.
The court submitted to the jury the question whether the
money was paid by the Haley Live Stock Company or by
Mr. Haley himself. The jury returned a verdict for $5266.92,
upon which judgment was entered, and defendants sued

WILSON v. HALEY LIVE STOCK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

out this writ of error, assigning as error certain questions
arising upon the admission of testimony and the charge of
the court.
.3fr. Daniel E. Parks and Zr. -f. B. Johnson for plaintiff
in error.

.Mr. TF. T. Ku ghes for defendant in error.
MIR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

We shall not find it necessary to dispose of all the errors
assigned to the action of the court below, as many of them are
not properly presented by the record.
1. Upon the conclusion of the plaintiff's testimony, defendants moved the court- to direct a verdict in their favor upon
several grounds, among which were that the organization of
the plaintiff corporation was fraudulent, and solely for the
purpose of invoking the jurisdiction of the Federal court;
that the property in question was never conveyed to the plaintiff until after the trespass was committed, and therefore it
could not sue for the same; that the pretended conveyances
from Haley to Kinney and from Kinney to plaintiff were
without consideration and fraudulent; and there had been no
delivery of the property to the plaintiff prior to the alleged
trespass. The court denied this motion, and the defendants
excepted. They did not, however, stand upon their exceptions, but proceeded to introduce testimony in their own behalf, and thereby, as we have repeatedly held, waived their
exceptions. Bogk- v. Gassert, 149 U. S. 17, 23. Nor did they
renew their motion upon the conclusion of the entire testimony, as they might have done. This disposes of the third
assignment of error, "that the court erred in overruling the
motion of the defendants, made at the conclusion of the evidence of plaintiff, to instruct the jury to find a verdict for
defendants." As the fourth, fifth, and sixth assignments are
only to the opinion of the court in denying such motion, they
must share the fate of the third. In addition to this, how-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ever, the reasons given by the court for its action upon the
principal motion are not the proper subjects of exception.
If the exception was improperly overruled, the reasons given
by the court for its action are of no consequence.
2. There was an exception taken, however, to the following extract from the charge, which is also assigned as error,
namely: "That if you believe from the evidence that this
money was paid over by the Haley Live Stock Company, and
not by Mr. Haley himself, then the plaintiff would have
the right to recover it back as having been exacted under
circumstances which showed no authority upon the part of
Mr. Wilson to get it."
This charge must be taken in connection with the pleadings
in the case, and can only be justified upon the theory that,
consistently with the allegations of the complaint, plaintiff
had a right to recover, if the money paid to obtain the release
of the cattle was paid by the Haley Live Stock Company, and
not by Mr. Haley himself. It is true that this portion of the
charge was excepted to upon the ground that it assumed the
invalidity of the tax proceedings; but, as it went to the foundation of the action, we think it may be construed as raising the
same question that was raised at the conclusion of the plaintiff's testimony, viz., the right to recover upon the allegations
of the complaint, and the admitted facts of the case.
The gist of the complaint is contained in the fifth paragraph,
which is as follows: "That on or about July 27, 1888, the
defendants, by force and arms, seized and took from the plaintiff about sevei. hundred head of beef cattle, which were
bunched up and were being driven to market by plaintiff, and
that, after seizing and taking from plaintiff said cattle, defendants drove said cattle great distances, and kept them
bunched together, and greatly injured said cattle, and caused
them to deteriorate and lose flesh, until on August 21, 1888,
plaintiff was compelled to pay defendants a sum demanded by
them of plaintiff, to wit, $12,725.50, as a condition precedent
to defendants surrendering possession of said cattle to plaintiff."
This is, in its nature, a count in trespass de bonis aspo-rtatis,

WILSON v. HALEY LIVE STOCK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

for the taking and detaining of personal property, and can
only be supported upon the theory that plaintiff was either
the owner of the cattle, or entitled of right to the possession
of them at the time of the trespass complained of. 1 Chitty
on Pleading, 189.
The allegation that plaintiff was compelled to pay defendants a large sum of money to obtain the release of the cattle
is, to all intents and purposes, an allegation that plaintiff
suffered this amount of damages by reason of the unlawful
seizure of its cattle, in addition to the damages suffered in
driving said cattle great distances, keeping them bunched together, and causing them to deteriorate and lose flesh. Now,
there is no evidence which would justify a jury in finding that
plaintiff was the owner or entitled to the possession of the
cattle until some time after the 27th of July, when the trespass is alleged to have been committed. By the articles of
incorporation of the Haley Live Stock Company it was not
authorized to begin business until the first day of August,
1888; and although these articles were filed in the county
recorder's office of Pottawattamie County, Iowa, as early as
July 24, they were not filed for record in the State of Colorado until August 10, fourteen days after the trespass was
committed. In addition to this it appears that, in the suit in
replevin instituted by Kinney against these same defendants,
Wilson and Breeze, to obtain possession of these cattle, Haley,
purporting to act as agent for Kinney, made affidavit on
August 4 that Kinney was the owner of and was then lawfully entitled to the possession of the cattle in question.
Notwithstanding this, Haley swore that the Live Stock
Company, of which he himself was practically the sole incorporator, became the owner of these cattle on the 24th of July,
by purchase from Kinney, though he admits there was no
formal delivery or transfer of possession. The truth seems to
be that the company was organized for the sole purpose of
bringing this suit as a non-resident; that Haley swore that
the cattle became the property of the company on about July
24 simply because the, company filed its articles of incorporation in Pottawattamie County, Iowa, upon that day; that no

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

purchase was ever actually made of these cattle by the company, at least until long after the date of the seizure, and, as
Haley admits, the delivery and sale were only a mental operation, and if the company ever took title at all, it was long
after the date of the alleged trespass.
Clearly there was nothing in any of these transactions that
could give to the company the right to sue for the trespass
committed in the seizure of these cattle on July 27. The
Circuit Court held that the plaintiff had not acquired the title
or possession at that time, and hence could not maintain an
action for the seizure of the cattle and the loss accruing from
that act. The court was, however, of opinion that if it could
assume that the plaintiff paid the money for Kinney, or whoever was the owner of the cattle at the time, to secure the
release of them, with the view of acquiring property in them,
it might maintain an action for the money paid for that purpose; that the fact that the plaintiff was a stranger to the
proceeding to collect the taxes was not material; and that, if
the.taxes were void, a stranger paying the amount for the use
of the person against whom it was levied would be able to
recover the money. We concur in its opinion that the plaintiff could not maintain an action for the trespass; but we
think it was in error in holding that the plaintiff might continue the action for the recovery of the money paid to obtain
the release of the cattle. As before stated, this was a mere
item of the damages occasioned by the seizure. The gist of
the action was the trespass, and if the plaintiff was not able to
maintain that action, it fell to the ground, and carried with it
all the damages incidental thereto. We are not called upon
to determine whether, under the Code of Civil Procedure of
the State of Colorado, the court might or might not have permitted the action of trespass to be turned into one for money
had and received, and the plaintiff to recover upon the theory
that the cattle had, before the payment of the money, become
its property, and that such payment was made for the purpose
of obtaining its release, and was, therefore, not voluntary. It
is sufficient to say that we know of no system of pleading
which enables a party to declare in trespass de bonis asportatis,

WILSON v. HALEY LIVE STOCK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

and without at least an amendment of his complaint, recover
as upon an account for money had and received.
By section 78 of the Colorado Code of Civil Procedure it is
provided that "if, upon the trial of an action before the court
or jury, the evidence shall vary from the allegations of the
pleadings, and either party is surprised thereby, he shall be
allowed, on motion and showing cause therefor, and on such
terms as the court may prescribe, to amend his pleadings to
conform to proofs." No such amendment, however, was made
in this case. While, undoubtedly, under the system of code
pleading, a technical variance between the allegations and the
proof is not deemed material, unless the adverse party is
prejudiced thereby, still, where a cause of action or defence is
not proven, not merely in some particular, but in its entire
scope and meaning, it is treated by the authorities of those
States, not as a case of variance merely, but as an entire failure of proof. See TFolkening v. De Graaf, 81 N. Y. 268;
S. C. 44 N. Y. Super. Ct. (12 J. & S.) 424:; Decker v. Saltzman,
59 N. Y. 275. In Degraw v. Elmore, 50 N. Y. 1, it is held
distinctly that the code does not authorize a recovery where
the complaint alleges facts showing a cause of action in tort,
by proving on the trial a cause of action in contract. To the
same effect are Ross v. .atlher, 51 N. Y. 108; TMaltee v.
Bennett, 16 N. Y. 250; Belknap v. Sealey, 14 N. Y. 143Bernhard v. Seligman, 54 N. Y. 661; Barnes v. Quigley, 59
N. Y. 265; Farmer v. Cram, 7 California, 135.
If in fact the cattle continued to be the property of Kinney
or Haley up to the time the money was paid, it is difficult to
see upon what theory a recovery could be permitted at all,
since in such case the payment by the Haley Live Stock Company would be wholly voluntary. ZamborA v. County Commissioners, 97 U. S.181, 185. If, upon the other hand, the
cattle had become the bona Xfde property of a bonaflde corporation, it is possible that such corporation might sustain an
action for money paid for the release of its property, even
though it were organized for the purpose of carrying the litigation into the Federal courts. Seeberger v. Castro, ante, 32.
The difficulty in this connection is to find any tangible evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

deniwe that the Live Stock Company paid this tax, or had any
money with which to pay it. The proof was that Haley borrowed of one Aicher the money to pay these taxes, giving him
his own notes for the amount, while Aicher gave to him a
cheque which he endorsed personally and handed to the
county treasurer. The name of the Live Stock Company was
not used in the transaction, and at this time it had opened no
books, had no money, and no account at a bank. In fact, the
Haley Live Stock Company seems to have been a mere alias
for Haley. The fact that Haley may have intended to sell
the cattle as the property of the company and pay his note to
Aicher from the proceeds, does not put the company in the
position of an original payer.
We think the court was in error in submitting to the jury
the question who paid these taxes, both because the pleadings
did not justify it and because there was no proper evidence
that plaintiff paid them. The judgment must, therefore, be
proceedings in
Reversed, and th-e case remanded for furtherp
conformity with this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

UNITED

STATES

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
1S94.
No.1070. Submitted March 13, 1891.-Decided April 168

On November 12, 1890, in the Indian country, within the boundaries of
Oklahoma Territory, as defined by the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26
Stat. 81, horse stealing was not a crime against the United States,
punishable under the act of February 15, 1888, c. 10, 25 Stat. 33; but as
to the Cherokee outlet, it remained Indian country after the passage of
the Act of May 2, 1890, and such an offence, committed there, continued
to be an offence against the ,United States.
An indictment in the District Court of the United States within and for
Logan County in Oklahoma Territory, and for the Indian country attached
thereto, charging the commission of the offence of horse stealing in
November, 1890, and laying the venue of the offence "at and within that

