OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

position where he must be presumed to have a substantial,
although not direct interest in the result of the litigation.
Though it was allowable when so situated to file a bill in the
nature of a bill of interpleader, (Bedell v. Hffman, supra,)
we think it clear that his ultimate interest prevents him from
being allowed his solicitor's fee from the fund dedicated to the
payment of the mortgage, thereby diminishing the security of
the mortgage creditor.
The decree is reversed, and a decree is rendered in favor of
Martha Groves and William J. Groves, directing the payment
out of the fund of $4873, with interest at eight per cent from
March 5, 1884, until paid, and costs of this and the court
1eversed.
below.
JACxSON, not having been present at the argument, took no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JuSTICE

MOBILE

AND

OHIO RAILROAD
TENNESSEE.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.

No. 1004.

Argued April 24, 1894.-

Decided May 14, 1894.

This court has jurisdiction to revise the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee in this case, deciding that the provision in the eleventh section
of the Tennessee charter of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company that
no tax shall ever be laid on said road or its fixtures which shall reduce
the dividends below eight per cent does not forbid the assessment and
collection of taxes under the acts of the legislature of Tennessee referred
to in the opinion of that court; that " the said eight per cent clause is
invalid," " null and void," and that the said legislation "does not violate
or impair the obligation of any contract with the Mobile and Ohio Company."
In 1848 the legislature of Tennessee had, under the constitution of the State
of 1834, then in force, power to grant to the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
Company the exemption from taxation which was granted to it by the
eleventh section of the act of January 28, 1848, incorporating it in Tennessee, in the following terms: "That the capital stock of said company
shall be forever exempt from taxation, and the road, with all its fixtures

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

487

Opinion of the Court.
and appurtenances, including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of
transportation, shall be exempt from taxation for the period of twentyfive years from the completion of the road, and no tax shall ever be laid
on said road or its fixtures which will reduce the dividends below eight
per cent."
Under the provisions of that section the capital stock of the company is
forever exempt from taxation during the existence of the corporation;
the road, fixtures, etc., were exempt for twenty-five years after the completion of the road, which term has now expired; and now they can be
taxed only when the net earnings of the road are more than sufficient to
pay to the stockholders, on the present basis of its capital, a dividend of
eight per cent a year.
Dividends can rightfully be paid only out of profits; profits are measured
by the amount of net earnings; and net earnings are what remain after
maintaining the property and paying the interest upon its debts.
In sustaining the validity of the exemption, the court must not be understood as holding that the railroad company has the right, in its discretion, to issue hereafter additional capital stock, or to increase its bonded
indebtedness, even for legitimate purposes, and have the same taken into
consideration upon the question of its liability for taxation under the
eight per cent dividend clause of its charter.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

A'. E. J. Phelps and Mr'. F. F. Whitridge, (with whom
was ir. E. L. Russell on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Mr. G. TV Pickle, Attorney General of Tennessee, Jib'. Mt.
X. Neil, and M'. J. . Troutt for defenda-Rts in error. Air.
F. If Moore, Mr. John .Wells, Air. S. A. Champion, Ar. J
R. Deason, -Mr.
E L. Bullock, Air. A. . Stovall, and M',.
James Af. Head were with them on their briefs.
Mn. JUSTICE JACKsoN delivered the opinion of the court.
The Federal question presented by the writ of error in this
case is whether state statutes, subjecting the property of a
railroad corporation to taxation, impair the obligation of the
contract contained in an exemption clause of the company's
charter ?
It arises in this way: The State of Tennessee and certain
counties therein in February, 1891, filed their bill against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, (hereafter styled the
railroad company,) and its mortgagee, the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, to enforce the collection of state and county
taxes, assessed upon the property, roadbed, and fixtures of the
railroad company for the years 1885 to 1889 inclusive. The
defence specially interposed, and which raises the Federal
question in the case, was that the revenue statutes of the
State, enacted subsequent to the granting of the charter, and
under which the taxes sought to be collected were levied,
impaired the obligation of the contract contained in the
railroad company's charter, and were therefore unconstitutional and void.
The railroad company was chartered by an act of the legislature of the State of Tennessee, approved January 28, 1848.
The State in granting the charter reserved no right to amend
or repeal the same; nor was there any provision either in the
constitution or the general laws of the State -in existence at
the time -which
reserved to the State the right to alter,
modify, or repeal the charter. By section 11 of the act of
incorporation it was provided: "That the capital stock of said
company shall be forever exempt from taxation, and the road,
with all its fixtures and appurtenances, including workshops,
warehouses, and vehicles of transportation, shall be exempt
from taxation for the period of twenty-five years from the
completion of the road, and no tax shall ever be laid on said
road or its fixtures which will reduce the dividends below
eight per cent."
Various grounds were alleged in the bill on which the effect
of section 11 was sought to be avoided, or to show that the
railroad company had waived or forfeited the benefits of the
exemption contained in the last clause thereof. These allegations need not, however, be noticed, as they were found and
adjudged by the Supreme Court of Tennessee against the
complainants, and in favor of the railroad company. The
pleadings admitted and the proofs established that since
the completion of the road to its original northern terminus on
the Mississippi River, in April, 1861, the railroad company had
neither earned nor declared any dividend, either on its whole

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

489

Opinion of the Court.

line or upon any portion of its road lying in the State of
Tennessee. It is also shown that its earnings for the years
1885 to 1889, inclusive, were insufficient to pay any dividend
to its stockholders.
The period of twenty-five years from the completion of the
road, referred to in the section, having expired on April 22,
1886, the Supreme Court of the State disallowed the taxes
assessed and claimed for the years 1885 and 1886, on the
ground that they were covered by the twenty-five year exemption, but adjudged and decreed that the railroad company was
liable to the respective complainants for the taxes of 1887,
1888, and 1889, in the following amounts: to the State of
Tennessee, $24,117.73; to McNairy County, $16,365.52; to
Madison County, $13,769.69; to Chester County, $4210.25;
to Obion County, $10,554.61; to Gibson County, $19,182.06;
which sums were declared liens upon the property of the railroad company.
The grounds upon which its decree was based, and which
are assigned for error, are as follows:
"And the court, construing said 11th section of said Tennessee charter, is further of opinion, and doth so adjudge and
decree, that the true intent and meaning of the said 11th
section of the Tennessee charter of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, passed January 28th, 1848, is that on and after
the 22d day of April, 1886, being twenty-five years from the
completion of said road, the road, with all its fixtures and
appurtenances, including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles
of transportation, all the property, franchise, etc., of the said
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, became liable to taxation; and the court is further of opinion, and doth accordingly so adjudge and decree, that from and after said 22d day
of April, 1886, all of said properties of every description of the
said M obile and Ohio Railroad Company -that is to say, its
roadbed and fixtures and appurtenances, including workshops,
warehouses, vehicles of transportation, and all of its property
of every kind and description and franchises, become liable to
taxation under the rule of equality and uniformity prescribed
in article 2, section 28, of the constitution of 1834 of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

State of Tennessee; and it further appearing to the coirt that
the complainants have in their bill in this cause attacked the
eight per cent clause in the said section (11) eleven of the said
charter of the said Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, passed
by the legislature of Tennessee on January 28th, 1848, which
eight per cent clause reads as follows: ' And no tax shall ever
be laid on said road or its fixtures which will reduce the
dividends below eight per cent,' and that they have charged
in their said bill, among other things, that said eight per cent
clause is in violation of the rule of equality and uniformity of
taxation prescribed by said article 2, section 28, of said constitution of 1834, and the court being of opinion that said.
property became taxable as aforesaid on and after April 22,
1886, therefore the court doth adjudge and decree that the
said eight per cent clause is in violation of said article 2,
section 28, of said constitution of 1834, as aforesaid, and that
the same is unconstitutional and void, which said article 2,
section 28, of the said constitution of 1834 provides, among
other things, 'that all property shall be taxed according to its
value, that value to be ascertained in such manner as the
legislature shall direct, so that the same shall be equal and
uniform throughout the State. 1o one species of property
from which a tax may be collected shall be taxed higher than
any other species of property of equal value;' and the court
is also of opinion, and doth accordingly so adjudge and decree,
that said eight per cent clause is likewise void because it is so
vague, indefinite, and uncertain in its terms as to be nonenforceable in this, to wit, that it does not appear from said
clause or anywhere in said charter upon what dividends were
expected to be declared, there being no amount or limit of
capital stock fixed in said charter, and no means for fixing
the same being provided, and no directions being given or
means provided as to how said dividends should be ascertained,
with a view to taxation or otherwise, and the court is of
opinion, and doth accordingly so adjudge and decree, that
said eight per cent clause is arbitrary, insensate, and absurd,
and is void and unenforceable, and furnishes no obstacle whatever to the taxation of said properties.

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

491

Opinion of the Court.

"It is therefore adjudged and decreed by the court that the
road of the said the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, together with all its fixtures and appurtenances, including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation, and all its
properties and franchises, are subject and liable to taxation for
state and county purposes in said counties of Obion, Gibson,
Madison, Chester, and McNairy, (counties in said State of
Tennessee,) and have so been liable since the 22d day of April,
1886, according to and by the several general statutes of assessment and taxation in force in the State of Tennessee during
the years 1887, 1888, and 1889, and forever thereafter, under
the equal and uniform laws of the State of Tennessee; and it
is further adjudged and decreed by the court that the acts of
the general assembly of the State of Tennessee, as set forth in
the pleadings, to wit, the acts of 1875, chapter 78, page 103 ;
acts 1877, ch. 19, p. 31; acts 1881, chapter 104, p. 133; acts of
1882, (extra session,) chapter 16, all of which are set out in
Milliken and Vertrees' compilation of the acts of the legislature
of Tennessee, and known as ' Milliken and Vertrees' Code of
Tennessee,' chapter 5, pages 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, being
section 669 to section 708, inclusive, and the general revenue
laws of the State covering the years 1887 to 1889, inclusive,
being acts of 1885, chap. 1, p. 1, and acts of 1887, chaps. 1 and
2, and acts of 1889, chaps. 96 and 130, under and by which
statutes the complainants have caused to be assessed for taxes
the property of the defendant, the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
Company, and are seeking to collect and force the payment of
the taxes so assessed, are not in violation of section 10, article
1, of the Constitution of the United States of America, which
provides, among other things, ' that no State shall pass any bill
of attainder, ex post faoto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts, or grant any title of nobility,' but that said
acts are valid and constitutional, and said properties of said the
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company are under said acts liable
for taxes from and including the year 1887, and that the provision of the eleventh section of the Tennessee charter of the
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, which provides that 'no
tax shall ever be laid on said road or its fixtures which

OCTOBER TERM, 189%.
Opinion of the Court.

shall reduce the dividends below eight per cent,' does not prevent the assessment and collection of said taxes under said
statutes enacted for assessing, collecting, and enforcing payment of taxes on said railroad property, for that the court is of
opinion and doth adjudge and decree that said eight per cent
clause just quoted above is invalid, and that the provision set
forth therein that ' no tax shall ever be laid on said road or its
fixtures which will reduce the dividends below eight per cent'
is null and void and doth not, therefore, interfere with or prevent the assessment and collection of taxes against said road
under the said several revenue acts of the State of Tennessee,
and that said several revenue acts are valid and constitutional
and not in violation of said article I, section 10, of the Constitution of the United States of America, for that the same as
applied to the taxes of 1887, 1888, and 1889, and future taxes,
do not violate or impair the obligation of any contract with
the Mobile and Ohio Company, the said eight per cent clause
being null and void, all of which is accordingly so adjudged
and decreed by the court."
It is contended by counsel for defendants in error that this
court is without jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Tennessee, because it was based, or proceeded, upon the ground that there was no contract in existence between the railroad company and the State to be
impaired, and that the supposed contract was in violation of
the state constitution of 1834, and hence not within the power
of the legislature to make. In support of this proposition
there are cited Railroad Company v. McClure, 10 Wall. 511,
515 ; Boyd v. Alabama, 9: U. S. 645 ; Yazoo and Miss. T-al-.
ley Railroad v. Thomas, 132 U. S.174; and New Orleans v.
NYew Orleans Wfater Works Co., 142 U. S.'79.
These decisions need not be specially reviewed, for they
clearly do not apply to the case under consideration. It is
well settled that the decision of a state court holding that, as
a matter of construction, a particular charter or a charter provision does not constitute a contract, is not binding on this
court. The question of the existence or non-existence of a
contract in cases like the present is one which this court will

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

493

Opinion of the Court.

determine for itself, the established rule being that where the
judgment of the highest court of a State, by its terms or necessary operation, gives effect to some provisions of the state
law which is claimed by the unsuccessful party to impair the
contract set out and relied on, this court has jurisdiction to
determine the question whether such a contract exists as
claimed, and whether the state law complained of impairs its
obligation. A brief reference to some of the authorities is
sufficient to show this:
In Jefferson Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436, 443, it was said
by this court: "Its (the Supreme Court) rule of interpretation
has invariably been that the constructions given by the courts
of the States to state legislation and to state constitutions
have been conclusive upon this court with a single exception,
and that is when it has been called upon to interpret the contracts of States, 'though they had been made in the forms of
law,' or by the instrumentality of a State's authorized functionaries, in conformity with state legislation. It has never
been denied, nor is it now, that the Supreme Court of the
United States has an appellate power to revise the judgment
of the Supreme Court of a State whenever such a court shall
adjudge that not to be a contract which has been alleged, in
the forms of legal proceedings, by a litigant, to be one within
the meaning of that clause of the Constitution of the United
States which inhibits the States from passing laws impairing
the obligation of contracts. Of what use would the appellate
power be to a litigant who feels himself aggrieved by some
particular state legslation, if this court could not decide
independently of all adjudication by the Supreme Court of a
State whether or not the phraseology of an instrument in
controversy was expressive of a contract and within the protection of the Constitution of the United States, and that its
obligation should be enforced notwithstanding a contrary
conclusion by a Supreme Court of a State? "
In Jrew Orleans Water Co. v. Louisiana Sugar Co., 125
U. S. 18, 38, it was said by Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for
the court: (1) "When the state court decides against a right
claimed under a contract, and there was no law subsequent

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to the contract, this court clearly has no jurisdiction."

(2)
"When the existence and construction of a contract are undisputed, and the state court upholds a subsequent law on the
ground that it did not iinpair the obligation of the admitted
contract, it is equally clear that this court has jurisdiction."
(3) "When the state court holds that there was a contract
conferring certain rights, and that a subsequent law did not
impair those rights, this court has jurisdiction to consider the
true construction of the supposed contract, and, if it is of
opinion that it did not confer the right affirmed by the state
court, and therefore its obligation was not impaired by the
subsequent law, may, on that ground, affirm the judgment."
(4) "So, when the state court upholds the subsequent law on
the ground that the contract did not confer the right claimed,
this court may inquire whether the supposed contract did
give the right, because, if it did, the subsequent law cannot
be upheld."
In Wilmington & Weldon Railroad v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S.
279, 293, it was said: "The jurisdiction of this court is questioned upon the ground that the decision of the Supreme
Court of North Carolina conceded the validity of the contract
of exemption contained in the act of 1831, but denied that
particular property was embraced by its terms; and that,
therefore, such decision did not involve a Federal question.
In arriving at its conclusion, however, the state court gave
effect to the revenue law of 1891, and held that the contract
did not confer the right of exemption from its operation. If
it did, its obligation was impaired by the subsequent law, and
as the inquiry whether it did or not was necessarily directly
passed upon, we are of opinion that the writ of error was
properly allowed."
Also, in Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 684, the
court said: "The case in this regard is analogous to one arising under the clause of the Constitution which forbids a State
to pass any law impairing the obligations of contracts, in
which, if the highest court of the State decide nothing but
the original construction and obligation of a contract, this
court has no jurisdiction to review the decision; but if tho

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

49t

Opinion of the Court.

state court gives effect to a subsequent law which is impugned as impairing the obligations of a contract, this
court has power, in order to determine whether any contract
has been impaired, to decide for itself what the true construction of the contract is."
The same general proposition is clearly laid down in the
following cases: East Bartford v. Hlartford Bridge Co., 10
How. 511, 531; Ohio Life Ins. and Tirust Co. v. Debolt, 16
How. 416, 431 ; BridgeP2roprietorsv.Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116,
14-1; Delmas v. Ins. Co., 14 Wall, 661; University v. People,
99 U. S. 309, 321; Louisville and N.ashville Railroad v.
Palrmes, 109 U. S. 244, 256; Louisville Gas Co.. v. Citizens'
Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683, 697; *icksburg &c. Railroad v.
-Dennis, 116 U. S. 665; Yazoo &c. Railroad v. Thomas, 132
U. S. 1,74; and in Bryan v. Boarfd of Education, 151 U. S.
-639, 650, it is said: "So that it is necessary to inquire as to
the existence and effect of the alleged contract. And that
question must be determined by this court upon its own
judgment independently of any adjudication by the state
court."

The rule announced in these decisions leaves no room to
doubt the jurisdiction of this court in the present case.
Aside from the certificate of the acting chief justice of the
state Supreme Court that the constitutionality of the statutes,
under which the taxes sought to be enforced were levied,
was drawn in question by the plaintiffs in error, and was
decided by that court in favor of the validity and constitutionality of such acts, the pleadings in the case, as well as the
decree complained of, establish beyond doubt that the question presented was one clearly Federal in its character, such
as this court has a right to review. The grounds upon
which the Supreme Court of the State held that the contract,
claimed by the railroad company under the eleventh section
of its charter, was invalid, in no way affects the jurisdiction
of this court. The legal existence of the contract itself,
and its proper construction, is necessarily involved in the question of the alleged impairment of the obligation thereof.
It appears from the decree of the Supreme Court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

State that the exemption clause relied on by the plaintiffs in
error was held to be invalid on two grounds: First, that it
was in conflict with section 28, article 2, of the state constitution of 1834; and, second, it was invalid and unenforceable
for vagueness and uncertainty, because it did not appear
from the clause, or otherwise in the charter, upon what the
dividends were to be declared, inasmuch as there was no
amount or limit of capital stock fixed in the charter, and no
means provided for either fixing the same or for ascertaining
the dividends thereon.
This last ground on which the court rested its judgment is
manifestly unsound, for the clause in question, that "no tax
shall ever be laid on said road or its fixtures which will reduce the dividends below eight per cent," is clearly not so
incapable of any reasonable construction as to be void. On the
contrary, its terms are plain and unambiguous. The only
matter involving construction or interpretation is the meaning to be attached to the term "dividend."
It admits of no
question that the word "dividend" mentioned therein has
reference to dividends on the capital stock of the company
held and owned by its shareholders. The term "dividend"
in its technical as well as in its ordinary acceptation means
that portion of its profits which the corporation, by its directory, sets apart for ratable division among its shareholders.
-Lockhart v. Van Aistyne, 31 Michigan, 76; Boone on Corporations, sec. 125.
In the present case it appears that the maximum capital
stock authorized by the charter was $10,000,000, and that the
stock actually issued by the company, at various times during
the construction of the road, and outstanding, amounted to
the sum of $5,320,600, which, together with the company's
bonded indebtedness, fairly represented the cost of building
and completing the road. The amount of stock being fixed,
it was a matter of mere calculation as to when the profits
from net earnings would be sufficient to meet the designated
dividend.
Again, dividends can be rightfully paid only out of profits.
Corporations are liable to be enjoined by shareholders or cred-

]MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

497

Opinion of the Court.

itors from making a distribution, in dividends, of capital.
Taylor on Corporations, section 565, and authorities cited.
The term "profits," out of which dividends alone can properly be declared, denotes what remains after defraying every
expense, including loans falling due, as well as the interest on
such loans. Correy v. Londonderry Railway Co., 29 Beav.
263.
The net earnings of corporations out of which profits are
distributable in dividends are thus defined in St. John v. Erie
R ailway Co., 10 Blatchford, 279: "Net earnings are properly
the gross receipts less the expenses of operating the road to
earn such receipts. Interest on debts is paid out of what thus
remains- that is, out of the net earnings. Many other liabilities are paid out of the net earnings. When all liabilities are
paid, either out of the gross receipts or out of the net earnings,
the remainder is the profit of the shareholders, to go toward
dividends, which, in that way, are paid out of the net earnings." This case was affirmed by this court, 22 Wall. 136.
In -Yew York, Lake Brie & Western Railroad v. ANickals,
119 U. S. 296, 308, the same general rule that shareholders
are entitled only. to dividends out of the net earnings derived
from the operations of the company is reaffirmed.
It must be assumed that the legislature of Tennessee used
the term "dividends," in the exemption clause under consideration, in the general sense indicated, and bad reference to
that portion of the net earnings of the company which legitimately constituted profits and could be rightfully apportioned
or distributed among shareholders. There is no difficulty in
ascertaining the amount of such profits in any year, and the
stock actually issued being fixed, it is hard to understand how
it could be held that the exemption clause was void and unenforceable for want of certainty. The law regards that as
certain which is capable of being ascertained and definitely
fixed. The State cannot complain that no method has been
provided for ascertaining the amount of profits applicable to
the payment of the designated dividends. That is a matter
purely of administration, which does not touch in any way
the validity of the contract embodied in the exemption clause.
VOL. cLmI-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

It is stated on behalf of the defendants in error that the
company earned for the years in question profits more than
sufficient to pay eight per cent dividends, if the interest on its
bonded indebtedness was not chargeable against the earnings.
This point was not passed upon by the court below, and, if
the fact be as stated, it could not avail the defendants in error,
for the payment of the annually accruing interest on the
bonded debt of the railroad company was a proper charge
against the net earnings, to be paid before dividends could be
declared thereon. Mr. Justice Bradley, in Union Pacific
Railroad v. United Btates, 99 U. S. 402, 422, declared that
interest on the bonded indebtedness of the company, like other
current expenses, was payable out of the net earnings before
dividends could be distributed to the stockholders.
In Befast & .Moosehead Lake Railway v. Belfast, 77 Maine,
445, it was directly adjudged that the interest on the bonded
debt is payable out of the net earnings before dividends can
properly be declared.
In Correy v. Londonderry & Enniskillen Railway, 29 Beav.
263, 272, 274, Sir John Romilly, Master of the Rolls, in discussing this subject, while admitting that the funded indebtedness of a corporation was not properly payable out of
profits before there could be a division thereof, held that any
and all debts which had been incurred, and which were due
from the company and ought to have been paid, and would
have been paid at the time had the corporation possessed the
necessary funds for that purpose, constituted proper deductions from the earnings before the profits properly distributable could be ascertained.
The further claim is made in the brief, although not insisted upon in argument, that if the earnings of the company
were insufficient upon which to declare a dividend, the exemption clause had no operation, because there would be no
reduction of dividends. In other words, that the property
of the company was taxable during all the years that it could
not declare any dividend. This suggestion is wanting in
plausibility and needs no further consideration, for if the
exemption clause has any meaning, purpose, or validity what-

IMtOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

499

Opinion of the Court.

ever this theory would utterly destroy it, as the company
would be taxable when it made no profits, and get the benefit
of the exemption only when profits to a certain amount were
realized.
We come next to the consideration of the other ground on
which the Supreme Court based its decree. In reaching its
conclusion that the eight per cent dividend clause of the
company's charter violated that portion of section 28, article
2, of the state constitution of 1834, which provides: "All
property shall be taxed -according to its value, that value to
be ascertained in such manner as the legislature shall direct,
so that the same shall be equal and uniform throughout the
State. No one species of property from which a tax may be
collected shall be taxed higher than any other species of
property of equal value," the Supreme Court of Tennessee
gave no effect to that clause of the charter as an exemption,
either fixed, conditional, or contingent, but proceeded upon
the theory that the property of the railroad company became
absolutely liable to taxation on and after April 22, 1886, at
the expiration of the twenty-five years from the completion
of the road, without regard to the state of the company's
earnings, or its capacity to pay dividends in any amount.
The construction thus placed upon section 11 of the charter
practically assumed the main question of controversy involved
in the case.
It is conceded by counsel for defendants in error, as is well
settled by the decisions of the Supreme Court of Tennessee
and of this court, that the legislature of Tennessee had the
power and authority under the state constitution of 1834, to
grant to corporations, created by it, exemption from taxation; that such exemption might confer either total or partial
immunity from taxation, and extend for any length of time
the legislature might deem proper. Amongst the authorities
establishing this general proposition are the following: _Ynoxyile &c. Railroad v. Hicks, 9 Baxter, 445; State v. Butler,
13 Lea, 400; S. C. 2 Pickle, (86 Tenn.,) 614; Uniiversity of the
South. v. Skidmore, 3 Pickle, (87 Tenn.,) 156 ; femphis v. Bank
and Irs. Co., 7 Pickle, (91 Tenn.,) 546; Zemphis v. Memphis

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

City Bank, 7 Pickle, (91 Tenn.,) 577 ; Farringtonv. Tennessee,
95 U. S. 679 ; County of Titon v. Locomotive 1forks, 103 U. S.
523; Bank v. Tennessee, 104 U. S. 493.
It is also established by the decisions of Tennessee, as
counsel for defendants in error properly admit, that there
was no imperative constitutional requirement upon the legislature to tax all property. The first paragraph of section 28,
article 2, of the constitution of 1834 provided that "all lands
liable to taxation, held by deed, grant, or entry, town lots,
bank stock, slaves between the ages of twelve and fifty years,
and such other property as the legislature may from time to
time deem expedient, shall be taxable." This provision, as
held in Railroad v. Hicks, 9 Baxter, 448, 449, did not make
it the duty of the legislature to tax all property, but left it
discretiondry with that body to tax, or to omit to tax, that
is to exempt, as it might deem expedient. This provision
meant only that when a tax was imposed it must be upon the
value of the property, ascertained by some uniform rule.
It being settled that there was no requirement of the constitution that all property should be taxed, and that the legislature of Tennessee, under the constitution of 1834, had the
power to grant exemption from taxation in charters of incorporations, and that such charters, after acceptance, became
binding and irrevocable contracts, the real controversy in the
present case, while extremely important in its consequences to
both the State and the railroad company, lies within a very
narrow compass, and turns upon the proper construction of
the last clause of section 11 of the charter, which provides
that "no tax shall ever be laid on said road or its fixtures
which will reduce the dividends below eight per cent."
Does this clause constitute an immunity, fixed, special, conditional, or contingent, from taxation ?
It is undoubtedly a part of the contract of exemption from
taxation contained in the eleventh section of the charter, and
as such the corporation is entitled to the benefit thereof.
The meaning and intent of the provision was clearly a stipulation on the part of the legislature to forego the exertion of
its taxing power to the extent of allowing the corporation to

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

501

Opinion of the Court.

pay its shareholders eight per cent dividends from the net
earnings of the company. The manifest object of the clause
was to invite and encourage the investment of private capital
in the enterprise of building the road. By the previous
clauses of the section the capital stock was exempt from taxation forever, and the road, with all its fixtures and franchises,
was exempt for the period of twenty-five years from its completion. These exemptions were primarily for the benefit of
the corporation. The shares of stock were subject to taxation
against the owners or holders thereof, and'this last clause was
clearly intended for their benefit to the extent of securing, as
far as an immunity from taxation would do so, any reduction
of dividends on their stock below eight per cent per annum.
The constitutional power to grant exemption, wholly or
partially, and for fixed or indefinite periods, necessarily includes the power to exempt upon conditions or contingencies
which are to happen in the future. To hold that an exemption is good for a term of years, and is not good if made to
depend upon a plain contingency by which it may take effect
in some years and not in others, is, as counsel for the plaintiffs
in error justly insist, a distinction neither sound in principle
nor supported by authority.
The intent and purpose of the clause in question are clear,
not only from its language, but from the history and circumstances preceding and surrounding the grant of the charter.
The state constitution of 1834 declared that a well regulated
system of internal improvement should be encouraged. The
incorporating act recited that "it is deemed a matter of vital
importance to this State that a direct communication by railroad to the Gulf of Mexico be established." The State was
practically without railroad facilities and needed a line of
transportation extending through the interior of its western
division, and connecting it with the Gulf of Mexico on the
south and the Mississippi River and its tributaries on the
north. Its special interest in the road in question was manifested by the third section of the charter, which "required
the company to open books for the subscription of shares in
the capital stock of the company in the State of Tennessee,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

so as to afford citizens of the State an opportunity to take
stock to the amount of one-fourth of the capital of the company;" and to induce its own citizens, as well as outside
capitalists, to invest and risk their money in the enterprise,
more or less hazardous, was the manifest object of the exemption contained in section 11 of the railroad company's
charter, the latter clause of which was especially designed to
secure or to give an assurance of a reasonable return, to the
parties taking the stock of the company by postponing the
taxing power of the State to the payment of the designated
dividends.
In Preston v. Browder, 1 Wheat. 115, 120, it was said that
in the construction of the statutory laws of a State it is frequently necessary to recur to the history and situation of the
country in order to ascertain the reason, as well as the meaning,
of many of the provisions in them. The same general rule is
stated in UnitedStates v. Union Pacific Railro'd, 91 U. S. 72,
80, 81, and in Platt v. Union Pacific Railroad,99 U. S. 48,
64, where it was applied in construing certain sections of the
act of Congress, approved July 1, 1862, incorporating and
granting lands to the Union Pacific Railroad Company. So in
Winona & St. Peter Railroadv. Barney, 113 U. S. 618.
Legislative contracts, especially, should be read in the light
of the public policy entertained, and the purposes sought to be
accomplished at the time they were made, rather than at a
later period when different ideas and theories may prevail. In
Platt v. Union Pacific Railroad,Mr. Justice Strong expresses
this proposition as follows: "'There is always a tendency to
construe statutes in the light in which they appear when the
construction is given. It is easy to be wise after we see the
results of experience.

.

.

.

But in endeavoring to ascer-

tain what the Congress of 1862 intended, we must, as far as
possible, place ourselves in the light that Congress enjoyed;
look at things as they appeared to it, and discover its purpose
from the language used in connection with the attending circumstances."
In the present case we are clearly of opinion, both from the
surrounding circumstances and the language of the charter

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

503

Opinion of the Court.

contract, that an exemption from taxation was intended to be
granted by the clause under consideration, to the extent and
for the purposes stated.
Counsel for the State contend that this clause, although it
fixes no valuation or rate of taxation, is yet a special and discriminating rule for the taxation of the company's property,
and it is sought by this designation to escape the legal effect
and operation of the provision; but the difficulty in the way of
this contention is that the power of exemption would embrace
a charter contract which made a special and discriminating
rate of taxation. The State, under the power of absolute
exemption, could include in a charter contract a provision that
the property of the corporation should be only liable for onehalf the current rate of taxation levied by the State during
any year, or it could constitutionally provide by the charter
that the corporate property should be assessed at only one-half
of its value. The legislative power to make such terms,
especially in charters of corporations, cannot be doubted.
They would be clearly included in the general power to grant
absolute exemptions.
Again, the distinction sought to be made between an exemption or immunity, and a special and discriminating rule of
taxation, as applied to charters, is wholly unsupported by the
authorities. On the contrary, the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee and of this court have ignored any such
distinction, and have uniformly given effect to charter provisions which made special and discriminating rates of taxation.
Thus, in RaleioA & Gaston Rail'oad v. Reid, 13 Wall. 269,
the property of the company was exempted for a term of
years, after the expiration of which the legislature was at
liberty to tax individual shares of the stockholders whenever
their annual profit exceeded eight per cent, provided that the
tax did not exceed twenty-five cents per share per annum.
The pleadings in the case showed that the annual profits on
the shares never reached eight per cent, and it was held that
they were not subject to any tax.
In Farr';ngtonv. Tennessee, 95 'U. S. 679, 681, the charter
of the company contained this provision: "That the said

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

company shall pay to the State an annual tax of one-half of
one per cent on each share of the capital stock subscribed,
which shall be in lieu of all other taxes."
In .Knoxville &o.Railroad v. Hicks, 9 Baxter, 442, 445, the
charter granted in 1856 contained the following exemption:
"Sec. 33. Be it enacted, that the capital stock of the said
company, the dividends thereon, and the road and fixtures,
depots, workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation
belonging to the said company, shall be forever exempt from
taxation; and it shall not be lawful for the State or any
corporate or municipal police or other authority thereof, or of
any town, city, or district thereof, to impose any tax upon
such stock or dividends, property or estate: Provided, the
stock or dividends, when the said dividends shall exceed the
legal interest of the State, shall be subject to taxation by
the State in common with and at the same rate as money and
interest, but no tax shall be imposed so as to reduce the part
of the dividends to be received by the stockholders below the
legal interest of the State."
In State v. Butler, 13 Lea, (Tenn.,) 400, the provision was
that "the said company shall pay an annual tax of one-half of
one per cent on each share of capital stock subscribed, which
shall be in lieu of all other taxes." In State v. Butler, 2
Pickle, (Tenn.,) 614, 617, there was the same exemption as in
the former case.
So in Xemphis v. Bank and Ins. Cos., 7 Pickle, 546, 548,
the exemption clause was "that said company should pay to
the State an annual tax of one-half of one per cent on each
share of stock subscribed, which shall be in lieu of all other
taxes;" and in .Men?.phis v. emphis City Bank, 7 Pickle, 574,
577, decided in 1892, the exemption in the charter was as
follows: "Be it further enacted, there shall be levied a state
tax of one-half of one per cent upon the amount of the capital
stock actually paid in, to be collected in the same way and at
the same time as other taxes are by law collected, and which
shall be in lieu of all other taxes and assessments."
In each of the foregoing cases there was a special and
discriminating rate of taxation fixed by the respective charters.

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

505

Opinion of the Court.

That fact, however, did not in any way affect the result or
impair the legislative power to grant the exemption. In the
last of the above cases the exemption clause provides in express terms that there should be levied a state tax of a certain
per cent upon the capital stock paid in, which was to be
collected in the same way and at the same time as other taxes
are by law collected. This was a special and discriminating
rule of taxation for this company; yet it was held by the
Supreme Court of Tennessee to be "a contract whose obligation may not be violated by subsequent revenue laws or
otherwise."
These cases meet the distinction which is attempted to be
made between an exemption and a special and discriminating
rule of taxation. There is no foundation for the position that
they were exemptions or immunities from taxation, while the
provision in the present case is something different, which
counsel for defendants in error choose to designate as a
special or discriminating rule of taxation.' Names and
designations do not change the character of the provision in
question.
The charter granted the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company in the State of Mississippi, almost concurrently with its
Tennessee and Alabama charters, extended the period of exemption until the company was paying an interest of eight
per cent per annum on its cost. The attempt to tax it before
it had paid any interest on its cost was held to be invalid, the
Supreme Court saying, in Xltobile and Ohio Railroad Co. v.
3fosley, 52 Miss. 129: "We think the language of the section
susceptible of no other construction than that the corporation
is to be exempted from all taxation until by its earnings it
shall pay an annual interest of eight per cent upon that portion of its road sought to be taxed, after which period its road
shall be subject to taxation at the rate per cent that lands are
taxed by the general revenue laws of the State then in force.
If the language employed seems awkward, it is not for us, by
verbal refinement, to strip it of its manifest meaning and intention. . . . The claim of exemption can only be successfully met in this case, so far as the point now under

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

consideration is concerned, by answer and proof showing
that, in point of fact, the earxings of that portion of the road
located in Mississippi have been sufficient to pay an annual
interest of eight per cent upon the capital expended in the
construction thereof."
We do not deem it necessary to consider the further point
urged by counsel for defendants in error that the exemption
clause in question is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. That amendment conferred no new and additional rights, but only extended
the protection of the Federal Constitution over rights of life,
-liberty, and property that previously existed under all state
constitutions. The general object and purpose of the amendment is set out in Bell's Gap Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 232, 237, and -Home Ins. Go. v. New York, 134 U. S.
594, 607, and need not be again gone over.
In dealing with an exemption from taxation, like that under
consideration, good faith is required on the part of both parties to the contract. While the State may not impair or
restrict its operation, neither may the railroad company' enlarge it at will and without limitation. It is not shown that
the railroad company has made any improper or fictitious increase, either of its capital stock or of its bonded indebtedness.
On the contrary, the proof establishes that the par value of
the 53,206 shares of capital stock outstanding was realized
therefor, dollar for dollar, and this amount of capital stock,
together with the existing bonded indebtedness of the
company, represents the cost of constructing and equipping
the railroad. The legislature, in granting the exemption
in question, doubtless had in contemplation the cost of the
enterprise, and may have intended the immunity from taxation to be estimated on that basis, as in the Mississippi
charter.
But however this may be, in sustaining the validity of the
exemption in the present case we do not mean to be understood as holding that the railroad company has the right in
its discretion, hereafter, to issue additional capital stock, or
to increase its bonded indebtedness, even for legitimate pur-

MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD v. TENNESSEE.

50(

Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, Gray, Brewer, Shiras, JJ.

poses, and have the same taken into consideration upon the
question of its liability for taxation under the eight per cent
dividend clause of the charter.
Our conclusion upon the whole case, which has received
careful consideration, is that the decree of the Supreme Court,
of the State declaring the exemption clause of the company's.
charter void, and holding the statutes of the State, under
which the taxes sought to be collected were levied, to be
valid and constitutional, was erroneous.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the Supreme Court
of the State of Tennessee for further proceedings not inconsistent with this oinon.
Mnu. CHIEF JusTioE FULLER, with whom concurred MR. JusIR. JusTIOE BREWER, and MR. JusTiE Smns,

TICE GRAY,

dissenting.
In my opinion, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee should be affirmed. It is well settled that the
taxing power of a State cannot properly be held to have been
relinquished in any instance, unless the deliberate purpose of
the State to that effect clearly appears. Exemption therefrom is in derogation of the sovereign authority and of common right, and, therefore, not to be extended beyond the
exact and express requirements of the grant, construed strictissimijuris. An exemption is claimed in this case under the
eleventh section of the company's charter from the State of
Tennessee, which reads: "That the capital stock of said
company shall be forever exempt from taxation, and the
road, with all its fixtures and appurtenances, including shops,
warehouses and vehicles of transportation, shall be exempt
from taxation for the period of twenty-five years from the
completion of the road, and no tax shall ever be laid on said
road or its fixtures which will reduce the dividends below
eight per cent." The reasonable meaning of this section
seems to me plainly to be that the capital stock is exempted
forever, and the road, its fixtures, etc., for twenty-five years
from the completion of the road, after which the exemption

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, Gray, Brewer, Shiras, JJ.

has spent its force, and the road, fixtures, etc., become taxable,
but the taxation must be so laid as not to reduce the dividends
below eight per cent. The closing words prescribe a rule of
taxation, and do not operate to continue an exemption which
has expired by the express terms of the grant. What is forbidden is the laying of a tax in such manner as will produce
a particular result. If this be not clear, as I think it is, yet
any other construction is certainly not so, and doubt is fatal
to the claim.
If the exemption exists as insisted, then the capital stock
is free from taxation forever, and the road and its property
is likewise free until, after deducting from its earnings all
expenses, fixed charges, (which include interest on all its
bonded debt,) and eight per cent upon its capital stock, there
remains a surplus sufficient to pay all the taxes on its property according to the current rate. By the company's Alabama charter it was provided that the capital stock should
not exceed ten millions; the Mississippi act set forth that
act in full; the Tennessee act provided that the citizens of
that State might subscribe to the amount of one-fourth of
the capital. So far as the eleventh section is concerned, the
amount of capital stock at any particular time, or what the
taxes on the company's property in any particular year
might be, is left undefined. The view contended for practically leaves it to the company to say when it may be taxed
and when not; and while a State must be held to the
bargains it makes, however improvident, it ought not to be
held to have made such a contract as it is argued this is,
unless its terms are so plain as not to be open to construction.
The difference between this provision and that in the company's charter in Mississippi, referring to the same subject, is
significant. The latter reads: "That whenever any portion
of said railroad shall be completed through this State, and is
paying an interest of eight per cent per annum on its cost, and
not before, such portion may be taxed the same percentage,
and no more, upon the capital expended in the construction
thereof, as lands in this State shall be taxed." That differ-

SLIDE & SPUR GOLD MNES v. SEYMOUR.

509

Statement of the Case.

ence explains why the Supreme Courts of Mississippi and
Tennessee arrived at different conclusions.
In a certain line of cases, absolute exemptions from taxation
have been recognized as secured in consideration of certain
amounts to be paid, sometimes called taxes, although really
merely the consideration paid as under contract; but the principle of commutation has no application here.. 
I concur with the Supreme Court of Tennessee in regarding
the last part of the eleventh section as prescribing a special
and discriminative rule of taxation; and as that court held it
void as such, because in conflict with the equality and uniformity clause of the Constitution of 1834, that conclusion should
be accepted.
I am constrained, therefore, to dissent from the opinion and
judgment just announced, and am authorized to say that Mr.
Justice Gray, Mr. Justice Brewer, and Mr. Justice Shiras concur
in this dissent.

SLIDE AND SPUR GOLD MINES v. SEYMOUR.
APPERAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 284. Argued March 15,1894.- Decided May 14, 1894.
The courts of the United States enforce vendor's and grantor's liens, if in
harmony with the jurisprudence of the State in which the action is
brought.
It being conceded that a vendor's lien is recognized in Colorado, such a
lien will be recognized and enforced in a Federal court in that District.
On the contracts in this case, set forth in the opinion of the court, and the
circumstances attending the making of them as therein detailed, this
court holds that the plaintiffs below retained a vendor's lien upon their
mining property in Colorado which they conveyed to the defendants
below, and affirm the decree of the court below to that effect.

THE facts in this case are as follows: In and prior to the
month of October, 1886, the plaintiffs below, Ellen R. Seymour
and William G. Pell, were the owners of certain mining prop-

