OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

true that the relief there invoked was the restraint of the
corporation from doing business on the ground of insolvency.
But that case substantially involved not only the right to
compel the statement, but the greater right to prevent, in
case of insolvency, the continuance of the business of the corporation. Hence, as the greater includes the less, the N~eedles
case necessarily embraces every issue presented here.
Another contention is that compliance with the provisions
in regard to statements of its business would bring the company under the operation of the general law of the State
relating to corporations, and thus place it in the position of
voluntarily subjecting itself to many provisions which would,
if applied, impair the obligations of the charter. In March,
1892, (89 Ohio Laws, 73,) the General Assembly of Ohio
specifically enacted that any fire insurance company which
should comply with the requirements of sections 3654 and
3655, or any other police regulations contained in Chapter XI
of the title relating to corporations, and Chapter VIII, Title 3,
Part 1, of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, relating to the insurance department of the State, "shall not be deemed to have
consented to and shall not be affected by the provisions" of
the title relating to corporations.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio in the case
before us expressly finds that, under the operation of this last
provision, the plaintiff in error would not subject its charter
to any conditions or modifications by malting the statement
which it now refuses to submit.
Judgment afflrmed.

STEWART v. BARNES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
EASTERN

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
0

No. 316.

Submitted March 22, 1894. -Decided

May 14, 1894.

When a person from whom an internal revenue tax has been ilegally exacted accepts from the government, without objection, the payment of
the sum thus illegally exacted, he thereby gives up his right to sue for
interest as incidental damages.

STEWART v. BARNES.
Opinion of the Court.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
Mb. T. TV. Neill and Mr . James W. X. Newlin for plaintiff
in error.
.Mr.Assistant Attorney General Conrad for defendant in
error.
MR.. JUSTIOE SHIRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of assumpsit brought by John Stewart
against Benjamin H. Barnes, executor of William Hl. Barnes,
deceased, late collector of internal revenue, to recover the sum
of $250.40, alleged to have been unlawfully collected from the
plaintiff as internal revenue taxes on distilled spirits, with interest from June 26, 1869. The action was commenced in the
Court of Common Pleas of Bucks County, Pennsylvania., on
April 25, 1887, and was thence removed by the defendant, by
certiorari, into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, where the declaration was
filed and proceedings were had which resulted in a verdict and
judgment for the defendant. From that judgment the plaintiff sued out a writ of error.
In his bill of particulars the plaintiff alleged that on June
26, 1869, he drew out certain distilled spirits which had been
placed in a United States bonded warehouse prior to July 20,
1868, and that upon the withdrawal thereof he was required
by the collector to pay taxes on fractions of gallons as though
they were whole gallons, amounting to $8.62, and also the sum
of $24:1.78, as taxes on spirits which had been lost by leakage,
evaporation, etc.; that those amounts were unlawfully exacted,
and that he paid the same under protest.
The defence made by the defendant is set out in the record,
as follows:
"And now, to wit, the fourth day of April, 1889, the court,
on motion of John R. Read, Esq., United States attorney,
grant leave to amend the plea filed in the above case by filing
an additional plea as follows, to wit:

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"And the defendant says that to entitle the above plaintiff
to maintain the above suit appeal was not duly made to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue according to the provisionsof law, and the above suit was not brought within the period.
of time allowed thereby; and this the defendant is ready to
verify, etc."
Although the language quoted seems to indicate that.
there was another plea filed, no other plea appears in the.
record; neither does it appear that there was a replication.
The record shows that a jury was sworn "to try the issue
joined."
The purpose of this plea was evidently to invoke the operation of those acts of Congress which relate to the presentation
of claims for alleged illegal exaction of taxes to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and which lay down the conditions
upon which alone the government permits a recovery by suit
of amounts so exacted.
The provisions of the statutory law which bear directly
upon the present case are section 19 of the act of July 15,
1866, c. 184, 14 Stat. 93, 152, and section 44 of the act of June6, 1872, c. 315, which appears in the Revised Statutes as section 3227. Under either of those acts before an action could
be maintained in any court an appeal must first have been
made to the Commissioner. In the act of 1866 there was no,
limitation of the time within which such an appeal was to be
made. The act of 1872 required that it should be made within
two years from the time the cause of action accrued. Under
the earlier act, if such appeal had been made, still no action
could be maintained in any court unless a decision should have
been made upon the claim by the Commissioner, in which
event the suit must have been brought within six months from
the time of the decision, or within the same period after the
act took effect. Under the later act, if the Commissioner
delayed his decision for more than six months, the claimant
was not compelled to await it, but might have sued within six
months next following the six months of the Commissioner's
delay, or one year from the time of appeal; but if the claimant had allowed that period to terminate without instituting

STEWART v. BARNES.
Opinion of the Court.

suit, he must then have waited, as before, until the claim
should have been passed upon, and have sued within one year
thereafter.
It was shown on the trial that, as to the sum of $241.78,
the defendant had duly appealed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, that the claim was rejected, and that the suit
was brought within the required time after such decision; but
nothing appears in the bill of exceptions to show that an
appeal was made concerning the amount of $8.62 of the claim.
Though the effect of the plea was to confess the plaintiff's
cause of action, as to the exaction of the alleged amounts of
money from him and as to the payment of the same under
protest, see Gale v. Capern, 1 Ad. & El. 102, nevertheless, to
prove the exaction the plaintiff introduced as a witness in his
behalf a deputy collector, John F. Cline, who testified that the
sums of money mentioned in the bill of particulars had been
paid by the plaintiff to the collector of internal revenue for
the first district of Pennsylvania; that the spirits were bonded
prior to July 20, 1868, and that the sum of $8.62 had been
paid upon fractions of gallons taxed as whole gallons, and
the sum of $241.78 upon spirits lost by leakage, etc. The
defendant admitted that certain official regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue prior to and
upon April 22, 1869, which were offered in evidence by the
plaintiff, provided that the taxes on distilled spirits placed in
bonded warehouses before July 20, 1868, should be exacted,
upon the withdrawal of the spirits, only upon the actual quantity thereof so withdrawn. No evidence was introduced to
show the nature of the protest made, but it was unnecessary
to prove more than that the payment was made "under protest," which was admitted by the plea. Wlrigkt v. Blakeslee,
101 U. S. 174.
The defence made on the trial consisted of the introduction
of evidence tending to show that the plaintiff had received
from the government under the provisions of an act of Congress approved July 26, 1886, c. 783, 21 Stat. 853, the sum of
$241.78, for which his attorney, T. W. INeill, gave a receipt
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The act is enti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tled "An act for the relief of Richard C. Ridgway and others,"
and is as follows:
"Whereas from the time bonded warehouses were first
established until April fourteenth, eighteen hundred and sixtynine, the law has been uniformly construed and administered
to allow for loss by leakage on spirits distilled prior to July
twentieth, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, while in warehouse; and whereas it was the uniform practice and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, approved by the secretary, to collect internal revenue taxes upon only so much of the spirits distilled
prior to July twentieth, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, as
were actually withdrawn from warehouse, under which established regulations large quantities of spirits were bought and
sold while in bond; and whereas in a few exceptional cases
taxes were also collected on that portion of such spirits which
were lost by leakage while remaining in warehouse: therefore,
"Be it enacted &y the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congressassembled,That the
Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, required to pay,
out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to
the following-named persons in the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, or their legal representatives, such amounts as shall
be shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue to have been paid by them as tax on distilled spirits in
excess of the quantity withdrawn from warehouse: Provided,
That the amount paid to each shall not exceed the sum herein
stated - that is to say:" [Here follows a.list in which appears
the sum of $24:1.78 opposite the name of John Stewart.]
The receipt was as follows:
"Original receipt for draft in payment of claims for
refunding:
"August 17, 1886.
"Received of the honorable Commissioner of Internal
Revenue the sum of two hundred and forty-one dollars and
seventy-eight cents ($241.78) on account of my claim, No.
10,073, for taxes improperly paid by me.
"(Signed)
JOHN STEWAT,
"By T. W. NEILL, Attorney."

STEWART v. BARNES.
Opinion of the Court.

Whether or not this evidence of the acceptance of payment
was relevant to the issue, no objection was made to its introduction. On the contrary, the plaintiff admitted on the trial
that he had received the money, and also embodied, in a
request for instructions to the jury, a statement that the
amount of his claim, with interest, was subject to a credit
of the amount so received.
As nothing else of present importance appears in the record,
the position of the plaintiff, after all the evidence had been
offered, seems to have been this: The merit of his claim was
established, as was also his right to prosecute the suit for
$241.78 of his claim. No evidence had been introduced, nor
admissions made, with regard to his right to sue for $8.62 of
his demand, and as to that sum he was not entitled to seek
relief. He had admitted the receipt by him from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of $241.78 on account of his claim.
The plaintiff's position being thus, the court directed a verdict
in favor of the defendant. This action of the court was excepted to by the plaintiff, and is assigned by him as error.
The plaintiff now contends that, although he has accepted
from the government the sum named, this fact should not
affect his right to recover in the action, since he had a right
to apply the money, and did apply it, so far as it was adequate,
to the payment of interest on his claim, and was entitled to
maintain an action for the principal and the balance of the
interest. These views, however, of the purpose of the payment and the character in which it was received, are not sustained by the facts shown on the trial. The plaintiff admitted
that he had received the sum of $241.78 on account of his
claim for taxes improperly paid by him; the amount received
was the same as the amount of the claim; the manner of the
exaction indicated in the act of Congress is the same as that
set out in the bill of particulars, and there is nothing upon
which to base an inference that this payment from the government was related to any other transaction than the one in
question. The act of Congress, then, furnishes the best evidence of the purpose and the character of the payment, and
from it we are to learn whether the payment was of the prin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

cipal or of interest.

The act provided for the payment to the

plaintiff aid others of such amounts as should be shown to the
,satisfaction of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue "to
have been paid by them as tax on distilled spirits in excess of
the quantity withdrawn by them from warehouse." It is presumed that the terms of the act were known to the plaintiff,
and by his acceptance of the money it must be understood
that he agreed to take it as a payment of the amount shown
to have been paid by him, or, in other words, as a refunding of
the money exacted.
It is apparent, therefore, that the principal, as such, has
been received by the plaintiff, and hence, to treat the action
-as having any object at all, we must regard it as an action for
interest alone. Whether, in the circumstances of this case,
an action for interest can be maintained, is the only question
to be determined. In deciding this we shall not find it necessary to consider in what respect these suits against collectors
may differ from other actions, but shall assume, for the purposes of this opinion, that they are governed by the same
rules.
Where money is retained by one man against the declared
will of another who is entitled to receive it, and who is thus
deprived of its use, the rule of courts in ordinary cases is, in
suits brought for the recovery of the money, to allow interest
as compensation to the creditors for such loss. Interest in
such cases is considered as damages, and does not form the
basis of the action, but is an incident to the recovery of the
principal debt. The right of action is the right to compel
the payment of the money which is being retained. When
he who has this right commences an action for its enforcement, he at the same time acquires a subordinate right, inci,dent to the relief which he may obtain, to demand and receive
interest. If, however, the principal sum has been paid, so
that, as to it, an action brought cannot be maintained, the
opportunity to acquire a right to damages is lost.
This principle is well illustrated by an early case, Moore v.
Fuller,2 Jones (Law,) 205, decided by the Supreme Court of
North Carolina. That was an action of debt on a bond. The

STEWART v. BARNES.
Opinion of the Court.

principal of the debt had been paid, and at the time of payment the parties had agreed to refer the question of interest,
the payment of which was refused, to arbitration. Upon an
award made in favor of the plaintiff, the defendant still refused

to pay the interest, and it was sought to be recovered in an
action, not upon the award, but on the bond. The Supreme
Court said: "The general principle is, that when the principal
subject of a claim is extinguished by the act of the plaintiff,
or of the parties, all its incidents go with it. Thus, in an action
of ejectment, if the plaintiff, pending the suit, takes possession
of the premises, upon the plea of the defendant or upon its
being shown, the plaintiff will be non-suited. Johnston. v.
Swain, Busby 335. So, in an action of detinue, if the plaintiff
takes possession of the property claimed, he can recover no
damages, for they are consequential upon the recovery of the
thing sued for. Morgan v.- Cone, 1 Dev. & Bat. 234. This is
an action of debt on a bond to recover the interest, the principal having been paid by the defendant before the bringing of
the action: by that payment, the bond was discharged, and
by analogy to the cases referred to, the plaintiff cannot recover
the interest, which is but an incident to the principal -the
bond."
To the same effect is the case of Tillotson v. Preston, 3
Johns. 229. This was an action of assumpsit for money had
and received. In addition to the general issue, there was a
plea of payment of the sums mentioned in the declaration.
To this plea of payment the plaintiff demurred especially,
alleging for one ground of demurrer that the plea did not
allege that the defendant bad paid to the plaintiff the interest.
The court said: "The demurrer is not well taken. If the
plaintiff has accepted the principal, he cannot afterwards bring
an action for the interest."
Other cases announcing the same principle are to be found
in the books, but the rule seems to be founded in reason, and
hardly to need the support of precedent.
In a case where a Oemand of damages constitutes the very
ground of the action, it would seem that the rule would be
.different. If, for instanbe, in covenant on the part of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

lessee to repair a building, the lessee should prove performance,
the plaintiff might still be entitled to have the jury pass upon
the question of his damages, however small they might be, because in such a case the right to damages constitutes the right
of action. It might then be said that, since the present case
is an action of assumpsit, of which damages constitute, in
theory, at least, the basis, the rule we have stated would not
be applicable. But, without considering how far, in an inquiry
like this, we would be prevented by the form of an action from
ascertaining its purpose, and without adverting to the fact
that one of the cases just cited was an action of assumpsit, it
is to be noticed that in Pennsylvania, where the suit was
brought, the form of the action of assunipsit is employed not
only in cases where, at the common law, it would have been
appropriate, but also in cases in which the action would formerly have been in debt or covenant.
Treating the action of assumpsit as of such extensive scope,
the object sought would not only be permitted, but required
to be considered if it were desired to ascertain the real nature
of a case. In this case the bill of particulars shows that the
object sought is a liquidated sum of money, with interest.
The evidence introduced with the acquiescence of the plaintiff,
and his own admission, furnished proof that the liquidated sum
has been paid. It thus appears that the action is not one
sounding in damages, but that the damages, or interest, is
demanded simply in respect of the detention of the principal.
Perhaps it might not unreasonably be argued that the payment by the government, and the acceptance of the money by
the plaintiff, without a demand of interest, constituted a complete settlement of his claim, irrespective of the operation of
the principle which we have been examining. But however
this may be, it is evident from what has been said that the
plaintiff has parted with his right of action by accepting the
money which was withheld from him, and has at the same time
given up his right to sue for the incidental damages. Therefore the court below was right in directing a verdict for the
defendant, and the judgment of that court is
Affl7-xed.

