OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dents or constitutional injunction. Bailey v. TWiggins, 5 Harrington, (Del.) 462; Allen v. Leonard, 28 Iowa, 529; Code of
Iowa of 1860, ยง 4535; Williams v. Tidball, 8 Pac. Rep. 351;
Compiled Laws of Arizona of 187, c. 11, ยง 89.
In the case at bar, the effect of the rulings and instructions
of the court was to give the jury to understand that the private intention of the magistrate was a sufficient substitute for
the constitutional requirement of a particular description in
the warrant. For this reason,
The judgment is reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.

UNITED STATES v. SHIELDS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1130. Submitted Marcb 26, 1894.-Decided April 16, 1894.

A District Attorney, whose place of abode is at a distance from the place
at which court is held, is not entitled to mileage for travel in going to
his home every Saturday, and in returning to the place of holding court
the following Monday morning, during the continuous session of the
court.
Sunday is a non-judicial day, which does not interrupt the continuity of a

term of court.
Fees allowed to public officers depend upon the provisions of the statute
granting them, and are not open to equitable construction by the courts
or discretionary action on the part of officials.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Assistant Attorney General Dodge for appellants.
.Mr. Charles 0. -Lancasterfor appellee.
]MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears from the record that Robert S. Shields was United
States District Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio from
July 1, 1885, to December 31, 1889. During this period he

UNITED STATES v. SHIELDS.
Opinion of the Court.

made up his accounts for services rendered by him, and also
for mileage for travelling from his home in Canton to the
place of holding the United States Circuit and District Courts.
Part of these accounts were disallowed by the Treasury Department, whereupon Shields brought suit against the United
States to recover the amount thus disallowed. Upon the hearing of the case the court below rendered judgment in favor
of the claim of the appellee, and thereupon the United States
requested an additional finding of fact. This request was
granted, and it is upon the state of facts thus presented that
the United States assigns error in the judgment of the court
below.
The additional finding of fact reads as follows: "The sum
of $278.50 is mileage at ten cents per mile for travel performed by claimant as District Attorney during the terms of
the United States Circuit and District Courts in returning each
Saturday during said terms to his home at Canton from Cleveland, the place of holding court, and going each Monday
morning following to Cleveland to attend said courts on the
business of the United States. The distance travelled each
round trip was 116 miles. The accounting officers allowed
and paid claimant $11.60 mileage for one trip only for each
term of court, and they disallowed the above amount as unauthorized by law. The twenty-four round trips disallowed
were performed between July 13, 1885, and September 27,
1885, and January 2, 1886, and March 28, 1886. The District
Attorney made no charge for intervening Sundays."
The only question now involved in the case is whether such
an officer, whose place of abode is at a distance from the place
at which court is held, is entitled to mileage for travel in going
to his home every Saturday, and in returning to the place of
holding court the following Monday morning, during the continuous session of the court ?
The appellee relies in support of his claim for mileage and
in affirmance of the judgment below on that part of section
824, Revised Statutes, which provides: "For travelling from
the place of his abode to the place of holding any court of the
United States in his district, or to the place of any examina-

OCTOBEt TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion before a judge or commissioner, of a person charged with
crime, ten cents a mile for going and ten cents a mile for'
returning."
This provision of section 824 has been modified by section 7
of the act of February 22, 1875, c. 95, 18 Stat. 333, 334, which,
in respect to mileage for attorneys, marshals, and clerks,
enacts that "from and after the first day of January, eighteen
hundred and seventy-five, no such officer or person shall become entitled to any allowance for mileage or travel not actually and necessarily performed under the provisions of existing
law."
This being the provision of law in force as to mileage during the period covered by the claim of the appellee, can it be
properly said that going to his home on Saturday afternoon
and returning the Monday morning following was travel
"actually and necessarily performed?" It certainly cannot
be held to be travel necessarily performed in the public service. Mileage allowed to public officials involves the idea that
the travel is performed in the public service, or in an official
capacity. The appellee lived at Canton, Ohio, fifty-eight
miles from Cleveland, where the court was held, and he made
the journey to and from his home once a week for the purpose
of spending Sunday with his family. If he is entitled to mileage for each one of these trips, made during the uninterrupted
session of the court, it is difficult to see upon what principle
he would not be entitled to mileage for a daily trip of that
sort, which would enable him to spend each night of the week at
home. Suppose that his place of abode had been ten, fifteen,
twenty, or twenty-five miles from Cleveland, and instead of
going home Saturday afternoon and returning Monday morning, he had made the trip to his place of residence each afternoon of the court week and returned the following morning,
could it be held that it was the true meaning and intent of
Congress that he should be allowed mileage for these daily
trips? We think clearly not. Section 821, and the abovequoted act of February 22, 1875, will not admit of a construction which would give the right to mileage under such
circumstances. There is, in principle, no essential difference

UNITED STATES v. SHIELDS.
Opinion of the Court.
between the claim for mileage on a daily trip to and from the
officer's home, and a weekly trip when performed for his own
pleasure and convenience so as to spend Sunday at home. The
travel, whether made daily or weekly, cannot be said to have
been made in the character of a public official, or in the performance of a public service, but merely in a private and
unofficial capacity.
The findings of fact in this case show that there was no
interruption in the session of the court. Sunday was a nonjudicial day, which did not interrupt the continuity of the
term; besides, prior to the act of March 3, 1887, c. 362, 24
Stat. 509, 541, district attorneys were entitled to a per diem
compensation of five dollars, including Sundays. This allowance clearly contemplated that an attorney, during the term
of the court, might or would be detained on Sunday at the
place where the court was held. It is true in the present case
that the District. Attorney has made no claim for a per diem
allowance for Sunday, but it certainly cannot be held that this
left it optional with him to waive his per diem fee and take
mileage to and from his home in lieu thereof as a matter of
pleasure or convenience to himself, especially when the mileage exceeded the per diem allowance. Fees allowed to public
officers are matters of strict law, depending upon the very
provisions of the statute. They are not open to equitable
construction by the courts nor to any discretionary action on
the part of the officials.
The decision of the court below proceeded upon the authority of United States v. Harnon, 14'7 U. S. 268, 278, in which
there was a claim for mileage by a United States marshal, and
it was held that "if the court sits for any number of days in
succession he should continue in attendance, and is entitled to
only one travel. But if the court is adjourned over one or
more intervening days, he is not obliged to remain at his own
expense at the place of holding court, but may return to his
home and charge travel for going anew to attend the term at
the day to which it is adjourned. His right to charge travel
for going to each special court or special term is, if possible,
still clearer, and is scarcely contested."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In that case the agreed statement of facts on which the
case was submitted to the judgment of the Circuit Court
showed only that the sum in dispute was "charged for travel
on days when said courts were held by an adjournment over
an intervening day, and were not held on consecutive days."
It did not appear whether such an adjournment included judicial or non-judicial days. The statement of facts, as well as
the opinion of this court in that case, implied that there was
an interruption in the term, and that the adjournment or suspension of the term was of such a character that the marshal
would have been obliged to have remained at his own expense
at the place of holding the court during the period of such interruption or adjournment, and from this fact it was considered that he might return to his own home and charge travel
for going anew to attend the term at the day to which it was
adjourned. In the present case there was, however, no cessation, interruption, or adjournment of the court for any judicial
(lay of the term, but only from Saturday to Monday, leaving
the District Attorney entitled to his per diem allowance for
remaining at the place of holding the court for the non-judiSuch an adjournment as that cannot be
cial day -Sunday.
considered as an interruption of the term, or as a suspension
of the business of the court, so as to bring the present case
within the rule laid down in United States v. Harmon, 147
U. S.268.
We are not inclined to extend the rule there laid down, and
apply it to the case under consideration, in which we are
clearly of opinion that the mileage charged and allowed the
District Attorney for the twenty-four weekly trips, made during the term, is not sanctioned or supported by any fair con-struction of the law applicable to the question.
The judgment of the Courtof Claimsfor the item of 0278.50
is reversed and the oause remanded with directions to render judgmentfor the United States as to this item.

