SEEBERGER v. SOHWEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

As the verdict of guilty was rendered upon all the counts,
and the sentence did not exceed that which might properly
have been imposed upon conviction under any single count,
such sentence is good if any such count is found to be sufficient.
As the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth counts of this
indictment are the same as the eighth, ninth, and tenth of the
other indictment, which were held to be good, except that the
defendant is charged with aiding and, abetting the president
instead of the cashier in the fraudulent misapplication of the
Nettleton notes, and the twentieth bears the same resemblance
to the fourteefith of the other, it follows that these counts are
also good, and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.
Min. JUSTICE FIELD dissented for the reasons stated in his
dissenting opinion in Evans v. United States, ante, 584.

SEEBERGER v. SOHWEYER.

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

E

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 295. Submitted Mareb 19, 1894.- Decided May 14, 1894.

The words "date of original importation," as used in Rev. Stat. ยง 2970,
refer to the exterior port of first arrival of the merchandise, and not to
the interior port of destination.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE SHmAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Northern District of Illinois by John
VOL. Clm-39

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Schweyer, an importer of goods, against Anthony F. Seeberger, the collector of customs for the port of Chicago, to recover duties paid under protest in 1888, upon goods imported
in 1886 and placed in a bonded warehouse.
A jury was waived, and the case was tried by the court,
which found the facts as follows:
"That on the 26th day of October, 1886, the plaintiff imported, via the port ahd district of New York, certain merchandise, and from thence transported the same to the port
and district of Chicago, under the immediate transportation
act, where it was duly entered for warehouse on the 11th day
of December, 1886. That within a year after their arrival
in Chicago, but more than a year after their arrival at the
port of New York aforesaid, the plaintiff offered to pay the
duties and charges assessed against said merchandise, but
the customs officer at the port of Chicago assessed an additional duty of 10 per cent on the amount of duties and charges
due thereon, under section 2970, IRevised Statutes, for the
reason, as he claimed, that the merchandise had not been
withdrawn for consumption within one year from the date
of the original importation, claiming that the date of original importation was the date when the merchandise arrived
at the port of New York aforesaid."
The court further found that the plaintiff paid the additional duty, under protest, and duly appealed, and the last
* finding of the court was as follows:
"The court further finds that the merchandise was withdrawn for consumption at Chicago, November 2, 1887, which
said withdrawal was at the port of original importation, in
accordance with the law."
From the judgment of the court in favor of the plaintiff the
case has been brought here on error. The question presented
by the record is the single one whether the period of one
year, within which the plaintiff was entitled to withdraw the
goods upon paying the duties and charges, runs from the date
of the arrival at the port of New York, or from the date of
the arrival at the port of Chicago.
Section 2970 of the Revised Statutes reads as follows:

SEEBERGER v. SCHWEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

"Any merchandise deposited in bond in any public or private bonded warehouse may be withdrawn for consumption
within one year from the date of original importation on
payment of the duties and charges to which it may be subject by law at the time of such withdrawal; and after the
expiration of one year from the date of original importation,
and until the expiration of three years from said date, any
merchandise in bond may be withdrawn for consumption on
payment of the duties assessed on the original entry and
charges, and an additional duty of ten per centum of the
amount of such duties and charges."
In connection with that section must be read the first
section of the act of June 10, 1880, c. 190, 21 Stat. 1M3, as
follows:
"That when any merchandise . . . imported at the
port of New York . . . shall appear by the invoice or

bill of lading and manifest of the importing vessel to be consigned to and destined for either of the ports specified in the
seventh section of this act, the collector at the port of arrival
shall allow the said merchandise to be shipped immediately
after the entry prescribed in section two of this act has been
made."
Section 2 provides that the merchandise shall be examined
as far as necessary, but shall not be subject to appraisement
and liquidation of duties at the port of first arrival, but shall
be appraised "at the port of destination."
Section 7 provides "that the privilege of immediate transportation shall extend to the port of

.

.

.

Chicago," etc.

Do, then, the words "date of original importation," as used
in section 2970, refer to the exterior port of first arrival or to
the interior port of destination ? It is urged on behalf of the
government that Congress cannot have intended that the
period for warehousing should be indefinitely extended beyond
a year after actual importation, and that this would be the
result of fixing the date of importation at the arrival at the
interior port, owing to the delays, sometimes considerable, in
transportation.
The case of fartranfe v. Olive , 125 U. S. 525, 528, is cited,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

as holding that goods in process of transportation, under charge
of the customs officers, are in effect already warehoused, within
the meaning of the customs laws. That was where the imported article, salad oil, arrived in a vessel at the port of Philadelphia on Saturday, June 30, 1883, and was entered at the
custom-house at two o'clock in the afternoon. It was not
practicable to remove the goods on that day, and the next day
was Sunday. OnJuly 7 the cases were entered in bond at the
custom-house, and on the same day the importer made a withdrawal entry for the goods, and offered to pay the collector
duty thereon at the rate of 25 per cent ad valorem, but the
collector exacted a specific duty of 25 cents per gallon, a
change of rate of duty having gone into effect on July 1, and
the court held, per Mr. Justice Field, that "goods on board of
a ship, in charge of a custom-house officer, preliminary to their
removal to a public store or a bonded warehouse, and during
the time necessary for that purpose, are in like custody, and
so are within the spirit and intent of the law subject only to
such duties as are leviable when the goods are freed from such
custody. So far bhs the government is concerned, they are in
thQ same position as if technically in a public store or bonded
warehouse. When in either of these places, they cannot be
removed without a permit from the collector. When on shipboard, in charge of a custom-house inspector, they are in the
same condition, and cannot be removed without a like permit.
The act of Congress of March 28, 1854, which is now
embraced in ยง 2971 of the Revised Statutes, in providing for
the deposit of goods in public stores and bonded warehouses,
declares that 'any goods remaining in public store or bonded
warehouse beyond three years shall be regarded as abandoned
to the government ;' and in the construction of this clause the
Treasury Department has decided that the period limited for
their remaining in a public store or a bonded warehouse includes the time on shipboard, after the arrival of the ship in
port. Treasury Regulations of 1857, art. 483."
If, then, goods remaining on a vessel after arrival at the
port of New York, and when the vessel is in charge of a custom-house officer, are to be regarded, within the customs laws,

SEEBERGER v. SCHWEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

as within the custody of the government in the same sense as
if they had been actually'discharged into a custom-house or
bonded warehouse, it would seem to follow that when goods
have arrived at the port of New York, and the arrival of the
vessel has been reported at the custom-house, and then the
goods, with the consent and allowance of the collector, under
the provisions of the 1st and 2d sections of the act of June 10,
1880, have been shipped to Chicago, such goods must be deemed
to have been warehoused from the time of the arrival of the
ship.
As the language of section 2970 is express and free from
ambiguity in specifying that, on payment of the duties and
charges, merchandise may be withdrawn within one year from
the date of originalimaortation, and that an additional duty
of ten per centum shall be assessed against goods after the
expiration of one year from the date of originalimportation,
and as the argument that the port of destination is to be regarded as the port of original importation is not based on the
language of the act of June 10, 1880, but is inferential only,
we think that the natural and safe course is to abide by the
words of the statute. In the first section the language is
"any merchandise imported at the port of .New York," etc.,
which naturally means that such importation is the original
importation. This conclusion is strengthened by the contents
of the third section, which provides that the merchandise shall
be delivered to and transported by common carriers, to be
designated for this purpose by the Secretary of the Treasury,
and to and by none others; that such carriers shall be responsible to the United States for the safe delivery of such merchandise to the collector at the port of its destination; and
that before they shall be permitted to receive and transport
any such merchandise such carriers shall become bound to
the United States in bonds in such form, amount, and condition as the Secretary of the Treasury shall require. This
would seem to bring such carriers within the meaning of the
case heretofore cited, ]Iartranft v. Oliver, and the goods in
their charge may well be regarded as in like condition with
goods in a custom-house or bonded warehouse.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

Upon the whole, we conclude that the court below erred in
refusing the defendant's request to hold the law to be that
the port of New York was the port of original importation,
and not the port of Chicago; and as this was a case of a special finding which ascertained all the facts of the case, there
is no reason for awarding a new trial. Allen v. St. louis
Bank, 120 U. S. 20, 40.
Judgment reversed and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directionsto enterjudgmentforthe originaldefendant.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

STARR v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1080. Submitted March 5,1894.-Decided May 14, 1894.

A warrant issued by a commissioner of a court of the United States is not
void for the want of a seal, the commissioner having no seal, and not
being required by statute to affix one to warrants issued by him.
The same result is reached under the laws of Arkansas, which prescribed
th6 form of warrant as attested under hand, but not under seal.
The settled rule that where a person having authority to arrest, and using
the proper means for that purpose is resisted, he can repel force with
force, and, if the party making the resistance is unavoidably killed, the
homicide is justifiable, may be invoked by a person who resists and kills
the officer if he was ignorant of the fact that he was an officer; and,
when such a defence is set up to an indictment for murder, it is error to
charge the jury that, if the threatening or violent conduct of the prisoner prevented the officer from giving notice of his official character,
he would not be required to give notice.
The possession of a conscience void of offence towards God and man is
not an indispensable prerequisite to justification of action in the face
of imminent and deadly peril, nor does the intrinsic rightfulness of the
occupation or situation of a party, having in itself no bearing upon or
connection with an assault, impose a limitation upon the right to repel it.
The motive of a person, accused of murdering an officer trying to arrest
him, in being where he was at the time of the killing, has nothing to do
with the question of his right of self-defence in itself, and his previous

