N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. WOODRUFF.

689

Syllabus.

court, from changing, to the prejudice of the accused, the
situation as it was at the time the appeal was taken from the
judgment of a Circuit Court disallowing an application for a
writ of habeas corpus based upon grounds of which, under
the statutes of the United States, the courts of the Union
could take cognizance. The warden of the prison in which
MIcKane is confined is not authorized or directed -even if
be could legally be authorized or directed -by the statutes of
the United States to return the accused to the custody of the
sheriff to await the final action of this court. The appeal to
this court had no effect whatever upon the confinement of the
accused, in conformity with the laws of the State, in Sing
Sing prison before such appeal was taken from the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

CONNECTICUT ex rel. NEW YORK & NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD COMPANY v. WOODRUFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF ERRORS OF THE STATE OF
CONNECTICUT.

No. 058. Submitted April 50, 1S94. -Decided

May 14,1894.

New York & New .EnglandRailroad Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, affirmed
and followed.
Insurance Company v. The Treasurer,11 Wall. 201, affirmed and followed
to the point that in order to give this court jurisdiction by writ of error
to a state court, it must appear by the record that a Federal question
was raised.
Delaware Navigqation Company v. Reybold, 142 U. S. 636; Hammond v.
Johnston, 142 U. S. 73; and New Orleans v. New Orleans Water Works
Co., 142 U. S. 79, followed to the point that even if a Federal question
was raised in a state court, yet, if the case was decided on grounds
broad enough in themselves to sustain the judgment, without reference
to the Federal question, this court will not entertain jurisdiction.
Baltimore & Potomar-Railroad Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, affirmed and
followed.
VOL. cLI--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

MOTION to dismiss.

The material parts of the motion were

as follows:
And now come the defendants in error, George AE. Woodruff et al., Asylum Street Bridge Commissioners of the State
of Connecticut, and move the court to dismiss the writ of
error in the above-entitled cause, for the following reasons:
1. There is no Federal question arising on the record filed
in this court.
2. No Federal question arose in the trial court, or in the
Supreme Court of Errors of the State of Connecticut, which
was decided against the title, right, privilege, or immunity set
up or claimed by the plaintiff in error.
3. This case involves a statute whose construction by the
state court of last resort adverse to the plaintiff will be respected by this court.
4. The Supreme Court of Errors of the State of Connecticut,
the court of last resort in that State, in construing a local
statute, the one here in question, has ruled that the law is an
amendment of the charter of the plaintiff company, which
charter is amendable at the will of the General Assembly of
that State.
5. N[o Federal question is necessarily involved in the judgment of the court below.
6. The error, if error there was, was not in sustaining, but
in interpreting, the statutes in question.
7. The question on which jurisdiction depends is so frivolous
as not to need further argument.
8. If there is a Federal question involved in the judgment,
the decision of the court below is so clearly right that the
writ of error should be dismissed or the decree and judgment
affirmed.
9. This suit is an application, or written motion, addressed
to the Superior Court for New Haven County in the name of
the State by the State's Attorney for that county, for an
alternative mandamus. Upon the application, the alternative
writ was not issued, but a rule to show cause against the defendants was made, and upon that hearing, the defendants
moved to quash the application for manifold reasons, set forth

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. WOODRUFF.

691

Opinion of the Court.

in the record. The motion to quash was granted, and the
applicant appealed from the judgment to the Supreme Court
of Errors. That court dismissed the appeal upon the grounds
that the commission was a body whose power was plenary,
and that the duties to be performed were such as in the highest
degree call for the exercise of judgment and discretion, and
that the Superior Court had no power by mandamus to control the acts of the commission; that the commission had acted
on the damages, and that their action was just and wise. From
the denial to issue even an alternative writ, the relators appealed. If this appeal brings any Federal question in any
way before this court, it is precisely the same one recently
disposed of upon the motion to dismiss the writ of error
brought by these same parties against the Railroad Commissioners in the Town of -Bristolcase,opinion announced February
5, 1894. New York & NYew England Railroadv. Bristol, 151
U. S. 556. This writ of error attempts to raise a constitutional question, which is not included in the decision of the
state courts, but which, in another action, was adjudged
against them, on precisely the same statute, and between precisely the same parties, and when a writ of error from that
judgment was dismissed by this court at their motion.
10. There was no property of the company taken, and the
duty which the order imposed was by due process of law and
of laws of equal protection.
2i.

Henry C. Robinson for the motion.

.Mr. Tilton E. Doolittle opposing.
The CHIEF JusTIcE: The motion to dismiss is sustained.
Wood-uff v. RailroadCompany, 59 Connecticut, 63; Railroad
Co rpanyv. JMoodruf,63 Connecticut, 91; Railroad Company
v. Woodruf, 140 U. S. 691; Railroad Company v. Bristol,
151 U. S. 556; Insurance Company v. The Treasurer,11 Wall.
204; Delaware Navigation Co. v. Reybold 142 U. S. 643;
.Hammond v. Johnstan, 142 U. S. 73; New Orleans v. Y. 0.
Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 79; Balt. & Potomac Railroad
v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210.

