HEGLER v. FAULKNER.
Syllabus.

scientific designation of an article be of value in fixing its
proper classification for duties, but that in a case where the
popular idea of an article and its actual use in the arts are so
diametrically opposed to its scientific designation the latter
should not prevail.
Counsel for the government has laid great stress upon the
proposition that even if saccharine were to be considered as
an acid, it is not used as an acid for medicinal, chemical, or
manufacturing purposes, and, therefore, was not entitled to
free entry under the paragraph relied upon. It is not perceived, however, that this argument lends any additional
strength to the position of the government in this connection.
It is used for manufacturing purposes, and if not used for such
purposes as an acid, it is because it is not in its nature an acid,
and not because it may be used for some other purposes as
such.
In the view we have taken of this case it is unnecessary
to determine whether defendant was correct in classifying
saccharine as a "chemical compound," or whether it falls
within the description of "proprietary preparations." For
the purposes of this case it is sufficient to hold that the article
was not entitled to free entry as an acid. If there were any
errors in the exclusion of testimony, as to which we express
no opinion, there were none such as worked a prejudice to the
plaintiffs.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affired.

HEGLER v. FAULKNER.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 166.

Submitted December 13, 1893. -Decided

April 2, 1894.

A report of the names of Indians and half-breeds entitled to participate in
an allotment of land, made under the act of July 31, 1854, 10 Stat. 315,
to the Indian bureau under instructions to report in full a list of all
applicants, showing names, age, sex, etc., is not admissible in evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
in an action between two parties, each of whom claims under the same
person and the same allotment, in order to show the age of that person
at the time of the allotment.
In view of the Nebraska statutes concerning the operation of statutes of
limitation, there was no error in the instruction of the court below in
that respect.

J. D. HEGLEE, a citizen of the State of Ohio, brought an
action in the District Court of Richardson County, Nebraska,
on October 4, 1878, against George Faulkner, James Cottier,
August Schoenheit, and Edwin S. Towle, citizens of the State

of Nebraska, to recover from the defendants the possession of
certain land situated in the county of Richardson, to which
land the plaintiff, in his petition, claimed title, and also to recover the rents and profits of the said property for the period
for which such possession had, as alleged, been withheld.
Upon motion of the defendants, the case was removed, on
March 25, 1879, into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Nebraska, where the defendants filed an
answer to the petition, on May 17, 1879, denying that the
plaintiff then had, or had ever had, any title to the land in
question, and asserting title thereto in themselves. The case
was tried in the Circuit Court, before the court and a jury,
and, a verdict having been found for the defendants, judgment in their favor was entered on January 10, 1885. The
case was then brought to this court upon a writ of error sued
out by the plaintiff, but because the record, as then filed, contained no petition or order for the removal of the case from
the state court to the said Circuit Court, nor any statement
of the citizenship of the parties, and because it did not appear,
therefore, that the Circuit Court had had jurisdiction of the
case, the judgment was reversed, and the case remanded for
further proceedings. 127 U. S. 482. Those defects in the
record were afterwards cured, and on June 13, 1889, judgment
was again entered in the court below in favor of the defendants, and the plaintiff again sued out a writ of error from
this court.
On the trial the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to
show that on April 15, 1859, George Washington, a half-breed

HEGLER v. FAULKNER.
Statement of the Case.

Indian of the Iowa tribe, received from William M. Stark,
special Indian agent, a certificate of allotment of the land in
controversy, issued by virtue of the provisions of the act of
Congress of July 31, 1854-, c. 167, § 5 [4], 10 Stat. 315, 332,
which gave effect to a treaty made on July 30, 1830, 7 Stat.
328, under which certain lands belonging to the tribes, which
joined in the treaty, were set apart for the half-breeds of thiose
tribes, by directing the President to cause the reserved tracts
described in the treaty to be surveyed and allotted in fee simple to the persons entitled to receive them; that on April 16,
1859, George Washington conveyed the land so allotted to
him to Houston Nuckolls; that Nuckolls conveyed the same
on April 20 to A. S. Ballard; that Ballard conveyed to James
MeMillan on September 16, and that on October 13, 1859,
IcMillan conveyed to the plaintiff. On September 10, 1860,
as the plaintiff's evidence further tended to show, George
Washington received from the government a duly executed
patent for the land.
The defendants also claimed to derive title from George
Washington, the evidence on their behalf tending to prove
that by deed, dated November 3, 1866, he conveyed the land
to the defendants Schoenheit and Towle, and that on February
28, 1868, he executed another deed to the same parties for the
same property.
For the purpose of showing that George Washington was
of full age when he transferred the land to Nuckolls, the
plaintiff offered in evidence a list bearing the heading, "Office
of Indian Affairs," the date February 4, 1858, and containing
the name, sex, age, degree of blood, and tribe of certain
Indians. Upon this list was the name of George Washington,
and opposite the name appeared the figures 20, in the column
headed "Age." The agent, Stark, testified that this list was
received by him from the Indian department, and that it contained the names of the half-breeds entitled to allotment of
land in the reservation described in the treaty.
To show under what directions of the government the list
was prepared, the plaintiff offered in evidence a letter from
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to Joseph L. Sharp, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

began with a statement of the provisions of the treaty above
referred to, and of the said act of Congress, and proceeded as
follows:
"To enable the President to comply with the act it is
necessary to ascertain the number and names of the halfbreeds and mixed bloods entitled to participate. You have
been appointed commissioner to act under the following
instructions: To give notice for all persons interested to
appear before you with their applications and evidence.
Before commencing to take testimony consult with the Indian
agents and chiefs of the tribes. In making report have regard
not merely to proof applicants may submit, but also to information from above mentioned and other sources you consider
reliable. You will be furnished by the superintendent of
Indian affairs at St. Louis with all the information he may
discover bearing on the subject. I direct that you prepare
your report in full to embrace a list containing names of all
applicants, arranged by tribes and families and single persons,
showing names, age, sex, relationship to the tribe, place of
residence, who are orphans or wards, and such other facts
as you consider useful and proper. In every case, whether
admitted or rejected, give briefly your reasons. Transmit
your report, with evidence taken, to this office without delay.
The several Indian agents for the particular tribes will be
instructed to render you all proper assistance in the premises.
Before commencing your duties take and subscribe an oath
of office before some officer authorized to administer oaths,
that you will support the Constitution of the United States
and faithfully discharge your duties as such commissioner,
which transmit to this office."
Upon objection made by the defendant, the court excluded
the portion of Stark's testimony relating to the list, and
refused to admit the list or the letter of instructions to Sharp
in evidence. To these acts of the court the plaintiff excepted,
and likewise to certain instructions given and refused.
Mr. A. HZ. Garland and M1r. -ff.J.-May for plaintiff in
error.

HEGLER v. FAULKNER.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The statutes then in force in Nebraska, so far as applicable
to this case, are as follows: "Sec. 42. A minor is bound not
only by contracts for necessaries, but also by his other contracts, unless he disaffirms them within a reasonable time
after he attains his majority and restores to the other party
all money or property received by virtue of the contract and
remaining within the control of the ward at any time after
attaining his majority. Sec. 43. No contract can be thus
disaffirmed in cases where, on account of the minor's own
misrepresentations as to his majority or from his having
engaged in business as an adult, the other party has good
reason to believe the minor capable of contracting." Sess.
Laws Neb., 2d session, 165.
This act was taken from the Iowa Code. See for its interpretation, Oswald v. Broderick, 1 Iowa, 380; Prouty v.
Edgar, 6 Iowa, 353.
A reasonable time for an infant to disaffirm is not a question of law, as held by the court, but a question of fact to be
determined upon the circumstances of each case. Jenkins v.
Jetkins, 12 Iowa, 195; Stout v. Merrill, 35 Iowa, 47; 1
Greenl. Ev. § 49 (14 ed.). Two years is an unreasonable time,
but the court in this case erroneously instructed that, as a
matter of law, a year or so was not unreasonable. Wright
v. Germain, 21 Iowa, 585. At the time of the transactions
involved herein, the law of Nebraska limiting the time for
infants to sue after coming of age was as follows: "Sec. 246.
The above limitation of action for the recovery of real property
shall not apply to minors so far as to prevent them from
having at least one year after attaining their majority within
which to commence such actions." Sess. Laws Nebraska,
1865, 1st sess., p. 81. By analogy we can fairly say that,
unless there be special circumstances taking the case out of
the general rule, infants must disaffirm deeds within one year
after becoming of age.
A superficial glance over this record will convince the court,
the great fundamental error committed by the court below
was, in permitting itself to go behind the finding and judgment of the President of the United States through a branch
VOL. CIM-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of the executive department of the government, in matters
committed especially to the President by Congress. The allotment of these lands to the half-breeds was expressly devolved
upon the President by act of Congress (10 Stat. 332) in order
to carry out the treaty of July 15, 1830 (7 Stat. 328).
Here we have a matter, belonging in the necessity of things
to the executive branch of the government, and placed there
in so many words by act of Congress. The power is given to
the President to carry out and enforce these treaty stipulations. He is left to arrange his own means of so doing.
The President, under this law, called upon the Indian Bureau,
a part of the Interior Department, as the record shows, to do
this, and it was done, and in its doing all questions of age,
breed, and of whatever else was required under the treaty to
authorize the finding or judgment, are supposed to have been
found, and cannot under ordinary rules be questioned in this
way, and certainly they cannot be so questioned by any coordinate branch of the government. It is surrounded with
this sanctity as well as that of the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. It is res judicat in the highest and
best sense of the term, and in every sense of it. Johnson v.
Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; -artin v. fott, 12 Wheat. 19; Allen v.
Blunt, 3 Story, 742.
This order or judgment has never been appealed from; it
has never been charged or attacked directly with fraud or
mistake, and if this finding is to be disregarded because of
proof, or supposed proof as to age or any other fact in a proceeding of this kind, then this determination of the executive
is utterly worthless for any purpose.
See how iron-bound are the final findings- the decisions
of the departments-as against all attacks of the incoming
heads of those departments, just as much as the decisions of
the courts are as against the attacks of new and succeeding
judges in those courts, and it must naturally be so. United
States v. Bank of the .ffetropolis, 15 Pet. 377; Ev parte
Randolph, 2 Brock. 447. And how else could public business be transacted and the government relations kept up
and enforced? These papers from the Interior Department

HEGLEIR v. FAULKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

were competent as offered, and should have been received in
evidence. Rev. Stat. §§ 882-4; United States v. Percheman,
7 Pet. 51; United States v. Wiggins, 14 Pet. 334; United
States v. Davenport, 15 Howard, 1; Culver v. Utthe, 133
U. S.655.
So that when the court below went back of this finding and
rejected it, it travelled away beyond its authority and put
aside all law, and here isthe error, regardless of all others,
that is fatal to this decision in that court, and it is hoped it
will be reversed.
M'. ishan Reavis and XrA. C. F. ]eavis for defendants
in error.
M i. JUSTICE S= s, after stating the case, delivered the
,opinion of the court.

The plaintiff contended, in the court below, that the Indian,
George Washington, was of full age on April 16, 1859, the
date of the conveyance to Nuckolls, or, at all events, so represented himself to be, and that Nuckolls relied upon such
representations, and purchased and paid for said land accordingly. These questions of fact were submitted by the court
to the jury, and found by them in favor of the defendants.
The errors assigned are to the action of the court in rejecting
evidence offered by the plaintiff, and in refusing instructions
asked for him. The first offer was that of an exemplification
from the records of the Indian department of instructions
given to one Joseph L. Sharp, dated May 14, 1856, under
which Sharp acted as an agent for the United States in ascertaining the number and names of the half-breeds entitled to
participate in the division of the lands granted by the treaty
of Prairie du Chien. Among such instructions the agent was
directed to prepare "a report in full to embrace a list containing names of all applicants, arranged by tribes and families
and single persons, showing names, age, sex, relationship to
the tribe, place of residence, who are orphans or wards."
This was followed by an offer of a certified copy of a census

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

or list of half-breeds entitled to lands, bearing the heading
"Office of Indian Affairs," dated February 4, 1858, containing
the name, sex, age, degree of blood, and tribe of certain
Indians. Upon this list was the name of George Washington,
and opposite the name appeared the figures "20" in the column
headed "Age." The purpose of these offers was stated to be
to show that George Washington was twenty years of age at
the date February 4, 1858, and that he was, therefore, of full
age when, on April 16, 1859, be conveyed the land allotted to
him to Houston 1Nuckolls. The court below regarded the
evidence offered as inadmissible for that purpose, and the
rejection of the offers is the subject of the first and second
assignments of error.
As leading up to the controlling question, namely, the age
of the half-breed George Washington, the offer of the instructions under which the agent acted in procuring information
for his report would seem to be unobjectionable, but its rejection would not constitute reversible error unless the offer that
followed was admissible. That was the offer to put in evidence a census or list filed in the Office of Indian Affairs,
containing the names and ages of half-breeds, who, upon testimony presented to that office, were regarded as entitled to
participate in the allotments or assignments of the lands
awarded by the treaty. If the latter offer was not a proper
one, then the rejection of the preceding offer was immaterial.
Was, then, this list, filed in the Indian department, and
which, or a copy of which, had been sent to William Al. Stark,
special agent to assign or allot these lands admissible in evidence in a legal controversy, to prove the age of one of said
Indians?
It is contended, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, that this
list is in the nature of a finding or judgment of the executive
department of the government, in matters committed specially
to the President by Congress; that the allotment of these
lands to the half-breeds was expressly devolved upon the President by act of Congress, 10 Stat. 332, in order to carry out
the treaty; that this act of Congress was one making appropriations for the Indian department and for fulfilling treaty

HEGLER v. FAULKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

stipulations; that the department, under the directions of the
President, made rules and regulations to enforce this provision of law, and did enforce it.
It is, indeed, true that the President speaks and acts through
the heads of the several departments, in relation to subjects
that pertain to their respective duties, and that the allotment
of these lands by the Indian department must be considered
as made by the President in pursuance of the terms of the act
of Congress, and of the treaty. And it may be admitted that
the decision of the special Indian agent, in identifying the
Indian half-breeds entitled to participate, and in allotting the
portion of each, would, in the absence of fraud, be conclusive.
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 511.
Conclusiveness is a characteristic of the judgnent of every
tribunal acting judicially, whilst acting within the sphere of
its jurisdiction, where no appellate tribunal is created. But
such conclusiveness is restricted to those questions which are
directly submitted for decision. In the case in hand, doubtless the identity of the half-breed George Washington, and
his right to receive the land in question as his share of the
lands appropriated by the treaty, were finally found. But
neither the treaty, the act of Congress, nor the instructions
of the department contemplated any special inquiry into the
ages of the Indians. It is true that, in the letter of instructions, the agent was directed to report as well the age as the
sex and tribal relations of the claimants. But this was merely
to enable the agent, when he came to allot the lands, to
identify the persons entitled to participate. When the allotment was completed, and was followed, first, by a certificate,
and, finally, by a patent, the purposes of the inquiry were
fulfilled, and the list used to aid the government functionaries in the task of allotting the lands cannot be regarded as
a record to be resorted to afterwards, in disputes between
other parties, to prove the age of the Indians. No provision
was made, in either the act of Congress or the rules and regulations of the Indian department, to preserve the list as a
muniment of title, much less as a public record admissible to
prove merely incidental recitals based on hearsay. Such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

list does not come within the rule which permits, for some
purposes, the use of "official registers or books kept by persons in public office, in which they are required . . . to
write down particular transactions occurring in the course of
their public duties and under their particular observation." 1
Green. Ev. § 483. "It must be remembered that official
registers are not in general evidence of any facts not required to be recorded in them, and which did not occur in
the presence of the registering officer. Thus, a parish register is evidence only of the time of a marriage and of its
celebration de facto, for these are the only facts necessarily
within the knowledge of the party making the entry. So a
register of baptism, taken by itself, is evidence only -of that
fact. .
Neither is the mention of the child's age in the
register of christenings proof of the day of its birth, to support a plea of infancy." 1 Greenl. Ev. § 493.
In -Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co. v. Tisdale, 91 U. S. 238,
where the right of action depended on the death of a third
person, it was held .that letters of administration upon the
estate of such person granted by the proper probate court, in
a proceeding to which the defendant was a stranger, afforded
no legal evidence of such death; and it was said: "The only
ground for the admission of the letters of administration is,
that granting them is a*judicial act; but a judgment is not
evidence of any matter to be inferred by argument therefrom,
or which comes collaterally in question, or is incidentally cognizable" -citing the Duchess of Kingston's case and many
others.
In Connecticut Life Ins. Co. v. Schwenk, 94 U. S. 593, it was
held that an entry in the minute-book of a lodge of Odd Fellows, of which the deceased was a member, made prior to the
issue of a policy, and showing his age as recorded by the
secretary of the lodge in the usual manner of keeping its
records, was not admissible as evidence of such age.
We do not deem it necessary to discuss this question at
greater length. Our conclusion is that the court below did
not err in excluding the list offered. It was not an official
record, intended as a mode of preserving the recollection of

HEGLER v. FAULKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

facts, nor was it based upon the personal knowledge of the
party making the entry. It was mere hearsay.
Error is assigned to the instructions given by the court to
the jury on the subject of disaffirmance by George Washington within a reasonable time after becoming of age. The
statutes of Nebraska on this subject were as follows:
"Sec. 42. A minor is bound not only by contract for necessaries, but also by his other contracts, unless he disaffirms them
within a reasonable time after he attains his majority and restores to the other party all money or property received by
virtue of the contract and remaining within control of the
ward at any time after attaining his majority.
"See. 43. No contract can be thus disaffirmed in cases
where, on account of the minor's own misrepresentations as
to his majority or from his having engaged in business as an
adult, the other party had good reason to believe the minor
capable of contracting." Act of January 26, 1857, c. 53.
Sess. Laws Neb., 2d Session, 1856, 165.
The instruction excepted to was in the following terms:
"There might be some question about the rescinding of the
contract within a reasonable time, but if the testimony should
satisfy the jury that George Washington was but fifteen or
sixteen years old, or thereabout, in 1859, when it is claimed he
made the deed to Houston Ndckolls, then it would take until
1865 for him to attain his majority, and he would have to disaffirm the contract within a reasonable time after attaining
his majority, and within a year or so would be a reasonable
time."
The ground of the objection is the contention that a reasonable time for an infant to disaffirm is not a question of law,
but a question of fact to be determined upon the circumstances
of each case.
It cannot be fairly said that the court below treated the
question as one of law and gave a binding instruction upon it.
On the contrary, the question was left to the jury, with the
observation that within a year or so would be a reasonable
time. The Nebraska statutes of 1855 contain the following
section: "Sec. 246. The above limitations of action for the

OCTOBER TERTIT, 1893.
Syllabus.

recovery of real property shall not apply to minors so far as
to prevent them from having at least one year after attaining
their majority within which to commence such actions."
There is no substantial difference between "at least one year
after attaining majority," and "within a year or so," and even
if the remark of the learned judge be regarded as an instruction, it would seem, by analogy to the statute of limitations, to have been well founded.
The record discloses several other exceptions, but they do
not seem to be relied on in the brief of the plaintiff in error.
It is said that the charge contained inconsistencies and must
have confused the jury. Such a statement is not entirely
without foundation, but we think that upon the whole the
case was fairly submitted. It is obvious that the case turned
upon the question as to the age of George Washington at the
time of the allotment and at the time of making the conveyance by him to Houston Nuckolls, under whom the plaintiff
claims, and that question is treated in the briefs of both parties as the controlling one in issue.
With the list furnished by the department for the use of
the agent out of the case, the weight of the evidence as to the
minority of the half-breed at the time of his conveyance to
Nuckolls was plainly with the defendants, and warranted the
verdict of the jury in their behilf.
The judgment of the court below is
Afflrmed.

MORGAN v. DANIELS.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRIOT OF MAsSAcHUsETTS.

No. 313. Argued March 21, 22, 1894.-Decided April 23, 1894.
When a question between contending parties, as to priority of invention, is
decided in the Patent Office, the decision there made must be accepted
as controlling, upon that question of fact, in any subsequent suit between
the same parties, unless the contrary is established by testimony which,
in character and amount, carries thorough conviction.

