OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

MARCHANT v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS, NO.

3, FOR THE COUNTY

OF PHILADELPHIA, STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 221. Argued January 18, 19, 1894. -Decided May 14, 1894.

When a plaintiff below has the benefit of a full and fair trial in the several
courts of his own State, whose jurisdiction he invokes, and where his
rights are measured, not by laws made to affect him individually, but by
general provisions of law applicable to all in like condition, even if he
can be regarded as deprived of his property by an adverse result, the
proceedings that so resulted were in "due process of law," as that phrase
is used in the Fifth and the Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States.
The leading cases touching the construction of that phrase in the Amendments reviewed.
The fact that a railroad company is held liable for damages suffered by
a person by reason of the occupation of a public street in a city in front
of his premises by an elevated track furnishes no ground for holding it
liable to an owner on the other side of the same street but in a different
part of it, by reason of the construction of a similar elevated track opposite to him but not on the public street.
The construction of an elevated railroad, under laws of the State, on private land abutting on a public street in a city, gives to the owner of'
land on the opposite side of tle street no claim to recover consequential
damages for injury inflicted upon him thereby.

EDwARD D. MARHOHANT brought an action in the Court of
Common Pleas, No. 3, for the county of Philadelphia, State
of Pennsylvania, at September term, 1884, against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, a corporation of Pennsylvania,
for the recovery of the damages occasioned to him in the
erection by the defendant company of its elevated road on
property belonging to the railroad company and abutting on
the south side of Filbert Street, in the city of Philadelphia,
in front of plaintiff's property, which was situated on the
north side of Filbert Street, a public highway fifty-one feet in
width. No portion of the plaintiff's property was actually
taken or occupied by the railroad company, nor was Filbert

MARCHANT v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD.

381

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Street, where it extends in front of the plaintiff's lot, occupied
by the structure of the railroad company. But at another
portion of Filbert Street, not far from plaintiff's lot, the bed
of the street was and is occupied by the railroad. The plaintiff alleged in his declaration that by the erection and maintenance of the elevated railroad, and the continuous passage
of passenger and freight cars thereon, driven by steam locomotives, he was injured in the possession, use, and enjoyment
of his property, and that his dwelling and business house on
said lot was rendered unfit for habitation, and was greatly
depreciated in value. The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff in the sum of $4:980. The cause was
taken on error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, where
the judgment was reversed, the majority of the court holding
that the plaintiff had no legal cause of action. The plaintiff
having died, pending the litigation, his administratrix was
substituted, and thereupon sued out a writ of error to this
court.
1 r. -M. Hampton Todd for plaintiff in error.
I. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in reversing the
judgment which plaintiff had recovered as compensation for
the damage done to his property by the construction of defendant's elevated railroad in front thereof, and holding that
he had no cause of action for the recovery of such damages,
deprived him of his property without due process of law.
Case of Phil. & Trenton Railroad,6 Wharton, 25; S. C. 36
Am. Dec. 202; O'Connor v. Pittsburgh, 18 Penn. St. 187;
-MonongahelaNTavigation Co. v. Coons, 6 W. & S. 101 ; Schuylkill Navigation Co. v. Thoburn, 7 S. & R. 411; Pusey v. Allegheny, 98 Penn. St. 522; Reading v. Althouse, 93 Penn. St.
400; New Brighton v. United Presbyterian Church, 96 Penn.
St. 331; Pennsylvania Railroad v. Duncan, 111 Penn. St.
352; PennsylvaniaIns. Co. v. Schuylkill Talley Railroad,151
Penn. St. 3341; Jones v. Erie & .Wyoming Railroad,151 Penn.
St. 30; Pottstown Gas Co. v. 3Xu:phy, 39 Penn. St. 257;
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne &c. Radilway v. Gilleland, 56 Penn.
St. 445; Trestern Pennsylvania Railroad v. Hill, '56 Penn.

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

St. 460; Columbia Bridge Co. v. Geisse, 35 N. J. Law, 562;
Radcliff v. Brooklyn, 4: N. Y. 195; S. C. 53 Am. Dec. 357;
Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; Baltimore &f Potomac Railroad v. Fifth Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317;
Struthers v. Dunkirke &e. Railway, 87 Penn. St. 282.
II. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania denied to the
plaintiff the equal protection of the laws given by the Fourteenth Amendment by holding that the defendant is liable to
make compensation for the damage done to abutting owners on
Filbert Street by the occupation of the bed of the street for
its railroad, and is not liable to the owners of property abutting on the north side of Filbert Street, including plaintiff,
where its railroad is on property abutting on the south side of
Filbert Street, there being no difference in principle between
the two classes of cases.
This clause is intended, we think, to be supplemental to
the clause providing for due process of law. If we construe
it correctly, it is intended that after one has appeared in a
duly constituted court such person shall have no unjust and
arbitrary discrimination made against him in the administration of law, but that he shall be entitled to have the law ruled
in his case as it is in that of other citizens similarly situated.
In Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692, it is ruled:
" No State can deprive particular persons or classes of
persons of equal and impartial justice under the law without
violating the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution.
"Due process of law within the meaning of the Constitution is secured where the laws operate on all alike, and no
one is subject to partial or arbitrary exercise of the powers of
government."
We submit that in this case it is an unjust and arbitrary
exercise of the powers of government for the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania under the same constitutional guarantees to
allow compensation to be recovered by Mr. Duncan and that
class of abutting owners and denied to the plaintiff, when
there is, as we think we have heretofore shown, no difference
in principle between the two classes of cases.

MARCHANT v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD.

383

Opinion of the Court.

That is, while the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania have
endeavored to set up a distinction between the cases, there is
no real distinction in law between them. The rules of law
that give one class a right to compensation for the injuries
sustained, apply with equal force to the other. The attempted
distinction founded on the occupancy of the bed of Filbert
Street is a distinction which affects alone the quantum of
damage and not the 9right of action.
AMr. Wayne Mac Veagh, (with whom was -Mr. A. H Winteirsteen on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MRi.

JUSTICE SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The Pennsylvania Railroad Company, a corporation under
the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, and invested with the
privilege of taking private property for its corporate use,
erected in May, 1881, and has since maintained a viaduct or
elevated roadway and railroad thereon, along the south side
of Filbert Street in the city of Philadelphia. On the opposite
or north side of Filbert Street the plaintiff below was the
owner of a lot or parcel of land, whereon was erected a large
four-story building, at that time occupied as a dwelling and
business house. The elevated railroad did not occupy any
portion of the plaintiff's land, nor did it trench upon Filbert
Street where it extends in front of the plaintiff's property,
which is situated on Filbert between Seventeenth and Eighteenth streets, but where the elevated road, in its course westward, reaches Twentieth Street, it trends to the north and is
supported over the cartway of Filbert Street by iron pillars
having their foundations in that street inside the curb line,
and thus extends westwardly to the Schuylkill River. Opposite the plaintiff's lot the railroad structure occupies land
owned by the company.
The plaintiff, by his action in the Court of Common Pleas,
sought to recover for injuries caused to his property by the
smoke, dust, noise, and vibration arising from the use of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

engines and cars, the necessary consequence and incidents of
the operations of a steam railway.
The trial court refused the defendant's prayer that "the
jury should be instructed that the defendant, under its charter
and supplements in evidence, had full lawful authority to
create and operate the Filbert Street extension or branch
described in the declaration without incurring any liability by
reason thereof for consequential damages to the property of
the plaintiff, the uncontradicted evidence being that none of
the said property was taken by the defendant, but that the
entire width of Filbert Street intervenes between the railroad
of the defendant and the nearest point thereto of the property
of the plaintiff," and instructed the jury that the only question
for them to determine was the amount of depreciation in value
of the plaintiff's property caused by the operation of the railroad, and that in estimating the damages they should consider
the value of the property before and its value after the injury
was inflicted, and allow the difference. The plaintiff recovered
a verdict and judgment. This judgment was reversed by the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, because of the action of the
trial court in refusing to grant the defendant's prayer for
instruction, and, in effect, because the plaintiff had no cause
of action. By the specifications of error contained in this
record we are asked to reverse the judgment of .the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania because the plaintiff in error was
thereby deprived of her property without compensation; because she was thereby deprived of the equal protection of the
laws; and because she was thereby deprived of her property
without d ue process of law.
In reaching the conclusion that the plaintiff, under the
admitted facts in the case, had no legal cause of action, the
Supreme Court of -Pennsylvania was called upon to construe
the laws and constitution of the State. The plaintiff pointed
to the 10th section of article - of the constitution, which provided that "private property shall not be taken or applied to
public use, without authority of law, and without just compensation being first made or secured ;" and to the 8th section
of article 16, which codftains the following terms: "M unicipal

MARCHANT v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD.

385

Opinion of the Court.

and other corporations and individuals invested with the
privilege of taking private property for public use shall make
just compensation for property taken, injured, or destroyed
by the construction or enlargement of their works, highways,
or improvements, which compensation shall be paid or secured
before such taking, injury, or destruction."
The first proposition asserted by the plaintiff, that her
private property has been taken from her without just compensation having been first made or secured, involves certain
questions of fact. Was the plaintiff the owner of private
property, and was such property taken, injured, or destroyed
by a corporation invested with the privilege of taking private
property for public use? The title of the plaintiff to the
property affected was not disputed, nor that the railroad company was a corporation invested with the privilege of taking
private property for public use. But it was adjudged by the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania that the acts of the defendant
which were complained of did not, under the laws and constitution of that State, constitute a taking, an injury, or a
destruction of the plaintiff's property.
We are not authorized to inquire into the grounds and
reasons upon which the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania proceeded in its construction of the statutes and constitution of
that State, and if this record presented no other question except errors alleged to have been committed by that court in
its construction of its domestic laws, we should be obliged to
hold, as has been often held in like cases, that we have no
jurisdiction to review the judgment of the state court, and we
should have to dismiss this writ of error for that reason.
But we are urged to sustain and exercise our jurisdiction in
this case because it is said that the plaintiff's property was
taken "without due process of law," and because the plaintiff
was denied "the equal protection of the laws," and these
propositions are said to present Federal questions arising
under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, to which our jurisdiction extends.
It is sufficient for us in the present case to say that, even
if the plaintiff could be regarded as having been deprived of
VOL. CLnI-25

OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

her property, the proceedings that so resulted were in "due
process of law."
The plaintiff below had the benefit of a full and fair trial in
the several courts of her own State, whose jurisdiction was
invoked by herself. In those courts her rights were measured,
not by laws made to affect her individually, but by general
provisions of law applicable to all thos6 in like condition.
To justify this position it is not necessary to enter into an
examination of the origin, meaning, and scope of the phrase
"due process of law," as found in the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments. That has been done so often and so thoroughly
in previous cases that all we need do is to cite a few of them.
Davidson v..L ew Orleans,96 U. S. 97, came to this court
on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana. There was state legislation, under which an assessment had been laid on real estate belonging to Davidson, for
draining swamp lands in the parish of Orleans. Objections
were raised in the state courts, including alleged departures
from the requirements of the statute under which the proceedings were had, and objections based on the claim that
Davidson was, by the proceedings, deprived of his property
without due process of law. This court briefly disposed of
the objections based on questions of method and detail and
disregard of 9tatutory directions by saying that such questions
were not regulated or controlled by the Constitution of the
United States. In respect to the contention that the assessment in question depirived the plaintiff in error of his property
without due process of law, the court said, after deprecating
any attempt to define what it is for a State to deprive a
person of life, liberty, or property without process of law, in
terms which would cover every exercise of power thus forbidden to the State, "wh e never by the laws of a State, or by
state authority, a tax, assessment, servitude, or other burden
is imposed upon property for the public use, whether it be for
the whole State or of some more limited portion of the community, and those laws provide for a mode of confirming or
contesting the charge thus imposed, in the ordinary courts of
justice, with such notice to the person or such proceeding in

AIARCHANT v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD.

387

Opinion of the Court.

regard to the property as is appropriate to the nature of the
case, the judgment in such proceedings cannot be said to
deprive the owner of his property without due process of law,
however obnoxious it may be to other objections. .
.
It
is not possible to hold that a party has, without due process of
law, been deprived of his property, when, as regards the issues
affecting it, he has, by the laws of the State, a fair trial in a
court of justice, according to the modes of proceeding in such
a case. . . . The party complaining here appeared and
had a full and fair hearing in the court of the first instance,
and afterwards in the Supreme Court. If this be not due
process of law, then the words can have no definite meaning
as used in the Constitution."
In Hager v. Reclamation Distriet, 111 U. S. 701, 708, is
found the following definition of a phrase: "It is sufficient to
observe here, that by ' due process ' is meant one which, following the forms of law, is appropriate to the case, and just to
the parties to be affected. It must be pursued in the ordinary
mode prescribed by the law; it must be adapted to the end to
be attained; and wherever it is necessary for the protection
of the parties, it must give them an opportunity to be heard
respecting the justice of the judgment sought. The clause in
question, therefore, means that there can be no proceeding
against life, liberty, or property, which may result in the
deprivation of either, without the observance of those general
rules established in our system of jurisprudence for the security
of private rights."
Zissouri Pacef e Railway Co. v. fHumes, 115 U. S. 520,
was a case where it was contended that, by an act of the State
of Missouri requiring railroad companies to erect and maintain fences and affixing penalties for disobedience, a railroad
company previously chartered was deprived of property
without due process of law, and it was said: "If the
laws enacted by a State be within the legitimate sphere of
legislative power, and their enforcement be attended with the
observance of those general rules which our system of jurisprudence prescribes for the security of private rights, the
harshness, injustice, and oppressive character of such laws will

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

not invalidate them as affecting life, liberty, or property without due process of law." Without encumbering this opinion
with citations of the language used, we refer to the following
cases: The Case of Xemmler, 136 U. S. 436; Eaukuna Co.
v. G'een Bay Canal, 142 U. S. 254; Hallinger v. Davis,
146 U. S. 314; Yesler v. Harbor Commiioners, 146
U. S. 646.
The plaintiff in error further contends that, by the proceedings in the courts of Pennsylvania, she was denied the
equal protection of the laws. We understand this proposition
to be based on the allegation that those suitors whose property abutted on' Filbert Street between the Schuylkill River
and Twentieth Street, where the elevated road actually
occupies the territory of Filbert Street, were allowed by the
Pennsylvania courts to recover damages for the injury thus
occasioned to their property, while the plaintiff, and those in
like case, whose property abutted on Filbert Street where it
was not occupied by the railroad structure, which was erected
on the opposite side of the street on land belonging to the
railroad company, were not permitted to recover. The diversity of result in the two classes of cases is supposed to show
that equal protection of the laws was not afforded to the
unsuccessful litigants. It is not clear that the facts are so
presented as to authorize us to consider this question.
Neither in the plaintiff's declaration, in the instructions
prayed for, nor in the charge of the trial court, do we perceive any finding or admission that there were suitors, holding
property abutting on Filbert Street, who were held entitled to
recover for damages occasioned by the elevated railroad.
However, the third assignment of error is as follows: "The
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania erred in deciding that the
present cause was different in principle from the case of
Pennsylvania Railroad Company v. Duncan, 111 Penn. St.
352, and 132 U. S. 75. The effect of said decision is that,
under the same constitutional guarantees, it gives to one
person a right to compensation for property damaged by the
defendant in the exercise of its power of eminent domain, and
denies it to another; and as in this instance the decision is

MARCHANT v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD.

389

Opinion of the Court.

against the plaintiff's right to compensation for the injury to
her property by the defendant, she is thereby deprived of the
equal protection of the laws." The counsel of defendant in
error, in their printed brief, make no point that the facts are
not shown by this record, but discuss the question on its
merits. We are referred in the printed briefs to our own
case of Penn&ylvania Railroad Co. v. _3iller, 132 U. S. 76, in
the report of which it appears that one Duncan, whose property abutted on Filbert Street, where that street was occupied
by the elevated railroad in question, was permitted by the
state courts to recover for damages suffered by having been
deprived of access to and the free use of Filbert Street.
Conceding, for the sake of the argument, that the facts are
as alleged by the plaintiff in error, we are unable to see any
merit in the contention that the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in distinguishing between the case of those who, like
Duncan, were shut off from access to and use of the street by
the construction thereon of the elevated railroad, and the case
of those who suffered, not from the construction of the railroad on the street on which their property abutted, but from
the injuries consequential on the operation of the railroad, as
situated on defendant's own property, thereby deprived the
plaintiff of the equal protection of the laws. The two classes
of complainants differed in the critical particular that one
class suffered direct and immediate damage from the construction of the railroad in such a way as to exclude them from the
use of their accustomed highway, and the other class suffered
damages which were consequential on the use by the defendant company of their franchise on their own property. The
question thus raised is within the case of .issouri v. Lewis,
101 U. S.22, where it was said that "the clause in question
means that no person or class of persons shall be denied the
same protection of the laws which is enjoyed by other persons
or classes in the same place and under like circumstances."
So in Hayes v. .issouri, 120 U. S.68, where by a statute of
the State of Missouri it was provided that, in capital cases, in
cities having a population of over 100,000 inhabitants, the
State shall be allowed fifteen peremptory challenges, while

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

elsewhere in the State it is allowed only eight peremptory
challenges, it was held that such a distinction did not deny to
a person accused and tried for murder in a city containing
over 100,000 inhabitants the equal protection of the laws enjoined by the Fourteenth Amendment, and in the course of
the discussion it was said: "The Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States does not prohibit legislation which is limited either in the objects to which it is directed
or by the territory within which it is to operate. It merely
requires that all persons subjected to such legislation shall be
treated alike, under like circumstances and conditions, both in
the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed. As we
said in Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, speaking of the
Fourteenth Amendment: ' Class legislation, discriminating
against some and favoring others, is prohibited, but legislation
which, in carrying out a public purpose, is limited in its application, if within the sphere of its operation it affects alike all
persons similarly situated, is not within the amendment. '"
It should also be observed that the plaintiff does not complain that, by any legislative enactment, she has been denied
rights granted to others, but she attributes error to the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in construing that
provision of the constitution of the State which gives a remedy
for property injured by the construction of a railroad, as not
extending the remedy to embrace property injured by the
lawful operation of the railroad. It is not pretended that, by
such a construction of the law, the plaintiff has been deprived
of any right previously enjoyed. The scope of the remedy
added by the constitution of 1874 to those previously possessed
by persons whose property is affected by the erection of a
public work is declared by the court not to embrace the case
of damages purely consequential.
In so holding, it does not appear to us that the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania has either deprived the plaintiff of
property without due process of law, or denied her the equal
protection of the law, and its judgment is accordingly
Afflrmed.

