Dec. 1865.]

Tim

HART.

Statemenit of the case.
[After the preceding confirmation of the decree of the District Court of
Philadelphia-which, it will have been noted by the reader, was one condemning only the vessel (claimed by Haigh), and the munitions of war, &c.
(claimed by Captain Blakely)-judgment as to the residue of the cargo
having been reserved,-a decree was passed by the District Court, condemn-ing this whole residue also.-See 23 Legal Intelligencer, 116.]

NOTE.

Along with the preceding case was submitted another,
much like it, the case ofTEE HART.
Neutrals who place their vessels under belligerent control, and engage them
in belligerent trade; or permit them to be sent with contraband cargoes,
under cover of false destination, to neutral ports, while the real destination is to belligerent ports; impress upon them the character of the
belligerent in whose service they are employed, and the vessels may be
seized and condemned as enemy property.
THE present case came here by appeal from a decree of the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York; a decree condemning the schooner Hart and her
cargo as lawful prize of war. The vessel was claimed below by
one Harris; the cargo by Samuel Isaacs.
The whole cargo consisted of arms and munitions of war,
taken on board, principally, at London, under the direction of

agents of the rebel government, with consent, by the owner or
owners of the schooner, to the intended fraud on belligerent
rights. The nominal destination of the vessel and cargo was
Cardenas; but the preparatory proofs clearly established that
this pretended destination was false, and that the entire lading
was to be there transshipped, to be conveyed by a swifter vessel,
or was to be carried on without transshipment to its belligerent
destination, at the discretion of the rebel agent, whose instructions the master was directed to receive and obey on arrival at
Cardenas.
M. Coffey, for the captors; no one appearing,nor any argument
being submitted for the claimants.

BOLLINGER'S

0HAMPAGNE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
The CHIEF JUSTICE: The case in its principal features
resembles that of the Bermuda and her cargo; they are, perhaps, even more irreconcilable with neutral good faith.
It is enough to say that neutrals who place their vessels under
belligerent control, and engage them in belligerent trade, or permit them to be sent with contraband cargoes under cover of
false destination to neutral ports, while the real destination is
to belligerent ports, impress upon them the character of the
belligerent in whose service they are employed, and cannot
complain if they are seized and condemned as enemy property.
The principles recognized in the preceding case require the
affirmance of the decree of the District Court; and it is
AFFIRMIED ACCORDINGLY.

B OLLINGER'S CHAMPAGNE.
1. Under the Tariff Act of June 30, 1S64, which lays a specific duty per
gallon upon wines, and an ad valorerm duty also, with a proviso that no
champagne in bottles shall pay a less rate than $6 per dozen (quart) or
two dozen (pint) bottles, the effect is that if the specific duty upon the
gallon and the ad valorem duty exceed the sum of six dollars per dozen
(quart) or two dozen (pint), the rate thus estimated will be the duty
imposed. It is only when the rate falls undc.the sum of $6 that no
less sum is chargeable.
2. Any entry of champagne wines knowingly made by means of false invoices, false certificates to the consul, or by means of any other false or
fraudulent documents or papers, forfeits it, irrespective of the fact that
if the entry had been truly made, the duty would have been no greater.
The penalty is attached to the act of false entry, not to the result
which such entry may, in the specific instance, produce on the revenue.

THE Revenue Act of March 3, 1863,* provides that every
invoice of goods imported from a foreign country (when obtained otherwise than by purchase and subject to ad volorem
duty) shall have indorsed upon it a declaration signed by
the owner, agent, &c., setting forth that it contains "a true
* 12 Stat. at large, 73T.

