BOLLINGER'S

0HAMPAGNE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
The CHIEF JUSTICE: The case in its principal features
resembles that of the Bermuda and her cargo; they are, perhaps, even more irreconcilable with neutral good faith.
It is enough to say that neutrals who place their vessels under
belligerent control, and engage them in belligerent trade, or permit them to be sent with contraband cargoes under cover of
false destination to neutral ports, while the real destination is
to belligerent ports, impress upon them the character of the
belligerent in whose service they are employed, and cannot
complain if they are seized and condemned as enemy property.
The principles recognized in the preceding case require the
affirmance of the decree of the District Court; and it is
AFFIRMIED ACCORDINGLY.

B OLLINGER'S CHAMPAGNE.
1. Under the Tariff Act of June 30, 1S64, which lays a specific duty per
gallon upon wines, and an ad valorerm duty also, with a proviso that no
champagne in bottles shall pay a less rate than $6 per dozen (quart) or
two dozen (pint) bottles, the effect is that if the specific duty upon the
gallon and the ad valorem duty exceed the sum of six dollars per dozen
(quart) or two dozen (pint), the rate thus estimated will be the duty
imposed. It is only when the rate falls undc.the sum of $6 that no
less sum is chargeable.
2. Any entry of champagne wines knowingly made by means of false invoices, false certificates to the consul, or by means of any other false or
fraudulent documents or papers, forfeits it, irrespective of the fact that
if the entry had been truly made, the duty would have been no greater.
The penalty is attached to the act of false entry, not to the result
which such entry may, in the specific instance, produce on the revenue.

THE Revenue Act of March 3, 1863,* provides that every
invoice of goods imported from a foreign country (when obtained otherwise than by purchase and subject to ad volorem
duty) shall have indorsed upon it a declaration signed by
the owner, agent, &c., setting forth that it contains "a true
* 12 Stat. at large, 73T.

Dec. 1865.]

BOLLINGER'S CHAMPAGNE.
Statement of the case.

and fall statement of the actual market value thereof at the
time when and the place where they were procured or manuIhctured;" and further, that if any such owner, agent, consignee, &c., of any goods, shall knowingly make, or attempt
to make an entry thereof by means "of any invoice which
shall not contain a twe statement of all the particulars herein
before required, or, by means of any other false or fraudulent document, or paper,- or any other false or fraudulent
practice, or appliance whatsoever, said goods, &c., shall be
foifeitcd," &c.
The Tariff Act of June 80, 1864"' lays the following duties:
"On wines of all kinds, valued at not over fifty cents per gallon, twenty cents per gallon and twenty-five per centum ad valorem; valued at over fifty cents, and not over one dollar per
gallon, fifty cents per gallon, and twenty-five per centum ad
valorem; valued at over one dollarper gallon, one dollar per gallon,
and twenty-five per centum ad valorem; provided, that no chain-

pagne, or sparkling wines, in bottles, shall pay a less rate of duty
than six dollars per dozen bottles, each bottle eotaininig "not,more

than one quart, and more than one pint, or six dollars per two
dozen bottles, each bottle containing not more than one pint."
With these statutes in force, a libel for undervaluation was
filed in the District Court for the Northern District of California against a quantity of champagne imported from
France to the port of San Francisco, and entered at the customs there in November, 1864. On the trial evidence was
given tending to prove that the wines in question were
knowingly invoiced by their manufacturers at prices below
the actual market value at the time when and place where
they were manufactured; that he knowingly entered them
at the customs on an invoice that did not state such actual
market value; and that such actual market value wasfortyeightfealns per ease of twelve (quart)bottles.

The court charged that under the act of June 30th, 1864,
the undervaluation did not affect the amount or rate of
* 18 Stat. at Large, 202.

VOL. 1II.

86

[Sup. eCt.

BOLLINGER'S CHAMPAGNE.
Statement of the case.

duties chargeable on the wines; that, if they had been invoiced and entered at their true and actual market value,
they would still have been subject to a specific duty of but
six dollars per dozen (quart) bottles, and, therefore, that the
wines were not forfeited by reason of their having been
knowingly entered on a false invoice.
The idea of the learned district judge, so far as the reporter could understand a case which came up on a very
meagre record and was not argued here at all on one side,
and by short brief only on the other, was this. The true,
actual market value of the wine at the place of production
was forty-eight francs or (estimating the franc at its customhouse valuation of 18 cents 6 mills) $8.92 for twelve quarts
in bottles.* This would make the wine worth $2.97 per
gallon; on which the ad valorem duty (25 p. c. per gallon),
would be:
For three gallons, or the whole twelve bottles,
Adding the specific duty ($1 per gallon), ..
Gave the entire duty, independently of lteproviso,

75
3 00
.

$3 75

But the importer had paid at any rate $6; and paid, therefore, just as much as he would have paid had he given in
the true, actual market value of 48 francs per dozen quart
bottles.
The claimant having had judgment, and this being approve by the Circuit Court, the case was now here on writ
of error for review.
* I presume that in a question of customs duty the custom-house valuation of tbe franc was taken. It is a curious fact, however, shown by a note
addressed to me in reply to an inquiry from me as to the matter, by the
Hon. Jamnes Ross Snowden, ex-director of the Federal mint and well known
to the country as one of its most learned numismatologists, that in the
United States the franc has no less than three different values:
C. In.
1. Custom-house valuation,
.
.18
6
2. Silver franc, mint price,
.
.19
6
3. Gold franc, full weight,
..
19 27
The matter is perhaps of a sufficient interest, extraneous to the case, to induce my pteservation of his note to me in an appendix. (See Appendix
No. II.)-REP.

Dec. 1865.]

BOLLINCEI'S CHAMPAGNE.
Opinion of the court.

21cssrs. Speed, A. G., and Lake, D. A. for Cal;forvia, by(
brief,for the United State.s; no counsel appeatihgfor M]e elafntod.
MNr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the ourt.
It will be perceived that the duty imposed by the Tariff
Act of June 80th, 1864, is both specific and ad valoreem; and,
according to the proviso, as it respects champagne or sparkling wines, in bottles, of a given quantity in each, not less
than six dollars per dozen, or six dollars per two dozen, as
may be the quantity, shall be imposed as the duty. The
effect of the proviso is, that, if the specific duty upon the
gallon, and the ad valoe r duty on the appraised value, in
the aggregate, as it respects the article of champagne or
sparkling wines, as the case may be, in bottles, exceed the
sum of six dollars per dozen, or two dozen, the rate thus
estimated will be the duty imposed; but if the rate falls
under the sum of six dollars, then, by virtue of the proviso,
not less than that sum shall be exacted.
It will be observed that, in order to carry into effect this
act, an appraisal at the customs, in the case of the specific
duty on the gallon, is as essential as the appraisal in the
case of an ad valorew duty. For the specific duty is apportioned according to the value of the article; wines valued at
not over fifty cents per gallon, pay twenty cents per gallon;
valued at over fifty and not over one dollar per gallon, fifty
cents specific duty, and so on.
Now, the District Court charged in effect that, as the specific and ad valorem duty, in the aggregate, if properly appraised and estimated as appraised on the trial, was under
six dollars per dozen, no higher duties would have been
charged by the government than that sum; the sum which
was paid on the entry to the collector.
The principle involved in the ruling is, that no matter
how much fraud and imposition may have been practised
upon the officers of the customs, or, however false may have
been the invoice, or other papers of the shipment, and oath
of the importer or agent upon which the entry of the goods
is made, if it turns out in the result, that the value of duty
required by law has been paid, no penalty attaches.

Tim DOUIR0.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

We cannot agree to this construction of the act of 1863,
which prescribes this penalty, nor of the act of 1864 imposing the duty. The penalty of forfeiture is annexed to
the act of making an entry knowingly by means of false in
voices, or false certificate of the consul, or of any other in
voice which contains an undervaluation, or by means of any
other false or fraudulent documents or papers. No doubt
one of the objects of the provision is to secure to the gov
ernment the duties imposed by the statute, but another is,
to protect the officers against imposition and fraud by the
importer or agent, and to inculcate and enforce good faith
and honest dealing with those officers while engaged in the
execution of their duties.
Besides, under this provision of the act of 1864, the result
which is assumed in the instruction to the jury, as the only
material fact in disposing of the case, is one to be ascertained by the officers of the customs, and this, after the
entry of the goods upon the invoice duly verified, and an
appraisal and estimate of the amount of the duties. This is
the way prescribed by the law to determine whether or not
the duties in the aggregate fall under the rate of six dollars
per dozen bottles. The reason, therefore, for integrity in all
the documents and papers of the shipment, and fair dealing
on the part of the importers or their agent, is as applicable
to the present case as to any other importation and entry.
We think that the court below erred, and that the judgment should be
REVERSED.

THE DOURO.
The court reproves counsel who take appeals without any expectation of
reversal, and declares that if it had power to impose a penalty in such
cases, as it has when writs of error are sued out for delay merely, iR
would impose it.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, condemning

