PERALTA V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

The appeal of lodge, the agent of the officers and crews
of the monitors, is dismissed. The court below had no
power to award payment from the prize-money of the compensation which was agreed upon between these parties.
lie must apply, under his power of attorney, to the proper
officers of the government charged with the distribution of
the money.
The decree of the court below is

PRALTA v. UNITED STATES.
1. Written documentary evidence, no matter how formal and complete, or
how well supported by the testimony of witnesses, if coming from private
hands, is insufficient to establish a Mexican grant if there is nothing
in the public records to show that such evidence ever existed; though
the court remarks that if the claimant can show to the satisfaction of
the court that the grant has been made in conformity to law and -recorded, and that the record has been lost or destroyed, he will then be
permitted to give secondary evidence of its contents.
2. A bare possession for a year before our conquest of California insufficient
to establish an equity in opposition to the above first-announced rule.
3. In this case the court enforces the necessity of adhering to general rules
when experience has demonstrated their wisdom, even though, sometimes, adherence to them should make cases of individual hardship.
APPEAL from the decree of the District Court for Northern
California on a claim presented in 1853, by Maria de Valencia, for herself and others, heirs of Teodora Peralta, for a
piece of land in California on which they were living; the
claim being founded on a grant alleged by them to have
been made in the spring of 1846 to the said Teodora by
Governor Pio Pico. The case had come of course to the
District Court on an appeal from the Board of Land Commissioners established by the act of March 3, 1851, to settle
private land claims in California.
The expediente which was produced by the claimant
showed that in 1845, the Sefiora Peralta petitioned the alcalde of San Rafael to obtain a report from the neighbors
or colihalantes of the tract which she desired to solicit from

Dec. 1865.]

V. UNITED STATES.
PERALTA
8
Statement of the case.

the government, in order that the report might accompany
her petition to the governor for a grant of the land. On the
same day the magistrate certified that the colindantes bad
stated before him that the sobrante or surplus asked for was
vacant and might be granted. On the 8th November, 1845,
she presented a petition to the prefect, in which she set forth
her previous application to the alcalde and the report of that
officer, and requesting him to take such further proceedings
as might be necessary. This petition was referred by the
prefect to the sub-prefect, and by the latter to the first judge
of San Rafael. On the 29th November the first judge reported the land to be vacant. On the 20th December the
prefect recommended to the governor that the title issue.
And on the 18th February, 1846, the governor attached to
the expediente an order to that effect.
The expediente containing all these documents was Iprorised y the ela tdna.
The arehhes eonta4ned vo 'recordor irae
whalever of cwy of these proceedings.
There seemed no reason, perhaps, to doubt the genuineness of any of the papers except the last and most important
of all, viz., the order by the governor that the title issue.
This order and the signature were evidently in Pico's handwriting, but the court below noted that his signature on this
particular document bore little resemblance to his signatures
elsewhere found in the archives, the uniform and striking
peculiarities of which it had frequently commented upon;
but, on the contrary, resembled the mode of signing his
name, and especially of forming the letter "P'"in it, adopted
by him at a much later period.
No explanation was offered of the circumstance that the
expediente was found in the claimant's possession.
The Sefiora Peralta, mother of the petitioner, belonged, it
was said, to a well-known and good family, and was a native of the region, with a perfectly fair character. One witness swore that she was occupying the land in 1844; another
that she was on it even a year earlier.
The petition itself (or an amendedpetition rather, which differed in important respects from the original petition) set

436

PERALTA V. UINITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

forth that title, a written document of concession signed by
Pio Pico, did in fact issue, granting the land to the said
Teodora Peralta; that, as the petitioner was informed and
verily believed, the said document of concession, and also a
map of the land, and a certificate of possession thereof, were
delivered to the said Teodora Peralta, at the time of the said
granting of said land, and within the knowledge and distinct
recollection of the petitioner, were held and possessed by the
said Teodora during her lifetime; that until within a short
period the petitioner, and, as she was informed and verily
believed, the rest of the heirs, had believed the same to be
on file along with the said expediente in this cause; that the
petitioner had made and caused to be made diligent search
therefor without finding the same, and that she verily believed thAt the same had become lost or destroyed since the
death of the said Teodora.
One of the daughters of Madame Peralta swore to her reception of the grant, and that for about a year previous to
its delivery she had been in occupancy under a provisional
license, although the case showed no record evidence of the
same.

The Board of Land Commissioners, admitting that the
proofs of occupancy and cultivation were satisfactory, and
that, if the parties had used the proper diligence in procuring
the issue of the grant and judicial measurement and formal
possession, there might have been no difficulty in the case,
still considered that in the absence of the issue of the grant,
and a segregation of the land, they could do nothing but reject the claim.
The District Court was apparently of this same view: observing that the reports of the alcalde, the prefect, &c.,
showed that the Sefiora Peralta would have had no difficulty
in obtaining the land, if she had followed out her original
purpose; that the case was thus a hard one for the claimant,
or rather her heirs, since she herself was now dead; but still
declaring that if by accident or neglect she had failed to get
what she might have laid a good foundation for obtaining,
and but for accident or neglect might perhaps have got,

Dec. 1865.]

PERALTA V.

UNITED STATES.

Argument for the appellant.

in fact, the misfortune was one which that court could not
remedy.
.lessrs. Speed, A. G., and Wills, for the Uniied Stales, relied
on numerous decisions in this court, of which Bomero v.
Ujded States,* a leading case on the subject, and which Mr.
'Wills noted had been argued by Mr. Black, adverse counsel
here, in opposition to the positions which he would be compelled now to maintain, was one. The counsel also contended
that the case had been even more than benignantly enough
considered by the Land Commission and by the court below; it being, as was evident from the amendment of the
petition in important particulars (afterthoughts plainly), and
from the positive oath made by Madame Peralta's daughter
as to having seen a petition of which no record could be
found, and from other circumstances not necessary to be detailed, a case less of misfortune and accident than of a fraudulent kind.
.21r. 1. S. Black, contra, acknowledging the rule set up by
the other side to be generally true, sought to take the case

out of it as an exception; he denied all fraud, and referring
to United States v. Alviso,t where there was no archive evidence, and to other cases, submitted that the difficulty, suggested by the fact that the expediente was not found in the
archives but was produced by claimants, was fairly explained
by the reasonable presumptions, arising from the proof of a
boia fides from the very beginning, confessed both by the
Land Commission and the District Court, of the meritorious
qualifications of the grantee; of the integrity of her documentary evidence; of its transmission to and reception from
the government authorities; of the undoubted continuity of
her possession and claim, accompanied by actual occupation
and cultivation, as the permanent family home for a period
of some ten years, and under a well-known and recognized
* 1 Wallace 721; see also White v. United States, 1 Id. 660, and Pico r.
Fame, 2 Id. 279.
t 23 Howard, 318.

438

IPERALTA V. UNEITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

claim of title; that it was also met and explained by the
irregularity and want of system shown, as he argued, by
.various cases which he cited from the Appendix to Hoffman's Reports and from the California Archives and :Records, to have existed in the registry and record of MIexican
land grants as aforesaid. He argued also that it was accounted for by the analogy of the numerous other cases
which could be cited, and which showed, as he considered,
that in many claims of undoubted bonafides and merit which
had been held on behalf of the government to be good and
entitled to patent, the expedientes were in some manner returned to the Mexican grantees, and were thus not found in
the archives, but in the possession of the claimants themselves, and were by them produced before the Land Commission or United States District Courts, unauthenticated
by any archive evidence whatever.
He had himself, it was true, as much perhaps as any coun
sel at this bar, supported as a general rule, the rule which
the other side would apply as an inflexible one to this case.
But on previous cases he was stating a rule, not the exceptions to it. Of course he did not overlay his arguments as
if he were writing a text-book, with a consideration of everything that might, could, would, should, or possibly ought to
qualify his general propositions. The case here was different. It was an exception to a rule, and the rule was to be
applied so as to subserve and not so as to destroy justice.
The whole matter rested in judicial construction. It was
not an affair of statute. To apply previous decisions on
general cases to a case purely exceptional, would be to judge
without discrimination. "Statutes," said Hobart, C. J.,*
"are like tyrants: where they come they make all void; but
the common law is like a nursing father, and makes void
that part only where the fault is and leaves the rest." Even
statutes, however, and statutes where the language is posi
tive-the statute of frauds being a well-known instancehave been largely qualified so as to prevent rules intended
* 1

Moaern, 86.

Dec. 1865.]

PERALTA V. UNITED STATES.

439

Opinion of the court.

for general cases operating to do injustice in such special
ones, as they were really meant not for.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This claim cannot be sustained, according to the rules of
evidence which this court has established to determine the
validity of Iexican titles in California. We are asked to
relax the severity of those rules in this case, because it is
alleged to be meritorious. Courts administer justice by
fixed rules, which experience and wisdom have demonstrated are necessary in the investigation of truth. There
will sometimes, in applying those rules to the various affairs
of life, be cases of individual hardship; but this does not
prove that the rules are unwise, or not the best that can be
adopted.for the purposes of judicial investigation. The
right of property, as every other valuable right, depends in
a great measure for its security on the stability of judicial
decisions.
The treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo imposed the obligation
on this government to protect titles to land in California
acquired under Mexican rule. The country was new, and
rich in mineral wealth, and attracted settlers, whose industry and enterprise produced an unparalleled state of prosperity. The enhanced value given to the whole surface of
the country by the discovery of gold, made it necessary to
ascertain and settle all private land claims, so that the real
estate belonging to individuals could be separated from the
public domain. Yielding to this necessity, and in obedience to the obligations of the treaty, Congress passed an act
on the 3d of March, 1851, to accomplish this purpose. The
laws and usages of the M\exican government, as administered in California before the conquest of the country, and
the principles of equity, were prescribed as rules which
should govern the courts in adjudicating the questions of
title. Very many claims were tested by these rules, and
found to be valid, and were confirmed; others were imperfect and could not be recognized. Then commenced a
struggle, which has never been abandoned, to induce the

PERALTA V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot

Opinion of the court.

courts to fritter away the act of Congress, and substitute
parol proof for record evidence. The history of the cases in
this court from California, show the extent of the struggle
and the result. We have refused to allow oral testimony to
prevail when archive evidence was necessary.
The colonization regulations of 1828 constitute the "laws
and usages" by which the validity of a Mexican title is to
be determined. It is not important to restate the nature
and extent of those regulations, for they have been so often
commented on that they are familiar to the profession. The
Mexican nation attached a great deal of form to the disposition of its lands, and required many things to be done
before the proceedings could ripen into a grant. But the
important fact to be noticed is, that a record was required to
be kept of whatever was done. This record was- a guard
against fraud and imposition, and enabled the government
to ascertain with accuracy what portions of the public lands
had been alienated. The record was the grant, and without
it the title was not divested. The governor was required
to give a document to the party interested, which was evidence of title, and enabled him to get possession; but this
"titulo" did not divest the title, unless record was made in
conformity with law.
Written documentary evidence, no matter how formal
and complete, or how well supported by the testimony of
witnesses, will not suffice if it is obtained from private hands
and there is nothing in the public iecords of the country
to show that such evidence ever existed. But it may be
said that the archives of the country may be lost or destroyed, and if so, that the party in interest should not
suffer. This is true; and if the claimant can show, to the
satisfaction of the court, that the grant was made in conformity to law and recorded, and that the record of it has
been lost or destroyed, he will then be permitted to introduce secondary evidence of it. But the absence of record
evidence is necessarily fatal, unless that absence can be
accounted for. Testing the case in hand by these principles of law, it cannot be confirmed. There is neither a

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V.

CUTTING.

Statement of the case.

grant nor archive evidence. If there had been a grant
according to law, the expediente would have remained in
the archives; but there is no trace of it there, and it is produced from private hands, which tends strongly to show,
that the governor never saw it. If the grant had been
made, and recorded in the proper office, possession would
have been given to the grantee of the lands which were conveyed. This was not done, and no reason is assigned fbr
the omission. There are circumstances in proof which are
calculated to cast suspicion on this claim, but we forbear to
notice them.
It is said that an equity arises on account of possession.
But the bare possession is too limited to raise any substantial equity, because the claimant only occupied the place
about a year before the conquest of the country.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. CUTTING.
Under the Internal Revenue Act of June 80, 1864, as amended by the act
of March 3, 1865, the sales of stocks, bonds, and securities made by
" brokers" for themselves are subject to the same duties as those made
by them for others.

THE Internal Revenue Act of 30th June, 1864,* declares
by its 99th section as follows:

"All brokers and bankers doing business as brokers, shall be
subject to pay the following duties and rates of duty upon the
sales of merchandise, produce, gold and silver bullion, foreign
exchange, promissory notes, stocks, bonds, or other securities,
&c., and shall also be subject to all the provisions, &c., of the act
for making returns, assessments, and collection of the duties."
The ninth paragraph of the 79th section says:
"Brokers shall pay $50 for each license. Every person,
firm, or company (except such as hold a license as banker),
* 13 Stat. at Large, 218.

