THE OTTAWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ties should not appeal to this court with any expectation
that we will reverse the decision of the courts below, because counsel can find in the mass of conflicting testimony
enough to support the allegations of the appellant, if the
testimony of the appellee be entirely disregarded; or by
attacking the character of his witnesses when the truth of
their testimony has been sustained by the opinions of both
the courts below. Parties ought not to expect this court to
revise their decrees merely on a doubt raised in our minds
as to the correctness of their judgment, on the credibility
of witnesses, or the weight of conflicting testimony. In the
present case we see no reason to doubt the correctness of
the decision of the Circuit Court, which is accordingly
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE OTTAWA.
1. The court admitting that within reasonable limits cross-examination is
a right, and on many accounts of great value, reflects upon an exercise
of it as excessive in a case where there were between four and five hundred cross-interrogatories.
2. Lookouts must be pqrsons of suitable experience, properly stationed on
the vessel, and actually and vigilantly employed in the performance
of their duty.
3. When acting as officer of the deck, and having charge of the navigation
of the vessel, the master of a steamer is not a proper lookout, nor is the
helmsman.
4. Lookouts should be stationed on the forward part of the vessel where
the view is not in any way obstructed. The wheel-house is not a proper place, especially if it is very dark and the view is obstructed.
6. Elevated positions, such as the hurricane deck, are said by the court to
be not in general as favorable in a dark night as those usually selected
on the forward part of the vessel, where the lookout stands nearer the
water-line, and is less likely to overlook small'vessels deeply laden.
6 These principles applied, and a steamer condemned in a collision case, for
want of a proper lookout; the case being one also where the lights of
the steamer were badly attended to and gave imperfect warning.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for

Dec. 1865.]

T1HE OTTAWA.
Opinion of the court.

the Northern District of Illinois in a question of collision at
night, on Lake Huron, between the steam propeller Ottawa
and the schooner Caledonia, and by which the schooner was
sunk; the decree in the Circuit as in the District Court
having been against the steamer as in fault.
The controversy was one chiefly of fact; whether, for example, there was any one at all on the steamer's deck about
the time of the collision besides the wheelsman then steering the vessel; whether the steamer showed lights as required; what the courses of the two vessels had been, and
how far they properly or impropeiy held them on their approach to each other, and some others not necessary, in
view of the decision, to be mentioned. The testimony was
conflicting and prolix; the cross-examination of one witness
alone having extended to four hundred and thirty-two inquiries.
The chief point of law disputed in the controversy and the
matter therefore to which the reporter more particulaTly directs attention was apparently this: Whether, assuming that
the master was on the steamer's deck after the vessels came
into such proximity as required precautions, until the moment before the collision occurred-a matter about which
there were doubts-he was a competent lookout within the
decisions of this court; he having been, at the time, the officer of
the deck, in charge of navigating her, and having been standing
with the wheelsman, in the wheelhouse; a place which, on this
steamer, the tuate swore was the best place for a lookout
to be, well forward, and giving an unobstructed view; and
which the counsel for the owners of the steamer, exhibiting
to the court a photograph, stated was less than twenty feet
from the bow.
3Tr. Dexter for the owners of the steamer; 31r. Proudfoot,
contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Amended libel alleged that the appellee was the owner
of the schooner Caledonia; that on the sixteenth day ot
September, 1860, she was engaged in prosecuting a voyage

TnE

OTTAWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from Chicago to Buffalo, having on board a cargo of six
thousand bushels of wheat, belonging to her owner; that,
at eight o'clock in the evening of that day, when she was
navigating in Lake Huron, eight miles northwesterly from
Thunder Bay Light, she encountered the propeller Ottawa,
bound up the lake, and that the propeller was so negligently
and carelessly managed and navigated that a collision occurred between the two vessels, whereby the schooner, with
her cargo on board, was sunk in the lake and lost.
Appellant, in his amended answer, admitted the collision
and loss, but denied that the propeller was in fault, and
averred as a distinct ground of defence that the collision occurred entirely through the incompetency of those in charge
of the schooner, and in consequence of their carelessness and
mismanagement.
Decree in the District Court was in favor of the libellant,
and the same was affirmed on appeal in the Circuit Court;
whereupon the owner and claimant of the propeller appealed
to this court.
I. Most of the material inquiries of fact presented for decision are, as usual in this class of cases, involved in perplexng uncertainty on account of the conflicting nature of the
testimony. Superadded to that difficulty, which experience
shows is one generally to be expected in controversies of
this character, the present investigation is greatly complicated and embarrassed by the unreasonable length of the
examinations and cross-examinations of the witnesses, as
exhibited in the record. Undoubtedly a party calling a
witness, may, if he sees fit, examine the witness by specific
interrogatories, instead of relying upon the general statements of witness, as made responsive to the oath under
which he testifies; and it is equally clear that the opposite
party may in all cases cross-examine the witness in respect
to all the material matters disclosed in the examination in
chief, but it is past belief that everything valuable involved
in the right of cross-examination may not be secured with.
out propounding, in a collision case, four or five hundred
questions to a single witness.

Dec. 1865.]

Tim OTTAWA.
Opinion of the court.

Cross-examination is the right of the party against whom
the witness is called, and the right is a valuable one as a
means of separating hearsay from knowledge, error from
truth, opinion from fact, and inference from recollection,
and as a means of ascertaining the order of the events as
narrated by the witness in his examination in chief, and the
time and place when and where they occurred, and the attending circumstances, and of testing the intelligence, memory, impartiality, truthfulness, and integrity of the witness;
but a few questions, well directed to those several objects,
are in general amply sufficient to effect all that can well be
accomplished by the fullest enjoyment of that admitted right.
II. Embarrassed, however, as the investigation is by the
complications and difficulties suggested, still there are some
facts and circumstances having an important bearing upon
the principal questions involved in the pleadings, which may
be regarded as conceded, or as so fully proved that they are
not properly the subjects of controversy in the case.
Seaworthiness of the schooner is not denied, and it is fully
proved that she was well manned and equipped, and that
the master, at the time of the collision, was in charge of her
deck. Proofs are also entirely satisfactory that she had an
able seaman at the wheel, and a competent lookout, properly stationed, forward of the windlass, having no other
duty to perform, and at a place where there was nothing to
obstruct his view.
Just before the collision the master was standing near the
helmsman, but, when notified by the lookout that he diseovered a light, he went immediately forward, in order to
determine what, if anythiig, was necessary to be done.
Prior to six o'clock the schooner had been sailing on a
course southeast by south, but, being well out in the lake,
the master, as he states, changed her course at that hour
half a point to the southward, and he adds that she had been
sailing upon that course about two hours.
Evidence is full to the point that the schooner showed a
proper light, and the master testifies in substance and effect
that she held her course until the collision was inevitable.

THE, OTTAWA.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Careful examination has been given to the evidence on this
last point, and it is not perceived that there is any good
reason to doubt the truth of the statement.
Allegation of the libel, as to the time and place of the
collision, is correct.
Doubt cannot be entertained but that the propeller was a
seaworthy vessel, and it is satisfactorily shown that she was
well manned and equipped.
Appellee insists that she was responsible for the consequences of the collision, because she was in fault in three
particulars:
1. He insists that she had no proper lookout, as required
by the decisions of this court.
2. That she did not show the signal lights, as required by
law.
8. That she did not comply with rule of navigation, which
requires that where a steamer and a sail vessel are approaching each other from opposite directions, or on intersecting
lines, the sail vessel shall hold her course and the steamer
shall keep out of the way.
1. Argument for the appellee assumes that there was no
one on the deck of the propeller, except the man at the
wheel; but the appellant insists that the master, also, was
on deck, and contends that the master, under the circumstances of this case, was a competent lookout within the
meaning of the decisions of this court. Strong doubts are
entertained whether he was on deck at all after the vessels
came into such proximity as required precautions, until the
moment before the collision occurred; but in the view taken
of the case, it is unnecessary to decide the point, as it .is
clear that if he was on deck, as is supposed by the appellant,
still he was not a proper lookout within the requirement of
the rules of navigation, as expounded by the decisions of
this court.
Two objections are made to the master, as lookout, even,
admitting that he was on deck, and they are both well
taken. Admission of the appellant is, that the master was
the officer of the deck, and that he had charge of navigating

Dec. 1865.]

TiiE

OTTAWA.

Opinion of the court.

the vessel, and the proofs are satisfactory that if he was on
deck at all at that time, he was in the wheel-house with the
man at the wheel. Steamers are required to have constant
and vigilant lookouts stationed in proper places on the vessel, and charged with the duty for which lookouts are required, and they must be actually employed in the performance of the duty to which they are assigned. They must be
persons of suitable experience, properly stationed on the
vessel, and actually and vigilantly employed in the performance of that duty.* Proper lookouts are competent persons
other than the master and helmsman, properly stationed for
that purpose, on the forward part of the vessel; and the
pilot-house in the night time, especially if it is very dark,
and the view is obstructed, is not the proper place.t Lookouts stationed in positions where the view forward or on the
side to which they are assigned, is obstructed, either by the
lights, sails, rigging, or spars of the vessel, do not constitute
a compliance with the requirement of the law; and in general, elevated positions, such as the hurricane deck, are not
so favorable situations as those more usually selected on the
forward part of the vessel, nearer the stem.* Persons stationed on the forward deck are nearer the water-line, and
consequently are less likely to overlook small vessels, deeply
laden, and more readily ascertain their exact course and
movement.1 Applying these rules to the present case, it is
clear that the propeller did not have any proper lookout,
and it will be sufficient to say that we adhere to those decisions without abatement or qualification.
2. Second objection urged by the appellee is, that the
propeller did not show the signal lights required by law.
Proper signal lights as required on steamers are, a bright
light forward, a red light on the larboard side, and a green
light on the starboard side. Considering that the parties
* Chamberlain et a]. v. Ward, 21 Howard, 570.

t St. John v. Paine, 10 Id. 585; Genessee Chief, 12 Id. 488.
$ Haney v. Baltimore Steam Packet Co., 23 Id. 292; New York et al v
Rae, 18 Id. 186.
18
VOL. III

274

THE OTTAWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

nill not be benefited by an extended analysis of the testimony, it is not deemed necessary to do more on this branch
of the case than to state our conclusions. Better opinion is,
that the red light was burning dimly at the time of the collision, but that the other lights had ceased to burn so as to
be visible to those on board the schooner. Tendency of the
proof also is, that all the lights had been lighted at the usual
hour; but that the white and green lights, either because
the lamps were not well trimmed, or because the oil was
poor, or from both causes combined, had gone out or burned
so dimly as to answer no valuable purpose. None but the
red light was seen by those on the deck of the schooner, and
even that was not seen in season to afford any protection.
3. Third charge of the appellee against the propeller is,
that she did not comply with the rule of navigation, which
required her to keep out of the way of the schooner. Corresponding charge of the propeller against the schooner is,
that she did not hold her course; but the latter charge cannot be sustained, because it is not supported by the weight
of the evidence, except so far as it relates to the. change
made at the moment of collision, which is not a fault that
will avail the other party.
Rules of navigation are obligatory from the time the
necessity for precaution begins, and continue to be applicable as the vessels advance, so long as the means and opportunity to avoid the danger remain; but they do not apply
to a vessel required to keep her course after the approach is
so near that the collision is inevitable, and are equally inapplicable to vessels of every description while they are yet so
distant from each other that measures of precaution have
not become necessary.
III. Theory of the appellant is, that the propeller was to
the leeward of the schooner, and that she was sailing northwest. Assuming that theory, he contends that the collision
could not have occurred as alleged in the libel; and it may
be that the theory, as a mere abstraction, is correct; but the
best answer to it is, that the collision did take place, and the
schooner, with her cargo, wks sunk in the lake. .Taken as

Dec. 1865.]

Dr1
CNcNxxATr CITY V. MORGAN.
Syllabus.

a whole, the proofs afford full satisfaction that the schooner
did not change her course until all hope of avoiding the
collision was gone.
Great conflict exists in the testimony as to the course of
the propeller; but the best conclusion that can be formed
from it is, that she was to the windward of the schooner.
Both the lookout and the master of the schooner first saw
the dim red light of the propeller nearly ahead over the
starboard bow. Conceded fact is, that the propeller ported
her helm; and, if so, she must have headed across the bows
of the schooner. Confirmation of that view is derived from
the manner in which the two vessels came together. Undisputed fact is, that the schooner, at the moment of collision,
also ported her helm, doubtless with the hope of passing
under the stern of the propeller; but the bowsprit, in a
glancing blow, struck the larboard quarter of the propeller,
which opened the starboard bow of the schooner, stove in
the bow, tore off her headgear, split the bow open, opened
the knight-heads, and broke the rail and stancheons on the
larboard side. Weight of the blow was rather on the larboard side of the schooner; but the bowsprit, operating as
a lever, opened the starboard bow. Injury to the propeller
was on the larboard quarter, and it shows to a demonstration
that the two vessels came together in the manner described
by the witnesses of the libellants.
Decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AYFIR ED WITH COSTS.

GRIER, J., assuming the facts differently, dissented.

OINONATI CITY V. MORGAN.
1. The properly constituted authorities of a municipal corporation may bind
the corporation whenever they have powe to act in tlc e premises.
2. To acquire, as against all mortgagees and incumbrances, a lien by statute
upon the corpus of a railroad, in virtue of credit advanced, it is necessary that the statute express in terms not doubtful the intention to give

