SimPsoN & Co. v. DALL.

[[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

letters were written after the shipment of the cargo, and,
indeed, after the capture. In either case the arrangement
was made too late to have any effect.
The ownership of property in such cases cannot be changed
while it is in transitu. The capture clothes the captors with
all the rights of the owner which subsisted at the commencement of the voyage, and anything done thereafter, designed
to incumber the property, or change its ownership, is a nullity. No lien created at any time by the secret convention of
the parties is recognized. Sound public policy and the right
administration of justice forbid it. This rule is rigidly enforced by all prize tribunals. The property was shipped to
the enemy. It was diverted from its course by the capture.
The allegation of a lien wears the appearance of an afterthought. It strikes us as a scheme devised under pressure,
to save, if possible, something from the vortex which it was
foreseen inevitably awaited the vessel and cargo.
The claimants invoke the aid of the act of March 3, 1863.
It cannot avail them. The facts relied upon as fundamental
to the claim are not established to our satisfaction. It is,
therefore, unnecessary to consider the subject of the proper
construction of the act, or the effect of the facts, if they had
been sufficiently proved.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SIMPSON,

& Co. v.

DALL.

1. *Where a bill of exceptions at all fairly discloses the fact that the exceptions were made in proper time, this court will not allow the right of
review by it to be defeated because the bill uses words in the present
tense, when the true expression of the court's meaning required the use
of the past one; nor because the bill is unskilfully drawn, and justly
open, philologically, to censure.
2. A party offering secondary evidence of the contents of papers must show
that he has in good faith exhausted, in a reasonable degree, all the
sources of information and means of discovery which the nature of the
case would naturally suggest, and which were accessible to him: Hence,
Where certain original letters had been passing between two attorneys

Dec. 1865.]

SiPsoN & Co. v.

DALL.

Statement of the case.
in a case, and one of the attorneys testified that he had looked over his
papers for all such documents as related to the case, and that the needed
letters were not among them; that he recollected thinking about the
letters at the time he was looking over his papers, but (being under the
impression that he had left them with his colleague) did not make " any
special search for them."
And where the other attorney testified that he head had the letters, but was
under the impression that he had returned them to the first attorney;
that he had not examined hisfiles of letters, and, not finding his letters
among the other papers in his possession, supposed that the first attorney
had them.
Held, that the secondary evidence of the contents of the letters was wrongly
given: the court assuming of course that the search was insufficient.
8. Where a solvent firm owing bond fide a debt, learns-though by irrbgular
and perhaps improper means on the part of one of their number-that
the debt is about to be attached by a creditor of the person to whom
they owe it, they may nevertheless pay the drebt as soon as they please
and in such securities, including their own negotiable note, as their
creditor is willing to accept; and if the debt is actually paid, and so
acknowledged by their creditor to be, the creditor of such creditor cannot make them pay it over again to him; though his attachment may
thus have been provokingly defeated. Neither is there anything in the
laws of Tennessee relating to the attachment of debts due by non-residents that militates with this doctrine that a solvent man may at any
time pay his just debts not attached by lawful process.

DUNHAM & KEARFOOT, of Baltimore, were indebted on two
notes, amounting to about $3000, to Dall, Gibbons & Co. of
the same place, but were insolvent and did not pay. In this
condition of things, Dall, Gibbons & Co. hearing that a house
in Rogersville, Tennessee (Simpson, Duff & Co.), which was
solvent, owed money to the insolvent debtors just named, at
Baltimore, set themselves at work to get payment, by attachment, from it. Addressing his letter to Rogersville, Tennessee, Mr. Cocke, their attorney in Baltimore, accordingly
wrote-first on the 16th of March, 1858, and then on the
17th-to a cousin of his, Mr. Jones, a professional gentleman, who had been residing at Rogersville, but who was
now in Florence, Alabama, a place three or four hundred
miles away; from which place, however, it seemed that he
was ready to return when any business worthy of so long a
journey made it worth his while to do so; Mr. Coeke, who
wrote the letters, being a member of the law firm of G. W.

SImPSoN & Co. v. DALL.

Esup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Howard & Co., at Baltimore, and the letters having been
put under an envelope stamped externally with the business
card of that partnership. Cocke was, moreover, a cousin of
Xr. Simpson's wife. The letters were of such a character
that Mr. Jones "might have felt authorized, if not directed,
to consult Simpson & Co., whose debt he was requested to
attach, in relation to the business."
On what exact day these letters reached the Rogersville
post-office did not appear. The regular course of the mail
would have brought them there about the 19th or 20th of
March; but if they happened to drop into a distributingoffice by the way-" a thing which very often happened"they would have been delayed till the 21st or 22d. There
was, of course, also,the ordinary chance of other accidents.
When they did arrive, however, at ]Rogersville, they were
put, as it turned out, into the post-office box of this very
firm of Simpson, Duff & Co. From the post-office the letters
went to the counting-house of this firm. Here Mr. Duff, a
member of the firm, opened and read them; and perceiving
their contents, mentioned the fact of his having opened them and
of what was in them to his partner Simpson, the senior and
active partner of his firm. He then re-sealed them, and in a
letter post-marked the 29th March, though dated the 27th,
transmitted them in a friendly letter to Mr. Jones, at Florence; not telling him, however, that he had opened the letters or
was possessed of their contents.
On the receipt of the letters, which got to Florence on
the 1st of April, Jones came hastening up to Rogersville,
getting there, perhaps, on the 4th. In the meantime, however, the Baltimore creditors having heard that Mr. Jones
no longer resided at Rogersville, wrote, on the 25th of
March, to another lawyer there, Colonel McKinney, placing
the matter in his charge, and directing him to get the letters
fiom the Rogersville post-office. Going to the post-office,
he learned that the letters had been put into Simpson, Duff
& Co.'s box. Following the matter up to Duff, he was told
on the 29th that the letters had been forwarded to Mr.
Jones, at Florence, "several days before." He then in-

Dec. 1865.]

SI-iipso N & Co. v. DALr.
Statement of the case.

quired of Simpson as to the state of their account with
Dunham & Kearfoot, the insolvent firm at Baltimore; a matter which Simpson "did not know about exactly,"-" would
look at his books for,"-inviting Colonel 'cKinney "to call
the next day." On the next day Colonel LIcKinney called,
and learned that, on the 26th preceding, they had remitted
$2000 of their debt to their creditor house at Baltimore.
They still owed, apparently, about 53100. On the 7th of
April an attachment was issued; but it was too late to profit
the persons for whom it was issued; for, on the 1st April
preceding, Simpson & Co. had remitted the whole balance
to their creditors at Baltimore; sending various negotiable
notes for $1600 of it, and their own negotiable note for the
remaining $1500. A receipt was returned on the 5th; two
days, of course, before the attachment issued.
In the meantime, and perhaps, as already said, about the
4th April, MIr. Jones presented himself at Itogersville. The
first thing he did was to go to Simpson, Duff & Co., to consult
with them about their debt, which he had been requested
to attach. ie showed to M1r. Simpson the two letters which
he had received, and "asked Simpson's counsel in the premises."
Simpson, without informing him that he was already apprised of what the letters contained, informed him
that the claim had been "turned over" to another attorney,
Colonel M'cKiuney, who was now "trying to get an attachment on the amount his firm might owe Dunham & Kearfoot;" and informed him also of the fact, more important to
his principals, that the debt had all been paid. Mr. Simpson
added, that he had felt himself under special obligation to
pay the debt, as Dunham & Kearfoot had been good friends
of his firm; that he had been repeatedly written to by them
to pay up the amount due; that he had been trying to get
exchange; that he had been waiting till the return of a certain debtor, whom he named; and for the payment of some
other debts, so as to get exchange cheaper; and "that he
hoped the attachment of McKinney would not catch what
he had sent on to Baltimore."
Jones finding out otherwise that his letters had been

SIMPsoN & Co. v. DALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

opened, re-sealed, and that he had not been told of this, and
apparently put out at losing a piece of business that might
have been remunerative, declared himself "astonished."
And the Baltimore firm of Dall, Gibbons & Co., conceiving
that they had lost their debt wholly from Duff's having got
possession of the letters, and in consequence of the knowledge which he had acquired by opening and reading what
was not intended for him, now sued his firm, Simpson, Duff
& Co., of Rogersville.
The declaration set out the existence of the debt, the
writing of the two letters, that Duff, a member of the firm,
"took the same from the post-office without any authority
for so doing, and opened and read them, and had thus illegally, wrongfully, and fraudulently acquired a knowledge of
their contents, and commudeated the same to the other members
of hisfinm." And it averred, that after the firm had in this
way obtained information of the intention of Dal], Gibbons
& Co. to attach the debt, the said Simpson, Duff & Co.
-wrongfully, illegally, and fraudulently detained the letters
aforesaid, and illegally and fraudulently failed, for eight
days, to forward or to deliver the same to the said Jones;
with the purpose, design, and intention of preventing them,
the plaintiffs, from obtaining payment of the notes due
them, and for the purpose of favoring Dunham & Kearfoot
aforesaid. By means of which tortious act and several grievances, and by reason of the insolvency and bankruptcy of
the said Dunham & Kearfoot, which occurred soon after,
they, the plaintiffs, had lost the whole amount of their debt.
Mr. Duff, however, for himself and his firm, had also an
account to give of the transaction. This account appeared
partially in the testimony of Mr. Cocke, the attorney in Baltimore, who had written and sent the letters, partially in the
testimony of Mr. Jones himself, and partially in a letter of
Duff's own, written in reply to one which Mr. Jones had
written to him, complaining of what Duff had done about
the letters, and which letter of Duff's, in vindication of himPelf, Jones had made evidence by referring to.

Dec. 1865.]

SIupsoN & Co. v.

DALL.

465

Statement of the case.

Mr. Cocke, the attorney, stated that the claim had been
sent to Mr. Jones, "beeause his intimacy and relationship
with Simpson, Duff & Co. would enable him to cascertain
from them the amount of their indebtedness to Dunham &
Kearfoot."
Mr. Jones gave more full particulars. T-e testified that
before studying law he had been a clerk in the house of
this same Simpson, Duff & Co.; that Simpson had married
his first cousin, and that he and Duff had "always, for years,
been upon the most intimate terms of friendship ;"-one
evidence of which he signalized in the fact mentioned by
him, that while he was at college "he had carried on a correspondence with a young lady through the defendant Duff,
and had authorized Duff to read his letters before giving them to
the young lady." Hie mentioned, also, the fact, that after the
occurrence about the letters, he, Jones-as yet knowing
nothing about it-had seen Duff constantly, and "for a part
of the time slept with him at night." He stated, also, that
Duff had "for years been authorized to take his letters out
of the post-office at Rogersville, and to forward them to him
when absent;" though he declared solemnly that he had
"never authorized him to open his bus ness letters during his
absence."
The postmaster, too, of Rogersville, testified that it was
his general practice, and had been for years, to put Mr.
Jones's letters into the box of Simpson, Duff & Co.; that
Duff boarded with him, the postmaster; and Jones himself
testified, that had he been in Rogersville when the letters
came, he would have gone directly to Mlr. Simpson and told
him about them; adding, "I think this from my intimacy
with him, and from some directions to that effect in the
letters themselves."
The letter of Duff to his friend of so many years was thus,
in substance and material parts, expressed:
8th July, 1858.

DEAR JONS:

Yours is to hand; and but for my absence from home, at the
time of its arrival, should have had an earlier notice. I have
VOL. 1i.

30

SniI'soIx & Co. v. DALL.

t
[Sp ct.
[Sup.

Statement of the case.
only to say, it is true I opened the letter referred to. In so
doing I was actuated by none other than pure motives. The
letter was from a place I believe you had no private correspondence with, and at the time, it occurred to my mind that it
might be a business letter, and one that demanded prompt and
immediate attention. This was the only reason I had for the
act. Owing to the very friendly relations that had always
existed between us, and feeling a lively interest in your welfare,
I thought I might safely take this liberty, and in taking it I
was prompted alone by the feeling of doing what I supposed
would be of service to you in your absence. When I found that
the letter was connected with our business, I mentioned it to
Colonel Simpson, your relation, and my partner, who expressed
himself very sorry that it had been opened. I then resealed
and forwarded it to you at once. If I committed an error, it was
in not then informing you what I had done; this, however, was an
error of omission only. Before opening the letter, I had no knowledge or intimation of its contents. You say you are "astonished"
at it. I am surprised that you should express astonishment, in
view of our long intimacy, and in view of the fact that I have
for so many years taken out your letters from the post-office at
your request, and forwarded them to you, when you were absent
from Rogersville, as you were when I opened the letter. I sincerely thought I was doing right, and for the promotion of your
interest. It distresses me to learn, from the disapprobation implied in your letter, that you condemn an act, which, had it been
done by yourself under similar circumstances, I would not have
censured. The fact that I opened the letter, did you, I trust, no
harm, nor your client. I forwarded it at once, on finding,
as I did, most unexpectedly, that the letter contained claims
sent out in behalf of Dall, Gibbons & Co., against Dunham &
Kearfoot, which they desired to secure by attaching a debt due
from us to the house last named. When I first saw the letters,
I did not know how long they had been in the store-and seeing two letters with the name of G. W. Howard & Co. stamped
on the envelopes, it occurred to me that they were business
letters of importance, and required immediate attention; knowing that Howard & Co. did a considerable business in this section
of the country, and not for one moment supposing that the
business could have any connection with our house, as we at
the time did not owe them anything. I knew, also, that Mtr

Dec. 1865.]

SIMPsoN & Co. v. DALL.
Statement of the case.

Cooke, a member of the firm of G. W. Hloward & Co., was a
relation of yours, and it was natural for me to suppose that
business from them would be placed in your hands, when they
needed an agent at this point.
I have reason to believe that Dall, Gibbons &Co., bearing that
you bad removed to Alabama, engaged the services of Colonel
IcKinney, and that he was at Knoxville, endeavoring to obtain
an injunction as you came up from Alabama with the claims.
If the business was transferred into his hands before you reached
Rogersville, and when, as a citizen of Florence, you could not be
expected to attend to it, I am really at a loss to perceive how
my intended kindness can have operated to your prejudice, as
we were making arrangements, and using every effort to settle
our indebtedness to Dunham & Kearfoot, before we had any
intimation of Dall, Gibbons & Co.'s claims. I repeat, however,
that I am sorry this thing has occurred, and hope that this explanation will prove satisfactory, and that our former friendship
may still remain unchanged. I trust I shall hear from you soon.
Your friend, truly,
1. M. Durr.
To sustain the plaintiff's case it was necessary, of course,
to prove that the two letters had been written. Mr. Jones
proved that he had received two letters inclosing the notes;
describing the letters. The record then went on in substance thus:
"On the witness being asked to produce the letters, he stated
that when he left Florence, a few days before this trial-for the
purpose of attending as a witness-he looled over his papers for
all such documents as related to this case. The letters were not
among his papers. The witness recollects thinking about the
two letters diuing the time he was looking over his papers; but
being under the impression, that when the declaration was filed
in this case, be bad left them with J. R. Cocke, the plaintiffs'
attorney, he did not make any special searcl for them more
than for the other documents.
"The attorney, Cocke, being then introduced by plaintiff, testified that he had had the letters in his possession, while he was
drawing the declaration in this case, but was under impression

SIMPSON & Co. v. DALL.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

that he had returned them to Jones. The witness had not* examined his files of letters befbre the commencement of this term
of the court, in getting his papers together for the trial, and
had not found said letters; and not finding them among the
other papers in his possession, he had supposed the witness
Jones had them.
"lUpon this testimony the court permitted Mr. Jones to go on
and testify as to his recollection of the contents of the letters;
to which action of the court, in allowing secondary evidence
while the existence of better evidence was shown, the defendants except.t The witness Jones then went on to testify that
one of the letters was dated Baltimore, 16th March, 1858, and
the other, Baltimoi'e, 17th March, 1858; that one of them contained two notes, drawn by the firm of Dunham & Kearfoot,
dates and amounts not recollected; that one of the notes was due
at the time it was sent to witness; that the other note was not
due, but would shortly fall due. In one of the letters there was
a statement of the amount due from Dunham & Kearfoot to the
plaintiffs, ])all, Gibbons & Co. But the amounts and particulars
of that statement tke witness was unable to remember."
By the statutes of Tennessee, it should here be said, the
property in Tennessee, of debtors non-resident within the
State, is allowed to be attached only when such "non-re s i dent debtor shall be removing, or about to remove, his
property beyond the limits of the State."$
The record went on in substance thus:
"The court, among other things not excepted to, charged the
jury in effect, as respects material parts, as follows:
"1st. That this debt was property within the meaning of the
statutes of Tennessee; and that if the defendants were about to
remove their property beyond the limits of the State, the plaintiffs would have had the right to attach it; that if the defendants, by arrangement with insolvent creditors, intended to pay
portions of their debts, and convert other parts into negotiable
securities, so as to defeat the power of the plaintiffs to collect
their debts from such insolvent non-resident creditors, who were
* Sic, in the printed record.
t Slo, i. e. in the present tense, in the printed record.
$ Sessions Acts of 1855-6.

Dec. 1865.]

Sn~rPsoN & Co. i. DAIL.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

plaintiffs' debtors, such conduct would amount to a removal of
the property from the limits of the State, and if such measures
were in contemplation, the plaintiffs would have the right to
attach such indebtedness, to prevent its removal and secure
their debt.
"2d. That authority to forward a letter is not an authority to
break it open; that if, even with good motives, the defendants
broke open the plaintiffs' letter to their attorney without authority, it was a violation of the legal rights of plaintiffs.
"3d. That if the defendants detained the letters thus broken
open, with the view and purpose (as charged in the declaration)
to enable them to use the information so illegally obtained, and
pay the debt and convert it into negotiated securities, before the
plaintiffs could issue their attachment and secure their debt,
such detention, with such motives, was an illegal, vrongful, and
fraudulent violation of the rights of the plaintifis, for which a
right of action exists.
"4th. That in the event of the jury finding that the plaintiffs
lost their debts by reason of the fraudulent conduct of the defendants, as above stated, and the insolvency of Dunham &
Kearfoot, they would be entitled to recover the amount of their
debts, such debts being not more than the amount due from
Simpson, Duff & Co.
"5th. That all the partners who knew how the information was
illegally and wrongfully obtained, and concurred in the subsequent acts to defeat the plaintiffs' attachment by payment to
the insolvent debtors, were liable for the damages, and none but
those who did."
A motion was afterwards made for a new trial, and the
record went on in these words:
"The court overruled the motion for a new trial; to all which
action of the court the defendants except, and tender this their bill
of exceptions, which is signed and scaled by the court, and ordered
to be made a part of the record in this case."
The case was now here on error: .3L-. la zoard, for the
.pla;ntffin error, contending:
1. That secondary evidence of the contents of the letters
had been improperly received; there having, as he argued,
been no sufficient proof of search for the originals.
2. That the charge was wrong; and that Simpson, Duff &

SiiPsox & Co. v. DALL.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Argument for the defendants in error.

Co. were under no obligation to withhold from their creditor
a debt which they justly owed him, and which he was pressing for, merely because they had accidentally become possessed of intelligence that somebody else wanted it held
back for their benefit. Suppose they had accidentally or
even designedly overheard a conversation instead of seeing
a letter. Does any one think that in law they would have
been bound to hold back payment?
Mr. Browning, contra:
1. Before passing to either of the objections, we note that
no errors are assigned on this record. The plaintiffs in
error say in this bill that they "except" to the decision of the
court admitting secondary evidence of the contents of the
letters; but it does not appear that any exception was taken
when the decision was made and the trial was in progress.
On the contrary, exception seems to have been first tendered
after the motion for a new trial was overruled. Exception
so taken cannot be availed of here. It is a well-settled
principle that no bill of exceptions is valid which is not for
matter excepted to at the trial. The original authority un.der which bills of exception are allowed, has always been
considered to be restricted to matters of exception taken
pending the trial and ascertained before the verdict. It
need not be drawn out and signed before the jury retire;
but it must be taken in open court, and must appear by the
certificate of the judge, who authenticates it, to have been
so taken. This was fully admitted in Hutchins v. King,*
where the rule was only not insisted on through a clerical
mistake. Nor is this a mere formal or technical provision.
It was introduced and is adhered to for purposes of justice.
For if it be brought to the attention of the court that one of
the parties excepts to his opinion, the judge has an opportunity of reconsidering or explaining it more fully to the jury.
2. The counsel for plaintiffs in error has raised a question
upon the ruling of the court in admitting secondary evidence
of the contents of two letters.
* 1 Wallace, 60.

Dec. 1865.]

Dec.
SIAIPSON
865.] & CO. v. DALL.
Argument for the defendants in error.

No
general rule can be laid down upon this subject applicable alike to all cases. The proof necessary to establish the
loss of a writing, so as to let in secondary evidence of its
contents, must depend upon the nature of the transaction
to which it relates, its apparent value, and other circumstances. If suspicion hangs over it, and there is any reason
to believe that it is designedly withheld, a rigid inquiry
should be made into the reason of its non-production; but
if there is no such suspicion, all that ought to be required
is reasonable diligence to obtain the original-in respect to
which the courts extend great liberality.* In this case, the
search for the originals might have been more thorough
and rigid; but reasonable diligence was used, and there is
no reason to suspect they were intentionally withheld.
But however this may be, the evidence of their contents
was given to the jury without objection, and the question
of its admissibility cannot now be raised here.
3. Objection is made to the charge of the court. Is the
charge really open to censure?
Ir. Jones testifies that he never gave Duff authority to
open his business letters. There is no evidence that Duff
had such authority. What a college boy chose or did not
choose to do a half century perhaps ago, and on one of those
occasions when it is not given to men to be wise, is a small
affair; of no pertinence to the case. If certain letters were
submitted to him open, it does not follow that he had a right
to break open others not submitted. No purpose that Duff
in his letter states as having animated him was to be answered by opening and reading the letters instead of forwarding them. He saw the card of Howard & Co. on them,
and could have replied to them that the letters were forwarded. He pretends to wish to serve his friend, and does
it by depriving him as fast as possible of a valuable piece
of business.
But the gravamen of our charge is less here than in that

* Williams v. United States, 1 Howard, 299; De Lane et als. v. Mloore
et als., 14 Id. 265; Juzan et als. v. Toulmin et als., 9 Alabama, 663; Jones
et als. v. Scott, 2 Id. 61.

SimPsoN & Co. v. DALL.

[Sup. ct.

Argument for the defendants in error.

Duff communicated his irregularly obtained knowledge to
Simpson, the leading and senior member of his firm. He
had assuredly no authority to do that. Duff's duty, when
becoming accidentally possessed of information not intended
for him, was to forward the letters as fast as possible, with
an explanation to Mr. Jones, and to keep profound silence
as to everybody else. If under those circumstances Simpson, or the firm generally, had gone on to pay the debt
before an attachment bound it, we might, perhaps, have
less to say. But here the debt was discharged in the way
that it was, and with the haste that it was, obviously, in
consequence of the information given by Duff to his copartner. Dates show this. Mr. Simpson is "very sorry"
to hear that the letters had been opened, and shows his extreme sorrow by profiting as fast as possible of the knowledge
that through their being opened he had acquired. He went
to work immediately to defeat the attachment; sending all
the cash and drafts that he had, and then to make short,
clear, clean, and conclusive work of it, the firm's own negotiable note for a balance that he could not pay in cash. The
note did not pay the debt; and the only purpose of sending
it was to put the debt in a form not susceptible of being
attached.
As matter of fact, there is no doubt at all that it was in
consequence of Duff's opening and reading of the letter,
and consequent communication of its contents to .AXr. Simpson,
that our claim was lost.
Mr. Jones's statement of what he might, could, or would
have done, f he had been at Rogersville-he not having
been there-is of no value. It is based on a hypothesis
non-existent, and is more than any man ought, perhaps, to
state on his oath. In fact, Jones says that he only "thinks
this." Certainly, as a professional man, it would have been
the least prudent thing that he could have done. It is not
to be presumed of him that he would have so acted.
The instructions of the court, then, were substantially
right. Taken as a whole, they presented the case fairly on
both sides, and could not have misled the jury as to the

:Dec. 1865.]

SiMPsoN & Co. v. DALL.
Opinion of the court.

issues they were to try, or the principles by which they were
to be governed.
But it is a sufficient answer to say that no exception was
taken to them when given, and that, therefore, this court
will not review them.
-eply to the first point. The bill of exceptions, we may
admit, is not well drawn; but it is plain enough that the
exception was taken before the witness was examined. It
says, indeed, that the plaintiffs "except" to the action of the
court in allowing the secondary evidence. But it proceeds
straight to add, "the witness, Jones, tM en went on to testify;"
showing that the exception was taken before the testimony
was given; and that though, in a present tense, the term
relates to a past transaction. All that this court cares for is
the fact; if it was properly taken, the omission to state it
in the best way is not important.*
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended by the defendants in error that the rulings
of the Circuit Court, which are alleged to be erroneous, were
not saved during the progress of the trial, and cannot, therefore, be investigated here. If this was so, it would be fatal;
but we do not thus interpret the record. It is well settled
that bills of exception are restricted to matter which occurred during the progress of the trial; but it is not necessary,
neither is it the practice, to reduce to form every exception
as it is taken, and before the trial is at an end. It will do for
the judge to note them as they occur, and after the trial is
over, if it is desirable to preserve them, they can be properly embodied in a bill of exceptions. In this case the bill
of exceptions is unskilfully drawn, and is justly subject to
criticism; but it clearly enough appears that the rulings of
the Circuit Court, which are sought to be reviewed here,
were excepted to in proper time, and when the cause was on
trial, and not afterwards.
* Hutchins v. King, 1 Wallace, 60.

SiMPsoN & Co. v. DALL.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Opinion of the court.

If this is so, we cannot allow a valuable right to be defeated, because the judge carelessly used a word in the present tense, when the true expression of his meaning required
the use of a word in the past tense.
It is a fair inference from the bill of exceptions that the
defendants excepted to the introduction of secondary evidence of the contents of certain letters, when the court
decided to admit it; and it is an equal inference that they
also excepted, before the jury retired from the bar, to each
of the series of instructions which the court gave to the jury.
The bill of exceptions is, therefore, valid, and brings to our
notice the proceedings of the Circuit Court, which, it is asserted, are erroneous.
The theory of this action is, that the defendants in error,
who resided in Baltimore, Maryland, in larch, 1858, addressed two letters to Jones, an attorney-at-law, in Rogersville, Tennessee, which, in his absence, were opened and
read by Duff, one of the plaintiffs in error, and their contents communicated to his copartners, and then were detained for the purpose of obstructing the defendants in error
in the prosecution of an attachment suit against the indebtedness which the plaintiffs in error owed to Dunham &
Kearfoot, a mercantile firm, also resident in Baltimore.
These letters were not produced on the trial, and the court
permitted Jones to testify as to his recollection of their
contents. This action of the court was excepted to, because
no sufficient evidence of their loss had been made to justify
it. The best evidence in the power of the parties must
always be furnished, and the court was not authorized to
allow secondary evidence of the contents of these letters to
go to the jury, unless it was shown that they were either
lost or destroyed.
The well-settled rules of evidence require this, and the
danger of departing from them is well illustrated in this
case; for on the important point of the dates and amount
of the notes the testimony of the witness was imperfect, and
wanting in clearness and precision. In order to show the

SmiPsoN & Co. v. DALL.

Dec. 1865.]

Opinion of the court.

loss of the letters, it was necessary to prove that a diligent
search had been made for them where they were most likely
to be found. There is no general rule as to the degree of
diligence in making the search; but the party alleging the
loss is expected to show "that he has, in good faith, exhausted, in a reasonable degree, all the sources of information and means of discovery which the nature of the
case would naturally suggest, and which were accessible to
him."*
In the case before us this plain rule of evidence was palpably violated; for there was no diligence whatever used to
obtain the letters, and no such search as would justify the
court in inferring that they were lost.
J. R. Cocke, the attorney, went to the place of trial, under
the belief that Jones, who was to be a witness, had the letters
and would bring them. Jones was in the same category.
Neither had made any special search for them, for each
rested in the conviction that the other was the custodian of
them. It was a case of pure negligence, and should have
been so treated by the court. To approve the ruling of the
court would justify the admission of secondary evidence on
the merest pretence, and would do away entirely with the
necessity of producing primary evidence. We cannot countenance a practice so loose, and such a manifest departure
from the plainest legal principles.
The decision on this point remits the cause to the Circuit
Court; but as it may be tried again, we are called upon to
go further and decide the merits of this controversy, as they
are involved in the instructions which the court gave to
the jury.
Among other things, the court substantially charged the
jury, that if Simpson, Duff& Co. were about to remove their
property beyond the limits of the State, Dall, Gibbon & Co.
would have the right to attach it, and that they could not
pay their debt to Dunham and Kearfoot, who were insolvent,
*

I Greenleaf on Evidence,

.558.

SIMiPSON & Co. v. DALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

so as to defeat the measures which Dall, Gibbon & Co. had
in contemplation to prevent it. Such a doctrine as this
would effectually destroy credit and commerce.
If Simpson, Duff & Co. were indebted to Dunham & Kearfoot, they surely had a right to pay them, and the court will
not inquire into the motive which -prompted the payment.
But the motive was meritorious, for the law does not favor
a partial appropriation of an insolvent debtor's effects, but
prefers an equal and general distribution. When the debt
was contracted in Baltimore, both parties contemplated that,
in the usual course of dealing, remittances or negotiable
securities would be sent from Tennessee to discharge it, and
it would be singular if the fact that Simpson, -Duffa-Co. were
about to remove their property from Tennessee, in order to
comply with their agreement, should authorize the issue of
an attachment.
The mere statement of the proposition is enough to show
its fallacy. Dali, Gibbon & Co. had no claim against Simpson, Duff & Co. The relation of debtor and creditor did not
subsist between them, and we cannot see why it was necessary for these last to procure the consent of Dall, Gibbon &
Co. before they could send money and negotiable notes to
pay in good faith an honest debt, due to a mercantile firm
residing in Baltimore, which was contracted there, and in
the usual course of trade must be paid there.
But it is necessary to discuss the evidence in the case, as
the charge of the court assumed that there was a cause of
action. Duff and Jones were intimate friends, and to a
degree not often seen, for Duff was permitted to open and
read certain letters written by Jones, which are not generally read by third persons. Duff had for years been authorized to take the letters of Jones out of the post-office at
Rogersville, and to forward them when he was absent, and
the postmaster always put them into the box of Simpson,
Duff & Co. Jones and J. 1K. Simpson (the active member
of the firm) were connected by marriage; and Cocke, who
wrote the letters from Baltimore, was also his relative, and
a member of the firm of G. W. loward & Co., whose name

Dec. 1865.]

SEIPSON &

Co. v. DALL.

Opinion of the court.

was stamped on the envelopes. This fact Duff knew, and
as his house had no dealings with Howard & Co., it was very
natural for him to suppose that the letters were on business
requiring prompt attention, which, as an act of kindness, he
ought to give to it, during the absence of Jones.
Cannot Duff's authority to open these letters be fairly
inferred from these circumstances, and who can say that he
erred in doing so? It is true that he committed an error in
not informing Jones that he had opened them, but no harm
resulted from that omission. The rigt to open them cannot
be affected by what occurred afterwards. These letters were
not detained, but were immediately resealed and forwarded
to Florence, Alabama, where Jones lived. There is absolutely no evidence raising a presumption even that they
were withheld. Duff was probably to blame for telling
Simpson the purpose for which they were written; but he
could hardly have refrained from doing so; and if he obtained the information rightfully, what principle of law or
morals prevented Simpson, Duff & Co. from paying their
Baltimore creditors, who had indulged them, and were then
pressing them for payment? If they had acted otherwise,
they would have been justly censurable. Their obligation
was to Dunham & Kearfoot, not to Dall, Gibbon & Co., and
the information obtained simply hastened the payment of an
overdue debt, which they had for some time been endeavoring to procure exchange to discharge.
But if Duff had not opened the letters, is it not manifest
that Jones, on his arrival in Rogersville, would have communicated their contents to Simpson ?
Jones swears that he would, on account of their intimacy,
and because Cocke had directed him to do so. And if Dall,
Gibbon & Co. authorized their attorney to consult Simpson,
and give him the same information which Duff did, how can
they complain of the manner in which the information was
obtained?
The procurement of Cocke, who had nothing to do with
the matter, to select an attorney in Tennessee, who was hie

BEARD V. FEDERY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

relative and also a relative of one of the Simpsons, was a
contrivance to obtain more surely and easily the information
on which the proceedings in attachment could be founded.
The scheme was a failure, and Dall, Gibbon & Co. have no
just right to complain. They are in no proper sense the
losers by the conduct of Duff. The result would have been
the same if Jones had got the letters unopened, for he would
have told Simpson what he wanted; and it is easy to see
that, instead of responding to his request, the firm would,
in obedience to a plain sense of duty, have paid their just
debts to their own creditors.
On what basis, then, can this claim be sustained? The
examination of the record discloses none, and we are unable
to supply the omission.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and a
N EW VENIRE AWARDED.

BEARD v. FEDERY.
1. The act of August 31st, 1852, relating to appeals from the Board of Land
Commissioners to ascertain and settle private land claims in California,
created under the act of March 3d, 1851, provides that the filing of a
transcript of the decision and proceedings of the board with the clerk
of the District Court shall operate ip.so facto as an appeal on behalf of
the party against whom the decision was rendered, and that the attorney-general shall, within six months after receiving a certified transcript of such decree and proceedings, when the decision is against the
United States, cause notice to be filed with the clerk that the appeal
will be prosecuted, and on failure to give such notice that "the appeal
shall be regarded as dismissed." Under this actReld, that when the attorney-general gave notice that he would not prosecute the appeal, such appeal was for all legal purposes in fact dismissed, and the decree of the board took effect precisely as if no appeal
had ever been taken; and an order or decree of the District Court
giving leave to the claimant to proceed upon the decree of the board as
upon a final decree was a proper disposition of the case.
2. To give jurisdiction to the Board of Land Commissioners to investigate
and determine a claim to land alleged to have been derived from the

