GREEN V. VAN BUSCERK.

[p
[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

doing business as such, and in the preceding case the court
have so construed it.
Now, a banker pays a much higher license tax than a
broker, and is permitted to "prosecute or carry on" the
business or profession of a broker without paying any further license; but if he prefers, he may not combine that
business with his own. The 110th section prescribes the
duties to be paid by a banker. It is not amended so as to
require him to render an account of his purchases or sales
of government stocks for himself. The case before us,
therefore, presents no other question than the construction
of the 99th section. It enacts that "all brokers and bankers
doing business as brokers shall be subject to the following
duties," &c.
Now, in order to subject a banker to the duties prescribed
by this section, we are asked to interpolate the important
word "not," and to construe it as including bankers who do
not, as well as those who do transact "business as brokers."

This would not be a construction of the statute, but an
amendment thereof in direct contradiction of its language.
This we do not feel at liberty to make.
JUDGMENT ATIMED.

GREEN v. VAN BusKERK.
The ten days given by the 23d section of the Judiciary Act, to take a writ
of error from this court, run from the day when judgment is entered
in the court where the record remains; and when judgment is given in
the highest court of a State on appeal or writ of error from an inferior
one, and, on affirmance, the record is returned to such inferior court
with order to enter judgment there, they run from the day when judgment is so there entered.

THIs was a motion made by Mr. A. J. Parker, in behalf
of Green, plaintiff in error, for a supersedeas to stay execution upon a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
of New York.

Dec. 1865.]

GREEN V. VAN BUSKERK.

Argument against the motion.

It appeared that a judgment was entered by the Supreme
Court in favor of Van Buskerk, the defendant in error here,
which was affirmed in the Court of Appeals, the ,ighest court
of law and equity of the Slate of Aew York, on the 22d of December, 1865. Upon this affirmance the record was sent to
the Supreme Court, with an order directing that court to
enter judgment accordingly.
In pursuance of this order, judgment was entered in the
Supreme Court, on the 16th of February, 1866, and on the
20th February a writ of error, which had been duly allowed,
to this court, was lodged, together with the proper bond
and all other papers in due form to stay proceedings, in the
clerk's office of the Supreme Court of New York. On the
28th of February, 1866, the attorney for the plaintiffs below
directed execution to issue upon the judgment; to prevent
which the present motion for supersedeas wa made.
The reader will remember, of course, that the Judiciary
Act of 1789, by its 25th section, gives a right of re-examination by this court of the judgments of State courts, when
"a final judgment or decree in any suit, in the highest court
of law or equity in a State," involves certain questions, and
the decision on them is given in a particular way: and will
recall, further, that, by its 23d section, a writ of error is a
supersedeas only where the writ is served by a copy thereof
being lodged for the adverse party in the clerk's office, where
the record remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive, after
rendering thejudgment or passng the decree cornplanedof; "until
the expiration of which term of ten days," says the section,
"executions shall not issue."
JMr.T .B. Gale, against the rnot;on: A party's right to bring a
State court judgment here depends upon the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act; and that authorizes a review only of a
judgment in the highest court of a State in which a decision
could be had.
Now, in N'ew York, the highest court of the State is confessedly the Court of Appeals; the Supreme Court, notwithstanding its title, being inferior to it. In this case, the
VOL. II.

29

GREEN V. VAN BUSKERK.
-

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

judgment "complained of" is the judgment of the Court
of Appeals. That judgment was given on the 22d of December, 1865. No writ of error was lodged anywhere below
until the 20th of February. Of course, it was not lodged
within the ten days. The fact that the record may not
"remain" in the court whose "judgment is complained of,"
does not alter the case.
It is almost unnecessary to say, that in contemplation
of law the record passed instantly from the Court of Appeals, on judgment being given there, into the Supreme
Court below. If, in point of fact, it was delayed in transitu,
that gives no advantage to the defendant in it, as regards
an appeal. He might, in point of fact, delay such transit
himself.
The CHIEF TUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have already held, at this terra, in a case from Massachusetts,* that when the Supreme Court renders final
judgment, and sends the judgment to a court below for execution, and with the judgment the record, a writ of error
to review the judgment may be issued to the latter court.
In that case, it is true, no question was made in respect
to the operation of the writ as a supersedeas; but we think
that the true construction of the act of Congress requires
us to hold that a judgment cannot be regarded as final, in
the sense of the act, until entered in a court from which
execution can issue.
In the case now before us, the record was sent by the
Court of Appeals to the Supreme Court, and the judgment
was entered in the latter court in conformity with the direction of the former. This was, it is true, the judgment
of the Court of Appeals as well as the judgment of the
Supreme Court; but it became a final judgment, on which
execution could issue only when entered, on the 16th February, 1866, in the Supreme Court, to which the record was
returned, and where it remained.
* McGuire v. The Commonwealth.

(Motions.)

Supra, 882.

Dec. 1865.]

THE SALLY "MAGEE.
Syllabus.

The unsuccessful party had ten days from that entry to
take out a writ of error and make it a supersedeas; and he
duly avwled himself of this right by service of the writ of
error on the 20th February, 1866, and giving the required
bonds.
The direction to issue execution was given under a mistaken construction of the act; and its issue makes it necessary that a writ to stay the proceedings be sent from this
court.
IIOTIOX ALLOWED.

THE SALLY MAGEE.
1. When a vessel is liable to confiscation, the first presumption is that the
cargo is so as well.
2. The prid
zfacie legal effect of a bill of lading, as regards the consignee,
is to vest the ownership of the goods consigned by it in him.
3 Ownership thus presumptively in an enemy is not disproved by a test
affidavit in prize, stating generally that the goods consigned had been
purchased for their consignee contrary to his instructions, and that he
had rejected them ; and that this appeared "from the correspondence
of the parties," which the affiant (an asserted agent of the alleged true
owner) swore that he "believed to be true," but which neither he nor
any one produced, or accounted for the absence of; and where, though
two years had passed between the date of the claim and that of the
decree, the consignors and asserted owners, who lived at Rio Janeiro,
had not manifested any interest in the result of the prize proceedings,
which were at New York, nor, so far as appeared, had been even applied
to in the matter.
[N. B. The court, referring to Tte ]lrrimack and Te Franees (8th
Cranch, 317 and 354), admitted that the case would be different had the
allegation as to purchase by the consignor, in contravention of orders
and subsequent rejection by the consignee, been sufficiently proved;
and proved affirmatively, as it was requisite to prove it.]
4 A. lien on enemy's property, set up under the act of March 3, 1863, to
protect the liens of loyal citizens upon vessels and other property which
belonged to rebels, is not sufficiently proved by the test-oath of the party
setting up the lien and asserting it without any specification as to date
of origin, ,from correspondence" with the parties and "copies of the
invoice of the cargo" sworn to as " believed to be true;" the correspon-

