Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. HIOLLIDAY.

40?

Statement of the case.

sales made by the administrator of lands of the intestate
amounted to over ten thousand dollars instead of eight thousand, the amount of his alleged debts remaining unpaid.
The title of the purchaser could not be affected by the excess. That was a matter solely for the consideration of the
court on the return of the sales by the administrator.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.
SAME v. HAAS.
1. The 12th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which gives to the Circuit
Courts concurrent jurisdiction of all crimes and offences cognizable in
the District Courts, is prospective, and embraces all offences the jurisdiction of which is vested in the District Courts by-subsequent statutes.
2. Therefore the Circuit Courts have jurisdiction of the offence of selling
ardent spirits to an Indian, under the act of February 12, 1862, although
by that act the jurisdiction is vested only in the District Court.
2. By that act Congress intended to make it penal to sell spirituous liquor
to an Indian under charge of an Indian agent, although it was sold
outside of any Indian reservation and within the limits of a State.
4. The act aforesaid is constitutional, and is based upon the power of Congress to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes.
6 This power extends to the regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes
and with the individual members of such tribes, though the traffic and
the Indian with whom it is carried on are wholly within the territorial
limits of a State.
6. Whether any particular class of Indians are still to be regarded as a
tribe, or have ceased to hold the tribal relation, is primarily a question
for the political departments of the government, and if they have decided it, this court will follow their lead.
7. No State can by either its constitution or other legislation vithdraw the
Indians within its limits from the operation of the laws of Congress
regulating trade with them; notwithstanding any rights it may confer
on such Indians as electors or citizens.

THESE were indictments, independent of each other, for

violations of the act of Congress of February 13, 1862,*
* 12 Stat. at Large, 339.

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

which declares that if any person shall sell any spirituous
liquors "to any Indian under the charge of any Indian superintendent or Indian agent appointed by the United States,
he shall, on conviction thereof before the proper District
Court of the United States," be fined and imprisoned.
This act of 1862 was amendatory of an act of June 30,
1834,* declaring that if any person sold liquor to an Indian
in the Indian country he should forfeit five hundred dollars.
These indictments were both in District Courts of the
United States-the one against Haas in the District Court
for Minnesota (there not being at the time of the indictment any Circuit Court as yet established in Minnesota), and
that against Hol liday in the District Court for Michigan,and under the act of August 8, 1846,t authorizing the remission of indictments from the District to the Circuit Courts,
they were both removed into the Circuit Courts; the case
of Haas, after he had been convicted of the offence charged
and while a motion in arrest of judgment was pending and
undetermined in the District Court.
IN HAAS'S CASE,

The indictment charged that the defendant had sold the
liquor to a Winnebago Indian, in the State of Minnesota,
under the charge of an Indian agent of the United States;
but it did not allege that the locus in quo was within the reservation belonging to the Winnebago tribe, or within any Indian
reservation, or within the Indian country.
Upon this indictment the judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion on the questions:
1. Whether, under the act of February 13, 1862, the offence
for which the defendant is indicted was one of which the Circuit

Court could have original jurisdiction?
2. Whether, under the facts above stated, any court of the
United States had jurisdiction of the offence?
* 4 Stat. at Large, 732.

t 9 Id. 73.

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.

409

Statement of the case.

LN

HOLLIDAY'S

CASE,

The indictment charged the defendant with selling liquor,
in Gratiot County, Michigan, to one Otibsko5 an Indian under the charge of an Indian agent appointed by the United
States.
The plea alleged that Gratiot County was an organized
coundy of the State of .7lichigan; that it was not within the Indian
country; that no Indianreservationexisted within it; that Otibsko
was one of the Chippewa Indians mentioned in certain treaties which were referred to; that Otibsko accepted lands in
Michigan, and entered into possession of them under a certificate from the United States; that the tribal organization
of the said Chippewa Indians was dissolved by one of the
treaties, except in so far as it was necessary to preserve it
for the purposes of the same; and that Otibsko had voted
at elections for county and town officers.
The plea set forth also certain provisions of the constitution and laws of Michigan which confer political rights upon
ivilized male inhabitants of Indian descent, natives of the
United States and not members of any tribes, and also judicial rights and privileges upon all Indians.
The government, by replication admitting the truth of the
matters contained in the plea, alleged that, pursuant to the
existing treaties with the said Chippewas, and the regulations and practice of the Interior Department and Indian
Bureau, the chiefs and head men of the said Chippewas
continued to be the representatives of the tribe; that the Indian agent for Michigan was required to deal with the said
chiefs and head men of the said Chippewas as such, and to
take the receipts of such chiefs and head men for money
and property delivered to the said Chippewas under the
provisions of the treaties.
And alleged further, that the said Otibsko recognized and
acknowledged the chiefs and head men of the Chippewas of
Saginaw, and resided with the said Indians on the lands in
Isabella County, selected by them under the treaty of 1855;
and that the Indian agent of the United States anuually

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.

[Sup. ("t

Argument in favor of the sale.

distributed a sum of money and treaty property for the
benefit of the said Otibsko.
On this state of facts the Circuit Court was divided on the
following points:
1. Whether the act of Congress, of February, 1862, does by
proper construction extend to a sale of liquor, such as is charged
in the indictment, under the circumstances stated in the plea and
replication?
2. Whether, if construed to so extend, Congress has the constitutional right to so enact ?
8. Whether, under the circumstances stated in the plea and
replication, the Indian named can be considered as under the
charge of an Indian agent within the meaning of the act?
4. Whether, upon the facts stated in the plea and replication,
the said Otibsko was a civilized Indian, not a member of any
tribe within the meaning of the constitution of Michigan, and
whether he was a citizen of the State of Michigan ?
5. Whether the provisions of the constitution and laws of
the State of Michigan, stated in the plea of the defendant,
were, under all the facts and circumstances stated in said plea
and replication, and, under the constitution, the said treaties
and act of Congress of 1862, a bar to said indictment?
The record in this case showed that the Secretary of the
Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs had decided that it was necessary, in order to carry into effect the
provisions of the treaty referred to and set up by Holliday,
that the tribal organization should be preserved.
In both cases the questions were now, by certificate of

division, here.
Mr. Borneyn, for Rolliday; no counsel appearhngfor Haas:
The cases in many features are alike. To some extent, the
argument for one serves f6r both; though the first question
certified in Haas's case does not arise in Holliday's.
As respects Holliday the question is, whether the United
States can punish, as a criminal offence, the selling of liquor
to an Indian who is connected with a tribal organization
only so far as to receive his allowance from the United States,

Dec. 1865.-

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.
Argument in favor of the sale.

through the chief or head man? who is a land-owner in his
own individual right, and a tax-payer in one of the States
of the Union; when the liquor was sold, not on an Indian
reserve, but in an organized county of a State; a district as
exclusively under the jurisdiction of the State as the city
of New York is under the jurisdiction of the State of Tew
York. If so, then if the liquor had been sold to this Indian
at the Astor House in New York, the proprietors of that
house would be liable, on the same principles, and to the
same extent as this defendant.
I. On every principle, the act of 1862 is to receive a strict
construction. It is a penal act. It is of doubtful constitutionality.
No violence is done to the language of the statute, by confining its operation to Indians under the charge of an agent
Vitl.n the Todiacn counlry; for it was the evident policy of the
act to protect the Indian, within the Indian country; and in
addition, that policy is sufficiently sustained by the construction that the iot'odiction of liquors, into the Indian
country shall be illegal.
Suppose that a civilized, educated Indian, a citizen of
another State, should accept a glass of wine at a military
post; would that be an offence under this act? We should
think not.
H. If the act of 1862 be so construed as to embrace this
charge, under the admitted facts of the case, then its enactmefits are beyond the powers of Congress, in conflict with
the rights of the State, and are so far void.
As the offence was not committed in any place within the
exclosice jurisdiction of the United States, the right of Congress to legislate for its punishment can be founded only on
the notion that it was an offence against Federal sovereignty.
'But Congress has never claimed, and cannot lawfully exercise the power of legislating for Indians, except as tVibes or
qiasi domestic nations. When they lose this relation and
character, and become citizens of a State, or as individuals
become separated from their ordinary tribal connections,
they pass from the jurisdiction of the United States. The

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the sale.

limits of the agency are established, as all know, by tribes
or geographical boundaries. The general duty of the agent
is to manage and superintend the intercoursewith the Indians.
This assumes their separate and social condition.
The facts show that, in the case of Otibsko, to whom in
Holliday's case the liquor is said to have been sold, the
tribal organization was, in fact, dissolved. The lands given
to the Chippeways, it is plain, were owned in severalty; and
all that remained of the tribal association was connected
with the convenience of paying annuities. This Indian,
moreover, became a citizen of the State of Michigan.
Conceding, for the sake of the argument, that the Indian
was a member of a subsisting tribe, and under the charge of
an Indian agent; still, after he carnewithin the limits of the State,
away from the Indian country, or any Indian reservation, he
became subject to the laws of the State, and it was incompetent for the United States to take cognizance of the act
charged, and to punish it as a crime against the Federal
government. The whole subject of the regulation of the
use and sale of liquors, within the State, and away from
Indian reservations, is a matter for the State, in the exercise
of its police powers. The State of Michigan has exercised
this power, and prescribed the penalty, and the offence was
within the jurisdiction of that State.*
This legislation, as construed by the government in this
vase, cannot be sustained under the power of Congress to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
beveral States, and with the Indian tribes; for the act of
2862 is not, in any way, a regulation of commercial intercourse.
After a thorough argument, contra, by Mr. Assistant .Attorney-General Ashton, who went into the whole policy of the
government as respects sales of liquor to the Indians, setting
forth the statutes regarding them, and the decisions which
bore upon them,
" United States v. Beavans, 3 'Wheaton, 336.

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.

413

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MULLER delivered the opinion of the court.*
The questions propounded to this court in the two cases
have a close relation to each other, and will be disposed of
in one opinion.
The first question on which the judges divided in the case
against Haas is, "whether, under the act of February 13,
1862, the offence for which the defendant is indicted was
one of which the Circuit Court could have original jurisdiction."
Previous to the act of July 15, 1862, no Circuit Courts
existed in the districts of Texas, Florida, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, and Kansas, but the District Courts in those districts exercised the powers of Circuit Courts. It was during
this time that Hlaas was indicted and convicted; and a motion in arrest of judgment was pending and undetermined
when that act went into effect. That act, by its own terms,
transferred to the Circuit Courts which it created-one of
which was in the District of Minnesota-all causes, civil or
criminal, which might have been brought, and could have
been originally cognizable in a Circuit Court. If, then, the
offence for which Haas was indicted was one which could
have been originally cognizable in a Circuit Court, it was
properly in that court for final determination; otherwise it
was not.
The act under which the indictment was found says, that
if any person shall commit the offence therein described,
"1such person shall, on conviction before the proper District
Court of the United States, be imprisoned," &c.
So far as the act itself provides a court for its enforcement
it is the District Court, and not the Circuit Court.
An examination, however, of the several acts, which define generally the relative jurisdiction of the District and Circuit Courts of the United States, leaves no doubt that, in
regard to all crimes and offences, it was intended to make
the jurisdiction concurrent, except in cases where the punishment is death. In that class of offences the jurisdiction
Nelson, J., not sitting, having been indisposed.

UNITED STATES V. IHOLLIDAY.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

is exclusive in the Circuit Courts. The present offence,
however, is created after all of those acts were passed, and
the law defining it only confers jurisdiction on the District
Court. Can the statutes, or any of them which give the Cilcuit Codrts concurrent jurisdiction of offences cognizable in

the District Courts, be held to have a prospective operation
in such case as the present?
The 12th section of the Judiciary Act, which created both
the Circuit and District Courts, says of the former, they
"shall have exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences
cognizable under the authority of the United States, except
where this act otherwise provides, or the laws of the United
States shall otherwise direct, and concurrent jurisdiction
with the District Courts of crimes and offences cognizable
therein."
This provision has distinct reference in its first clause to
cases of which the Circuit Courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction, and, in its latter clause, to cases in which they shall
have concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts. The
former include all crimes and offences where some statute
does not provide the contrary. The latter include all crimes
and offences cognizable in the District Courts.
The Judiciary Act of 1789, of which these provisions constitute a part, is the one which, for the first time under our
Federal Constitution, created the courts which were to exercise the judicial function of the government. The powers
conferred by that act on the several courts which it created,
and the lines by which it divided the powers of those courts
from each other, and limited the powers of all of them under
the Constitution, were intended to provide a general system
for the administration of such powers as the Constitution
authorized the Federal courts to exercise. The wisdom and
forethought with which it was drawn have been the admiration of succeeding generations. And so well was it done
that it remains to the present day, with a few unimportant
cfanges, the foundation of our system of judicature, and the
low which confers, governs, controls, and limits the powers

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.
Opinion of the court.

of all the Federal courts, except the Supreme Court, and
which largely regulates the exercise of its powers.
It cannot be supposed, under these circumstances, that in
giving to the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of all crimes and
offences cognizable in the District Courts, it was intended
to limit the grant to such cases as were then cognizable in
those courts. In fact, there was, at the time this statute was
passed, no such thing as an offence against the United States,
unless it was treason, as defined in the Constitution. It has
been decided that no common law crime or offence is cognizable in the Federal courts. The Judiciary Act organizing the
courts was passed before there was any statute defining or
punishing any offence under authority of the United States.
This clause, then, giving the Circuit Courts concurrent
jurisdiction in all cases of crime cognizable in the District
Courts, must, of necessity, have had reference to such statutes as should thereafter define offences to be punished in
the District Courts.
The offence, then, for which Hlaas was indicted, although
declared by that act to be cognizable in the District Courts,
was, by virtue of the act of 1789, also cognizable in the Circuit Courts.
The second question in that case is this: whether, under
the facts above stated, any court of the United States had
jurisdiction of the offence?
The facts referred to are, concisely, that spirituous liquor
was sold within the territorial limits of the State of Minnesota and without any Indian reservation, to an Indian of the
Winnebago" tribe, under the charge of the United States
Indian agent for said tribe.
It is denied by the defendant that the act of Congress was
intended to apply to such a case; and, if it was, it is denied
that it can be so applied under the Constitution of the United
States. On the first proposition the ground taken is, that
the policy of the act, and its reasonable construction, limit
its operation to the Indian country, or to reservations inhabited by Indian tribes. The policy of the act is the prutection of those Indians who are, by treaty or otherwise,

UNITED STATES V. IHOLLIDAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

under the pupilage of the government, from the debasing
influence of the use of spirits; and it is not easy to perceive
why that policy should not require their preservation from
this, to them, destructive poison, when they are outside of a
reservation, as well as within it. The evil effects are the
same in both cases.
But the act of 1862 is an amendment to the 20th section of
the act of June 30, 1834, and, if we observe what the amendment is, all doubt on this question is removed. The first act
declared that if any person sold spirituous liquor to an Indian in the Indian country he should forfeit five hundred dollars. The amended act punishes any person who shall sell
to an Indian under charge of an Indian agent, or superintendent, appointed by the United States. The limitation to the
Indian country is stricken out, and that requiring the Indian
to be under charge of an agent or superintendent is substituted. It cannot be doubted that the purpose of the amendment was to remove the restriction of the act to the Indian
country, and to make parties liable if they sold to Indians
under the charge of a superintendent or agent, wherever
they might be.
It is next asserted that if the act be so construed it is
without any constitutional authority in its application to the
case before us.
We are not furnished with any argument by either of the
defendants on this branch of the subject, and may not therefore be able to state with entire accuracy the position assumed. But we understand it to be substantially this: that
so far as the act is intended to operate as a poli~e regulation
to enforce good morals within the limits of a State of the
Union, that power belo: gs exclusively to the State, and
there is no warrant in the Constitution for its exercise by
Congress. If it is an attempt to regulate commerce, then
the commerce here regulated is a commerce wholly within
the State, among its own inhabitants or citizens, and is not
within the powers conferred on Congress by the commercial
clause.
The act in question, although it may partake of some

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. TOLLIDAY.

417

Opinion of the court.

of the qualities of those acts passed by State legislatures,
which have been referred to the police powers of the States,
fis, we think, still more clearly entitled to be called a regulation of commerce. "Commerce," says Chief Justice M arshall, in the opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden, to which we so
often turn with profit when this clause of the Constitution
is under consideration, "commerce undoubtedly is traffic,
but it is something more; it is intercourse." The law before us professes to regulate traffic and intercourse with the
Indian tribes. It manifestly does both. It relates to buying
and selling and exchanging commodities, which is the essence of all commerce, and it regulates the intercourse between the citizens of the United States and those tribes,
which is another branch of commerce, and a very important
one.
If the act under consideration is a regulation of commerce, as it undoubtedly is, does it regulate that kind of
commerce which is placed within the control of Congress
by the Constitution? The words of that instrument are:
"Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes." Commerce with foreign nations, without
doubt, means commerce between citizens of the United
States and citizens or subjects of foreign governments, as
individuals. And so commerce with the Indian tribes,
means commerce with the individuals composing those
tribes. The act before us describes this precise kind of
traffic or commerce, and, therefore, comes within the terms
of the constitutional provision.
It there anything in the fact that this power is to be exercised within the limits of a State, which renders the act
regulating it unconstitutional?
In the same opinion to which we have just before referred,
Judge Marshall, in speaking of the power to regulate commerce with foreign states, says, "The power does not stop at
the jurisdictional limits of the several States. It would be
a very useless power if it could not pass those lines." "If
Congress has power to regulate it, that power must be exerVOL. II.

27

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cised wherever the subject exists." It follows from these
propositions, which seem to be incontrovertible, that if commerce, or traffic, or intercourse, is carried on with an Indian tribe, or with a member of such tribe, it is subject to
be regulated by Congress, although within the limits of a
State. The locality of the traffic can have nothing to do
with the power. The right to exercise it in reference to
any Indian tribe, or any person who is a member of such
tribe, is absolute, without reference to the locality of the
traffic, or the locality of the tribe, or of the member of the
tribe with whom it is carried on. It is not, however, intended by these remarks to imply that this clause of the
Constitution authorizes Congress to regulate any other commerce, originated and ended within the limits of a single
State, than commerce with the Indian tribes.
These views answet the two questions certified up in the
case against Hlaas, and the two first questions in the case
against iolliday.
The third question in iolliday's case is, whether, under
the circumstances stated in the plea and replication, the
Indian named can be considered as under the charge of an
Indian agent, within the meaning of the act?
The substance of the facts as set out in those pleadings is,
that the Indian to whom the liquor was sold had a piece of
land on which he lived, and that he voted in county and town
elections in Michigan, as he was authorized to do by the laws
of that State; that he was still, however, so far connected
with his tribe, that he lived among them, received his annuity under the treaty with the United States, and was
represented in that matter by the chiefs or head men of his
tribe, who received it for him; and that an agent of the
government attended to this and other matters for that
tribe. These are the substantial facts pleaded on both sides
in this particular question, and admitted to be true; and
without elaborating the matter, we are of opinion that they
show the Indian to be still a member of his tribe, and under
the charge of an Indian agent. Some point is made of the

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES

t.

HOLLIDAY.

419

Opinion of the court.

dissolution of the tribe by the treaty of August 2, 1855; but
that treaty requires the tribal relation to continue until 1865,
for certain purposes, and those purposes are such that the
tribe is under the charge of an Indian superintendent; and
they justify the application of the act of 1862 to the individuals of that tribe.
Two other questions are propounded by the judges of the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, both
of which have relation to the effect of the constitution of
Michigan and certain acts of the legislature of that State,
in withdrawing these Indians from the influence of the act
of 1862.
The facts in the case certified up with the division of opinion, show distinctly "that the Secretary of the Interior and
the Commissioner of Indian Afihirs have decided that it is
necessary, in order to carry into effect the provisions of said
treaty, that the tribal organization should be preserved." In
reference to all matters of this kind, it is the rule of this
court to follow the action of the executive and other political departments of the government, whose more special
duty it is to determine such afihirs. If by them those Indians are recognized as a tribe, this court must do the same.
If they are a tribe of Indians, then, by the Constitution of
the United States, they are placed, for certain purposes,
within the control of the laws of Congress. This control
extends, as we have already shown, to the subject of regulating the liquor traffic with them. This power residing in
Congress, that body is necessarily supreme in its exercise.
This has been too often decided by this court to require
argument, or even reference to authority.
Neither the constitution of the State nor any act of its
legislature, however formal or solemn, whatever rights it
may confer on those Indians or withhold from them, can
withdraw them from the influence of an act of Congress
which that body has the constitutional right to pass concerning them. Any other doctrine would make the legislation
of the State the supreme law of the land, instead of the Con-

[Sup. Ct.

DE SOBRY V. NVICHOLSON.
Statement of the case.

stitution of the Tnited States, and the laws and treaties
made in pursuance thereof.
If authority for this proposition, in its application to the
Indians, is needed, it may be found in the cases of the Cherokee _Nation v. The State of Georgia,* and Worcester v. The State
of Georgia.t
The results to which we arrive from this examination of
the law, as regards the questions certified to us, is, that both
questions in the case against Hlaas must be answered in the
affirmative; and in the case against Holliday, the first three
must be answered in the affirmative, and the last two in the
negative.
It is, however, proper to say, that in the fourth question
in the latter case is included a query, whether the Indian,
Otibsko, was a citizen of the State of MKichigan ?
As the views which we have advanced render this proposition immaterial to the decision of the case, the court is to
be understood as expressing no opinion upon it.

DE SOBRY v. NIcHOLSON.
1. A motion to dismiss a case, from want of proper citizenship in the parties,
cannot be made at the trial and after pleading a general issue and special defences.
2. 'Where a contract, under which a party would be prevented, from want
of proper citizenship, from suing in the Federal courts, is set out but
as inducement to a subsequent one under which he would not be so prevented, the jurisdiction of such courts will not be taken away from the
fact of the old contract's being set forth as inducement only somewhat
indefinitely. Coming, in such a case, within the principle of a contract
defectively stated, but not of one defective, the mode of stating it is
cured by the verdict.

THE. Judiciary Act declares that the assignee of a chose in
action shall not recover in a suit brought on it in the Fede*. 5 :Peters, 1.

f61ad.

m1.

