LEwis v. CAMPAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

LEWIS v. OAMPAU.
A final judgment or decree by the highest court of law or equity of a State
that revenue stamps attached to a deed offered in evidence and objected to as not having stamps proportioned to the value of the land
conveyed are sufficient-is not a subject for review by this court under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.

CnMP u sued Lewis in the Supreme Court of Michigan,
"the highest court of law and equity" in that State; and on
the hearing there, objection was made to the admissibility
of a deed which was offered in evidence, on the ground that
the United States revenue stamps attached to it were not
sufficient in amount; that is to say, were not proportioned
in amount to the value of the land conveyed; as the act of
Congress relating to our internal revenue requires that they
should be; and that the deed was therefore void. The court
being satisfied that the value of the land was not sufficient
to require stamps of greater amount than were actually
attached admitted the deed; and final judgment having
gone in favor of Lewis, the other party, Campau, brought
the case here on error as being within the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789; a section which enacts that a
final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of
law or equity in a State wherein is drawn in question the
validity of a statute of the United States and the decision is
against its validity; or where is drawn in question the construction of any clause of a statute of the United States and
the decision is against the title, right, or privilege specially
set up or claimed by either party-may be re-examined here
Mr. Walker now moved to dismiss the cause, on the ground
of want of jurisdiction, 31-r. Bishop opposing.
The CIEF JUSTICE: Neither the validity of the statute, nor its construction was in any way drawn in question.
The only question the court had to pass upon, and this only

Dec. 1865.]

YoRC COMPANY V. CENTRAL RAILROAD.

107

Statement of the case.

incidentally as affecting the admissibility of evidence, was
the value of the land.
This is not a question which can be brought into this
court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
WRIT OF ERROR DISMISSED.

YORK COMxPANY V. CENTRAL RAILROAD.
1. The common-law liability of a common carrier for the safe carriage of
goods may be limited and qualified by special contract with the owner;
provided such special contract do not attempt to cover losses by negligence or misconduct.
Thus, where a contract for the transportation of cotton from Iemphis to
Boston was in the form of a bill of lading containing a clause exempting the carrier from liability for losses byfire, and the cotton was destroyed by fire, the exemption was held sufficient to protect the carrier,
the fire not having been occasioned by any -wantof due care on his part.
2. W here a deposition is taken upo n a commission, the general rule is that
all objections to it of a formal character, and such as might have been
obviated if urged on the examination of the witness, must be raised at
such examination, or upon motion to suppress the deposition. It is too
late to raise such objections for the first time at the trial.
Thus, where a copy of a bill of lading was annexed to the answer of a witneis examined on a commission, and no objection to the copy was taken
at the examination or by motion to suppress afterwards, it was held
that the objection that the original was not produced or its loss shown
came too late at the trial.
TROUT & SON shipped at MIemphis, on the Mississippi, a
large quantity of cotton, on board a steamer belonging to

the Illinois Central Railroad Company, common carriers;
which by the terms of the bill of lading was to be delivered
at Boston, Massachusetts, the consignees paying 4.75 per
bale, "fire and the unavoidable dangers of the river only excepted." The bill of lading which referred to the cotton as
shipped by "Troll
Son" was signed in four; two copies
being given to Trout & Son, of which they retained one, for-

