Dec. 1865.]

SPARROW V. STRONG.
Statement of the case.

SPARROW V. STRONG.
1. Under the ninth rule of this court, a writ of error or appeal from any
judgment or decree rendered thirty days before the commencement of
the term may be docketed and dismissed on motion of the defendant in
error or appellee, unless the other side dockets the cause and files the
record with the clerk of the court within the first six days of the term.
But if no motion to dismiss be previously made, the record may be filed
and the cause docketed at any time within the term.
2. The value of a " Mining Claim" in Nevada may be the subject of estimate in money; and this court will take jurisdiction of a suit concerning such a claim, if of the requisite value, though. the land where the
claim exists las never been surveyed and brought into market. [The
claim may perhaps exist under the old governments of Spain or Mexico.
Moreover, mining interests, apart from fee simple rights in the soil by
patent, existed before the act of Congress of February 27, 1865, under
the implied sanction of the Federal Government.]
8. 'When the judgment brought before this court by writ of error purports
to affirm generally the judgment of a court inferior to the affirming
court; and the only judgment in the record of such inferior court is a
general judgment; this court will take jurisdiction, though an appeal
has also been taken in the inferior court, under State laws, upon a motion refusing a new trial, and there are some indications in the record
that this affirmance was intended to be of that refusal.

SPARRow brought an action in the nature of an ejectment

in the District Court for the first judicial district of Story
County, ZeTada Territory, to recover an interest in a 1 iia
Claim, a sort of interest very common in the argentiferous
Territory just named.
The case was tried before a jury upon a considerable body
of evidence, and a verdict having been given for the defendant, a judgment in the nature of a judgment in ejectment
was regularly rendered by the court upon it.
Subsequently, a motion for new trial was made. A statement embodying all the evidence was drawn up and agreed
to by counsel, and upon this statement and some affidavits
tending to show surprise on the trial,, and new evidence discovered after trial, the motion was argued before the District
Court. It was overruled, and from the overruling, order an
appeal was taken, on the 15th November, 1862, to the Su
VOL. IM.

7

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

[Sup. or.

., Statement of the case.

preme Court of the Territory, under an act of the Territorial
legislature authorizing uch appeals.
On the 16th of March, 1863, the Supreme Court gave
judgment in the cause as follows:
"On appeal from the District Court of the first judicial district in and for Story County.
"N~ow, on this day, this cause being called, and having been
argued and submitted and taken under advisement by the court,
and all and singular the law and the premises being by the
court here seen and fully considered, the opinion of the court
herein is delivered by Turner, C. J. (iHott, J., concurring), to
the effect that thejudgnment below be affirmed.
"Wherefore it is now ordered, considered, and adjudged by the
court here, that the judgment and decree of the District Court of
the first judicial district in and for Story County, be and the
same is affirmed with costs."
From this judgment of the Supreme Court of Nevada a
writ of error was taken here; the affidavit filed being the
ordinary one, that "the value of the property in dispute" exceeded $2000. The record did not show any bill of exceptions.

A rule of this court (the ninth), requires that when a writ
of error shall be brought to it from any judgment or decree
rendered thirty days before the commencement of the termwhich this writ was-it shall be the duty of the plaintiff "to
docket the cause and filb the record thereof with the clerk
of this court, within the first six days of the term." In the
present case the writ of error was properly sued out, August
14, 1863, returnable to the next term of the court; and was
regularly served. A citation was also served returnable to
the same term. After the writ, citation, and record were
filed and the cause docketed, a motion to dismiss the case
term:
was made and argued at the last
1. Because the record was not fied in time by the plaintiff in error.
2. Because the interest in controversy was not capable of
a money valuation; and, therefore, not of the value, within

Dec. 1865.]

SPARROW V. STr.ONG.

.99

Statement of the case.

the meaning of the statute, of one thousand dollars, the
amount necessary to give jurisdiction to this court.(a)
To understand the force or want of force of this second
oAjection it is necessary to state, on the one hand, that the
Territory of Nevada from which the case came, was formerly
part of the province of Upper California, and belonged first
to old Spain, afterwards to MNexico, and was acquired by the
United States only in 1848, by treaty;* and that our government, as yet, had made no grants of its public lands there
or of any rights in them. Of course no one could hold anything by patent or other formal grant fiom this government,
in which, subject to prior private rights, everything still remained vested. On the other hand, it is to be stated that
in the treaty referred tot it is admitted that previously to
our acquisition of it, the ceded territory had been settled to
some extent by the authority of pre-existing governments,
and that all rights thus existing are made inviolable. In
fact, immense estates in California-a part of the acquired
territory-rest on the titles derived from the "former governments."T
Congress had also established, in M1arch, 1861, when Nevada, previously a part of Utah, was made a Territory by
itself, a government for that Territory; having a legislature
with the usual powers of these bodies in the Territories;
and this legislature had acted on the development of the
mines as a subject more or less within its competence.
(a) A third ground was made at the last term for dismi-ing the case, to
wit: That the jurisdiction of this court, if it. ever had any, was taken away
by an act of Congress (passed between the time of granting the writ of
error and the date of the motion to dismiss), admitting the State of Nevada
into the Union, without any provision which should save the jurisdiction
vested in this court by the act organizing the Territory. This omission was,
however, supplied by an act of Congress of February 27, 1865, which was
held valid and effectual by this court in Freeborn v. Smith (2 Wallace, 160),
at the last term. This third ground relied on for dismissal was, therefore,
a- the Chief Justice observed, now necesarily to be regarded as untenable.
* Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, made after the war of 1847, between
Mexico and the United States, 9 Stat. at Large, Treaties, p. 922.
t Articles 8th and 9th.
I See the Sutter Case and the Fossatt Case, 2 Wallace, 564, 649.

SPARROW V. STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.

-Argument for dismissal.

Independently of this, however, a special kind of law-a
sort of Common Law of the miners-the offspring of a
nation's irrepressible march-lawless in some senses, yet
clothed with dignity by a conception of the immense social
results mingled with the fortunes of these bold investigators-had sprung up on our Pacific coast; and presented, in
the value of a "Mining Right," a novel and peculiar question of jurisdiction for this court.*
The case, however, was not disposed of at the last term,
nor either of the two points already mentioned passed on.
It was ordered to stand over for argument on another point,
the point, to wit, whether the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Nevada, above referred to, was a final judgment or
decision reviewable here within the meaning of the act of
Congress organizing the Territory; an act which gives this
court jurisdiction to review "the final decisions" of the Supreme Court of the Territory.
lXessrs. Browning and Cope, for the motion to dismiss, argued
* This Common Law of the miners was described, soon after the decision
here reported was made, by a Senator of the United States, from the Pacific
coast, in a manner so fall and interesting as to have attracted general notice.
I refer to the remarks made by Mr. Senator Stewart of Nevada, in the
Senate of the United States, in June, 1865, and in which the justice and
wise policy of the decision above given was shown and enforced.
The reader will not feel, I hope, that I incumber the report with matter
wholly irrelative by the extract which I give in an Appendix, No. 1.
Mr. Stewart remarks that the Common Law of the miners has to some
extent had the sanction of Congress; though, with "one single exception,"
no statute had been enacted to give it force.
This exception was exhibited at the Congressional session of 1865-6,
when the following law (Act of Feb. 27, 1865, 13 Stat. at Large, 441) was
passed:
-.
INo possassory action between individuals in any of the courts of the
United States for the recovery of any mining title, or for damages to
such title, shall be affected by the fact that the paramount title to the land
on which said mines are, is in the United States; but each case shall be adjudged by the law of possession."

This statute of Feb. 27, 1865, to which Mr Senator Stewart refers, as the
"one single exception," the reporter supposes, would have rendered the
last question in tle present case free from difficulty had the law existed
when the case first
arose, but it did not.

Dec. 1865.]

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

.

Argument for dismissal. •

at the last term and at this on the three several points as follows:
L As to the tMne at which, the record wasfiled and the cause
docketed. The language of the ninth rule is imperative. It
is a general rule and as obligatory while in force as a statute.
The record, confessedly, was not filed within the fist six
days of December Term, 1863. It was therefore not filed as
the rule exacts, and the writ should be dismissed on this
ground.
I. As to the valu'e of the subject in controversy. The affidavit, which is filed in the case, declares indeed that "the property in dispute" is of the value of two thousand dollars; a
sum sufficient, we admit, to give the jurisdiction. But the
matter in dispute is a "Mining Claim." The land in which
the mine exists belongs still to the General Government. It.
has never been surveyed nor brought into market. No pecuniary value can be attached to the possession by a claimant
of anything of which the ownership is in another person.
In this case the possession is one amounting in strict law to
a trespass; at best, to a tenancy at will of the government.
It may be terminated at any moment. Its value depends
upon the course which the government may pursue in asserting or omitting to assert its right of ownership. Whatever the occupant may hope for or even expect; whatever
the government may in the benignant course of its dealings
see fit hereafter to do by such a person, it is plain that he
has neither right, title, interest, claim, nor demand in or to
the property in suit. Such an estate, or no-estate as it more
truly is, cannot be estimated in the sense which the law requires to give jurisdiction. Is not Lownsdale v. Pe'rish,* in
this court much in point? There the matter in dispute was
a piece of real estate in Oregon Territory, which Territory
then happened to be claimed by the United States and by
Great Britain, at once; the subjects of the two governments,
occupying the region only by virtue of a treaty between the
two nations. How the title might ultimately be settled and
* 21 Howard. 290.

SPARROW V. STRONG.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Argument for dismissal.

to which government the land might finally pass, was, of
course, a matter resting in speculation; dependent upon
what the two governments might or might not do; just as
here what the one government may or may not do. This
court there held that the title to the subject of controversy
was not capable of estimate in the sense required by law to
give jurisdiction to this court.
III. On the last point-the point on which the case stands over"Is the judgment a final one?" However the matter may be
disguised, or the mind misled by the technical words, "judgment," "decree," &c., and the old-fashioned formula of
"seen," "fully considered," &c., used in the record, it is obvious that the judgment, or decree which has been affirmed,
is but the judgment and decree ordering a new trial; nothing
else. In other words, that the terms "judgment," and "decree," are, in Nevada Territory, and under its peculiar system of law-which makes the granting or refusal of a new
trial the subject of review in an appellate court-applied to
the affu'manee of the order of the District Court ovenrulng the
inotion for a new trial. It is not worth while to be so lost in
the technique of the law-in the verbality of clerical "entries"-as to forget "that words are the daughters of earth
and thilgs the sons of heaven."
It seems that there was no "assignment of errors." The
judgment was probably affirmed for want of one. But as
the record stands, this court rests in ignorance of the ground
on which the judgment proceeded; and the case stands here
simply as a writ of error to bring before this court for revision the decision of the Supreme Court of Nevada, upon
a motion fbr a new trial. Need we say that this tribunal
will not review decisions on points resting purely in the discretion of the court below. It was but at the last term*
that this court declared, with what seemed to be a special
emphasis, and a warning not to bring such cases here,'tbaf
"its decision has always been that the granting or refusal of
a new trial is a matter it cannot review."
: Freeborn v. Smith, 2 Wallace, 176.

Dec. 1865.]

SPARROW V. STRONG.
Opinion of the court.

llessrs. 0'Cbnnor and Billings, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE now delivered the opinion of the
court, on all three of the points.
The first ground taken in favor of dismissing the writ of
error, to wit, that the record was not filed in time by the
plaintiff in error, is untenable. The writ was regularly sued
out on the 14th of August, 1863, returnable at the next term
of the court thereafter, and was duly served; a citation was
also issued and served, returnable at the same term; and the
writ and citation, with the record, were returned here and
filed, and the cause docketed before the motion to dismiss.
It has been repeatedly held that, in such a case, no motion
to dismiss, under the ninth rule, can be entertained.*
Nor do we think that the appeal should be dismissed for
the second reason assigned by the defendant in error, namely,
that the subject of controversy is not of the jurisdictional
value. It is insisted that the matter in dispute is a mining
claim; that the land where the mine exists has never been
surveyed and brought into market; and that, consequently,
there can be no mining right to such land in any person,
capable cf being estimated in money.
It is true, that in the case of Lownsdale v. Parris',tthis
court held, that an obstruction to the enjoyment of land
claimed under a law or regulation of a convention in Oregon, held without the sanction of the United States, and
during the joint occupation of that country by Great Britain
and the United States, was not an injury capable of being so
valued as to give jurisdiction to this court; nor, indeed, an
injury of which the courts of the United States could take
cognizance at all. But that decision was put distinctly on
the ground that Congress, when it came to act on the organization of Oregon, expressly declared that all laws theretofore passed in that Territory, making grants of lands or
* Bin-ham v. Morris, 7 Cranch, 99; Wood v. Lide, 4 Id. 180; Picketts'
Heirs v. Legerwood, 7 Peters. 14(; Owings v. Tierman, 10 Id. 24; Given
j 21 Howard, 290.
v.Breedlove, 15 Id. 284.

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

[Sup. C

Opinion of the court.

otherwise affecting or encumbering the titles to lands, should
be and were thereby declared "null and void."
The claim, which the court was asked to protect, was asserted under a law thus declared null and void by the highest
legislative authority. It was for this reason that the court
refused to take jurisdiction in Lournsdale v. Pa)-vish and dismissed the appeal.
The writ of error now before us relates to a very different
subject of controversy. The Territory, of which Nevada is
part, was acquired by treaty. Rights and titles, acquired
under ceding governments, remain unimpaired under our
government. We cannot know judicially, therefore, that
the right and title in controversy was not so acquired. If
it was, it certainly may be capable of being valued in money.
But if this were otherwise, we do know that in the act
organizing the Territory of Nevada there is no clause annulling grants or claims to land, while large legislative
powers are conferred by the Territorial legislature, limited
only, as to lands, by the prohibition of interference with the
primary disposal of the soil by the -United States, and of unequal taxation in certain cases. We know, also, that the
Territorial legislature has recognized by statute the validity
and binding force of the rules, regulations, and customs of
the mining districts.* And we cannot shut our eyes to the
public history, which infbrms us that under this legislation,
and not only without interference by the national government, but under its implied sanction, vast mining interests
have grown up, employing many millions of capital, and
contributing largely to the prosperity and improvement of
the whole country.
We cannot dismiss this writ of error, therefore, on the
ground that a controversy concerning the possessory right
to a mining claim, existing under the express sanction of
the Territorial legislature and the implied sanction of the
national government, does not relate to a subject-matter
capable of being valued in money.
* Laws of Nevada Territory, p. 16,

40, and p. 21,

74, 77.

Dec. 1865.]

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

Opinion of the court.

As the questions, ihus far considered, were argued at the
last term, the motion would have been then disposed of had
not doubts been excited by an inspection of the record, upon
the point for the argument of which the motion was ordered,
to stand over.
It is insisted, on this point, that the judgment is merely
an affirmance of the order of the District Court overruling
the motion for new trial. If this be so, the judgment itself
is, in substance and effect, nothing more; and it is settled*
that this court will not review such an order. The granting
or refusing of new trials is a matter of discretion, with the
exercise of Nyhich, by the court below, this court will not interfere. The circumstance that the discretion was exercised
under a peculiar statute by an appellate court, and on appeal, cannot withdraw the case from the operation of the
principles which control this court.
But the majority of the court does not feel at liberty to
disregard the plain import of the terms of the judgment rendered by the Supreme Court of the Territory. It does not
purport to be an order or judgment affirming an order overruling a motion for new trial, but a judgment affirming the
judgment or decree of the District Court, and the only judgment or decree, which we find in the record, is the judgment
for the defendants in the action of ejectment.
If this view be correct, the judgment of the Supreme
Court is one to review which a writ of error may be prosecuted. And the record shows that the writ has been regularly sued out and returned. This court therefore has jurisdiction, and it has been repeatedly held in similar cases,t
that on a motion to dismiss, the court will look to the regularity of the writ and the fact of jurisdiction. Other questions must, in general, await final hearing.
.OTION

TO DISMISS OVERRULED.

* Doswell v. De la Lanza, 20 Howard, 29; Henderson v. Moore, 5 Cranch,
12; M1arine Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 6 Id. 206; Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheaten, 220.
t Minor v. Tillotson, I Howard, 288; Hecker v. Fowler, 1 Black, 95.

