896

COMSTOCK V. CRAWFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the 25th section of the Judiciary Act. But as we are of
opinion the decision of the court below was right, the judgment must be affirmed.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See the preceding case.-Rsr,.]

COMSTOCK V. CRAWFORD.
1. The recital in the record of proceeding of a Probate Court, under a statute
of 'Wisconsin Territory, of facts necessary to give such court jurisdiction, is printfacieevidence of the facts recited.
'. The jurisdiction existing, the subsequent action of the court is the exercise of its judicial authority, and can only be questioned on appeal;
the mode provided by the law of the Territory for review of the determinations of the court.
Where a statute of the Territory provided that the real estate of the decedent might be sold to satisfy his just debts when the personalty was
insufficient, and authorized the Probate Court of the county where the
deceased last dwelt, or in which the real estate was situated, to license
the administrator to make the sale upon representation of this insufficiency, and "on the same being made to appear" to the court, and required the court, previously to passing upon the representation, to order
notice to be given to all parties concerned, or their guardians, who did
not signify their assent to the sale, to show cause why the license should
not be granted.
Held, that the representation of the insufficiency of the personal property
of the deceased to pay his just debts was the only act required to call
into exercise the power of the court. The necessity and propriety of
the sale solicited, were matters to be considered at the hearing upon
the order to show cause. A license following such hearing involved an
adjudication upon these points, and such adjudication was conclusive.
8. 'Where an administrator had been appointed, and after giving the required
bonds informed the court that he was unable to act, and resigned the
appointment, not having taken possession of the property of the intestate, or attempted to exercise any control over it, it was competent for
the court to accept the resignation, and to appoint a new administrator.
The power to accept the resignation and to make the second appointment, under these circumstances, were incidents of the power to make
the first.
C A second license to an administrator to sell property already sold by him,

Dec. 1865.]

COMSTOCK V. CRAWFORD.

397

Statement of the case.
and a second purchase of it by the same party who had already bought
it before, is not evidence of fraud in the first sale.
5. The title of a purchaser at an administrator's sale is not affected by the
fact that the proceeds of the sale exceeded the amount of the alleged
debts of the decedent, for the payment of which such sale was ordered.

A STATUTE of Wisconsin Territory ordained that there
should be appointed by the Governor, in and for each county,
a person to be known as "the public administrator" thereof;
and when any person shall die intestate, leaving personal
property within the Territory, but leaving no widow, next
of kin, or creditor living therein, "administration"-the
statute went on to say-" shall be granted" to the "public
administrator" of the county in which the intestate died,
or, if the decedent have been a non-resident, of the county
in which the estate may be found. The statute further
ordained, that when administration shall have been granted
to any public administrator, and it shall afterwards appear
that there is a widow, next of kin, &c., the judge of probate
shall-on application to do so made within six months after
such grant-revoke the letters granted to the public administrator and grant them to such widow, next of kin, &c.,
according to law.
In force in the same Territory, along with this statute, was
another, distinct and independent of it, providing, much as
others do in different States, for the sale, under order of the
county Probate Court, of the real estate of decedents, to pay
debts when personalty left is insufficient to do so. It enacted
that when the personalty should not be sufficient for this purpose, "upon representation, and the same being made to
appear to the District or Probate Court of the county where
the deceased person last dwelt, or in the county in which
the real estate lies," the said court might license the administrator to make sale of all or any part of the realty, "so far
as shall be necessary to satisfy the just debts." "The said
court," the act proceeded to say, "previous to passing on
any petition or representation for the sale, shall order due
notice to be given to all parties concerned, or their guardians,
who do not signify their assent to such sale, to show cause,

COMSTOCK V.

CRAWFORD.

[Sup. C

Statement of the case.

at a time and place appointed, why such license shall not be
granted."
With these acts in force in Wisconsin, and owning personalty in Iowa County and realty in Grant County, of that Territory, one Comstock died in Illinois, having been, before and
at his death, domiciled there. His brother was appointed,
soon after, administrator, by the Probate Court of Iowa
County, in Wisconsin; but he never took possession of the
property of the estate, nor attempted to exercise ownership
over it; and in a short time after his appointment sent word
to the probate judge that he was unable to attend to the
duties of the administration, and requested that officer to
appoint another kinsman of the decedent, one Ripley, of
Illinois, to the place. A formal resignation sent afterwards
was accepted, and Ripley appointed; nothing, however, in all
the matter of the estate, appearing about the "public administrator."
A few years afterwards, Ripley, acting under the letters
granted to him in Wisconsin, applied to the Probate Court
of Grant County, in that Territory, for license to sell "so
much" of the real estate of the deceased in the county as
would "enable him to pay the sum of $8000," together with
the costs and charges attending the sale.
The record of the proceeding-and this is material-stated
the fact that written application for the sale had been made.
It set forth the application at length, representing that thepersonal property of the deceased was insufficient to pay his just
debts by the sum of about $8000. It gave the order directing
publication of notice of the application; it recited that due
notice had been given; it contained (by way only, however,
a certificate of a proof incorporation or interposition in it)
bate justice of Illinois (in which State it appeared that
administration of Comstock's effects had also been had),
that the personal property of the deceased had been exhausted in payment of his debts, and that there remained
debts unpaid to the amount named. "And it being made to
appear." the record went on to say, "that it is necessary and
proper that the said administrator should be licensed" to

Dec. 1865.]

C0O1STOOK V). CRAWFORD.

Statement of the case.

make sale of the real estate, or so much as will enable him
to pay the sum of $8000, "due proof of tie existenee and amount
of said debts bebig made" to the court, and no person appearing to make objection, the court adjudged and decreed that
"the said administrator be licensed, authorized, and empowered to sell so mwh,&c., as may enable him to pay the
sum of $8000, the debts due ad owgfrom said estate, together
with the costs and charges attending the sale," &c.
Ripley made the sale, the purchaser being a certain Crawford, defendant here and below; and he having received the
administrator's deed and entered into possession, the heirs
of Comstock now brought ejectment against him in the Circuit Court of Wisconsin, to get back the land. On the trial
the defendant produced and gave in evidence, under objection, the record of the Probate Court of Iowa County, containing the letters of administration, resignation, &c., and
also the record of the Probate Court of Grant County, above
stated, and closed.
After the defendant had thus closed, the plaintiff, for the
pnrpose of proving collusion and fraud between the administrator and the purchaser, offered the record of a license to
the administrator to sell the same premises, subsequent in
date to the one above mentioned. The plaintiff offered,
also, to prove that the administrator had made sales to the
extent of $10,000, while his license to sell was to the extent
of but $8000. But both offers were refused by the court.
The admission of the letters, resignation, and records of
the Probate Court, and these two refusals, were the matters
considered on writ of error here. The record did not show,
however, that the representation, which was the preliminary
step in the proceeding for the sale, gave the amount and
description of the personal property of the deceased, or a
statement of the just debts which he owed. Neither, independently of the certificate of the probate judge of Illinois,
did the order for the sale show-otherwise than as was to
be inferred from the recital, just above quoted, of its being
"made to appear that it was necessary and proper that the
said administrator should be licensed to make sale of the

COMSTOCK V. CRAWFORD.

[Sup, ot,

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

real estate"-that the personal property of the estate was
insufficient to pay the debts.
The defendant had judgment, and the plaintiffs brouglat
the case here on error.
Messrs. Buttrick, Hill, and J. S. Brown, for the heirs, plare.
tiffs in error.
I. The appointment of a general administrator for the
estate of a non-resident intestate, was extra-judicial and void
under the statute. The administration belonged to "the
public administrator" by its imperative terms. The appointment of that officer was not given to the court. The
governor was to make it, and of course bad made it. The
public administrator-exemtor a lege cornstitutus-like an executor a testatore constitutus,was ever present, ready to receive
the administration, to perform his duties prescribed by law,
to execute and carry out the process, the orders, decrees,
and sentences of his court. Yet he is never heard of in the
case, no more than if neither he nor the case had ever existed. Griffith v. Frazier,*in this court, temp. Marshall, is
in point. The syllabus of the case is thus given by Cranch:
"So long as a qualified executor is capable of exercising the
authority with which he is invested by the testator, that authority cannot be conferred either with or without limitation
by the court of ordinary or any other person. And if during
such capability of the executor the ordinary grant administration either absolute or temporary to another person, that grant
is absolutely void."
IL If the appointment of the first administrator was valid,
the appointment of the second was void. Unless enabled
by statute, administrators cannot resign. This is the law
of Wisconsin as held in Sitzman v. Paquette.t
III. The record of the Probate Court of Grant County
does not support the license to sell.
• 8 Cranch, 9; and see Warner v. People, 2 Denio, 272; People v. White,
24 Wendell, 539-541; 1 J. J. Marshall, 205, 206; Reynolds 1. Orvis, 7
Cowen, 269.
t 13 Wisconsin, 293.

Dec. 1865.]

COMSTOCK V.

CRAWFORD.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

1. The representation to the court does not give the
amount and description of the goods and chattels of the deceased, nor a statement of the just debts which he owed. These
were essential facts which were to be shown to the court before it could act.
2. The order for the sale does not show the insufficiency
of the personal property. This is the main point in our
case. The order shows that Ripley filed a certificate, and
that it appeared to the court that it was necessary and proper
that a license should issue, and that due proof of the existence and the amount of the debt was made, but the allimportant fact that the goods and chattels belonging to the estate
were insqffieient to pay them nowhere appears, unless we resort
to the contents of the certificate of the probate justice of
Illinois. Obviously, there was nothing but this before the
court relative to debts, personalty, or anything else. The
Probate Court of Wisconsin avoids the responsibility of declaring that it had evidence or was satisfied that the debt
exceeded the personalty. The record of this *Wisconsin
court interposits in an anomalous way-a way which shows
that it knew nothing on the subject-a certificate from a
person in another State. Certainly under the statute this
can make no foundation for the license, or for the order
preliminary thereto.
Had the Probate Court of Grant County inquired into and
determined the existence of the fact, then the defendant in
error might perhaps claim immunity under Grignon's Lessee
v. Astor.* But this case has no application. There the
record was perfect and complete. In the language of the
court it was absolute verity. There an adjudication had
been made, the necessity of the sale established, and to meet
it specific real property was designated. The judgment was
in rem and of itself operated to divest the title of the heirs;
after decree it remained for the ministerial officer to perform it.
If it be argued that because the fact is recited in the license,
it is conclusive, our answer is that Sibly v. Waffle,t in the
* 2 Howard, 319.

VOL. i1.

t 16 New York, 180.
26

COMSTOCK V. CRAWFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

New York Court of Appeals, is in point to the contrary. In
that case "an order of sale recited that it was made upon
proof of due publication of the order to show cause." But
what says the syllabus? "Such recital is no more than a
statement by the surrogate that he had acquired jurisdiction,
and is of no effect; not showing an adjudication that he
found from the evidence, the facts upon which his jurisdiction depended."
IV. There was a distinct offer on the part of the plaintiff
to show collusion and fraud between Ripley and the defendant. The second license tended to do so. Its effect was for
the jury, and it ought to have been received.
V. But at best the power to sell was but for $8000, and
we have an actual sale for $10,000. It might as well have
been for $15,000 or for $20,000. This business of selling
the real estate of infant children-the best and often the
only dependence they have-is a matter which invites to
carelessness and fraud, and which, unless narrowly watched,
involves in ruin a class who, from their tender years, claim
peculiar care from courts of justice. The order should
surely have been interpreted with strictness. "That no individual or public officer can sell and convey a good title to
the land of another, is one of those self-evident propositions,"
says Marshall, C. J.,* "to which the mind assents without
hesitatkon, and that the person invested with such a power
must pursue with precision the course prescribed by law or
his a(t is invalid, is a principle which has been repeatedly
recognized by the court." This declaration of judicial wisdom from as great a magistrate as ever sat in judgment, applies to much of this case. It applies specially to the mode
in which the order to sell was executed.
Mr. Laken, contra,for the purchaser.
Mr. Justice FILELD delivered the opinion of the court.
It is only necessary to examine the objections taken to
the appointment of the first administrator, and the subse* Thatcher v. Powell, 6 Wheaton, 125.

Dec. 1865.]

COISTOOK

V.

CRAWFORD.

Opinion of the court.

quent acceptance of his resignation, so far as they affect the
jurisdiction of the Probate Court. It is well settled that
when the jurisdiction of a court of limited and special authority appears upon the face of its proceedings, its action
cannot be collaterally attacked for mere error or irregularity. The jurisdiction appearing, the same prc-urnption
of law arises that it was rightly exercised as p:revails with
reference to the action of a court of superior and general
authority.
By the statute of Wisconsin, under which the administrator was appointed, the only facts necessary to give the Probate Court jurisdiction were the death of the non-resident
intestate and the possession by him, at the time, of personal
property within the Territory. Both of these facts are recited in the record of the proceedings produced by the defendant, which sets forth the letters of administration at
large. These recitals are pdbml facie evidence of the facts
recited.* They show the jurisdiction of the court over the
subject. What followed was done in the exercise of its judicial authority, and could only be questioned on appeal, the
mode provided by the law of the Territory for review of the
determinations of the court. Whether there was a widow
of the deceased, or any next of kin, or creditor, who was a
proper person to receive letters, if he had applied for them,
or whether there was any public administrator in office authorized or fit to take charge of the estate, or to which of
these several parties it was meet that the administration
should be intrusted, were matters for the consideration and
determination of the court; and its action respecting them,
however irregular, cannot be impeached collaterally.
The same observations are applicable to the acceptance
of the resignation of the first administrator, and the appointment of Ripley in his place. If the second appointment was
irregularly made, the irregularity should have been corrected on appeal.
* Barber v. Winslow. 12 Wendell, 102; Porter v. Merchants' Bank, 28

ew York, 641.

404

COMSTOCK V. CnAWForD.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

But, independent of this consideration, there is nothing
in the objection. The power to accept -he resignation and
make the second appointment, under the circumstances of
this case, were necessary incidents of the power to grant letters of administration in the first instance. It does not appear that the first administrator ever took possession of the
property of the intestate, or attempted to exercise any control over it; and his inability to act left the estate in fact
without any administrator. The duty of the court therefore
to provide for its proper administration could not otherwise
have been discharged than by a new appointment.
But the principal reliance of the plaintiffs is placed upon
the objections taken to the action of the Probate Court of
Grant County in ordering the sale. With reference to these
objections, as with reference to the objections taken to the
original appointment of the administrator, it is only necessary to consider them so far as they affect the jurisdiction of
the court.
The proceeding for the sale of the real property of an intestate, though had in the general course of administration,
is a distinct and independent proceeding authorized by statute only in certain specially-designated cases. But when
by the presentation of a case within the statute the jurisdiction of the court has once attached, the regularity or irregularity of subsequent steps can only be questioned in some
direct mode prescribed by law. They are not matters for
which the decrees of the court can be collaterally assailed.
The statute of the Territory provided. that the real estate
of a decedent might be sold to satisfy the just debts which
he owed, when the personal property of the estate was insufficient to pay the same. And it authorized the Probate
Court of the county where the deceased last dwelt, or in
which the .real estate was situated, to license the administrator to make the sale upon representation of this insufficiency, and "the same being made to appear" to the court.
It also required the court, previous to passing upon the representation, to order notice to be given to all parties concerned, or their guardians, who did not signify their assent

Dec. 1865.]

COMSTOCK V'. CRAWFORD.

Opinion of the court.

to the sale, to show cause why the license should not be
granted.
As thus seen, the representation of the insufficiency of the
personal property of the deceased to pay his just debts, was
the only act required to call into exercise the power of the
court. The truth of the representation was a matter for subsequent inquiry. How this should be made to appear the
statute did not designate, but from the notice required of
the hearing upon the representation, it is clear that the necessity and propriety of the sale solicited were matters to be
then considered. A license following such hearing necessarily involved an adjudication upon these points. The jurisdiction to hear was conferred by the representation; the
authority to license followed from the fact which the court
was required to ascertain and settle by its decision. In such
case the decision of the court is conclusive.*
The record of the Probate Court, produced by the defendant, states the fact that a written application for the sale
was made. It sets forth the application at length, representing that the personal property of the deceased was insufficient to pay his just debts by the sum of about eight thousand dollars; it gives the order directing publication of
notice of the application; it recites that due notice was
given; it contains a certificate of the probate justice of Illinois that the personal property of the deceased had been
exhausted in payment of his debts, and that there remained
debts unpaid to the amount named, and it states, by way of
further recital, that it had been made to appear to the court
that the sale was necessary and proper to pay such debts
of the existence and amount of which due proof had been
given.
To this record it is further objected: 1st. That the representation, which was the preliminary step in the proceeding
for the sale, did not give the amount and description of the
personal property of the deceased, or a statement of the just
* Van Steenbergh v. Bigelow, 3 Wendell, 42; Jackson v. Robinson, 4
Id. 437; Jackson v. Crawfords, 12 Id. 634; Atkins v. Kinnan, 20 Id. 242;
Porter v. Purdy, 29 New York, 106; Betts v. Bagley, 12 Pickering, 572.

COMSTOCK V.

CRAWFORD.

[Sup. C

Opinion of the court.

debts which he owed; and 2d. That the order for the sale
did not show that the personal property of the estate was
insufficient to pay the debts, unless resort was had to the
certificate of the probate justice of Illinois.
The answer to the first objection is found in the fact that
the statute did not require any such particularity of statement with reference to the property of the deceased, or to
the debts which he owed. It only required a representation
of the general fact. The particularity desired to guide the
court was to be obtained at the hearing of the application.
The answer to the second objection is, that the sufficiency
of the proof upon which the court took its action is not a
matter open to consideration in a collateral manner. It does
not touch the question of jurisdiction.
Similar questions were presented for the consideration of
this court, in Grignon's Lessee v. Astor.- That case turned
upon the validity of proceedings for the sale of real property
of an intestate under a statute almost identical in its provisions with the one under which the sale in the present
case was made. And it was there held that the representation was sufficient to bring the power of the court into action; that it was enough that there was something of record
which showed the subject before the court, and that the
granting of the license was an adjudication upon all the
facts necessary to give jurisdiction. That decision disposes
of the particular objections stated to the sale in this case.
The record of the subsequent license to the administrator
to sell the same property, and its second purchase by the defendant, was properly excluded. It did not show, or tend
to show, fraud in the first sale or any collusion between the
administrator and the purchaser. The proceeding may have
originated in a desire to remove doubts suggested as to the
regularity of the original sale, but whether this was so or
not, the first sale not being set aside, its validity could not
be im aired by the second.
There is no force in the objection that the proceeds of
- 2 Howard, 319; see also Florentine v. Barton, 2 Wallace, 210.

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. HIOLLIDAY.

40?

Statement of the case.

sales made by the administrator of lands of the intestate
amounted to over ten thousand dollars instead of eight thousand, the amount of his alleged debts remaining unpaid.
The title of the purchaser could not be affected by the excess. That was a matter solely for the consideration of the
court on the return of the sales by the administrator.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. HOLLIDAY.
SAME v. HAAS.
1. The 12th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which gives to the Circuit
Courts concurrent jurisdiction of all crimes and offences cognizable in
the District Courts, is prospective, and embraces all offences the jurisdiction of which is vested in the District Courts by-subsequent statutes.
2. Therefore the Circuit Courts have jurisdiction of the offence of selling
ardent spirits to an Indian, under the act of February 12, 1862, although
by that act the jurisdiction is vested only in the District Court.
2. By that act Congress intended to make it penal to sell spirituous liquor
to an Indian under charge of an Indian agent, although it was sold
outside of any Indian reservation and within the limits of a State.
4. The act aforesaid is constitutional, and is based upon the power of Congress to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes.
6 This power extends to the regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes
and with the individual members of such tribes, though the traffic and
the Indian with whom it is carried on are wholly within the territorial
limits of a State.
6. Whether any particular class of Indians are still to be regarded as a
tribe, or have ceased to hold the tribal relation, is primarily a question
for the political departments of the government, and if they have decided it, this court will follow their lead.
7. No State can by either its constitution or other legislation vithdraw the
Indians within its limits from the operation of the laws of Congress
regulating trade with them; notwithstanding any rights it may confer
on such Indians as electors or citizens.

THESE were indictments, independent of each other, for

violations of the act of Congress of February 13, 1862,*
* 12 Stat. at Large, 339.

