DEmON v. BERNAL.

I [Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.

offing at one time, and it was thought to be one of the
blockading squadron."
It would be difficult to make more conclusive proof of the
existence of the blockade, or of notice of the fact to the
master of the captured vessel.
The cargo was shipped to be conveyed from the port by
this brig, and was in the same offence.
The facts of the case supply other grounds of condemnation. The shares of the vessel owned in New York, and
the portions of the cargo belonging to Williams, of New
York, might be condemned for trading with the enemy;
and other portions of the cargo might be condemned as
enemy's property; but it is enough that vessel and cargo
were equally involved in the attempt to violate the blockade. Both were rightfully captured.
DE REE AFFIRMED.

DEnOx V. BERNAL.
1. When the United States and the claimant to whom a Iexican grant has
been confirmed are bath satisfied with its location, any other person
who seeks to contest such a location must show some title, legal or
equitable, to some part of the land covered by the survey, before the
court will disturb it at his instance, or in his alleged interest.
2. When all the elements of location prescribed by a decree of the District
Court cannot possibly be complied with, and a survey conforms as much
with the decree confirming the grant as it can well be made to do, this
court will not disturb it.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of the United

States for the Northern District of California, confirming a
survey of a Mexican grant.

The appeal was not taken by the United States, nor by
the claimant whose grant was confirmed, but by one Dehon,
who was permitted to intervene in the District Court, on the
ground that the survey covered land in which he was in-

Dec. 1865.]

DiEHOx V.

BERNAL.

Opinion of the court.

terested. He asserted that the survey covered land owned
by him under a deed from Bishop Allemany. The Allemany grant had been confirmed, surveyed, and patented,
and was found to cover a part of this survey as first made.
To the extent of the interference, the District Court modified this survey. But the intervenor was still dissatisfied,
and appealed to this court, because, as he said, it covers
other land which he claims, and also because it was erroneously located.
While exhibiting a number of deeds, Dehon, however, did
not show any interest in the land covered by the modified
survey, derived either from the government of Mlexico or
that of the United States.
The decree confirming the grant described the lot as a
lot two hundred varas square, lying on the south side of an
arroyo or stream, sixty varas from the northwestern corner
of the Mission of Dolores; the northeast corner of the lot
being one hundred and fifty varas from the northeast corner
of the Mission. The arroyo was found, and the MAission is
well known. It was bnpossible, however, so to locate the lot
as to make the arroyo its northern boundary, and bring its
northeast corner within any reasonable approximation to the
distance stated friom the northeast corner of the Mission.
Under these circumstances, the surveyor located it so that
the northeast corner of the lot was one hundred and sixtyone varas from the northeast corner of the Mkission, and the
lot was fifty-five varas from the northwest corner of the Iission. This placed the northern boundary of the lot some
distance south of the arroyo.
.3P.D. B. Eaton for the a)pellant; Mr. Cope, eontra.
MLr. Justice MilLER delivered the opinion of the court.
1. When the United States and the claimant to whom a
Mlexican grant has been confirmed are both satisfied with its
location, we think that any other person who seeks to contest such a location must show some title, legal or equitable,
to some part of the land covered by the survey, before the

776

TiE MILITARY

COMMISSIONS OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

court will disturb it at his instance. A-ad though the District Court may, upon slight showing, permit a person 'to in.
tervene to protect any interest he may have, we are of
opinion that, on the hearing, he must show some title, legal
or equitable, to the land in dispute, before the court is .justifled in disturbing the survey in his interest. In the present
case, the court did modify the survey, so as to exclude all
the land to which the appellant showed such title.
2. The survey conforms as nearly to the decree confirming
the grant as it can well be made to do. It is true that the
location as made by the surveyor places the northern boundary of the lot some distance south of the arroyo; but, as
all the prescribed elements of location cannot be complied
with, we do not see how it can be located more in conformity with the decree than it is.
And as the appellant has not. shown that he is prejudiced
by the survey as it is confirmed by the District Court, its
decree is
.AFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE

MILITARY COMMISSIONS CASES.

cases, Ex parte Milligan, &c., were disposed of, as is
known, on the last day of this term: but the delivery of
opinions was necessarily deferred till the next session. On
this account, a report, too, is carried over.
THESE

