Dec. 1865.]

THE ADMIRAL.
Syllabus.

tional banking associations, and for the taxation of the capital of State banks, but not of the shares; while the second
proviso of the act of Congress requires that the tax on the
shares of the former shall not exceed the tax on the shares
of the latter. It is clear that this taxation by the State is
not in accordance with the authority given by Congress.
The variance might not be a matter of much practical importance, if we agreed in opinion that taxation on capital
and shares must be by the same rule; but the application
of the rule of exemption, heretofore sanctioned, to the capital of the State banks, while the rule denying exemption,
which is now announced, is applied to the national associations, would work great and manifest injustice. We think,
moreover, that the second proviso is a substantive part of
the act which cannot be disregarded, and that it withholds
from States, whose policy does not allow the organization
of banks and provide for the taxation of shares, the authority to tax the shares of the national banking associations.
It is hardly necessary to add, that we agree that the judgments of the Court of Appeals, in the three cases before us,
must be reversed. But we think they should be reversed
on the ground that the taxation of NTew York is repugnant
to the first proviso as well as to the second.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the case remitted to the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York, with directions to
enter judgment for the plaintiffs in error, with costs.

THE ADMIRAL.
1. A case in prize, carried by appeal from a District Court into a Circuit
Court, before the statute of March 3, 1863, allowing appeals in prize
directly from the District Courts to this court, is properly here on
appeal from the Circuit Court.
2. A vessel setting sail from England on the 9th September, 1861, with
actual knowledge of a proclamation which the President of the United

THE ADMIRAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
States made on the 19th of the April preceding,--that is to say, made
nearly five months previously,-declaring that certain of our Southern
States were in insurrection, and that a blockade would be established
of their ports,-had no right, under an allegation of a purpose to see if
the blockade existed, to sail up to one of those ports actually blockaded.
3. The declaration in the President's proclamation of the date just mentioned, that if a vessel, with a view to violate the blockade, should approach or attempt to leave either of the said ports, she would be '"duly
warned by the commander of the blockading vessels, who would indorse
on her registry the fact and date of such warning ;" and that if the same
vessel "shall again attempt to enter or leave the blockaded port she
will be captured," does not apply to such a case; but the vessel is liable
without any previous warning.
4. Mere sailing for a blockaded port is not an offence; but where the vessel
has a knowledge of the blockade, and sails for the blockaded port with
the intention of violating it, she is clearly liable to capture.
5. Where, during our civil war, the clearance of a vessel expressed a neutral
port to be her sole port of destination, but the facts showed that her
primary purpose was to get cargoes into and out of a port under blockade,-the outward cargo, if got, to go to the neutral port named as the one
cleared for,-tbe fact that the vessel's letter of instructions directed the
master to call off the blockaded port, and, if he should find the blockade
still in force, to get the officer in command of the blockading ship to
indorse on the ship's register that she had been warned off (in accordance with what it was asserted by the owners of the vessel was their
understanding of neutral rights under the President's proclamation
above mentioned), and then to go to the port for which this clearance
called-will not save the vessel from condemnation as prize in a case
where she has been captured clos6 by the blockaded port, standing in
for it and without ever having made an inquiry anywhere whether the
port was blockaded or not. Presumption of innocent purpose is negatived in such a case.
ON the 19th April, 1861-seven days after Fort Sumter
was fired on, and near the beginning, therefore, of our late
civil war-the President of the United States issued a proclamation, by which he declared that an insurrection existed
in certain of the Southern States, and that he deemed it
advisable "to set on foot a blockade of the ports within the
said States." "For this purpose," the proclamation proceeded, "a competent force will be posted so as to prevent
entrance and exit of vessels from the ports aforesaid." "If,
therefore," the document continued, "with a view to violate
such blockade, a vessel shall approach, or shall attempt to

Dec. 1865.]

TiE ADMIRAL.
Statement of the case.

leave either of the said ports, she will be duly warned by the
commander of one of the bloekadi g vessels, who will indorse on
her regisfry thefact awd date of such waring; and if the same
vessel shall again attempt to enter or leave the blockaded
port, she will be captured and sent to the nearest convenient
port, for such proceedings against her and her cargo as may
be deemed advisable."
Among the ports included with the proclamation was the
port of Savannah, Georgia.
On the 9th September, 1861-that is to say, five months
after the pri'oelamation was published, and the English having
knowledge of it-the British ship Admiral was chartered
at Liverpool by the firm of W. & IR. Wright, of the British
province of New Brunswick, to proceed with a cargo of salt
"off the port of Savannah, and, if the blockade is raised,
then to proceed into port, and deliver the salt according to
her bill of lading; and if the blockade be not raised, then the
ship to proceed to St. Johns, New Brunswick, and there
deliver the same, with the usual despatch of the port." The
stipulated freight was thirty shillings per ton, if the cargo
should be landed at ,avannah, and fifteen shillings per ton,
if landed at St. John's.
The owners' letter of instructions to the master, inclosing
the charter-party, and referring to our civil war, ran thus:
"The inclosed charter with the Messrs. Wright will show you
nature of the voyage. These gentlemen, like many others, bold
the opinion that this unfbrtunate contest cannot last long, it
being so obviously the interest of both parties to bring it to a
close. This being so, and their being very wishful to have a
cargo of pitch-pine from Savannah to St. John, so soon as the
port is again opened, is our great reason for their making it a
condition in taking the ship, that she should go off Savannah,
so that, if possible, they might have the very first shipment of
timber. Of course, in calling off, you will endeavor to meet the
blockading ship (if the blockade is found to exist still), and
then get the officer in command to indorse on your register that
the ship has been warned off. This will be all that is necessary
for us, as owners of the ship, to justify your departure for St.

Tim ADMIRAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ohn's, and there consigning the ship to the Messrs. Wright, to
whom, in the meantime, we will write respecting you.
" You will distinctly understand, therefore, that you run no risk
whatever with the ship, but rather endeavor to satisfy yourself as to
the blockade, and then find out the man-of-war, report yourself, and
get the register indorsed. You will, no doubt, speak some vessels
when approaching the American coast, so as to ascertain exactly
the state of matters, and be guided thereby in such way as not to
infringe the blockade regulation."
Under this eharter-party and this letter of instructions,
the Admiral sailed from Liverpool, upon a direct course for
Savannah, on the 12th of September, 1861. iler certificate
of clearance on board expressed St. John's, lNew fBrunswick, as
the sole port of her destination.
On the 11th December, 1861, when about thirty miles off
Tybee Island-an island that lies near the entrance to Savannah-the vessel was boarded by a ship of the blockading
squadron. At this time she was standing directly for the
port of Savannah, the same being then under efficient blockade, and the boarded vessel having made no inquiry anywhere, after leaving Liverpool, as to whether the blockade
existed. At this time -Port Royal, one of the ports of the
Southern coast, and some distance above Savannah, was in
our possession, having been taken by our squadron on the
7th of November preceding. This fact, however, was not
known to those aboard the Admiral. When hailed, she
made no resistance. On being boarded she produced her
clearance for St. John's (which was more than a thousand
miles from the place she then was), along with her letter of
instructions; and professed that, in coming to the region in
which she was, her purpose was to ascertain whether the
blockade was raised, as she supposed when leaving England
that it would be; numerous predictions to that effect having
been made before she left England, as also confident assertions that the Federal Government would find it impossible
to blockade effectively the Southern coast, three thousand
miles in length. She declared her readiness, on having a
notice and warning indorsed on her registry-as the procla-

Dec. 1865.]

THE A DMIRAL.
Statement of the case.

mation of the President contemplated that, in such a case as
hers, notice and warning should be indorsed-to proceed to
St. John's, in accordance with what her letter of instructions
contemplated she should do, if she found the blockade existing, and had "notice" and "warning" indorsed accordingly.
This was not satisfactory to the blockading officers, and the
vessel was brought in to Philadelphia, and proceeded on, with
her cargo, in the District Court there, for prize. The vessel
was claimed by a certain Fernie & Co., of Liverpool, England, and the cargo by W. & R. Wright, already mentioned
as of St. John's, all the claimants being British subjects.
The District Court restored the cargo but condemned the
vessel. From this condemnation Fernie & Co., her claimants, appealed to the Circuit Court;-Congress not having as
yet required, as it did by the statute of 3d March, 1863,
afterwards passed, that appeals in prize causes to this court
should be made directly from the District Court.
In the court below it was argued in .behalf of the claimants of the cargo, that the papers fully set out the voyage
and intent of the parties; that the captain's conduct, when
captured, was frank; no resistance, no attempt to falsify,
and no suppression. That to ascertain what the intent was
the case was to be tried and the conduct of the parties judged
by the state of things in September, 1861; that the proclamation of the President did not say that the ports wvre blockaded, but that they would be; that this was all in the beginfing of the rebellion; that it was then again and again declared that, within a short time, at farthest, the blockade
would cease. Port royal, as the event proved, had come to
be in our possession at the time. It might as well, nearly,
have been Savannah; but, as it was, events showed thatgiving "days of grace" proportioned to the matter-allowing the margin proper-not holding parties too much au
2ied de la lettre-there was perhaps no such misconception,
after all, by those who predicted, as eminent persons in our
country notoriously did, that the rebellion would be an affair
of sixty days, and that the Southern ports would soon be
open. Neither was the English idea that the blockade would

T E ADMIR AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

be ended, wrong as to result-though it was greatly so ss to
the cause by which the end would come. However, that
was unimportant; the question being only as to the purity
of intent, and the matter resting, therefore, on the fact of
actual belief; a belief which certainly existed in England
when the Admiral sailed; and at New Brunswick. Undoubtedly-it was said-in these questions intent is the matter to be inquired of. In Jiledeiros v. Bill, in the English
Common Bench,* and where Sir Nicholas Tindal gave the
judgment, the whole reasoning goes on the idea that where
no actual entry or exit is shown, the intent is the matter to
be inquired into; and, that while in the absence of express
proof, any bad intent may be presumed, yet that where the
true intent is shown none other than it can be inferred.
And the stringency of a contrary rule was relaxed by Lord
Stowell himself in some cases; as The Betsey.t Speaking of
Americans during a blockade of European ports, he there
said: "I cannot think it unfair to say, that lying at such a
distance, where they cannot have constant information of
the state of the blockade, whether it continues or is relaxed,
it is not unnatural that they should send their ships coijecturally." Ife expressed like views in The Adelaide.1 It was
said finally that here the enterprise, whatever it was, was for
the benefit of the cargo; that, in fact, the whole undertaking
was a charter of the ship to dispose of this cargo and get
another for the same owner, and that no case could be cited
in which where the cargo- the whole object and intent of the
voyage-was found to be honest, the ship (the mere carrier) was
held. In this case both ship and crew were but the merest
servants of the cargo; all of it belonging to one adventure
and having but only one ultimate object.
The Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the district judge;
the following being the opinion given by the presiding justice on the former bench:
Grier, J.: I agree with Chief Justice Tindal, in Medeiros v
Hill, "that the mere act of sailing to a port which is blockadeQ
* 8 Bingham, 231.

t 1 Robinson, 334.
83 Id. 283; see also The Little William. I Acton, 141, per Sir W. Grant.

Dec. 1865.]

Tin ADMIRAL.
Statement of the case.

at the time the voyage is commenced is not an offence against
the law'of nations, where there is no premeditated intention of
breaking the blockade." Consequently, if; in the present case,
the Admiral had taken out a clearance for Savannah, with the
expectation that the blockade might be removed before her arrival, with instructions to make inquiry as to its continuance at
1Vew York, or .fal*fax, or other neutral port, and after having
made such inquiry, had made no further endeavor to approach
or enter the blockaded port, her seizure and condemnation as
prize could not have been justified; but she presents a very differentecase. She was off Tybee Island, sailing for the blockaded
port. She had made no inquiry on the way; had no reason to
believe the blockade to be raised; and when arrested in her
attempt to enter, she exhibits a clearance for St. John's, New
Brunswick, a port she may be said to have passed, and a letter
of instructions from the owners "to call off the harbor of Savannah, to endeavor to meet the blockading ship, and get the officer
in command to indorse the register," &e., but to make no attempt
to run the blockade.
The clearance is the proper document to exhibit and disclose
the intention of a ship. The clearance, in this case, may not
properly come within the category of "simulated papers;" but
it does not disclose the whole truth. The suppression of a most
important part makes the whole false. It may be true, that in
times of general peace, a clearance, exhibiting the ultimate destination of a vessel, without disclosing an alternative one, may
have sometimes been used by merchants to subserve some private purpose. But in times of war, when such omissions may
be used to blindfold belligerents as to the true nature of a ship's
intended voyage, and to elude a blockade, the concealment of
the truth must be considered as pr2id facie evidence of a fraudulent intention. The Admiral, with a fall knowledge that her
destined port is blockaded, takes a clearance for St. John's, and
is found a thousand miles from the proper course to such port,
in the act of entering a blockaded port; and when thus arrested,
for the first time, inquires whether the blockade has been raised.
A vessel which has full knowledge of the existence of a blockade, before she enters on her voyage, has no right to claim a
warning or indorsement when taken in the act of attempting to
enter. It would be an absurd construction of the President's
proclamation to require a notice to be given to those who alVOL. III.

39

TnE ADMIRAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
ready had knowledge. A notification is for those only who have
sailed without a knowledge of the blockade, and get their first
information of it from the blockading vessels. Now, the primary destination of this vessel was to a blockaded port. If the
owners had reason to expect that possibly the blockade might
be raised before the arrival of their vessel, and thus a profit be
made by their ability to take the first advantage of it, their
clearance, in the exercise of good faith, should have made admission of the true primary destination of the vessel. If the
truth had appeared on the face of this document, and if the master had been instructed to inquire at some intermediate port
and to proceed no further in case he found the blockade still to
exist, the owners might justly claim that their conduct showed
no premeditated intention of breaking the blockade. But when
arrested in the attempt to enter a port known to be blockaded,
with a false clearance, it is too late to produce the bill of lading
or letter of instructions to prove innocency of intention. In
such cases intention can be judged only by acts. The true construction of this proceeding may be thus translated: "Enter
the blockaded port, if you can, without danger; if you are arrested by a blockading vessel, inform the captor that you were
not instructed to run the blockade, but had merely called for information, and would be pleased to have your register indorsed,
with leave to proceed elsewhere." If so transparent a contrivance could be received as evidence of a want of a premeditated intention to break the blockade, the important right of
blockadewould be but a brutumfulmen in the hands of a belligerent. "It would," says Lord Stowell, in some case, "amount,
in practice, to a universal license to attempt to enter, and being
prevented, to claim the liberty of going elsewhere." In the
cases where the stringency of the general rule, established by
this judge (but overruled in Medeiros v. Hill) had been by him
relaxed as to American vessels in certain ci'cumstances, the
clearances were taken contingently, but directly for the blockaded port, in the expectation of a relaxation of the blockade,
with instructions to inquire as to the fact at a British or neutral
port. The clearance exhibits the whole truth, and the place of
inquiry, their good faith. In these most material facts, this case
differs from them.
I con ur in the decree of the District Court.
AyFIRMED.

Dec. 1865.]

Tjir

ADMIRAL.

Opinion of the court.

On appeal from this decree of the Circuit Court the matter-including apparently some query as to the right of
appeal from the Circuit Court under the act of March 3,
1863,-came for review here. It was argued fully by .lr.
for the appellants, and by _1r. Assistant AttorneyDon vwhe
(eneral Ashon (who had argued it also in the courts below),
for the United States.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Capture of the ship, together with the cargo, was made on
the eleventh day of December, 1861, as lawful prize of war,
and both were regularly prosecuted as such in the District
Court. Claim for the ship was presented by the master on
behalf of Fernie Brothers & Co., of Liverpool, in which he
alleged that they were British subjects, and the true, lawful,
and sole owners and proprietors of the vessel, her tackle,
apparel, and furniture. Record also shows that the master
filed at the same time a claim for the cargo on behalf of W.
& R. "Wright,of St. John's, in the province of Kew Brunswick, in which he alleged that they were the true, lawful,
and sole owners and proprietors of the same, and that they
also were British subjects. Accompanying the claims for
the ship and cargo is the test affidavit of the master, which
was filed at the same time, and which contains substantially
the same allegations. Preparatory proofs were duly taken,
and the parties were fully heard.
District Court entered a decree condemning the vessel as
lawful prize, but acquitted the cargo, and ordered that the
same be restored to the owners. Claimants of the vessel
appealed to the Circuit Court of the United States for that
district where the decree of the District Court condemning
the vessel was affirmed, and thereupon the claimants appealed to this court.
1. Appeal to the Circuit Court was allowed before the
passage of the act of the third of March, 1863, which requires that appeals from the District Courts in prize causes

THE ADMIRAL.

[Slip. Or.

Opinion of the court.

shall be made directly to the Supreme Court.* Prior to the
passage of that act the Supreme Court had no appellate jurisdiction in prize causes, except when the same were removed here from the Circuit Courts. Exclusive original
cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction was by the ninth section of the Judiciary Act
conferred upon the District Courts, and it was conclusively
determined, at a very early period in our history, that prize
jurisdiction was involved in the general delegation of admiralty and maritime powers as expressed in the language
of that section.t First decision to that effect was that of
Jennings v. Carson,t but the question was shortly afterwards
authoritatively settled by the Supreme Court in the same

way.ยง
Admiralty and maritime causes, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeded the sum or value of three
hundred dollars, might under the Judiciary Act be removed,
by appeal from the District Courts to the Circuit Courts, but
such causes could only be transferred from the Circuit
Courts to the Supreme Court by writ of error.j
Provision, however, for appeals from the Circuit Courts to
the Suprene Court was afterwards made in cases of equity,
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and of prize or no
prize, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars.
Same act also reduced the minimum sum or value required for appeals from the District Courts to the Circuit
Courts to the sum or value of fifty dollars exclusive of costs,
and made it the duty of the Circuit Courts to hear and determine all such appeals.
Present case was appealed from
the District Court to the Circuit while the last-mentioned
provision was as applicable to prize causes as it still is to all
the other matters of jurisdiction therein specified, and con12 Stat, at Large, 760.
f 1 Id. 77.
1 Peters's Admiralty, 7.
Glass v. The Sloop Betsey,. 3 Dallas, 16; 1 Kent's Commentaries, 389;
2 Stat. at Large, 761.
j 1 Stat, at Large, 83, 84.
2 Id. 244.

Dec. 1865.]

THr, ADM IRAL.

.63

Opinion of the court.

sequently the case under consideration is properly before
the court.
2. Coming to the merits of the controversy, it is proper to
refer to the evidence exhibited in the record, and to deduce
from it as far as possible the real character of the adventure,
which is the subject of investigation. Owners of the ship
were Fernie Brothers & Co., of Liverpool, and the charterers
were W. & R. Wright, of St. John's, New Brunswick. Charter-party was dated at Liverpool on the ninth day of September, 1861, and the principal stipulation as to the voyage was
that the ship should proceed off the port of Savannah, and
if the blockade was raised, then to proceed into port and deliver the cargo as per bill of lading; but if the blockade was
not raised, then the ship was to proceed to St. John's, New
Brunswick, and there to deliver the same with the usual
despatch of the port. Stipulated freight was thirty shillings
per ton if the cargo should be landed at Savannah, and fifteen shillings per ton if landed at St. John's, for which latter
port the vessel was cleared, as represented in the clearance
certificate. Charterers furnished the cargo, but the owners
were to have an absolute lien on the same for.all freight,
dead freight, primage, and demurrage. Vessel sailed for the
port of Savannah, and there is not a fact or circumstance in
the case tending to show that her primary destination was
such, or was ever intended to be such, as is described in the
clearance. On the contrary, the owners, in their letter of
instructions to the master, admit that the charterers, being
anxious to procure a particular cargo from Savannah, made
it a condition in taking the ship that she should proceed off
that port, so that if the port was open they might secure the
very first shipment. When the ship sailed the mate supposed that she was bound for St. John's, but he soon found,
as he states, that she was going too far to the southward for
such a voyage, and he at once began to suspect that the
master intended to go into a southern port. Master's instructions evidently contemplated that the ship might speak
other vessels as she approached the coast of the United
States, and that the master would be enabled through those

THE ADMIRAL.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

means to ascertain the exact state of affairs, but the master
was not directed in any event to abandon the voyage and
return.
Substance of the directions in that event was that he was
to be guided by any information he might thus obtain, so as
not to infringe the blockade regulations, but the clear inference from the document is that the ship was nevertheless to
proceed off the blockaded port, and then if met by a blockading vessel to get the officer in command to indorse on the
register that the ship had been warned off. Specific directions to the master are that he is to run no risk with the
ship, but he is to proceed on the voyage and rather endeavor
to satisfy himself as to the blockade, and then find the blockading vessel and get his register indorsed. Cautious as these
instructions are, still there is enough in them to show the
criminal motives of their authors, especially when it is considered that the ship, under the eye of the owners, sailed
fr'om the port of departure under a clearance expressing a
false destination. Shippers doubtless expected considerable
profits from the sale of the outward cargo, but their controlling motives in chartering the ship were the anticipated
profits of the return voyage from the blockaded port. Shipowners were also deeply interested in the success of the adventure, as they were to receive double the amount for freight
if the outward cargo was landed at the port of primary destination. Full proof of these facts is exhibited in the record,
and it is shown beyond the possibility of doubt that the
master, the charterers, and the owners had full knowledge
of the existence of the blockade at the inception of the voyage, and there can be no doubt that it was the knowledge
of that fact which induced the parties to commence the voyage under a clearance which misrepresented the primary
destination of the vessel.
3. Settled rule as established by a majority of this court
is that a vessel which has a full knowledge of the existence
of a blockade is liable to capture if she attempts to enter the
blockaded port in violation of the blockade regulations, and
that it is no defence against an arrest made under such cir-

Dec. 1865.]

THE ADMIRAL.
Opinion of the court.

cumstances that the vessel arrested had not been previously
warned of the blockade, nor that such previous warning had
not been indorsed on her register.*
4. Unlike what is usual in cases of this description it is
conceded in this case that the primary destination of the
vessel was to the blockaded port; but it is insisted that the
mere act of sailing to a port which is blockaded at the time
the voyage is commenced is not an offence against the law
of nations where there is no premeditated intention of
breaking the blockade. Take the proposition as stated, and
it is undoubtedly correct, but it is equally well established
that it is illegal for a ship having knowledge of the existence
of a blockade to atte.mpt to enter a blockaded port in violation of the blockade, and this court decided at the last term
that after notification of a blockade the act of sailing for a
blockaded port with the intention of violating the blockade
is in itself illegal.t
5. But it is unnecessary even to consider any extreme rule
in this case, as every pretence of innocence is negatived by
the circumstances. Fraud is stamped upon the adventure
from the commencement of the voyage to the moment of
capture. Such a misrepresentation as that expressed in the
clearance might be used to advantage by the master, if his
vessel was met by a cruiser in mid ocean as a means to allay
suspicion, and it was doubtless intended for some such purpose. While sailing for the blockaded port such a document
might be very effectual to enable the master before he had
passed the port of pretended destination to deceive belligerents and elude the vigilance of their cruisers. Successful
use of that means of deception, however, could not be made
at the time of the capture, because the vessel was then off
Tybee Island, more than a thousand miles $rom the proper
course to the port specified in the clearance. Seeing that
such a pretence would not be likely to avail, the master did
* The Barque Hiawatha, 2 Black, 677.
jf The Circassian, 2 Wallace, 135; \edeiros v. Hill, 8 Bingham, 234;
The Neptune, 2 Robinson, 110; The Panaghia Rhomba, 12 3inore, Privy
Council, 168.

Tim ADMIRIAL.

[Sup. OL.

Opinion of the court.

not present the certificate of clearance, but resorted to the
terms of the charter-party and the letter of instructions, and
insisted that those showed that the vessel did not intend to
violate the blockade regulations. Arrested, as the ship was,
when near the blockaded port, and when heading for the
land, and when in point of fact she was in the act of entering
the port, the master then, instead of presenting the clearance
for the port which he had passed, set up the pretence that
his purpose was to inquire whether the blockade had been
raised, and claimed that he must be first notified of a fact,
which he knew when the ship sailed, before the capture
could lawfully be made. Such a defence is without merit,
and finds no support in any decided case, or in any acknowledged principle applicable to prize adjudications.
Inculpatory force of the evidence is much increased by
the fact that the inception of the voyage is marked by a full
knowledge of the existence of the blockade; and that the
vessel, instead of touching at the port for which she was
properly cleared, where inquiry might have been made, proceeded directly for the prohibited destination. Conduct of
the master also, in withholding from the mate all knowledge
of the real destination of the vessel, shows that the clearance
certifieate was evidently obtained in the form referred to as
the means, if it became necessary to use it for that purpose,
of deceiving belligerents and of eluding the vigilance of national cruisers. None of these circumstances can be successfully controverted; and the claimants admit that the course
of the vessel was -directly for the blockaded port, and that
she was heading for the land at the moment of capture.
Every pretence that the vessel intended to desist from her
unlawful purpose, if she found that the port was blockaded,
is negatived by the circumstances. Those in charge of her
knew before she sailed that the port was blockaded, and they
,also knew that they had no reason to suppose that it was to
be raised before her arrival, consequently they made no inquiry and did not wish to make any until it became necessary
to do so as a defence or excuse for an illegal act.
DECREE AFrIRMED.

