Dec. 1865.]

TOniOsON v. LEE COUNTY.
Statement of the case.

THOMSON V. LEE COUNTY.
The general doctrines of this court, as settled by various recent decisions,
on the subject of railroad bonds issued by municipal corporations to
"bearer," and which have passed into the hands of bona fide holders
for value,-affirmed and acted on; in the following points decided:
1. A county, or other municipal corporation, has no inherent right of
legislation, and cannot subscribe for stock in a public improvement,
unless authorized to do so by the legislature. But the legislature of a
State, unless restrained by the organic law, has the right to authorize
a municipal corporation to take stock in a railroad or other work of
internal improvement, to borrow money to pay for it, and to levy a
tax to repay the loan. And this authority can be conferred in such a
manner that the objects can be attained either with or without the
sanction of the popular vote.
2. If the courts of a State have when an agreement is made construed their
constitution and laws so as to give the agreement force and vitality,
the same courts cannot, by a subsequent and contrary construction,
render it invalid.
3. If the legislature possess the power to authorize an act to be done, it car
by a retrospective act cure the evils which existed, because the power
thus conferred has been iri'egularly executed.
4. Bonds with coupons, payable to bearer, are negotiable securities, and
pass by delivery; and, in fact, have all the qualities and incidents of
commercial paper.
5. If coupons to bonds are drawn so that they can be separated from the
bonds, and like the bonds, are negotiable; the owner of them can sue
on the coupons without producing the bonds to which they were attached, or without being interested in them.

THE constitution of Iowa, made in 1846, and which invested the General Assembly with all the legislative power
of the State, ordained thus:
"The General Assembly shall not in any manner create any
debt or debts, liability or liabilities, which shall singly or in the
aggregate, with any previous debts or liabilities, exceed the sum
of one huide'ed thousand dollars, except in the case of war, &c.,
unless the same shall be authorized by some law for some single
object or work to be distinctly specified therein, &e. No such
law shall take effect until at a general election it shall have been
submitted to the people and have a majority of all the votes
cast for and against it at such election."

THosoN v. LEE

COUNTY.

[S up. Ct.

Statement of the case.

With this constitution in force and after certain statutes
had been passed by the General Assembly relative to the
corporate powers of counties, their right, to execute bonds
for railroads, &c., it was decided, or so said to be, at an
election held in Lee County, Iowa, in 1856, to take stock
and issue bonds to three different railroads; one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars to each.
The validity of the subscription was contested in the proper court, soon afterwards, as having been the exercise of a
power not given to the county, or as so irregular an exercise
of it, if given, as to be void. The court, in December, 1856,
decided that the election was irregular, and conferred no
power to issue the bonds. The legislature of the State, on
the 29th of July, 1857, accordingly passed an act entitled
"An act legalizing the issue of county, city, and town corporation bonds in the counties of Lee and Davis." This act
declared "that all votes heretofore taken in the counties of
Lee and Davis in the form of a joint or several proposition
whether said counties will aid in the construction of one
or more railroads, specifying the amount to be given to
each . . . and the bonds of said counties issued in pursu-

ance of said votes and subscriptions shall be a valid lien
upon the taxable property of said county." After this the
county judge, the proper officer, if the act was valid, proceeded to take the stock and issue bonds. The bonds were
in the ordinary form of what are called coupon bonds; payable to "bearer." The coupons attached were in a like negotiable shape; "promises to pay to the bearer at the Continental Bank, in the city of New York, forty dollars interest on bond No. 1."
Soon after the bonds were issued the county laid a tax to
meet the interest due on the coupons. The legality of the
tax was denied by some tax-payers of the county, but the
court of last resort in the State having declared it lawful,*
the money was collected and the coupons paid for a short
time. The court, however, subsequently reviewed and re4" McMillen v. The County Judge, 6 Iowa, 391.

Dee. 1865.]

TiaOMSON v. LEE COUNTY.
Statement of the case.

versed its former decision; and the tax being no longer
levied the coupons were no longer paid. A number of them
being now in the hands of Mr. Edgar Thomson, of Philadelphia, cut off from the bonds to which they had been origihallgy
attached, he brought suit in the Federal courts of Iowa to
recover them; not producing, however, the bonds to which
they had originally belonged.
The court charged:
1st. That the bonds or coupons sued on, were issued without authority of law, and were void.
2d. That the "Curative Act," of January, 1857, gave no
validity to the bonds.
3d. That the plaintiff could not recover on the coupons
unless he showed that he also owned at the time the several
bonds from which they were cut.
4th. And refused to charge that if all branches of the State
government of Iowa had held such railroad bonds to be
valid at the time they were issued, no question could afterwards be made as to their validity.
The county having had judgment, the matter was now on
error here, where the same kind of questions that have been
so abundantly discussed in this court, of late, in Gelpeke v.
City of Dubuque;* -li7eyer v. .uscatine ;t ilereer County v.
.Uackett4; Seybert v. City of Pittsbargh; ยง Van ilostrup v. M1adison (Jiy;I Muarray v. Lardner; Sheboygan Co. v. Parker;**
JIavee)eycr v. iowa Cb.,f I were raised and discussed by briefs
anew; 3r.Allison, for Lee County, who sought to distinguish
this case from any of those, contending that the constitution
of Iowa restricted the legislature from authorizing the bonds;
that this was now the construction given to the constitution
by the Supreme Court of Iowa; that the vote and proceedings by which the bonds were authorized were irregular;
that the "Curative Act" of 1857 was inoperative, and that
if this were all otherwise yet that Thomson, who appeared to
1 Wallace, 175.
Id. 272.
3 Id. supra 93.

t- Id. 384.
11Id. 291.
t Id. 6upra, 294.

1 Id. 83.
2 Id. 110.

TnoISoN V. LEE COUNTY.

Lsup . Ct.

Opinion of the court.

own nothing but the coupons, could not recover on them,
without producing the bonds themselves.
Messrs. Howell and Grant, contra..
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.*
There is hardly any question, connected with the species
of securities on which this suit was brought, that has not
been discussed and decided by this court; and it is unnecessary to do more in this opinion than reaffirm the general
doctrines of the court on the subject, so far as they apply to
the case in hand, without attempting to restate the reasons
which were given for our decisions.
A county, or other municipal corporation, has no inherent
right of legislation, and cannot subscribe for stock in a public improvement, unless authorized to do so by the legislature. Such a corporation acts wholly under a delegated authority, and can exercise no power which is not in express
terms, or by fair implication, conferred upon it. But the
legislature of a State, unless restrained by the organic law,
has the right to authorize a municipal corporation to take
stock in a railroad or other work of internal improvement,
to borrow money to pay for it, and to levy a tax to repay
the loan. And this authority can be conferred in such a
manner, that the objects can be attained, either with or
without the sanction of the popular vote.
It is insisted that the constitution of Iowa did lay a restraint on the legislature, and that consequently the county
of Lee could have no right, under the constitution and laws
of the State, to execute and issue the bonds in controversy.
And we understand that the highest court of the State of
Iowa, at the present time, adopt that view of the question;
but when these bonds were issued, the courts of that State
held that there was no defect of constitutional power, and
that the legislature could lawfully authorize municipal corporations to-subscribe to the capital stock of railroad com:Nelson, J., not having sat-having been indisposed-and Miller, 3 , not
taking part in the decision.

Dec. 1865.]

TimMsoN v. LEE COUKTY.
Opinion of the court.

panies. If the bonds in suit had been executed since the
last decision in Iowa, they would be controlled by it; but
the change in judicial decision cannot be allowed to render
invalid contracts which, when made, were held to be lawful.
The courts of Iowa having, when these bonds were issued,
construed their constitution and laws so as to give them
force and vitality, cannot, by a subsequent and contrary construction, destroy them.
But it is argued that when the county of Lee voted to
take the stock for which these bonds were given, they attempted the exercise of a power which had not been delegated to them, or executed it so defectively, that their proceedings were without authority of law, and void.
It is not instructive to inquire into the different laws of
Iowa under which this power is claimed to exist, because
the legislature of that State, on the 28th day of January,
1857, by an act of confirmation, legalized the issue of these
bonds. If the legislature could authorize this ratification,
the bonds are valid, notwithstanding the submission of the
question to the vote of the people, or the manner of taking
the vote may have been informal and irregular. This act
of confirmation, very soon after its passage, underwent an
examination in the courts of Iowa, and it was held that the
legislature possessed the power to pass it, and that the bonds
were valid and binding on the county.* It is difficult to see
how t/,is power could be questioned, after the Supreme Court
of the State had decided that there was no written limitation
Nyhich inhibited the legislature from conferring on cities and
counties, the right to take stock in a company organized to
build a railroad, or other work of public improvement. If
the legislature possessed the power to authorize the act to
be done, it could, by a retrospective act, cure the evils which
!existed, because the power thus conferred bad been irregularly executed. The question with the legislature was one
of policy, and the determination made by it was conclusive.
Bonds with coupons, payable to bearer, are negotiable
M clcMillen v. The County Judge, 6 Iowa, 891.

MINNESOTA

Co.

v.

NATIONAL CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

securities, and pass by delivery, and, in fact, have all the
qualities and incidents of commercial paper.
It is not necessary that the holder of coupons, in order to
recover on them, should own the bonds from which they are
detached. The coupons are drawn so that they can be separated from the bonds, and like the bonds, are negotiable;
and the owner of them can sue without the production of
the bonds to which they were attached, or without being interested in them.
The foregoing views dispose of all the questions presented
in this record, and it is unnecessary to refer in detail to the
charge of the Circuit Court.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

with costs, and the cause remanded

for further proceedings in conformity to the opinion of the
court.

MINNESOTA COMPANY V. NATIONAL COMPANY.
The court-deciding that the present case is the same in fact as one already
twice before it and already twice decided in the same way-rebukes,
with some asperity, the practice of counsel who attempt to make the
judges bear the "infliction of repeated arguments" challenging the justice of their well-considered and solemn decrees; and sends the case
represented by them out of court with affirmance and costs.

THIs case came here by writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Xichigan, and under the name of The Minnesota Mining Company, plaintiff in error, versus The Nrational
.Mining Company and J. -1. Cooper, defendants in error, the
action below being for the recovery of realproperty. Though
nominally different the parties were in fact the same parties
who litigated the case of Cooper v. Roberts, adjudged by this
court at December Term, 1855.* The same title was again,
as the court declared, brought in issue, and the same ques* 18 Howard, 173.

