Dec. 185.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
Syllabus.

suit which is now pending, or may be hereafter brought, to

determine any other controversy of the La Crosse Company,
or of its creditors, or of its successors in right or interest,
we shall affirm the decrees of the Circuit Court in the two,
cases now before us by appeal.
AFFIRMANCE ACCORDINGLY.

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
The power to regulate commerce comprehends the control for that purpose,
and to the extent necessary, of all the navigable waters of the United
States which are accessible from a State other than those on which they
lie; and includes, necessarily, the power to keep them open and free
from any obstruction to their navigation, interposed by the States or
otherwise. And it is for Congress to determine when its full power
shall be brought into activity, and as to the regulations and sanctions
which shall be provided.
This power, however, covering as it does a wide field, and embracing a great
variety of subjects, some of the subjects will call for uniform rules and
national legislation; while others can be best regulated by rules and
provi'ions suggested by the varying circumstances of differing places,
and limited in their operation to such places respectively. And to the
extent required by these last cases, the power to regulate commerce
may be exercised by the States.
To explain. Bridges, turnpikes, streets, and railroads, are means of cormercial transportation as well as navigable waters, and the commerce
which passes over a bridge may be much greater than that which will
ever be transported on the water which it obstructs. Accordingly, in
a question whether a bridge may be erected over one of its own tidal
and navigable streams, it is for the municipal power to weigh and
balance against each otler the considerations which belong to the subject-the obstruction of navigation on the one hand, and the advantage
to commerce on the other-and to decide which shall be preferred, and
how far one shall be made subservient to the other. And if such erection be authorized in good faith, not covertly and for an unconstitutional purpose, the Federal courts are not bound to enjoin it.
H)wever, Congre-s may interpose whenever it shall be deemed necessary,
by either general or special laws. It may regulate all bridges over
navigable waters, remove offending bridges, and punish those who shall
thereafter erect them. Within the sphere of their authority, both the
legislative and judicial power of the nation are supreme,

GrLMAlN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Annunciating these principles on the one band and on the otbei, the court
refused to enjoin, at th. "nstance of a riparian owner, to whom the
injury would be consequential only, a bridge about to be built, under the
authority of the State of Pennsylvania, by the city of Philadelphia,
over the river Schuylkill, a small river-tidal and navigable, however,
and on which a great commerce in coal was carried on by bargeswhich river was wholly within the State of Pennsylvania, and ran
through the corporate limits of the city authorized to erect the bridge;
and on both sides of which citizens in great numbers lived, and on both
sides of which municipal authority was exercised on one as much as on
the other; the bridge being a matter of great public convenience every
way, and another bridge, just like it, having been erected and in use
for many years, over the same streamp, about five hundred yards above.

THE Constitution gives to Congresspower to "regulate com-

merce between the States ;" and this case was one relating
to the respective jurisdiction of a State and of the United
States over tide and navigable waters. The case was thus:
The city of Philadelphia, as originally laid out by Mr.
Penn, was situated between the Delaware and Schuylkill
Rivers; the former a wide river, on the east of the city; the
latter a small and narrow stream, on the west, which, making a curve below the city, falls into the far larger water,
about six miles below the town.
This river Schuylkill is tidal from its mouth, seven and a
half miles upwards-that is to say, completely past every
part of the rear of the city-and though narrow, muddy,
and shallow, is navigable for vessels drawing from eighteen
to twenty feet of water. It is wholly within the State of Pennsylania. KNo large vessels of any kind are seen upon it.
Being one outlet of the coal regions of Pennsylvania, the
principal, almost the sole commerce of the river is coal.
But this is a very large commerce, and one of importance
to this country generally. Great numbers of persons, from
many States, are engaged in it; and many small steamers,
-barges, and other vessels concerned in it, are properly enrolled and licensed as vessels of the United States. Millions
of dollars have been invested in property on the Schuylkill
front of the built city, meant to assist the coal trade. The
coal above spoken of as the subject of this river's commerce,
is brought by canal-boats into the river, just at or above

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
Statement of the case.

Philadelphia. The canal-boats are then towed by small
steam-tugs along the river.
So important, indeed, was this trade, in connection with
'the Schuylkill, considered in 1853, that in that year or
thereabouts, when the legislature of the State proposed to
allow the Penrose Ferry bridge-a bridge some distance
below any ever previously erected, and over deeper and
broader parts of the stream-the city of Philadelphia, by
its councils, then largely, perhaps, influenced by traders in a
great staple of the city, remonstrated against any legislative
license for the new means of crossing; declaring that, by
"this dangerous obstruction, trade amounting to more than
a million of tons annually would be seriously impaired, and
driven from that portion of the port; and that the large investments of the city in her gas-works, and other property
on the Schuylkill, and a large proportion of all the wharffront, would be greatly injured by any further bridge below
Gray's Ferry, now the lowest bridge upon the Schuylkill."
The bridge, however, was authorized.
The space from river to river-the width of the neck of
land, that is to say, on which "Philadelphia" stands-may
be about two miles.
Notwithstanding, however, the separating river, residents
of Philadelphia, more than fifty years ago, had their rural
homes on the west side of the Schuylkill. Here was Lansdowne, the Woodlands, and Belmont, and Solitude; wellknown places in the local history of Philadelphia. Little
villages, also, Mantuaville, Hamiltonville, &c., grew up there.
From necessity, the great roads from the interior, including
that from the State capital, came to the city in this direction.
Still the region was without the city limits.
In 1854, the old charter of Philadelphia was abrogated.
!-'
Consolidation" was thought advisable. What had been
the county of Philadelphia was made the city, and the
region west of the Schuylkill was placed under the same
government completely as the region east. Lighting, pay.
ing, police, penny-postage, and such like things as had be
fore belonged to the "city," now were imparted to the new

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sul

.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

region. Mantuaville, Hamiltonville, &c., became forgotten
titles; and "West Philadelphia" usurped, in common talk,
their place. The streets running from east to west, in
"Philadelphia," were carried, by name, and continuous line
of survey, so far as practicable, west of the Schuylkill; and
the numbers which, beginning in the old city on the Delaware with Front Street, and running westward to the Schuylkill, in progressive numbers up to Thirtieth, reappeared
across the river in Thirty-first Street, running to a number not yet practically familiar to the citizens. From its
cheaper ground and fresher air, in connection with street
cars found west of the river as east, "West Philadelphia "a sort, as yet, of urbs in rure, or rus in urbe-had become a
residence for many hundreds of persons who passed more
or less of every day in the walks of business in the older
parts of the town.
So too of later years, the citizens had laid out various
cemeteries, the Woodlands and others, on the western side
of the river; and had here fixed numerous institutions closely
connected with the city corporation, itself, or with churches,
&c., in the city; the vast Blockley Hospital, the Burd Orphan
Asylum, Christ Church Hospital, and other like establishments of charity.
From an early date the river at and just above and below
the city, that is to say within its tidal and navigable parts,
had been treated by the State of Pennsylvania as more or
less within her jurisdiction.
Thus in 1798, what was then called the Permanent Bridge,
a bridge across the river at Market Street, was authorized,*
and in 1799 a lot granted by the State for its purposes.f
This bridge was begun in1801 and finished in 1805, Judge
Peters, the district judge of the Federal court of Pennsylvania, himself distinguished as an admiralty lawyer, who was
the proprietor of Belmont, near one end of it, having been
chiefly instrumental in the erection. In 1806, a bridge at
* 8 Smith's Laws, 312.

t Id. 362.

Dec. 1865.]

GILIAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
Statement of the case.

Gray's Ferry (permanent) was authorized; 75 feet high.
In the same year the State regulated "the upper and lower
ferries"t opposite the city. In 1811 another bridge was authorized, at the upper ferry,t which was afterward built,
burnt down, and rebuilt. In 1815 a large canal, the Schuylkill Navigation Company, was authorized, which drains the
river immediately above the city.ยง It was completed in
1826. In 1822 the Fairmount -ater-works, which dam the
river and supply the old city of Philadelphia with water out
of the river, were completed. In 183711 a bridge was authorized to be built by the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, with a draw of 33 feet, and was
afterwards built below the town. In 18388 the West Philadelphia Railroad Company was authorized to build a bridge
at MNarket or Callowhill Street. In 1839' a free bridge was
authorized at Arch Street. In 1852--t free bridges were authorized at Chestnut Street and at Girard Avenue. YZobne of
tlwse ltstfo' b'r;dyes "we'eever built.
Over on4 of these bridges runs the great Central Railroad
of Pennsylvania; and over another, below the built city, the
Gray's Ferry bridge already mentioned, runs the railway
from Philadelphia to Baltimore, which leads from the North
to Washington City and the South. This railroad bridgewhich has a draw, however-was built in 1838; though a
draw-bridge had been there from a time long before the
IRevolution.
The right of the State to authorize these bridges had not
been seriously questioned by any one, while undoubtedly the
river from its mouth to and beyond the port of Philadelphia
is and has been considered as an ancient, navigable, public
river and common highway, free to be used and navigated
by all citizens of the United States.
The only legislation, apparently, which Congress had made
about the river was in 1789 and in 1790, in both which
* 4 Sm. Laws, 297.
f Id. 347.
1 5 Id. 221.
6 Id. 257.
ij Pamphlet Laws of 1836-7, p. 20.
Pamphlet Laws of 1837-8, p. 697.
I*
Pamphlet Laws of 1838-9, p. 100. f- Pamphlet Laws of 1852.

[Sup. Ct.

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
Statement of the case.

years* Philadelphia was declared a port of entry; in 1793,t
when the coasting laws were applied to it; in 1799,1 when
two districts were created in Pennsylvania;ยง in 1822, when
Philadelphia was made the sole port of entry for the Philadelphia district; and in 1834,11 when the limits of the port
were enlarged on the Delaware front. The important acts
seemed to be those of 1799 and 1834. The former is in these
words:
"The district of Philadelphia shall include all the shores and
waters of the River Delaware, and the rivers and waters connected

therewith lying within the State of Pennsylvania; and the City
of Philadelphia shall be the sole port of entry and delivery of the
same2

The subsequent act (that of i834) thus reads:
"The port of entry and delivery for the district of Philadelphia shall be bounded by the i'Tavy Yard on the south, and
Gunner's Bun on the north, anything in any former law to the
contrary notwithstanding."

No act spoke of the Schuylkill as within the port: though
undoubtedly by its charter the city extended to the Schuylkill. The soundings of the Coast Survey, authorized by the
United States, do not come into the Schuylkill.
The "Navy Yard" is on the Delaware. "Gunner's Run"
was a stream in the north of the city, falling into the Delaware; but nowhere touching or feeding the Schuylkill.
Notwithstanding, however, the numerous bridges authorized by the State and the two or three that had been built,
but one princioal connection existed practically, between the
two parts of the built and populous city; and this was the
old Permanent or Market Street Bridge: a bridge running
fr'om the western end of one great east and west thoroughfare of the city-perhaps the greatest-across the stream;
and connecting West Philadelphia with the more populous
"city" as a short and narrow isthmus might connect two
* 1 Stat. at Large, 32, 148.
Id. 632.

3 Id. 662.

t Id. 805.
H 4 Id. 715.

:Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
Statement of the case.

continents. There was, indeed, the Wire or Suspension
Bridge, at Fairmount; rather above the city at its north extremity; and Gray's Ferry, sometimes called Baltimore Railroad Bridge, at its southern end, and below the populous
districts. But, as already said, the old bridge was the great
line of transit-artery and ligament at once-between the
districts.
In this state of things, not much set out in the pleadings,
but being matters of common notoriety, and as such spoken
of at the bar, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1857
authorized the City of Philadelphia to erect a permanent
bridge over the Schuylkill at Chestnut Street. This street
was about five hundred feet below Market Street, where
was the other and older bridge. The contemaplated erection
would be, of course, over a part of the Schuylkill that was
tidal wholly, and navigable. Chestnut Street now had an
existence on both sides of the river. On the eastern, it is
one of the chief thoroughfares of Philadelphia, and in West
Philadelphia, in anticipation of connection with Chestnut
Street on the east, was daily assuming importance. The
contemplated bridge would in fact connect parts of one street,
municipally speaking; a street having one phrt on the east
and one part on the west of the stream; here about four
hundred feet across.
The city being about to begin the erection, Gilman, of
New Hampshire, owning valuable coal wharves on the west
side of the river, just below the old bridge, and which by the
erection of the proposed bridge at Chestnut Street would be
shut up between the two erections, now filed his bill in the
Circuit Court for Pennsylvania to prevent the structure. It
was conceded that he was neither a navigator nor a pilot,
nor the owner of a licensed coasting vessel; and this was objected to him. His title to ask relief rested on his ownership of coal wharves, as mentioned, and his citizenship in
New Hampshire.
His bill charged that a bridge at that point without suitable draws would be an unlawful obstruction to the navigation

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the river, and an illegal interference with his rights, and
was a public nuisance producing to him a special damage;
that it was not competent for the legislature of Pennsylvania
to sanction such an erection, and that he was entitled to be
protected by an injunction to stay further progress on the
work, or to a decree of abatement, if it should have been
proceeded with to completion.
The answer admitted the erection of the bridge complained
of, justified such erection under the act of the legislature of
Pennsylvania, and alleged that other obstructions of a similar
or greater extent had theretofore been placed across the
stream at a higher point of the river, or beyond the complainant's wharves, by virtue of other acts of the same legislature. The answer conceded that the bridge would prevent
masted vessels fiom approaching to or unloading at the complainant's wharves, and insisted that this was the only injury
suffered by the complainant, and that for it the City of Philadelphia, the defendant, was able to respond in damages.
The answer further alleged that the proposed bridge was a
necessity for public convenience.
The bridge, it was admitted, would be not more than thirty
feet high-the same height as the old one above, at Market
Street. Being an erection of the city it was built in the best
style of science, and with the greatest practicable regard to
the navigation and general interests of commerce; but it
necessarily somewhat impeded navigation. The navigation
at that point required a wide channel. One pier was indispensable. Vessels with masts could not pass, and the property of the complainant was rendered less valuable.
Mr. Justice Grier dismissed the bill. The same question
nearly bad been then recently considered by him very fully,
in an application made, in New Jersey, to restrain the erection of a railroad bridge over the Passaic, at Newark. The
matter had been there fully argued and deliberately considered; an opinion being delivered from the bench, dismissing the appeal. That decree had, by the judgment
of this court, been affirmed; though the case was not reported, the judgment of affirmance having been by an

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. PIIILADELPHIA.
Opinion of the court.

equally divided bench. His honor, in accordance with what
was declared in Queen v. Willis,* considering that an affirmance of a decree was binding irrespective of the number
of judges who were in favor of such judgment; and that the
obligation, in point of mere precedent, was the same, whether
the court was fhll and unanimous, or partial and divided,
hardly conceived the question open for discussion before
him.t The case was, therefore, not argued below.
In this court it was elaborately and well discussed by
Xless-rs. George fHardng and Cburtland Parker,for the appellant
Gibnan; and by .Messrs.F. C. Brewster and A). T. Sellers, contra,for the City of Philadelphia.
Mr. Justice SWAYN"E delivered the opinion of the court. +
There is no contest between the parties about the facts
upon which they respectively rely.
The complainants are citizens of other States, and own a
valuable and productive wharf and dock property above the
site of the contemplated bridge. The river is navigable
there for vessels drawing from eighteen to twenty feet of
water. Commerce has been carried on in all kinds of vessels for many years to and from the complainants' property.
The bridge will not be more than thirty feet above the
ordinary high-water surface of the river, and hence will
prevent the passage of vessels having masts. This will
largely reduce the income from the property, and render it
less valuable.
The defendants are proceeding to build the bridge under
the authority of an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania.
The Schuylkill River is entirely within her limits, and is
"an ancient river and common highway of the State." For
* 10 Clark & Finnelly's Appeal Cases, 54. See Xrebs v. Carlisle Bank,
2 Wallace, Jr, note, 49.
t As part of the judicial hi:,tory of an interesting question, as well as foi
the vlu) which the opinion itself has, a report of the case referred to
above ar.a decided by Grier, J., will be found in a note.-See Appendix,
No. III.
Nelson, J., not having sat, and taking no part in the decision.
VOL. III.

46

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

many years it has been navigable for masted vessels for the
distance of about seven and a half miles only, from its
mouth. At Market Street, about five hundred feet above
Chestnut, there is a permanent bridge without a draw over
the same river, and no higher above the water than it is
intended to elevate the bridge about to be built. A bridge
at Market Street was erected prior, perhaps, to the year
eighteen hundred and nine. It rendered the passage of
masted vessels above that point impossible, and since that
time comparatively few have appeared above the foot of
Chestnut Street. The river there has since been used chiefly
as a highway for canal-boats.
The injury to the property of the complainants will be
entirely consequential. A large city is rising up on the
opposite side of the river, The new bridge is called for by
public convenience.
The case resolves itself into questions of law.
At the threshold of the investigation we are met by the
objection from the defendants, that the complainants, "not
being specially interested in navigation, cannot intervene
for its protection." It is said, "that they are not the
owners of licensed coasting vessels, and are not pilots nor
navigators."
As regards this objection, the case is not essentially different in principle from the Wheeling bridge case.
The further objection was also taken in that case, that if
a nuisance existed, it was of a public nature, and was an
offence against the sovereignty whose laws were violated,
and that thp sovereign only could 'intervene for the correction of the evil..
It was answered by the court, that wherever a public
nuisance is productive of a specific injury to an individual,
he may make it the foundation of an action at law, and if
the injury would be irreparable, that a court of equity will
interpose by injunction. The decision was not put in anywise upon the ground of the trustee character of the complainant. The State alleged that she had lines of improvements for the transportation of freight and passengers

Dec. 1865.]

GIL-MA2

V. PHILADELPHIA.

Opinion of the court.

extending from the east to Pittsburg, and that by reason of
the bridge about to be erected across the river at Wheeling,
and the obstruction which it would cause to the navigation
of that stream, business would be diverted from her works
to other channels, and that the income from her works
would thereby be greatly lessened, and their value diminished or destroyed. The court said:
"The State of Pennsylvania is not a party in virtue of her
sovereignty. It does not come here to protect the rights of its
citizens, . nor can the State prosecute the suit upon the
ground of any remote or contingent interest in herself. It assumes and claims, not an abstract right, but a direct interest,
and that the power of this court can redress its wrongs, and
save it from irreparable injury. .

.

. In the present case, the

rights assumed and relief prayed are in no respect different
from those of an individual. From the dignity of the State, the
Constitution gives to it a right to bring an original suit in this
court, and this is the only privilege, if the right be established,
which the State of Pennsylvania can claim in the present case."
In regard to the facts it was said:
"And this injury is of a character for which an action at law
could afford no adequate redress. It is of daily occurrence, and
would require numerous, if not daily, prosecutions for the wrong
done; and from the nature of that wrong, the compensation
could not be measured or ascertained with any degree of precision. The effect would be, if not to reduce the tolls on these
lines of transportation, to prevent their increase with the increasing business of the country. .

.

. In no case could a remedy

be more hopeless than an action at common law. The structure
complained of is permanent, and so are the public works sought
to be protected. The injury, if there be one, is as permanent
as the works from which it proceeds, and as are the works
affected by it. And whatever injury there may now be, will
become greater in proportion to the increase of population and
the commercial development of the country. And in a country
like this, where there would seem to be no limit to its progress,
the injury complained of would be far greater in its effects than
under less prosperous circumstances."

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The law upon the subject is learnedly and ably examined.
The objections were overruled. Considerations of fact, of
the same character with those adverted to, exist in the case
before us, and the reasoning and conclusions there are alike
applicable in both cases. Whatever might be our views
upon the legal proposition, if the absence of this adjudication, we are, as we think, concluded by it. It is almost
as important that the law should be settled permanently, as
that it should be settled correctly. Its rules should be fixed
deliberately and adhered to firmly, unless clearly erroneous.
Vacillation is a serious evil. "1Miseraest servitus ubi lex est
vaga a d incerta." This brings us to the examination of the
merits of the case.
The defendants assert that the act of the legislature, under
which they are proceeding, justifies the building of the
bridge.
The complainants insist that such an obstruction to the
navigation of the river is repugnant to the Constitution and
laws of the United States, touching the subject of commerce.
These provisions of the Constitution bear upon the subject:
"Congress shall have power . . to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes ; ..to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper

for carrying into execution the foregoing powers."
"This Constitution, and the laws which shall be made in pursuance thereof, . . shall be the supreme law of the land, and

the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in
the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."
"The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people."
The act of the 18th of February, 1793, authorizes vessels
enrolled and licensed according to its provisions to engage
in the coasting trade.
Commerce includes navigation. The power to regulate
commerce comprehends the control for that purpose, and
to the extent ne essary, of all the navigable waters of the

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

725

Opinion of the court.

United States which are accessible from a State other than
those in which they lie. For this purpose they are the public
property of the nation, and subject to all the requisite legislation by Congress.* -This necessarily includes the power
to keep them open and free from any obstruction to their
navigation, interposed by the States or otherwise; to remove
such obstructions when they exist; and to provide, by such
sanctions as they may deem proper, against the occurrence
of the evil and for the punishment of offenders. For these
purposes, Congress possesses all the powers which existed in
the States before the adoption of the national Constitution,
and which have always existed in the Parliament in England.
It is for Congress to determine when its full power shall
be brought into activity, and as to the regulations and sanctions which shall be provided.f
A license under the act of 1798, to engage in the coasting trade, carries with it right and authority. "Commerce
among the States" does not stop at a State line. Coming
from abroad it penetrates wherever it can find navigable
waters reaching from without into the interior, and may follow them up as far as navigation is practicable. -Wherever
"commerce among the States" goes, the power of the nation,
as represented in this court, goes with it to protect and enforce its rights.1 There can be no doubt that the coasting
trade may be carried on beyond where the bridge in question is to be built.
We will now turn our attention to the rights and powers
of the States which are to be considered.
The national government possesses no powers but such as
have been delegated to it. The States have all but such as
they have surrendered. The power to authorize the building of bridges is not to be found in the Federal Constitution.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1; Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Washington
Circuit Court, 378.
t United States v. New Bedford Bridge, 1 Woodbury & Minot, 420, 421;
United States v. Coombs, 12 Peters, 72; 14ew York v. Milne, 11 Id. 102, 155.
$ Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton 1; Steamboat Co. v. Livingston, 3

Cowen, 713.

[Sup. ct.

GILIANt V. PHILADELPHIA.
Opinion of the court.

It has not been taken from the States. It must reside somewhere. They had it before the Constitution was adopted,
and they have it still. "When the Revolution took place
the people of each State became themselves sovereign, and
in that character hold the absolute right to all their navigable waters and the soil under them for their own common
use, subject only to the rights since surrendered by the Constitution to the General Government."*
In _Pollard's Lessee v. tHagant this court said:

"The right of eminent domain over the shores and the soil
under the navigable waters, for all municipal purposes, belongs ex-

clusively to the States within their respective territorial jurisdictions, and they, and they only, have the constitutional power to

exercise it.......

.But in the hands of the States this power

can never 'be used so as to affect the exercise of any national
right of eminent domain or jurisdiction with which the United
States have been invested by the Constitution. For although
the territorial limits of Alabama have extended all her sovereign
power into the sea, it is there, as on the shore, but municipal
power, subject to the Constitution of the United States and the
laws which shall have been made in pursuancethereof."
In Gibbons v. Ogden it is said:
"Inspection laws form a portion of that immense mass of
legislation which embraces everything within the territory of a
State, not surrendered to the General Government; all which
can be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves.
Inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as well as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a
State, and those which respect turnpike roads, ferries, &c., are
component parts of this mass."
Bridges are of the same nature with ferries, and are undoubtedly within the category thus laid down.t
The power to regulate commerce covers a wide field, and
embraces a great variety of subjects. Some of these subjects
call for uniform rules and national legislation; others can
Martin
M
et a!. v. 'Waddell, 16 Peters, 410.
1 People v. S. & R. 1. R. Co., 16 Wendell, 11.

t 3 Howard, 2,0.

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
Opinion of the court.

be best regulated by rules and provisions suggested by the
varying circumstances of different localities, and limited in
their operation to such localities respectively. To this extent the power to regulate commerce may be exercised by
the States.
Whether the power in any given case is vested exclusively
in the General Government depends upon the nature of the
subject to be regulated. Pilot laws are regulations of commerce; but if a State enact them in good faith, and not covertly for another purpose, they are not in conflict with the
power "to regulate commerce" committed to Congress by
the Constitution.*
In the Wheeling bridge case this court placed its judgment upon the ground "that Congress had acted upon the
subject, and had regulated the Ohio River, and had thereby
secured to the public, by virtue of its authority, the free and
unobstructed use of the same, and that the erection of the
bridge, so far as it interfered with the enjoyment of this use,
was inconsistent with and in violation of the acts of Congress, and destructive of the right derived under them; and
that, to the extent of this interference with the free navigation of the Ohio River, the act of the legislature of Virginia
afforded no authority or justification. .l was in cotlflict with
the acts of agiess, which 2were Iteearainountlaw."t
The most important authority, in its application to the
case before us, is Wilson v. The Blackbird Creelc Jlarsh Co.1
Blackbird Creek extends from the Delaware River into the
interior of the State of Delaware. The legislature of the
State passed an act whereby the company were "authorized
and empowered to make and construct a good and sufficient
dam across said creek, at such place as the managers or a
majority of them shall find to be most suitable for the purpose," &c. The company proceeded to erect a dam, whereby
the navigation of the creek was obstructed. The defendant,
being the owner of a sloop of nearly a hundred tons, regu.
* Cooly v. The Board of Wardens, 12 Howard, 319.

- 18

Id. 430.

$ 2 Peters, 260

GILIAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

larly enrolled and licensed under the laws of the -United
States, broke and injured the dam. The company brought
an action of trespass against him in the Supreme Court of
Delaware. The defendant pleaded that the place where the
trespass was committed was "a public and common navigable creek, in the nature of a highway, in which the tides had
always flowed and reflowed; and that all the citizens of the
United States had a right, with sloops, and other vessels, to
navigate and pass over the same at all times at their pleasure," &c., and therefore, &c.
The plaintiffs demurred. The Supreme Court sustained
the demurrer and gave judgment in their favor. The Court
of Appeals of that State affirmed the judgment. The case
was brought into this court by a writ of error. In delivering
the opinion of the court, Chief Justice Marshall said:
"But the measure authorized by this act stops a navigable
creek, and must be supposed to abridge the rights of those who
have been accustomed to use it; but this abridgment, unless it
comes in conflict with the Constitution or a law of the United
States, is an affair between the government of Delaware and its
citizens, of which this court can take no cognizance. The counsel for the plaintiffs in error insist that it comes in conflict with
the power of the United States ' to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States.'"
He remarked that if" Congress had passed any law which
bore upon the subject the court would not feel much difficulty in saying that a State law, coming in conflict with such
an act, would be void ;" and added, in conclusion:
"But Congress has passed no such act. The repugnancy of
the law of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely on its
repugnancy to the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States; a power which has not
been so exercised as to affect the question. We do not think
that the act empowering the Blackbird Creek Marsh Company
to place a dam across the creek can, under all the circumstances
of the case, be considered as repugnant to the power to regulate
commerce in its dormant state, or as being in conflict with any
law passed on the subject."

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. P'HILADELPHIA.
Opinion of the court.

This opinion came from the same "expounder of the Constitution" who delivered the earlier and more elaborate judgment in Gibboms v. Ogden. Wre are not aware that the soundness of the principle upon which the court proceeded has
been questioned in any later case. 'We can see no difference
in principle between that case and the one before us. Both
streams are affluents of the same larger river. Each is entirely within the State which authorized the obstruction.
The dissimilarities are in facts which do not affect the legal
question. Blackbird Creek is the less important water, but
it had been navigable, and the obstruction was complete.
If the Schuylkill is larger and its commerce greater, on the
other hand, the obstruction will be only partial and the public convenience, to be promoted, is more imperative. In
neither case is a law of Congress forbidding the obstruction
an element to be considered. The point that the vessel was
enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade was relied upon
in that case by the counsel for the defendant. The court
was silent upon the subjeet. A distinct denial of its materiality would not have been more significant. It seems to
have been deemed of too little consequence to require notice.
Without overruling the authority of that adjudication we
cannot, by our judgment, annul the law of Pennsylvania.
It must not be forgotten that bridges, which are connecting parts of turnpikes, streets, and railroads, are means of
commercial transportation, as well as navigable waters, and
that the commerce which passes over a bridge may be much
greater than would ever be transported on the water it obstructs.
It is for the municipal power to weigh the considerations
which belong to the subject, and to decide which shall be
preferred, and how far either shall be made subservient to
the other. The States have always exercised this power, and
from the nature and objects of the two systems of government they must always continue to exercise it, subject, however, in all cases, to the paramount authority of Congress,
whenever the power of the States shall be exerted within the
sphere of the commercial power which belongs to tbe nation.

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sur. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The States may exercise concurrent or independent power
in all cases but three:
1. Where the power is lodged exclusively in the Federal
Constitution.
2. Where it is given to the United States and prohibited
to the States.
3. Where, from the nature and subjects of the power, it
must necessarily be exercised by the National Government
exclusively.*
The power here in question does not, in our judgment,
fall within either of these exceptions.
"It is no objection to distinct substantive powers that they
may be exercised upon the same subject." It is not possible
to fix definitely their respective boundaries. In some instances their action becomes blended; in some, the action
of the State limits or displaces the action of the nation; in
others, the action of the State is void, because it seeks to
reach objects beyond the limits of State authority.
A State law, requiring an importer to pay for and take
out a license before he should be permitted to sell a bale of
imported goods, is void,t and a State law, which requires
the master of a vessel, engaged in foreign commerce, to pay
a certain sum to a State officer on account of each passenger
brought from a foreign country into the State, is also void.1
But, a State, in the exercise of its police power, may forbid
spirituous liquor imported fr-om abroad, or from another
State, to be sold by retail or to be sold at all without a license; and it may visit the violation of the prohibition with
such punishment as it may deem proper.ยง Under quarantine laws, a vessel registered, or enrolled and licensed, may
be stopped before entering her port of destination, or be
afterwards removed and detained elsewhere, fbr an indefinite
period; and a bale of goods, upon which the duties have or
have not been paid, laden with infection, may be seized un* Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheaton, 49; Federalist, No. 82.

:Drown v. Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 419.
Passengers' Cases, 7 Howard, 273.

License Cases, 5 Id. 504

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPITA.
Opinion of the court.

der "health laws," and if it cannot be purged of its poison,
may be committed to the flames.
The inconsistency between the powers of the States and
the nation, as thus exhibited, is quite as great as in the case
before us; but it does not necessarily involve collision or
any other evil. None has hitherto been found to ensue.
The public good is the end and aim of both
If it be objected that the conclusion we have reached will
arm the States with authority potent for evil, and liable to
be abused, there are several answers worthy of consideration. The possible abuse of any power is no proof that it
does not exist. MIany abuses may arise in the legislation of
the States which are wholly beyond the reach of the government of the nation. The safeguard and remedy are to be
found in the virtue and intelligence of the people. They
can make and unmake constitutions and laws; and from
that tribunal there is no appeal. If a State exercise unwisely
the power here in question, the evil consequences will fall
chiefly upon her own citizens. They have more at stake
than the citizens of any other State. Hlence, there is as little danger of the abuse of this power as of any other reserved
to the States. Whenever it shall be exercised openly or covertly for a purpose in conflict with the Constitution or laws
of the United States, it will be within the power, and it will
be the duty, of this court, to interpose with a vigor adequate
to the correction of the evil. In the Pilot case, the dissenting judge drew an alarming picture of the evils to rush in at
the breach made, as he alleged, in the Constitution. Kone
have appeared. The stream of events has since flowed on
without a ripple due to the influence of that adjudication.
Lastly, Congress may interpose, whenever it shall be deemed
necessary, by general or special laws. It may regulate all
-bridges over navigable waters, remove offending bridges,
and punish those who shall thereafter erect them. Within
the sphere of their authority both the legislative and judicial
power of the nation are supreme. A different doctrine finds
no warrant in the Constitution, and is abnormal and revolutionary.

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

Since the adoption of the Constitution there has been but
one instance of such legislative interposition; that was to
save, and not to destroy. The Wheeling bridge was legalized, and a decree of this court was, in effect, annulled by an
act of Congress. The validity Qf the act, under the power
"to regulate commerce," was distinctly recognized by this
court in that case. This is, also, the only instance, occurring
within the same period, in which the case has been deemed
a proper one for the exercise, by this court, of its remedial
power.
The defendants are proceeding in no wanton or aggressive
spirit. The authority upon which they rely was given, and
afterwards deliberately renewed by the State. The case
stands before us as if the parties vere the State of Pennsylvania and the United States. The river, being wholly within
her limits, we cannot say the State has exceeded the bounds
of her authority. Until the dormant power of the Constitution is awakened and made effective, by appropriate legislation, the reserved power of the States is plenary, and its
exercise in good'faith cannot be made the subject of review
by this court. It is not denied that the defendants are justified if the law is valid. We find nothing in the record which
would warrant us in disturbing the decree of the Circuit
Court, which is, therefore,
AFIR-MED WITH COSTS.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD (with whom concurred WAYNE
and DAVIS, JJ.), dissenting:
I concur in many of the views expressed by the majority
of the court in the introductory part of the opinion which
has just been read; and if the decree of the court had.been
such as the propositions there laid down would seem to demand, I might have felt justified in remaining silent as to
certain other propositions advanced in the concluding part
of the opinion, which appear to be of an inconsistent character, and to which I can never assent. Such, however, is not
the fact. On the contrary, the order of the court is that the
decree entered in the court below, dismissing the bill of

:Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. PIHILADELPHIA.

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

complaint, be affirmed, and it must be understood that the
majority of the court, in directing that decree, adopt the
views expressed in the concluding part of the opinion, else
they never could have agreed to that result. Regarding the
matter in that light, it seems to be an obvious duty that I
should express my dissent from the decree of the court, and
briefly assign the reasons why I cannot concur in the conclu
sion to which the majority of the court have come.
1. Complainants are the owners of a valuable wharf prop
erty situated upon the River Schuylkill, within the port of
Philadelphia, which is a port of entry established by an act
of Congress passed at a very early period in the history of
the country.* They claim that the River Schuylkill is an
ancient public river and common highway, and that it is
navigable for ships and vessels of the largest description,
from above their wharf property to the sea; that many of
the ships and vessels navigating the river are duly enrolled
and licensed at the port of Philadelphia and other ports of
entry of the United States, under and by virtue of the acts
of Congress in that behalf provided; and that foreign vessels, entitled to certain rights of commerce and navigation,
have long been accustomed to, and are of right entitled to
navigate that river, with cargoes bound to the port of Philadelphia; and that such vessels, in pursuance of that right,
have been accustomed to enter their cargoes at the port, and
to discharge the same at the wharves of the port bordering
on the river, and to load with return cargoes at the said
wharves, and clear direct to foreign ports.
Injury alleged is, that the respondents have collected materials, employed workmen, and are now engaged in erecting
and constructing a bridge across the channel of the river at
Chestnut Street, in the city of Philadelphia, below the place
where the wharf property of the complainants is situated.
Bridge about to be erected is, as alleged, and as the plan
shows, without any draw, and with but a single pier and at
an elevation of only thirty-three feet above the ordinary
water surface of the river.
1 Stat. at Large, 632.

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of Olifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

Substance of the charge as contained in the bill of complaint is, that the erecting and keeping the bridge over and
across the channel of the river, in the manner as proposed
and threatened, will impede and obstruct the navigation of
the river, and will hinder and interrupt the citizens in their
lawful use of the same as a common and public highway;
and they also charge that it will hinder and obstruct licenses
granted under the enrolment act, and that it will hinder and
obstruct the subjects of foreign countries in the exercise of
their rights of commerce and navigation; and that it will
interrupt, diminish, and greatly tend to destroy the trade,
commerce, and business of the citizens upon the river, to the
great damage and common nuisance of all the citizens of the
United States, and their irreparable injury.
Statement of complainants is, that many millions of dollars have been expended by the citizens of the United States
in the construction of works of public improvement, terminating at the head of tide-water navigation on that river, which
depend, in a great measure, for their prosperity, usefulness,
and value upon the free and unobstructed use of the river;
and in this connection they charge that the bridg6 will
greatly injure and lessen the value of their wharf property
upon the river, and will divert commerce and trade therefrom, and will thereby diminish the tolls, revenue, and profits
of their wharves, and will, in fact, destroy the trade and commerce to and from their wharves, to their great damage and
irreparable injury.
Allegation of the bill of complaint also is, that the Schuylkill R~iver, being a navigable river, and having a good
tide-water navigation, extending to and beyond the wharf
property of the complainants, and for about seven miles
from its mouth, and being a branch of the River Delawarewhich river passes by and between the States of New Jersey
and Delaware-the citizens of all the States are lawfully
entitled to its free navigation, and to carry on their lawful
commerce without hindrance or obstruction by the respondents, under the pretence of State authority, or any pretence
whatever.

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V.

PILADELPIFIA.

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

Respondents justify, under an act of the General Assembly of the State of Pennsylvania, authorizing them to build
the bridge described in the bill of complaint.
2. Complainants insist that the bridge is a public nuisance,
and pray that it may be abated, and for such other and
further relief in the premises as the nature of the case and
equity and good conscience may require. Propositions of
the complainants are, that the River Schuylkill is a public
navigable river, subject to the power of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States, as conferred in the Constitution; and that Congress
has exercised that power, and regulated the navigation of
that river within the meaning of the Constitution, and has
thereby secured to the citizens of the several States, by
virtue of their authority so conferred by the Constitution,
the free and unobstructed use of the river as a paramount
right, for all the purposes of commerce and navigation.
Congress, as the complainants say, has exercised the power
and regulated the navigation of the river; and their next
proposition is, that the bridge as constructed, or threatened
to be constructed, interferes with the enjoyment of that use,
and is inconsistent with, and in violation of the acts of Congress regulating the navigation, and destructive of the rights
derived under them, and that to the extent of that interference with the free navigation of the river, the act of the
legislature of the State of Pennsylvania affords to the respondents no authority or justification, because it is in conflict with the acts of Congress, which are the paramount law.
Argument to show that the ground assumed by the complainants is exactly the same as that on which the case of
the Wheeling bridge proceeded and was finally decided, is
unnecessary, because the proposition stands forever affirmed
by the authority of this court, in an opinion pronounced by
one of the justices who decided the cause, and who still
holds a. seat on this bench.* Referring to that opinion, it
will be seen that the judge who delivered it first stated the
* The Wheeling Bridge, IS Howard, 430.

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

grounds assumed in the bill of complaint, and then said:
"Such being the view of the case taken by a majority of the
court, they found no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion
that the obstruction of the navigation of the river by the
bridge was a violation of the right secured to the public by
the Constitution and laws of Congress, nor in applying the
appropriate remedy in behalf of the plaintiff." None of
these propositions are denied in the introductory part of the
opinion of the majority of the court. On the contrary, the
opinion just read repeats the views expressed by Mr. JuAtice
Nelson in the case already referred to, and impliedly indorses those views as a correct exposition of the power of
Congress over public navigable rivers emptying into the sea,
and of the right of this court to redress private injries
resulting from unlawful obstructions in the same, to the
paramount right of navigation.
3. Conceding the correctness of those views as applie I in
the case in which they were expressed, the opinion of the
majority of the court, as just read, sets up a distinctioD between that case and the case under consideration, and waintains that those views are not applicable to the present case.
Stripped of all circumlocution, the supposed distinction, as
maintained in the opinion of the majority of the cour*, is,
that in the case at bar it does not appear that Congress has
passed any act regulating the navigation of the rive- described in the bill of complaint. Power of Congre's to
regulate commerce among the several States, as well as with
foreign nations, is fully admitted, and the concession isat least impliedly from the course of the argument- that
this court would have jurisdiction in the case, and that the
complainants would be entitled to relief, if it appeared that
Congress had exercised the power as conferred, and had
regulated the navigation of the river within the meaning
of the Constitution. Precise doctrine advanced, as I understand the opinion, is, that Congress has not passed any act
regulating the navigation of the river, and that inasmuch as
there is no Federal regulation upon the subject, the law of
the State legislature, authorizing the erection of the bridge,

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissentirg.

is a valid law, even if the bridge is an obstruction to navigation, because the State law is not in conflict with any
act of Congress giving protection to the otherwise paramount right of navigation. Implied admission is, that if
there is an act of Congress regulating the navigation of the
river, then the right of navigation is a paramount right, and
the conclusion must be that, in that event, no law of the
State could afford any justification to the respondents in
erecting the bridge, if it is a public nuisance and an obstruction to that paramount right.*
4. Dissenting from the opinion of the majority of the
court on this point, I hold that Congress has regulated the
navigation of this river within the meaning of the Constitution, and that the law of the State, pleaded in justification
of the acts of the respondents, so far as it authorizes an obstruction to the free navigation of the river, is an invalid law.
Commerce, it is admitted, includes navigation; and it is well
settled, on the authority of this court, that in regulating
commerce with foreign nations, or among the States, the
power of Congress does not stop at the jurisdictional lines
of the several States. Express decision of this court is,
that commerce with foreign nations is that of the whole
United States, and that the power of Congress to regulate it
may be exercised in the States wherever the foreign voyage
may commence or terminate; and that the commerce among
the States cannot be stopped at the exterior boundary of the
State, but may be introduced into the interior.t
5. Right of intercourse between State and State was a
common-law privilege, and as such was fully recognized and
respected before the Constitution was formed. Those who
framed the instrument found it an existing right, and regarding the right as one of high national interest, they gave
to Congress the power to regulate it. Such were the views
of Marshall, C. J., as expressed more than forty years ago;
* Attorney-General 'v. Burridge, 10 Price, 350; Same v. Parme.er, Id.
$78; Parmeter v. Attorney-General, Id. 412.
t Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 194.
VOL.

I1.

47

GILIMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

and he added, that in the exercise of this power Congress
has passed an act for enrolling or licensing ships or vessels
to be employed in the coasting-trade and fisheries, and for
regulating the same. Respondents contended that the enrolment act did not give the right to sail from port to port,
but confined itself to regulating a pre-existing right so far
only as to confer certain privileges on enrolled and licensed
vessels in its exercise; but the court promptly rejected the
proposition, and held that where the legislature attaches
certain privileges and exemptions to the exercise of a right
over which its control is absolute, the law must imply a
power to exercise the right. Direct adjudication was, that
it would be contrary to all reason, and to the course of
human affhirs, to say that a State is unable to strip a vessel
of the particular privileges attendant on the exercise of a
right, and yet may annul the right itself.
License, as the word is used in that act of Congress,
means, say the court, permission or authority; and the court
held that a license to do any particular thing is a permission
or authority to do that thing, and if granted by a person
having power to grant it, transfers to the grantee the right
to do whatever it purports to authorize. Adopting the language of the court in that case, it certainly transfers to him
all the right which the grantor can transfer to do what is
within the terms of the license.
Ships and vessels enrolled and licensed under the acts of
Congress, and no others, are deemed ships and vessels of the
United States entitled to the privileges of ships or vessels
employed in the coasting trade. Majority of the court, as
stated in the opinion just read, admit that a ship or vessel
of the United States, which is duly enrolled and armed with
a coasting license, such as is required by the enrolment acts,
may navigate along the coast of the United States, and may
pass from the open sea into the public navigable rivers of
the United States, and up the same as far as navigablu
waters extend. Coming more directly to the case under
consideration, the opinion admits that such a ship or vessel
has a right, under such an enrolment and with such a coast-

Dec. 18G5.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

iln license, to navigate from the sea up the river described
in the record to the wharves of the complainants.
6. Unrestricted and unexplained, that admission covers
everything which the complainants claim, and shows conelusively that they are entitled to relief. But it is said that
this right, under the circumstances of this case, is subject
to the paramount right of the State to bridge or dam the
river, and close it against all commercial intercourse. Extent of the right as conceded, therefore, is, that a ship or
vessel duly enrolled and licensed, and sailing from the port
of another State, may enter a public navigable river of the
United States from the sea, unless the State through which
the river flows as it falls into the sea has bridged the river,
or constructed a dam across it, before the vessel arrives off
the mouth of the river. Plain right of the owner of the
vessel, in that state of the case, is to instruct the master to
go about and return to the port of depart-Lre; but if the
river is open when the ship or vessel arrives at its mouth,
she may pass up to the highest port of entry, and discharge
cargo and load for the return trip.
Her right to return is then undoubted, unless in the meantime the navigation of the river is forever closed by a bridge
or dam constructed under the authority of the State, and in
that event the owner of the vessel has the same privilege
that he has in case of shipwreck. He may direct the master
and mariners to return by land.
Doubtless a question may arise as to what is to be done in
that state of the case with the impounded vessel and cargo,
but, as that question is not involved in the present record, it
must be left for future consideration. Such a rule as it seems
to me, is contrary to all reason, and absolutely subversive of
one of the great interests of the country, which, more than
any other, induced the people of the colonies to call the convention which framed the Constitution.
7. Unquestionably the decision of the court in the ease of
Gibbons v. Oydsin proceeded throughout upon the ground that
the act for enrolling or licensing ships or vessels, to be employed in the coasting trade and fisheries, and for regulating

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ.,dissenting.

the same, was of itself a sufficient regulation of the navigation of all the public navigable rivers of the United States
to secure to the ships and vessels of the United States, sailing under the coasting license, the free navigation of all
such public highways. Best exposition of the decision of
the court in that case is to be found in the decree, where
the court say that the several licenses set up by the appellant
in his answer to the bill of complaint, which were granted
under an act of Congress passed in pursuance of the Constitution of the United States, gave full authority to those vessels to navigate the waters of the United States for the purpose of carrying on the coastwise trade, any law of the State
to the contrary notwithstanding; and that so much of the
laws of the State as prohibited vessels so licensed from navigating the waters of the State by means of fire or steam is
repugnant to the donstitution of the United States and void.
Express as thejanguage of that decree is, it is incomprehensible to me how it can be the subject of any difference of
opinion.
Complete protection is afforded by the doctrines of that
great case to all ships and vessels of the United States, duly
enrolled and licensed, in navigating all the public navigable
rivers of the United States which empty into the sea or into
the bays and gulfs, which form a part of the sea, and they
are all treated ds arms of the sea and public rivers of the
United States. None of the judges who participated in that
decision even intimated that the Hudson was anything else
than an arm of the sea and a public navigable river of the
United States. Public navigable rivers, whose waters fall
into the sea, are rivers of the United States in the sense of
the law of nations and of the Constitution of the United
States. They are so treated by all writers upon public law,
and there is no well-considered decision of the Federal courts
which does not treat them in the same way.*
8. Claim of the appellants, however, does not rest alone
upon the doctrines of that case, but the proofs show that
* Propeller Commerce, 1 Black, 579.

Dec. 1865.]

GILMAIN V. PHILADELPHIA.

Opinion of Clifford, Wrayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

their wharf property and the river at the place where it is
situated are both within a port of entry, as established by an
act of Congress.
Prior to the adoption of the Constitution the power to
establish ports of entry was in the several States, but this
court held, in the last opinion delivered in the ease of the
Wheeling bridge,* that the power in that behalf, was surrendered under the Constitution to the Federal Government,
and left to Congress. Eighth section of the act of the 2d of
March, 1799, provides that the district of Philadelphia shall
include all the shores and waters of the River Delaware aid
t!re Khers and wafters connected therewith lying within the State
of Pennsylvania; and that the city of Philadelphia shall be
the sole port of entry for the same.t
Subsequent provision is, that the port of entry and delivery
for the district of Philadelphia shall be bounded by the navy
yard on the south, and Gunner's Run on the north, anything
in any former law to the contrary notwithstanding.:
Appellees suggest rather than argue that the mouth of
the river described in the bill of complaint is not included
in that description, but the point is of no importance, because it is clear, beyond controversy, that the river at the
place where the wharf property of the complainants is situated, and for a considerable distance above.and below it, is
within the acknowledged limits of the port. Ample confirmation of this view, if any be needed, will be found in the
case of -Devoe et c. v. Penrose Fery .Bridge Cb.,ยง which was
decided by MIr. Justice Grier. He said the commerce on
River Schuylkill below the port of Philadelphia is as much
entitled to protection as that of the Ohio, Mississippi, Delaware, or Hudson; and that the complainants in that case
had the same right to the interference of the court in their
behalf as was shown by the State of Pennsylvania in the
Wheeling bridge case. Although it is supposed the views
of the learned judge have undergone some change as to the
18 Howard, 435.
4 Id. 715.

1 Stat. at Large, 602.
3 American Law Register, 83.

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

jurisdiction of the Federal courts, it has always been supposed that he was entirely accurate in all the matters of fact
on which the judgment of the court was founded.
9. Other acts of Congress are cited by the complainants as
supporting the proposition under consideration, but it will
not be necessary to give more than two of them any special
examination. First section of the act of the 2d of March,
1819, divides the sea-coast and navigable rivers of the United
S/ates into two great districts, and the declared purpose of
creating the districts is "for the more convenient regudation
of the coasting trade." All the districts on the sea-coast
and navigable rivers between the eastern limits of the United.
States and the southern limits of Georgia are included in
the first district, and the second district includes all the districts on the sea-coast and 2avigable rivers between the River
Perdido and the western limits of the United States.*
Subsequent acts created a third great district, and provided that it should include all the ports, harbors, sea-coasts,
and navigable rvers between the southern limits of Georgia
and the River Perdido, and that it should be subject to all
the regulations and provisions of the prior act.t
Doubt, therefore, cannot be entertained that all of the
public navigable rivers of the United States falling into the
sea, or into the bays and gulfs which form a part of the sea,
are included in one or the other of the three great commercial districts expressly established for the convenient
regulation of the coasting trade.
Looking at these several acts it is not surprising that Marshall, 0. J., should have said, in Gibbons v. Ogden, that "to
the court it seems clear that the whole act on the subject
of the coasting trade, according to those principles which
govern the construction of statutes, implies, unequivocally,
an authority to licensed vessels to carry on the coasting
trade." Strong support to that view of the law is also derived from the case of the Wheeling bridge, as appears in
the first opinion delivered in the case.1
3 Stat. at Large, 492.
Wheeling Bridge, Il Howard, 557.

t Id. 685.

Dec. 1865.]

GILMIAN V. PH]ILADELPHIA.

743

Opinion of Clifford, Wayne, and Davis, JJ., disenting.

Remarking upon this view of the case, the court say in
effect that the navigability of the Ohio River is a historical
fact which all courts may recognize. They add that for
many years the commerce upon it has been regulated by Congress, under the commercial power, by establishing ports,
requiring vessels which navigate it to take out licenses and
to observe certain rules for the safety of their passengers
and cargoes. Every one of those acts of Congress, from the
moment they were passed, became and are, as applicable to
the river described in the bill of complaint as to the Ohio,
and there can be no doubt, as it seems to me, that they must
be held to have the same effect. Nothing has been said respecting the case of Wilson v. Blaekb'rd Creek,* because, in
the view I take of it, the opinion has nothing to do with the
present question. Judgment was rendered by the same court
in that case which gave judgment in the case of Gibbons v.
Ofyded , and there is not a man living, I suppose, who has any
reason to conclude that the constitutional views of the court
had at that time undergone any change.
Instead of overruling that case, it will be seen that the
Chief Justice who gave the opinion did not even allude to it,
although as a sound exposition of the Constitution of the
United States it is second in point of importance to no one
which that great magistrate ever delivered. Evidently he
had no occasion to refer to it or to any of its doctrines, as he
spoke of the creek mentioned in the case as a low, sluggish
water, of little or no importance, and treated the erection
described in the bill of complaint as one adapted to reclaim
the adjacent marshes and as essential to the public health,
and sustained the constitutionality of the law authorizing
the erection upon the ground that it was within the reserved
police powers of the State.
Conclusion is, that Congress has regulated the navigation
of this river, and that the State law under which the respondents attempt to justify is in conflict with those regulations,
and therefore is void, and affords no justification to the re.
2 Peters, 250.

744

SECRIST v. GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

spondents. Admitting the facts to be so, then the complain.
ants are entitled to recover even upon the principle maintained in the opinion of the majority of the court.

SEORIST V.

GREEN.

1. An acknowledgment on the day of its date, before a master of chancery,
in New York, of a deed executed d 'March, 1818-probate being made
by a subscribing witness personally known to the master, of the identity
of the party professing to grant with the party presenting himself to
acknowledge-and the record of acknowledgment certifying that the
grantor "consented that the deed might be recorded where necessary"-was a sufficient acknowledgment of the deed, by the laws of
New York regulating the subject, at the date when the deed was made.
2. Having been so, and conveying land in Illinois, such deed was entitled
to be recorded in Illinois; the laws of that State allowing deeds for
lands in the State, executed out of it but within the United States, to
be recorded when acknowledged or proved in conformity with the lai
of the State where executed; and when so recorded, it was properly
read without other proof of execution.
3. Reputation being sufficient to establish death and heirship, a statement
of them in a deposition, by an ancient witness, long and intimately
acquainted with the family about which he testifies, and who says that
certain children ("as appears .from entries in the family Bible, and
which I believe to be true,") died at such a time, and another child at
another time, "as I am informed and believe,"-is not subject to exception at the trial.
4. When a decree finds that due legal notice of intended proceedings in
partition had been given to all the heirs of a decedent, the finding is, in
Illinois, prirnfacie though not conclusive evidence of the fact.
5. Jurisdiction of a court being once established, its proceedings cannot be
questioned collaterally by one not a party to them, and who seeks no
rights under them.
6. By the laws of Illinois, a copy of a will proved in one State, and with
its probate and letters duly authenticated under the act of Congress for
the authentication of records to be used in others, may, after certain
formalities gone through, be recorded in the county courts of a county
of Illinois, where the testator had property. And when so recorded,
certified copies of such county court records are evidence; being so
under the general laws of the State.

GREEN brought ejectment against Secrist, in the Circuit

,Court for Northern Illinois, to recover land in that State

