CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to suppress the deposition.

The rule may be different in

some State courts; but this rule is more likely than any
other to prevent surprise and secure the ends of justice.
There may be cases where the rule should be relaxed, as
where the deposition is returned at so brief a period before
the trial as to preclude a proper examination, and prevent
a motion to suppress. In this case there was no occasion
for any such relaxation of the rule, and had the objection
been taken before the trial-either at the examination of the
witness or on a motion to suppress-to the proof of the copy
without producing the original or showing its loss, the opposite party would undoubtedly have secured the production
of the original, if in existence, or, if it be lost or destroyed,
been prepared to account for its absence.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See infra, p. 175, Blackburn v. Crawfords, 4.-REP.]

OLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

1. The provision in the Revenue Act of March 3d, 1863-that when foreign
goods brought or sent into the United States are obtained otherwise
than by purchase, they shall be invoiced at the "actual market value
thereof at the time and place when and where the same were procured
or manufactured"-does not mean any locality more limited than the
country where the goods are bought or manufactured. The standard to
be applied is the principal markets in that country. Hence proof of the
market value in Paris of wines made at Rheims, a hundred and more
miles off, may be given; there being no other evidence on the subject.
2. The provisions in the 70th and 71st sections of the Revenue Act of 1799,
by which when a probable cause of forfeiture is made out to the satisfaction of the judge trying the case, the onus of proving innocence is
thrown upon the claimant, apply to the act of 3d March, 1863, though
not in terms adopted by it; neither of the said sections having been
ever repealed, and this rule of onus jprobandi having been always regarded as a permanent feature of our revenue system.
8. The expression in the act of 3d March, 1863, "If any owner, consignee,
or agent shall knowingly make an entry of goods, &c., by means of any
false invoice, certificate, or by means of any other false or fraudulent
document," &c., means if such person shall make such entry, &c., of

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.
Statement of the case.

4.

5

6.

7.

goods knowing that the invoice, &c., does not express their actual market value-swearing falsely and knowing it,-and the expression as
used in the act refers to the guilty knowledge on the part of either the
owner, consignee, or agent; the act of an agent or consignee being the
act of the guilty principal.
Prices-Current obtained from the agent of a manufacturer or from dealers in the manufactured articles generally, and which have been prepared and used by the parties furnishing them in the ordinary course
of their business, are so far evidence of the value of the articles mentioned in them as that they may be submitted to the jury as "throwing
light" on the matter; as "some guides to candid men," and for their
"consideration." And this rule was held to apply so far as that the comparative value, at the town of manufacture (Rheims) and at the capital
of the country (Paris), of champagne wines made by one manufacturer
(Cliquot), was allowed to be shown by the Prices-Current giving the
value of that made by others (Mumm, Ioet & Chandon); it not appearing-either by evidence in the case set forth in the bill of exceptions, or by an admission of the judge upon the bill, that such evidence
was given-but that the articles were the same in price, kind, and
quality.
Whether there is sufficient proof of agency to warrant the admission of
the acts and declarations of the agent in evidence, is a preliminary question for the court.
Whatever is done by an agent, in reference to the business in which he
is at the time employed, and within the scope of his authority, is said
or done by the principal, and may be proved as well in a criminal as a
civil case, in all respects, as if the principal were the actor and the
speaker.
The proviso in the act of d March, 1863, that its provisions shall not
apply to invoices of goods, &c., imported from any place beyond Cape
Horn or Good Hope until 1st January, 1864, does not apply to cases of
fraud. If the guilty means were used after the act took effect, no matter when they were prepared, the offence is complete: revenue laws
not being penal laws in the sense which requires them to be construed
with great strictness in favor of the defendant. They are remedial
laws, rather.

As is generally known, champagne wine arrives from
France in large quantities into the United States. Some of
it is "imported," that is to say, persons here purchase it in
France and have it brought here. Large quantities, however, are sent here by the manufacturers of the wine resident in France.
The wine region itself-the ancient province of Champagne-is a small district in the northeast of France, of

CLIQUOT'S

CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

which the ancient, decayed, and deserted cathedral city of
Rheims-lying to the side of the great thoroughfare of travel
from Paris to Strasburgh-is the capital. The region is
largely owned by particular persons, Moet and his partner,
Chandon; Mumm, Heidsick, Jaqueson, and the family of
Cliquot: most of whom reside about here, but who with
all the leading champagne manufacturers have agencies in
Paris; they themselves not commonly attending to details
of the "commerce;" though perhaps responding-some of
them-from the spot, to communications addressed to them
on the subject of their wines; referring also sometimes to
their agents at Paris or abroad.* Different manufacturers
supply different countries, Eugene Cliquot sending large
quantities to the United States, Jaqueson to lussia: different countries having different tastes.
From an early day the government has directed its attention to making the revenue laws in a form that the collection of duties ad valorem should operate uniformly: and
by statute of March 3, 1863,t it enacts that when goods
brought or sent into the United States are obtained in any
other manner than by purchase, they shall be invoiced at
"the actual market value thereof at the time and place when
and where the same were procured or manufactured." And,
after providing that the invoices shall be made in triplicate,
and that the manufacturer shall swear to one before the
consul nearest to the place of shipment, the act goes on to
say (§1), that "if any such owner, consignee, or agent of any
goods shall knowingly make an entry thereof by means of any
false invoice, or false certificate, or by means of any other
false or fraudulent document, &c., or fraudulent practice or
appliance, said goods shall be forfeited :" Provided, "that
the provisions of the act shall not apply to invoices of goods,
wares, or merchandise imported from any place beyond
Cape Horn or the Cape of Good lope until the 1st of January, 1864." The operation of another part of the act pre.
* See infra, Fennerstein's Champagne, p. 145.
t Ch. 76; 12 Stat. at Large, 737.

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

Statement of the case.

scribing the mode of making up invoices was postponed by
a part of § 1 until July 1, 1863.
The statute enacts also (§3) that any person guilty of
"no
wwnbgly doing what makes the goods subject to forfeiture
shall be liable to fine and imprisonment.
With this act in force and with numerous persons sending champagne wines from France, the revenue officers of
the 'United States, as it seemed from the general aspect of
this case, were impressed by an idea that the invoices, were
below the usual French prices of the wine; and indeed that
there existed perhaps an extensive combination abroad to
defraud our revenue.

They determined to inquire into it,

and if existing, to expose and break it up. They supposed
the wines to be invoiced at the cost of manufacture merely,
with a fraction add(C; not at the "market value" of them
anywhere.
They accordingly employed, as it seemed, a naval officer,
xMr. Farwell, to investigate the matter secretly in France.
Farwell was not a manufacturer of nor dealer in champagne
wines, nor an expert as to the price of them. He never
visited the champagne region, nor Rheims, of course, at all.
His whole sojourn in Europe was three months, and most
of his time in France was passed in Paris.
While in that city he went to the store of a certain Jean
Petit & Son, whose place of business was No. 7 Rue de la
2ecorcher, who had champagne wine for sale, and who
stated that they were the agents of Cliquot. They were
generally reputed to be such agents, and had a sign to that
effect outside the door. Farwell could find no other persons
acting as agents for them. Cliquot, in fact, in a deposition
of his, taken at a later date, stated that this firm "was the
agent for the sale of the champagne manufactured by him."
Farwell examined the wines which Petit & Son had for sale,
inquired the price per bottle, and also the wholesale prices
of these, and of the different qualities of Cliquot's wines, for
shipment to England; which prices Petit & Son stated; the
same being five per cent. less than the prices named on a
printed Price-Current which-not anticipating, perhaps, ex-

[Sup. Ct.

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

Statement of the case.

actly the use to which the document might be applied they readily gave him. The document read thus:
PRICE-CU B BENT.
CHAMPAGNE WINES.

Fine wines of the house of Cliquot, of Bheims, Bouzy
Mousseux, 1st quality, half dry,
•.
Fine wines of the house of Ellicquot, of Bheims, Bouzy
3lousseux, 1st quality, very dry, . .l...
Fine wines of the house of Ellicquot, of Rheims, Bouzy
.
Mousseux, 1st quality, sweet,
Carte Blanche Ne Plus Ultra, .

Fr. 5 th tottle.
Fr. 5
"
Fr. 5
Fr. 7 I

WINES MARKED JEAN PETIT & SON.

Di Mosseux, half dry,
Sillery lMousseux, half dry,
"
very dry,
9
rose color,.
Bouzy et Sillery, dry, not sparkling,
Red wines of Verzenay,.
Sparkling wines at very low prices for exportation.
the outside of Paris, or for foreign ports.

Fr. 3.50
Fr. 4
Fr. 4
Fr. 4

"
"

Fr. 5
Fr. 5

"
"

91
"

Return of duties for

He was informed, however, that he could obtain the wines
for exportation upon better terns from the manufacturerat Rhei'ms.
The highest priced wines shown him were put up and labelled
precisely like the best of the Eugene Oliquot wines imported
into San Francisco. Farwell inquired of several agencies
for champagne at wholesale for exportation, and the agents
uniformly stated their prices. Among the places at which
he called was the house No. 6 Provence Street, on the outside of which was a sign,
"DELENGE BAGOT, OF THE FIRM OF MINET & CO.,

EIMS."

The proprietor here showed him samples of different
wines, stated their wholesale price, and gave him, as Monsieur Petit & Son had done, a Price Current. The document,
varying from the last only in the new sorts of its principal
subject, read thus:

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGI E.

Statement of the case.
PR IC E-C U

REN T.

Delenge Ragot, of the firm of Minet, Jr. & Co., Rheims-Paris, No. 6
Provence Street. From 2 to 6 o'clock.
PINE CHAMPAGNE

WINES.

Fr.
Fr.
Fr.
Fr.

6.00
5.00
4.60
4.25
4.00
Fr. 3.75
3.50
Fr. 3.00
2.50

Carte d'Or,
Carte Blanche,
Choice Bouzy,
Excellent Verzenay,
Exquisite Sillery,
Partridge's Eye,
Foaming, .
Superior Ay,
Extra fine Tisane,

.Fr.
.Fr.
.Fr.

GOLD-SPANGLED CHAMPAGNE, PATENTED.

Imperial, .Fr.
Excellent Boizy,
Sillery,
Verzenay,..
Ay,

.....

.

6.00
Fr. 5.00
Fr. 4.00
Fr. 4.00
Fr. 3.00

Price at Rheims, package included.

Fortified with the results of his tour, Mr. Farwell came
back to the United States; and custom-house officers having
compared the prices at which great quantities of champagne
wines sent here by foreign manufacturers were invoiced,
with the prices which his two "Price-Currents" showed as
prices at the places he asked at in Paris, and with other
evidences of actual market value abroad, resolved to invite
judicial inquiry. They accordingly made extensive seizures
of champagne, in New York, San Francisco, and other ports.
The present suit concerned the wines of Eugene Cliquot
alone. These had been made at Rheims. The invoice was
dated 5th September, 1863. The wine itself was shipped in
that same season, and arrived at San Francisco in February,
1864, where it was seized and libelled in the District Court
for the Northern District of California. The libel set forth
that the owner of the champagne had consigned it to one
Borel, and that Borel, by is attorey infact, De Rutle, had
entered it. The charge was, that in making this entry, the
*consignee had "produced and used an invoice which did

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

not contain a true and full statement of the actual market
value of said goods and merchandise at the time and place
when and where the same were procured or manufactured;
but that, on the contrary, as the said owner well knew, the
said invoice was false, and that the market value of said
goods and merchandise was much greater than the sums and
prices stated in said invoice." The prosecution was founded
upon the already mentioned* act of March 8d, 1863.
It is here requisite to state that, by a statute of 1799,t it
was enacted (§ 70) that it should be the duty of the several
officers of customs to make seizure of any goods liable to
seizure, "by virtue of this or any other act of the United
States which is now or may hereafter be enacted, as well without
as within their respective districts." And, by § 71, that
where any seizure should be made, pursuant to this act,
"the onus probandi should be upon the claimant, provided
probable cause was shown for the prosecution, to be judged
of by the court before whom the prosecution is had."
The case was tried before Mr. Justice Ogden Hoffman
and a jury-the claimant setting up in reply to proof that
the wines were invoiced at cost of production (which sort
of valuation the government alleged to be in violation of
the statute, and ground of forfeiture), that it was proper so
to value them, since Rheims was not in the least degree a
commercial place, and the wines had no actual market value
there; a fact denied, on the other hand, by the government,
which sought to infer a contrary conclusion by proofs that
the manufacturers did sometimes deal in them from Rheims
itself.
However, among the facts relied on by the government,
in support of their libel, were the prices in Paris; and with
a view of getting before the jury the results of Mr. Farwell's
tour, various questions were asked of him and answers made,
exceptions being taken on the bill (which, however, did not
set out all the evidence) to these particular inquiries, and
the matters given in response. They were thus:
* Supra, p. 116.

-- I Stat. at Large, 768.

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

Statement of the case.

"What did you ascertain, if anything, concerning the price or
value of Eugene Cliquot champagne? Did you ascertain what
was the jobbing or wholesale price at Paris? What means did
you take to ascertain the price or value, and what was the result
of your investigation ?"
The witness answered:
"I went to the agents of Eugene Cliquot, Jean Petit & Son,
whose place of business was No. 7 Rue de ]a Alecorcher. They
had wines for sale, and stated that they were the agents of
Eugene Cliquot, of Rheims, for the sale of his wines. They
were generally reputed to be such agents, and there was a sign
to that effect outside the door. I examined the wines there
which they bad for sale, and inquired the prices per bottle, and
also inquired the wholesale prices for shipment to England and
elsewhere. The agent stated to me the different prices."
The defendant's counsel objected to the witness testifying
what Petit & Son stated to him in regard to the prices of
champagne as inadmissible and incompetent, on the ground
that it was hearsay, and that there was no evidence that
Petit & Son were the agents of Cliquot, the claimant.
The court overruled the objection.
II. The witness having produced and identified the PriceCurrent given him by Petit & Son, the government offered
it in evidence. The claimant objected on the grounds,
"That the evidence was hearsay, irrelevant, and immaterial;
that the paper did not purport to state the wholesale price at
Paris of the wines mentioned in it, but merely the price of a
single bottle; that no actual transaction on the part of Farwell,
or any one else, had been proved, or was proposed to be proved,
to have been based on such paper or on the prices stated in it;
that the paper had not in any manner been connected with the
claimant, and that the wines mentioned and stated in the paper
did not appear to be, and had not been proved to be, of the same
quality as those proceeded against in this action."
The court, however, admitted the Price-Current.

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

III. The witness further testified:
"That almost all the leading champagne manufacturers have
agencies in Paris; that he inquired of several agencies for chainpagne at wholesale for exportation, and the agents uniformly
stated to him their prices; that he could find no agents for
Eugene Cliquot at Paris, other than said house of Jean Petit
& Son. That among other wine-dealers in Paris was the house
io. 6 Provence Street, on the outside of which was a sign,
'Delenge Ragot, of the firm of IMinet, Jr., & Co., :Rheims.' That
he called at said establishment, and was shown by the proprietor
samples of various wines, who stated their wholesale prices;
that he was also at the same time handed a printed Price-Current, which he now produced."
To this testimony the same objection was made that was
made to the last; but it was received ; the Price-Current
being the second of those already mentioned.
IV. Farwell was also asked:
"Did you, upon inquiry at Paris, ascertain the difference in
price between Rheims and Paris, as to Mumm champagne and
Moet & Chandon champagne ?"
To which question the claimant objected, as calling foi
irrelevant and immaterial testimony; also, because it referred to champagne wines, different in kind, price and quality
from those wines the subject of this suit.
But the court allowed the question.
The testimony being closed, the counsel for the claimant
asked the court to give the jury the following instructions:
"1st. That any valuation set by the claimant on his wine, or
any offer by him to sell his wines at a price fixed by him, is not
evidence of the fair market value, or of the usual buying and
selling price of his wines, unless he was in the habit, at the place
of manufacture, of selling his wines at such valuation or price."
Which instruction the judge refused to give; but charged
that such offer was evidence, but not conclusive; that an
isolated offer to sell had no great weight; but if corroborated

Dec. 1865.]

(CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

Statement of the case.

by other testimony, and in the absence of any evidence of
sales or offers to sell at a lower figure, it was worthy of consideration by the jury.
"2d. That the market value, at Paris, of wines manufactured
by the claimant, is not to be taken by the jury as the fair market
value of the wines in controversy in this case, unless these wines
were manufactured in Paris."

Which instruction the judge also refused to give; but
charged, that though the value required to be stated in the
invoice was the market value at Rlheims, yet the market value
at Paris, if established by the evidence, was a fact which
might be considered as tending to show the market value
at Rheims.
"3d. That the law only punishes by forfeiture the attempt to
defraud the revenue or evade the duties, and, therefore, if the
jury shall believe that the claimant in this case has made up
his invoice of the wines in controversy through a doubt of the
requirements of the law or of its meaning, and not with a fraudulent design, their verdict must be for the claimant."
'Which instruction the judge refused to give; but charged
as is hereinafter set forth.
"4th. That the invoice in this case having been made out on
the 5th day of September, 1863, and the wine mentioned therein
having been shipped from Bordeaux in the year 1863, therefore
the act of Congress passed on the 3d day of March, 1863, is not
applicable to such invoice or to the goods mentioned therein,
even though the goods arrived at the port of San Francisco in
February, 1864."
Which instruction was refused, on the ground that it
1vould be an incorrect instruction.
"5th. That if there was not an actual market value, that is,
wholesale market value, for manufactured champagne at Rheims,
at the time the invoice of the goods in question was made out,
then the claimant was justified in expressing in said invoice the
value of these goods at their actual cost to the manufacturer."

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

*Which instruction the judge also refused; but charged as
is hereinafter set forth.
"6th. That the jury cannot find these wines should be for.
feited, as undervalued in the invoice, unless they are satisfied
that the claimant, in valuing the wines in the invoice, fraudulently undervalued them."
Which instruction also the judge refused; but charged as
is hereinafter set forth.
"7th. That if Borel was the consignee or agent of the wine,
and entered the same at the San Francisco custom-house, upon
the invoice presented here, then it cannot be forfeited unless the
said Borel made, or caused to be made, the said entry, knowing
or believing the invoice to be false."
'Which instruction also the judge refused; but charged as
is hereinafter set forth.
"8th. That if De Rutle acted as agent of Borel in entering
the wine upon the invoice presented here by the plaintiffs, then
the wine cannot be forfeited unless the said De Rutle made the
said entry knowing or believing the invoice to be false."
Which instruction the judge refused; but charged as is
hereinafter set forth.
"9th. That that section of the act of Congress of March 2d,
1799, which provides, that where probable cause is shown for
the prosecution, the onus probandishall lie on the claimant, has
no application to this cause."
Which instruction the judge refused; but charged as is
hereinafter set forth.
"10th. That the word knowingly, in the first section of the act
of March 3d, 1863, means, in connection with the language which
accompanies and surrounds it, fraudulently."
Which instruction the judge refused; but charged as is
hereinafter set forth.

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.
Statement of the case.

The judge thereupon charged the jury at large; extracts
from the charge being in substance as follows:
GENTLEMEN Or THE TuRy: This case involves the inquiry as to
the basis on which ad valorem duties are to be estimated, in all
cases, upon Champagne wines.
The law of 1863, under which you are proceeding, in effect
punishes the entry of goods at the custom-house, or the attempt
to enter them, by means of an invoice which shall not contain a
true statement of the actual market value of the goods. It is
alleged here, on the part of the plaintiff, that this invoice did
not contain a true statement of the market value of the goods,
and on the side of the claimants it is alleged that it did. The
inquiry, therefore, presents itself: What is the "actual market
value," in the sense of that statute?
The market value of goods is the price at which the owner of
the goods, or the producer, holds them for sale; the price at
which they are freely offered in the market to all the world;
such prices as dealers in the goods are willing to receive, and
purchasers are made to pay, when the goods are bought and
sold in the ordinary course of trade. You will perceive, therefore, that the actual cost of the goods is not the standard. On
the contrary, that having been the standard, the law has been
changed, and for the standard of the cost has been substituted
another standard, to wit, the actual market value.

The United States insist that they have shown that the actual
market value of these goods is much greater than the prices at
which they are invoiced.
The defendant asserts that there is no actual market value at
Rheims, the place where the goods are produced, as determined
by sales; and that the only way to arrive at the market value
is to take the cost of production, to compute how much the
manufacturer has actually disbursed in producing the goods, and
that thus you have the actual market value. The United States,
however, maintain that though the manufacturer of these goods
may not ordinarily sell them for consumption at Rheims, and
though there may be no persons at that place who buy the goods
for the purpose of disposing of them at that place, yet they are
freely offered to all the world, and held at known and established
rates; that they are sold by the manufacturers to any one who
may apply by letters addressed to them or their agents through-

CLIQUOT'S CIHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

out Europe, and can be obtained, and only be obtained, at certain fixed rates, at which they are held by the producers of the
goods, and at which they are ready to furnish them to all the
world. If this latter state of facts be true, then it is evident
that the prices at which the producers so hold them are the
market prices, within the meaning of the statute, under any
rational interpretation which can be given to it.
The United States have also offered in evidence various PricesCurrent. These were obtained, I understand, from dealers in
wines in Paris. Of course, if you believe that these merely
indicate the retail prices of some grocer, or of some cabaret, or
drinking shop, where some one sells wine by the bottle, or the
half bottle, or the drink, or even two or three bottles, they will
be but slight guides to you in estimating the market value of
wines at wholesale. On the other hand, if they appear to be
statements of the prices at which wines are held by dealers in
Paris, a city which is within a few hours of Rheims, the place
of production, and in some instances, if it be so, by the agents
of these manufacturers themselves, then they do throw light on
the market value of wines. If thd place of manufacture were
at San Josg, the prices offered or demanded here at San Franciseo for wines, as indicated by the Prices-Current, would be some
guide to a candid man as to the market value of the goods at
San Jos6. I am unable to see why the testimony should be
rejected. It is before you for your consideration. The "price
current" is, as nearly as one can get at it, the price which the
manufacturer himself demands, if it is the price which his agent
asks, and offers to deliver the wine for, at Rheims or at Paris.
With regard to the question of intent, I am asked to charge
you that you should be convinced that these goods, if invoiced
below their market value, were invoiced fraudulently below their
market value. The previous statutes passed by Congress had
introduced in many instances the word "fraudulently," had
defined the offence to be, making a false invoice "with intent to
defraud" the revenue, or evade the payment of duties. This
statute, apparently ex industriO, omits these expressions, and
substitutes the words "if the owner," &c., "shall knowingly
make an entry by means of any false invoice," &c. I do not feel
at liberty, when the legislature has left out the word "fraudulent," and inserted the word "knowingly," to reinstate the word
"fraudulent." At the same time I am bound to say that I can-

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CRAMPAGNE.

Argument for the claimant.

not conceive any case where an entry could be knowingly made
by means of a false invoice unless it were fraudulently made. I
do not tell you in terms that you are obliged to find that the
entry was made fraudulently, but you are obliged to find that it
was made knowingly by means of a false invoice; and for myself I cannot imagine any case where it could be knowingly done
without being fraudulently done. What, then, shall we understand by this word "knowingly" as here employed? It is that
in making out this invoice, and in swearing before the consul
that such was the actual market value of the goods, the claimant
knew better, and that he was swearing falsely. He forfeits these
goods if you believe that he knew this invoice did not express
their market value-their actual market value.
By the legislation of the United States it is established that in
revenue cases, where the government has shown probable cause,
the on us probandi,or burden ofproof, is on the part of the claimants
to prove the facts necessary to be shown in their defence. Under
that rule of law, or rather provision of the statute, I am bound,
at the request of the district attorney, to say that, in my opinion, the United States has proved probable cause, and it is for
you to say whether the claimants themselves have made out
their defence; whether they have shown that the goods were
invoiced at their real market value at R heims.
To that part of the charge instructing the jury that the
plaintiffs having shown. a probable cause, the burden of
proof was on the claimant, the claimant's counsel excepted.
The jury found for the government; and the case, after
judgment, came here by writ of error; it being understood
that other cases, to very large amounts, and claims for back
duties, would be regulated by the decision here.
Mr. D. B. Eaton, for the clabnant, Cliquot: Beginning with
the matters excepted to in the order given them in what
precedes:
I. It will be observed, in regard to the three questions,
which are the matter of the first exception, that they refer
to no particular time or place, but comprehend all times and
all places of the world, and refer to price as well as to value;

that no specific brand or quality of -wineis referred to, ex-

(CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimant.

cept that the question refers to "Eugene Cliquot Champagne," and that no source of information is suggested to
the witness. The "actual market value" at Rtheims, or
even the market va7ue at Paris, is wholly disregarded.
In the third question the vagrant naval officer is asked to
state what, on the whole (in his opinion, of course), was the
"result of the investigation?"
IL The Price-Current, said to have come from Petit &
Son, is confined exclusively to "fine wines." The great disparity in price between the wholesale and retail prices of
champagne, and between a "fine" and the average article,
is well known. The paper, on its face, makes a great disparity of price between its retail price forfine wines in Paris
and the usual wholesale price for the wines of exportation;
for it says: "Sparkling wines, at very low prices, for exportation." The two prices are placed in contrast, and the statement quoted from the paper adds significance to the declaration of the witness, that he was told that "he could obtain
wines for exportationupon better terms from the manufacturers
at Rheims."
Upon this testimony we say generallyThat upon the basis of general commercial dealing, these
papers should have been treated as no standard of reference
upon the question ii controversy. The officer should have
gone to Rheims for wholesale prices for foreign shipment,
and not have confined his inquiries to the brilliant shops
of an inland capital, so far away from all the highways of
foreign commerce. It cannot be maintained that the great
amount and averAge quality of wines sent for wholesale disposition to a new country like California should be presumed
by the court to be of the quality one might find in Paris,
that great resort of the rich, the extravagant, and the fastidious from all the nations of the globe.
It is most important, too, to note that no actual transaction
was either made or proposed to be made. The inquiries of
Farwell had the aspect of inquiries made enlarateur. He
was not a dealer in champagne; not a trader of any kind.

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNx.

Argument for the claimant.

He had not, so far as appears, even as much knowledge of
champagne wines as that possessed by a man fond of them
and of discriminating taste. He walks into a shop and asks
prices simply. Petit & Son saw of course that he was an
inquirer merely; one of the large class who are the pest, and
not the profit, of the dealer. Every one knows how differently any dealer talks in such a case from what he does when
there is really an affaire on hand. The difference is great in
all countries. It is very great in all the countries of Southern Europe, especially with foreigners, most of all English
and Americans. In Italy two prices are usually asked. In
France less, but still more than the price expected. The
theory of the practice is said to be that, in coming down
from his first demand, the trader shows that he has a special esteem for his particular customer; but, whatever be
the cause, the fact that a price is almost universally asked
higher than will be taken from a bonfide customer,-a customer who with the cash in his hand comes to buy,-is notorious. Farwell made no offer whatever to anybody.
IT. As to the third matter: There is nothing to indicate
that the house of Delenge, Ragot & Co., or its wines, had
any relation to the wines or house of the claimant, or with
Rheims even, except that the name, Rheims, appeared on
the sign. The paper was received on the theory that any
paper from any Paris wine merchant proved its own contents, and was also competent and relevant evidence of the
actual market value of Eugene Cliquot's wines at Rheims,
in September, 1863.
It should also be noticed that neither of these PricesCurrent is dated, or stated to refer to any date, nor is there
anything in the record to show whether either is intended
to give the current retail prices at one time or at another.
The second Price-Current shows plainly that it relates only
to the retail rates of a gay, fashionable Paris cafe; and can
have no relation to the wholesale basket market value of
the common wines of exTortations a hundlred miles away, at
Rheims.
VOL. II.
9

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimant.

One class of its wines is headed: "Fine Champagnes,
Carte d'Or ;'" Excellent Verzenay, EXQUISITE Sillery; the

other: " Gold-spangled Champagnes, Patented."
IV. Fourth .Exception.-The counsel for the government
seems to have been troubled withal by an impression that
Paris prices, if they could be given in evidence at all, needed
some testimony to accompany them, tending to show the
relation they bore to prices at Rheims, and he therefore
attempted to show that relation; to show, at least, the relative prices, at Rheims and Paris, of some of the wines mentioned in one or the other of his Prices-Current. For if
he could do that, and could also be indulged in a general
latitude as to the admissibility of testimony, he could argue
back and'forward, as to the effect that the difference in Paris
and Rheims price of champagne in controversy was very
likely-at least, just as likely as otherwise-the same as was
illustrated, in respect to the particular kind of wines, concerning which he had made some proof. There is an answer, however, to his conclusions.
(1.) That there is no natural or logical relation between
the several kinds and brands of champagne, such as to warrant the inference that there was only the same disparity of
prices in the two places, as to the one, as there was as to the
other.
(2.) That there is no proof anywhere, of the price or value
of any kind or quality of wine at IRheims, except that given
in the -claimant's invoice, as to his own wine.
And when the counsel attempted to make his proof, he
failed; because the naval officer had omitted to ascertain
any fact, ,oreven to bring any Price-Current relating to the
relative price, at the two cities, of any of the kinds or quality
of wines mentioned in the Prices-Current in .evidence, or of
the relative prices, in those cities. of the wines in controversy.
Hence "iMumm's Champagne," and "M11oet & Chandon
Champagne" we.e resorted to for the comparison deemed
necessary.
This evidence was objected to, because the inquiry was

Dec. 1865.]

(JLIQUOT'S CHAIPAGNE.
Argument for the claimant.

irrelative; because the testimony, if given, would be hearsay, and because the champagne referred to in the question
was of a different kind, price and quality from that in controversy.
NTow, adverting to this question (on p. 122), we say:
(1.) The answer would plainly be mere hearsay testimony,
and open to every objection, substantial and technical, which
can apply to any such testimony. It does not appear of
whom, or when, or even in what part of Paris the report he
is allowed to relate was heard.
(2.) The only object of it, if admissible, would be to show
that if the difference in price between Moet & Chandon's
wine, or Mumm's wine, at Paris and at Rheims, is any given
prce rage, that therefore only the same difference exists as
to that quality of Eugene Cliquot's wine now in controversy. But the inference is unwarranted. The two selected
wines might have been of the first quality, of which but a
small amount was made, and that especially for the fashionable caflsof Paris; and in that event the market of Rheims
could hardly be much below that of Paris. The facts might
be very different as to other wines, such as those made especially for the English, Russian, or American markets. The
evidence was designed to, and doubtless did, have the effect
of causing the jury to think that they might assume the
market of Paris and that of Rheims, as to champagnes generally, to be about equal. And from this basis, the jury were
induced to take the unwarranted step to a verdict, viz., that
all champagnes were nearly of a value, and hence, that from
the rates given in Prices-Current, they might conclude that
the valuations in the invoice in controversy were too low,
and therefore fraudulent. Short of this argumentative process, all the testimony of the naval officer is wholly irrelevant.
To tell the jury, as the court did, that these Paris retail
prices were but "some guides," that they were matter for
their "consideration as candid men," and that they threw a
certain "light" on the subject, does not alter the case. It
was to allow them, at their option, to be guided in the ver.

CLIQUOT'S CRAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the claimant.

diet solely by what were false guides, fanciful evidences, and
illegal standards of prices and value.
The value of wines at Rheims should have been proved
under a commission sent there, in which experienced merchants could have sworn as to the "specific fact" of the value
of champagne, at the date of the invoice. How much of the
testimony objected to rests on the credit to be given to Mr.
Farwell? Does not his whole story rest on the veracity and
competency of some other person, who gave him the PricesCurrent, and on general rumors?*
Prices-Current are no doubt often admitted in evidence.
But it must appear, before they are (1.) That dealers in the
articles therein referred to are in the habit of giving credence to them. (2.) That it is generally understood and admitted to be a report of actual transactions and real prices.t
In this case nothing of the kind appears. General advertisements in newspapers all will admit cannot be read in
evidence.t Yet these Prices-Current are exactly what appear daily in all papers of commercial towns.
It may, indeed, be stated generally of the theory of
foreign evidence on which this case was tried, that it supersedes the necessity of producing witnesses for examination
or cross-examination; that it relieves litigants of the trouble
and expense of sending commissions to foreign countries,
as has heretofore been customary; that it avoids the labor
and trouble of looking up persons who are experts in peculiar occupations, or who have personal knowledge of facts.
All that need be done is to send some subaltern officer
abroad, or to solicit the services of some needy tourist, who
can, with little trouble and without departing from the
places of fashionable resort, note in his diary the hearsay
of hotels and caf~s, and fill his portfolio with bills of fare
and Prices-Current, touching, as near as may be prudent and
* See 1 Starkie on Evidence, pl. 2, 55, pp. 180, 181; Morris v. Lessee,
&c., 7 Peters, 554.
t Henkle v. Smith, 21 Illinois, 238.
$ Sweet v. Avount, 2 Bay, 192; see also Freema- v. Baker, 5 Carrington
& Payne, 475; Wetmore v. United States, 10 Peters, 647; Harris v. Panama
R. R., 8 Bosworth, 7.

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

Argument for the claimant.

convenient, the matters, places, and times in controversy;
and then, when any litigation arises, no preparation is
needed, but a perusal of the diary and selections to match
from the portfolio. "MIurray" or "Appleton," we submit,
would be just as good, and perhaps better evidence.
Mr. Eaton then examined articulately and with searching
comment the different instructions to the jury. M&any of
them, he argued, were their own argument. On some he
commented at large.
Request No. 5 (supra, p. 123). In view of the question raised
before the jury, as to there really being "an actual market
value" at Rheims for the wine in question in 1863, it was
necessary to give them instructions to apply, in the event
that the jury should find that there was no such market
value; and, therefore, the request states a rule for that event.
We assert that this rule was necessary, and is the true one.
The statute says, the invoice must give the "actual market
value at the place," &c., of the article invoiced. Now suppose (as this request did) there was no such market value,
by reason of its being the first of the article ever "made at or
near the place; what is to be the guide or rule in making the
invoice? An unknown and impossible standard, in the
contingency of there being no actual market value, is laid
down in the statute. What does the spirit and intent of the
law require? Will the courts lay down no rule, and leave
the honest manufacturer to the custom-house officer? Is
there, in the nature of the case, any other rule that can be
laid down in such contingency but the one stated in the
request?
Let us suppose that the jury did find that the wine in
question had no "actual market value" at Rheims when the
invoice was made; and further, that it was invoiced at cost,
then the whole verdict would depend on the ruling on this
single request: "Was the manufacturer guilty of fraud or
not in invoicing the wine at cost, in case there was no actual
market value for it at Rheims, at the date of the invoice?"
It is, therefore, a question on which this court is called upon
to express its opinion.

CLIQUOT'S OIAI!PAGNE.

[Sup. ct

Argument for the claimant.

This request for instructions goes to the foundation of the
alleged fraudulent intent. If Eugene Cliquot believed he
-might fairly make the invoice as he did, or believed that
there was no market value for champagne in :Rheims; or if,
in fact, there was no such market value, then no fraud can
be predicated of the transaction.
-Request NAlo. 9 (supra, p. 124), relates to the onus probandi.
The judge below applied the provision of the act of 1799
to this case, and decided that the government had shown
probable cause, and that, therefore, the onus probandi (or
desprobandirather, as it is), rests on the claimant.
The § 71 of the act of 1799 (the source of this doctrine of
onus probandi)is confined to suits brought or seizures made
(in its own language) "pursuant to tis act;" i. e. said act of
1799.

Has it been considered as applying to suits followed

by seizures under any other act, except where it had been by
law extended to suits thereunder? Wethinknot. It has been
decided repeatedly, in the Southern District of New York,
that it did not apply to a revenue act of 1830, a statute which
refers to the act of 1799, and apparently adopts it more than
does the act of 1863.

In one case,* Smalley, J., said:

"I have already once this term ruled that the 71st section of
I bave.not
ascertained that the question has been before any court, or been
passed upon; but the more reflection I have given to that question induces me to adhere to my first opinion, that the 71st
section of the act of 1799 does not apply to the act of 18S0. I
do not think the court are warranted in extending that peculiar
provision which changes the whole burden of proof from the
penal statute."
the act of 1799 does not apply to the act of 1830.

It is not to be presumed that so oppressive a rule as the
one in question will be extended by construction or inference. It is against the theory of the American law, and has
no foundation in the general principles of justice; and there
is no statute authority for applying it to an action under the

act of 1863.
* United Stutes v. 1406 Boxes of Sugar. Before Smalley, J, June 26, 1862.

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.
Argument for the claimant.

Bequests Yos. 6, 7, and 8 (supra, p. 124). The act of 1863
declares (§ 1) that if any owner, consignee, OR agent of any
goods, &c., shall knowngly make or attempt to make any
entry thereof by means of any false invoice, &c., or by means
of any otherfalse or fraudulent document, or of any other false
or fraudulent practice or appliance, said goods, wares, or
merchandise, or their value, shall be forfeited.
It should here be noticed that this section, in making new
provisionsas to entries, refers and relies on the old and familiar
ones as to invoices. Hence the words "false invoices" and
"other false or fraudulent appliances" are used. For the
meaning of a false or fraudulent invoice, &c., we are, of
course, to look to the acts of 1799 and 1830, which have
been so often adjudicated.
The § 3 makes any person guilty of knowingly doing what
makes the goods subject to a forfeiture liable to fine and imprisonment.
It may be remarked of the foregoing citation relative to
the "entry," &c., from the § 1 of the act of 1863:
(1.) That it is the only clause of said act upon which it
can be pretended this sut can be maintained.
(2.) That it is confined solely to wrongful entries, or attempts to make them, and does not forbid or attach any forfeiture or penalty to the making or to the attempt to make

a false or fraudulent invoice. However false an invoice may
be, and however fraudulent the intent with which it may
have been made, no proceedings can be based thereon, and
no consequences are declared to follow under the § 1 of the
act of 1863.
(3.) The "owner, consignee, and agent" seem to be treated
as distinct persons (at any rate, as that is the construction
most unfavorable to the claimants, it will be that especially
considered), so that the act of either may cause a forfeiture
Gf the goods.
And the § 3, by the use of the words "any person," appears to make each and all of them liable to be punihed
criminally.
It follows, that if the act of either of the said three classes

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimant.

of persons may work a forfeiture, that the act of each is to
be taken as a whole and by itself. It cannot therefore be
argued that what the agent personally does is (on any theory
of the law of principal and agent) also done by the owner or
consignee, by or through the agent.
The word "knowingly" clearly applies to all the means
of procuring an entry to which a forfeiture is attached, as if
repeated under each category. And whether the same is
done by the owner, the consignee, or the agent, it must have
been done "knowingly" by either, or no forfeiture is denounced.
It would seem clear that the goods cannot be forfeited by
reason of the act of a consignee or agent of the owner, without proof of such acts by such agent or consignee as would
render them or one of them liable to be punished criminally
under the § 3. And it will not be pretended that an agent or
consignee can be punished by imprisonment for "effectin g
an entry of any goods" for less than value, by using a false
or fraudulent foreign invoice, without proof that he did it
knowingly. Whatever may have been done by Borel or
De Rutle, Cliquot's champagne cannot be forfeited, he having acted innocently.
Request ANo. 4 (supra, p. 128), is founded on the last clause
of the § 1 of the act of 1863. The language, already given,
is as follows:
"And provided further, that the provisions of this act shall
not apply to invoices of goods, wares, or merchandise imported
into any port of the United States from any place beyond Cape
Horn or the Cape of Good Hope, until the 1st January, 1864."
We contend that the meaning is, that the provisions of
the act shall not apply to invoices of goods, wares, or merchandise imported into the United States from any place beyond Cape Horn or the Cape of Good Hope, when said invoices were made up at any time prior to the 1st January,
1864.
Now, what was the intent of Congress in employing and
arranging these words as they are above quoted?

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.
Argument for the claimant.

The act of 1863 was passed on the Od March of that year,
and the operation of that part of the first section prescribing
the mode of making up the invoices was postponed until the
1st July following, for the evident purpose of allowing mer-j
chants or manufacturers in places not beyond Cape Horn or
the Cape of Good Hope, four months' time, within which to
become familiar with the new law. The period fixed, as to
such merchants and manufacturers, was reasonable and just.
It is evident then that, in the body of the first section, the
date of the invoice was intended to determine the question
as to whether a given case would or would not fall within
the law. By strict analogy, the same construction of the
proviso must be adopted; and it must be held that the time
there specified applies also to the date of the invoice, whether
the strict letter of the proviso justified that construction or
not.
In conclusion. It is impossible to admire the mode in which
this proceeding was begun and carried on below. Mr. Farwell, not a manufacturer of nor dealer in champagne, no expert in its prices or qualities, and neither prepared nor intending to deal bomdftde, or in fact at all, is sent abroad as a
detective to ascertain the market value of it at the place of
its manufacture. He visits Paris, but not Rheims, where the
manufacture is, at any time. He gets Prices-Current of the
sorts and in the way already commented on. They are never
produced till the moment of trial, when the claimant, five
thousand miles away, cannot possibly answer them; however
capable he may be of answering them completely. They
make. "probable cause." The rules of evidence are inverted,
and the oits rests on the claimant to prove his innocence.

For a long series of years, may it please the court, the
trade in champagne wines between this country and France
has been conducted upon the basis of the present valuations.
No objections have been made and no notice given to the
importers that any attack upon them was to be made or that
any dissatisfaction existed with their invoices. Year after
year there have been custom-house valuations based on the
same theory of value as these invoices. The shippers have

OLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimant.

thus been led to believe that this government did not object
to these valuations, and have conducted their business with
unsuspecting confidence. There is reason to believe that
the invoices in question were made as those for ten years
previously bad been, and in the exercise of good faith. Of
a sudden the custom-house officers, having sent one of their
number abroad and carefully laid their plans, pounce down
upon the unsuspecting importer and bring him to sudden
condemnation, and impose upon him immense pecuniary
losses. For it is not these cases alone and the large amount
they involve that you are now to decide, but other large
claims for forfeitures in San Francisco and N'ew York are
depending on their issue. And there are also claims for
alleged back duties of immense amount.
This case does not illustrate that theory of official action
that seems liberal to the subjects of a friendly maritime
state, which is bound to the United States by so many
grateful memories of her noble co-operation with us in the
struggle of our revolutionary birth; nor does it seem to comport with those higher and more generous principles of
national intercourse, between great commercial and Christian"races, which have superseded that older doctrine which
treated all foreign states and subjects as in the nature of
enemies, and all revenue laws as occupying a domain within
which courtesy, comity and justice were unrecognized and
unknown.
The motives which this proceeding charge upon the
owners of these champagnes are of a most ofiensive character, and no such charge can be warranted or sustained,
except upon clear proof. There is no such proof in the
case; and the enlightened mercantile community of Europe,
to whom the reputable character of the claimants is known,
will not willingly accept a judgment censuring their conduct, unless it shall have better foundation than deductions
from inconclusive and unauthorized testimony.
To release the property seized, and to allow the proceeding thus far to operate only as a friendly admonition to the
merchants of France, will enlarge the commercial dealings

Dec. 1865.]

eLIQUOT'S

CHAMPAGNE.

Opinion of the court.

between the two nations, increase the revenues of this government from foreign imports, and illustrate ou! apprecia.
tion of the good will and the generous policy that should
characterize the commercial intercourse of friendly nations.
Chancellor Kent declares* that the "law of nations enjoins
upon every nation the punctual observances of benevolenwe
and good will as well as of justice towards its neighbors.
This is equally the poli&y and duty of nations." It becomes
the United States, and comports best with her historic fame,
to assume the highest grounds of justice and liberality in
her dealings with other nations. The spirit of her foreign
intercourse, and the tone of her executive and judicial administration, should never fall below the justice and equity
in which her laws and her constitution are founded. Let
no European merchant ever be able to say with justice that
the administration of the laws of the United States is not in
harmony with the spirit of that great national charter which
is the wonder and the aspiration of Europe, and the guarantee
and the glory of America. If there isany nation that can
afford to be, and ought to be, more just and lenient than
any other in the administration of her revenue laws, that
nation is the United States; and there never was a fitter era
than the present, when she is standing forth, great, victorious, and merciful at home, to make that honorable preeminence manifest to the commercial world abroad.
37r. Speed, A. G., and 31r. Lake, D. A. for Calfornia,contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The exceptions presented by the record will be considered
in the order in which they have been argued.
I. The defendant's counsel objected to the witness testifying what Jean Petit & Son stated to him-when he visited
their place of business, N7o. 7 Rue de la Mecorcher-in regard to the prices of champagne. The testimonysis objected
to as inadmissible and incompetent, on the ground that it
*

1 Commentaries, 32.

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was hearsay, and that there was no evidence that Petit &
Son were the agents of the claimant.
The bill of exceptions does not purport to set out all the
evidence given in the case. Whether there was sufficient
proof of the agency to warrant the admission of the acts and
declarations of the agent in evidence, was a preliminary
question for the court to determine. If the proof was insufficient, an exception should have been taken upon that
ground, and the evidence upon the subject embodied in the
bill. This was not done. It appears, however, that the
proof was sufficient. Besides other evidence, the fact was
proved by the deposition of Eugene Cliquot, the claimant.
Whatever is done by an agent, in reference to the business in which he is at the time employed, and within the
scope of his authority, is said or done by the principal,
and may be proved as well in a criminal as in a civil case,
in all respects, as if the principal were the actor or the
speaker.*
I. The second exception was to the admission, in evidence, of the Price-Current furnished by the agent to the
witness. Coming from that source, it was clearly admissible. It was not so remote in its bearing upon the issue as
to be irrelevant. Its weight and application depended upon
the other evidence in the case, which is not shown. We
cannot presume error. It must be made manifest. The
presumption is the other way.
III. The witness further testified, that almost all the leading champagne manufacturers have agencies in Paris; that
he inquired of several agencies for champagne at wholesale
for exportation, and the agents uniformly stated to him their
prices; that he could find no agents for Eugene Cliquot at
Paris, other than the house of Petit & Son. That among
other wine-dealers in Paris was the house N$o. 6 Provence
Street, on the outside of which was a sign, "Delenge Ragot,
of the firni of Minet, Jr., & Co., Rheims." That he called
at this establishment, and was shown by the proprietor
* American Fur Co. v. United States, 2 Peters, 364.

Dec. 1865.]

CLIQUOT'S

CHIAMPAGNE.

Opinion of the court.

samples of various wines, who stated their wholesale prices;
that he was also at the same time handed a printed PriceCurrent, which he produced on the trial.
The claimant's counsel objected to the reading of the PriceCurrent in evidence, on the ground that it would be hearsay,
irrelevant, &c.; that it gave the prices but by single bottle;
that no actual transaction was based on it; that the paper
was no way connected with Cliquot; and that the wines did
not appear to be the same in quality with those libelled.
Was the objection well founded ?
In L.vsh v. Drhse,* the proof upon the trial, in the court
below, was as follows: "A witness proved the value of wheat
in Albany, in 1822, '23,'24, and '25, derived by him from
the books of large dealers in wheat, at that place, he knowing nothing of the price of his own knowledge." The court
said: "The proof was by a witness who had inquired of merchants dealing in the article, and examined their books.
This, unucontradicted, was sufficient." With this ruling we
are satisfied. While courts, in the administration of the law
of evidence, should be careful not to open the door to falsehood, they should be equally careful not to shut out truth.
They should not encumber the law with rules which will
involve labor and expense to the parties, and delay the progress of the remedy-itself a serious evil-without giving
any additional safeguard to the interests of justice. We
think the Price-Current is not liable to the objection that it
was hearsay. It was prepared and used by the party who
furnished it in the ordinary course of his business. It is as
little liable to that objection as the entries in the books of
the dealer, or his answers to the inquiries of a witness, both
of which were admissible upon the authority of the case
referred to in Wendell. It was clearly relevant. What
effect it should have, in connection with the other evidence
adduced by the parties, was a question for the jury.
IV. The counsel for plaintiff asked Mr. Farwell, at the
trial, whether, upon inquiry at Paris, he had ascertained the
* 4 Wendell, 315.

.142

CLIQUOT'S CHAMIPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

difference in price between Rheims and Paris, as to Mumm's
champagne, and as to Moet & Chandon's champagne?
The question was objected to, "as calling for irrelevant
and immaterial testimony; also, as calling for hearsay testimony; also, because it referred to champagne wines different
in kind, price, and quality from those wines proceeded
against in this action."
Whether the wines named were the same with those in
question of the claimant, except in name, or not, and if they
differed in quality and price, to what extent they differed, is
not disclosed in the bill of exceptions. If there were such
differences as was assumed by the counsel for the defendant,
it should have been made to appear, by setting out either
the evidence which proved it, or an admission by the judge
to that effect. Either would have been sufficient. Their
place cannot be supplied by the allegations of counsel. The
silence of the judge does not amount to an admission. The
other grounds of the objection are sufficiently answered
by what has been said in considering the preceding exception.
The evidence being closed, the learned judge who presided
at the trial delivered a full and able charge to the jury. It
embraced all the points arising in the case. We concur
with him upon all of them, except one, presently to be considered, and upon that the charge was more favorable to the
party defending than he was entitled to claim. The counsel
for the claimant submitted ten prayers for instructions; all
of which were refused, and he excepted. As the charge
of the judge covered the entire case, and is satisfactory to
this court, we might, consistently with the rule of law upon
the subject, forbear to enter upon their examination in this
opinion.* But as some of them involve new and important
questions, and all of them have been pressed upon our attention with zeal and ability, and we have considered them with
care, we deem it proper briefly to state our conclusions.
The term "place," as used in the first section of the act
* Law v. Cross, 1 Black, 533.

Dec. 1865.]

DLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.
Opinion of the court.

of 1863, does not mean any locality more limited than the
cownt 'y where the goods are bought or manufactured. The
standard to be applied is their value in the principal markets
of that country. The commerce into which they enter is
international, and the language of the statute must be construed in a large and liberal spirit. Proof of the value of the
wines at Paris, if there was no other evidence upon the subject, was sufficient to enable the jury to arrive at the proper
conclusion. Upon this point our opinion differs from that
of the learned judge who tried the cause.
It is argued that the rule relating to probable cause, and the
onus proba)?di, prescribed in the seventy-first section of the
act of 1799, is confined to prosecutions under that act, and
has no application to those under the act of 1863, which is
silent upon the subject.
It would be a singular result if, in a prosecution upon an
information containing counts upon this and later statutes
in par!materiM, the rule should apply to a part of the counts
and not to others. The seventieth and seventy-first sections
must be construed together. They both look to future and
further legislation. In all the changes which the revenue
laws have undergone neither has been repealed. The authority to seize out of the district of the seizing officer, and
this rule of onus proba2di have always been regarded as permanent features of the revenue system of the country. This
act is the only one ever passed containing this rule. All the
later laws are silent upon the subject. In Wood v. United
States,* the court below instructed the jury that the rule
applied in a trial upon an information founded upon the acts
of 1799 and the act of July 14, 1832. lo discrimination was
made between the counts. This court sustained the instruction. In Taylor v. United States,t in Clifton v. United States,1
and in Bucley v. United States,§ the informations were founded
upon certain sections of the acts of 1799, 1830, and 1832.
The court below applied the rule alike to all the counts.
* 16 Peters, 342, 360.

4

4 Howard, 242.

t 3 Howard, 197, 203.
4 Id. 252, 257. 260.

CLIQUOT'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The same result followed in this court as in the case of Mood
v. United States. In none of these cases was the point here
under consideration expressly made. The applicability of the
rule alike in cases arising under all the revenue laws was assumed by the eminent counsel concerned and by the court.
Other questions relating to the subject were fully discussed.
This tacit recognition is equivalent to an express declaration.
The term knowzigly, in the act of 1863, in the connection
here under consideration, refers to the guilty knowledge of
the owner, consignee, or agent, by whom the entry is made,
or attempted to be made. The offence to be punished consists of three particulars, (1.) The making, or attempting
to make, an entry by the owner, consignee, or agent. (2.)
The use by such owner, consignee, or agent, of the forbidden
means. (3.) Guilty knowledge on the part of such owner,
consignee, or agent. This, we think, is the proper construction.
It is asserted, as a consequence, that if the owner is guilty,
and the entry is made by an innocent consignee or agent,
the case is not embraced by this statute. We cannot yield
our assent to this view of the subject. In that case the act
of the agent or consignee is to be regarded as the act of the
guilty principal, and the same penal consequences follow as
if the entry had been made by the owner in his own person.
The court below was pressed to instruct the jury that
"knowingly" is used in the statute as the synonyme offiraudulently. The instruction given was eminently just, and we
have nothing to add to it.
The provision that the act should not apply to invoices of
goods imported into any port of the United States from
beyond Cape Horn, or the Cape of Good Hope, until the 1st
of January, 1864, does not affect this case. Its meaning is
that the requisites prescribed by this act for foreign invoices,
in order to secure the entry of the goods at a port of the
United States, need not be complied with in the cases mentioned until the time specified. It does not apply to cases
of fraud, and gives no impunity to guilt. If the guilty means

Dec. 1865.]

FENNERSTEIN'S

C11AMPAGNE.

Statement of the case.

named in the statute were used after it took effect, no matter
when they were prepared, the offence was complete. lRevenue
laws are not penal laws in the sense that requires them to be
construed with great strictness in favor of the defendant.
They are rather to be regarded as remedial in their character,
and intended to prevent fraud, suppress public wrong,. and
promote the public good. They should be so construed as
to carry out the intention of the legislature in passing them
and most effectually accomplish these objects.*
JUDGMUENT AFFIRIMED

FENNERSTEIN'S CHAMPAGNE.
In order to show the actual market value of articles of merchandise at a
particular place in a foreign country, letters by third parties abroad to
other third parties-offering to sell at such rates-if written in ordinary course of the business of the party writing them, and contemporaneously with the transaction which is the subject of the suit-are admissible as evidence, even though neither the writers nor the recipients
of the letters are in any way connected with the subject of the suit, and
though there is no proof that the writers of the letters are dead.

O.N a libel of information and seizure in the District Court
for the :Northern District of California, the question was
whether certain champagne wines made at Rheims, in
France, and invoiced for this country in October, 1863, had
been knowingly invoiced below "the actual market value
of them at the time and place when and where manufactured," at which actual value the statute requires that they
should be valued.t 'Upon the trial, as appeared by the bill
of exceptions, the claimants introduced testimony tending
* Taylor v. United States, 3 Howard, 210.
- The reader who desires a full view of the nature and effect of this statute will find it in the preceding case. The present ease involved all the
questions recited in that, and the additional point presented in the syllabus
beside. Of course the latter only is reported.
VOL. II.

10

