Dec. 1865.]

NEWELL V. NORTON AND SHIP.

257

Syllabus.

In the case before us the questions certified are, "whether,
in point of law, upon the facts as stated and proved, the action could be maintained; and whether, consequently, the
jury should be instructed that, under the facts as proved,
the plaintiff could not recover ?"
Upon looking into the record, we find a body of facts
stated as having been proved, and the testimony of numerous witnesses set forth at length, as respectively given. The
entire case is brought before us, as if we were called upon to
discharge the twofold functions of a court and jury. At the
threshold arises an important question of fact, not without
difficulty. It is, whether the plaintiff is to be regarded as
a passenger, or a servant of the defendant, at the time he
received, upon the locomotive, the injury for which he sues?
Upon the determination of this question depend the legal
principles to be 'applied. They must be very diferent, as
the solution may be one way or the other.
The Constitution wisely places the trial of such questions
within the province of a jury, and it cannot be taken from
them without the consent of both parties. Here, such consent is given; but it is ineffectual to clothe us with a power
not conferred by law. In the light of the authorities to
which we have referred, it is sufficient to add that the questions certified are not such that we can consider them.
According to the settled practice, the case will, therefore,
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and remanded to the
Circuit Court, with an order to proceed in it according to
law.
DISMISSED, AND ORDER ACCORDINGLY.
[See infra, p. 294, Havemeyer v. Iowa County, 2.-REP.]

NEWELL V. NORTON AND SHIP.
1. A libel in ron against a vessel and personally against her master may
properly under the present practice of the court be joined. And if the
libellant have originally proceeded against vessel, master, owners, and
pilot, the libel may with leave of the court be amended so as to apply
to the vessel and master only in the way mentioned.
VOL. III.

17

NEWELL V. KORTON AND SHIP.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.
2. Such an amendment, neither increasing nor diminishing their liability,
will not discharge the sureties to the usual bond given on release of a
vessel seized by process of the admiralty.
3. A person who is master and part owner of a vessel in which a cargo
has been wrongly sunk by collision from another vessel, may properly
represent the insurer's claim for the loss of the cargo, and proceed to
enforce it in rem and in personam through the admiralty.
The court, seeing no reason to doubt the correctness of a decision below,
again declares what it has often before decided, that it will not reverse
from doubt where the issue is one entirely of fact, depending on the
credibility of witnesses who differ in their statements, r nd where the
District and Circuit Courts have concurred in viewing the merits.
And it announces emphatically that in cases where both courts below
concur, parties need not bring appeals here with the expectation of reversal because they can find in a mass of conflicting testimony enough
to support the appellant's allegation if the testimony of the other side
be wholly rejected, or by attacking the character of witnesses and so
raising a mere doubt as to what justice required.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court for
Louisiana affirming a decree of the District Court in admiralty
in a case of collision between the steamboats Hill and World.
The owner of the World filed his libel in the District
Court, March 12, 1863, setting forth that his vessel, sailing
down the Mississippi and laden with a valuable cargo, had
been lost by collision with the Hill, gnd solely through the

fault of the Hill.
The collision out of which the proceeding came, took
place in a bend of the Mississippi below the town of Princeton, Mississippi. The Hill received no material injury. The
World sank almost immediately, carrying down with her
about thirty persons. The wreck and cargo were soon afterwards abandoned to the underwriters: who subsequently assigned their claims to the libellant.
The account of the catastrophe, as given by the libellant,
was briefly this: that the World was descending the river
in the ordinary channel, when the Hill, which had been running up on the Mississippi side, came quartering out from
that side, attempted to cross the river in front of the descending boat, but, being a little too late, ran into her and
sunk her.
The libellant accounted for the accident on the ground

Dec. 1865.]

NEEWELL V.

NOrTON

AND SHIP.

259

Statement of the case.

that the pilot of the Hill failed, for want of proper watchfulness, to discover the World in time to avoid the collision;
that he was 'either ignorant or disregardful of his obligations to obey signals which he ought to have obeyed; and
that he manceuvred his boat with entire want of skill.
The respondent admitted an attempt of the Hill to cross
the river, but asserted that it was effected in safety, and
that, after the Hill had gained the Arkansas side, the World
came square across the river, directly towards the Hill,
struck her, inflicting, however, no damage, but was herself
by the blow stove in and sunk.
The District Court, in aceordaiwe with the prayer of the libel,
issued process in rem against the Hill, and citations in persoiain against the captain, owner, and pilot. The 15th rule
in admiralty of this court, of the Rules of 1845,* it should
be said, allows a libellant, in all eases of collision, "to proceed against the ship and master, or against the ship alone,
or against the master or the owner alone, in ,ersonam."
The owners of the Hill, of whom the "masterwas one, put in
a claim, and on the same day the boat was released on a
bond, conditioned that the claimants and sulreties should abide
by all the orders of the court, anid pay the libellant the amount
aWIarded by the final decree. The claimants immediately afterwards filed an exception to the libel for misjoinder of owners and pilot in a proceeding against the vessel and master,
and prayed that the libel be dismissed. The court ruled
that an action against the owners and pilot could not be
joined with the proceeding in rem, and that the libellant
must elect which remedy he would pursue; and he having
elected to proceed in rein against the steamboat, and in Ipersonam against the master, it was ordered that the libel be
dismissed as to the owners and pilot, and sustained against
the steamboat and master. Proofs were then taken.
The testimony was voluminous and conflicting. With the
documents it filled a book of three hundred and ten pages
of long primer, "solid." One hundred and ten persons, first
* 3 Howard, vi.

iTEWELL V. NORTON AND SHIP.

[Sup. ct.

Statement of the case.

and last, and through a term of five years that the case was
in the courts below, were examined. It embraced a number of questions, as whether'a sufficient watch bad been
kept-sufficient and proper signals given-whether the engines had been rightly worked when the boats approachedwhether certain officers of the World were or were not intoxicated-what was the character of the pilots for sobriety
and skill-and whether Henry Evans, "a flatboat pilot" on
the Mississippi, who saw the collision and testified strongly
that the Hill was to blame for it, was worthy of faith-seven
persons swearing that he was not, and twenty-two that he
was. And finally, whereabouts exactly in a bend of the river
the collision took place, and what topographical inference
could be made from the hydrographical fact that portions
of the World's cargo had floated to a particular spot of the
shore; and that cattle which had been on the boat were
found the next morningwalking contemplatively in the State
of Mississippi and not in the opposite one of Arkansas.
The District Court decreed for the libellants ($52,500); a
decree which the Circuit Court, on full consideration and
after giving an opinion at large, which the record contained,
affirmed with interest and costs.
After the decree in the Circuit Court a motion was made
for a re-hearing, "upon the ground that the court had erred
in its view of the evidence, and that the damages ought to
be apportioned." This motion was refused; Campbell, J.,
who gave its opinion, saying:
"I have considered the evidence with much care; it is very
conflicting; and an opinion founded upon one portion of it must
necessarily be hostile to conclusions which have their support in
another portion. I think it is a case in which men may naturally form different conclusions, and that an appeal is a very
proper remedy for the party who is aggrieved. A re-hearing of the
case would not speed the cause to its final determination; and, upon
the suggestions that the decree is erroneous, I do not think 1
should be authorized to allow a re-hearing."
The case was now here on appeal.

Dec. 1865.]

NEWELL V. NoRToN AND SHIP.

261

Argument for the appellant.

.LJ1. Speed, A. G., and Mr. Ashton, actingas Trivate counsel,for
the appellants: It has never been decided nor recognized as
a principle of admiralty practice that the misjoinder of actions
can be cured by putting the libellant to his election. The
libel ought to have been dismissed, and then the party asserting himself to be aggrieved could have filed his libel rightly.
Before the adoption of the admiralty rules of 1845, the proceeding in rein could not be joined with a suit in pe'rsG1am;
and the right to unite these distinct remedies in the same
libel is given solely by virtue of these rules. By authorizing
the two remedies to be blended in the same libel they made
an innovation in established practice, and the libellant must
have complied literally with their provision, The amending
of a libel, all wrong originally, was improper.
2. As respects the discharge of the sureties. The boat was
not seized again after the change in the libel, and no new
bond was given or required. The sureties bound themselves
with reference to the libel. The contract of suretyship is
strictijuris, and cannot be extended by implication.* The
undertaking of the sureties was to satisfy such decree as
might be rendered upon the libel filed, under which the
vessel had been seized; and it is obvious that no other decree
could have been rendered upon the libel, in its original form,
than one of dismissal. If the libel was not authorized by
law, if, in fact, as was the case, it was in direct violation of
the law and the rules adopted by this court governing pro',eeding in the admiralty, the seizure and detention of the
Doat were illegal ab initio; and the bond given for her release
was without consideration and void.
When, therefore, the libellant elected to proceed in re n,
against the vessel, and in personair against the master alone,
he attempted to place the sureties induriori casit than that
contemplated by them at the time they contracted as sureties,
and to change the obligation which they had assumed, which
was to satisfy such decree as might be rendered upon the
* Smith v. United States, 2 Wallace, 219.

NEWELL v. NORTON AND SHIP.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the appellant.

libel filed, into an obligation to respond to a decree to be
rendered upon a new libel, freed from the objection which
-made that with reference to which they had bound themselves void; an obligation to which the sureties in no manner
have assented. Of course they are discharged.
3. The libellant here but represents the underwriters,or the vessel and cargo. Now can a claim for damages resulting from
a collision be assigned so as to convey to the assignee the
lien which may have existed in favor of the assignor, and
to vest in the assignee the right to proceed in the admiralty
in his own name for reparation for a wrong which was not
done to him nor to his property? We think not. The
admiralty has no jurisdiction unless the contract which the
libellant seeks to enforce is maritime. A contract may be
maritime, but it would by no means follow that the assignment of that contract must also be maritime. An assignment is not and never can be a maritime contract; it is
always an ordinary civil contract. Maritime liens are not
established by the agreement of the parties, except in hypothecations of vessels, but they result from the nature and
object of the contract. They are consequences attached by
law to certain contracts, and are independent of any agreement between the parties that such liens shall exist. They,
too, are strictijuris. Indeed, the only power the contracting
parties have respecting such liens as attach as consequences
to certain contracts is, that the creditor may waive the lien,
and may by express stipulation, or by his manner of dealing
in certain cases, give credit exclusively to those who would
also have been bound to him personally by the same contract
which would have given rise to the lien.
4. As to merits. [The learned counsel here proceeded to
collocate and present the evidence, so that it bore in a strong
way against the World; and argued that, rightly considered
and according to the weight of the evidence, reference being
had to the character of the witnesses as sworn to for truth,
the fault was with that vessel, not at all with the Hill]

Dec. 1865.]

NEWELL V. NORTON AND SHIP.

263

Argument for the defendant.

MIessrs. CO'rlisle and .AcPlherson, contra: This libel is not
multifarious within a proper definition of the term. It states
but one cause of action, and seeks but one measure of relief.
And it is a proof of this, that if any one of the defendants
would satisfy the demand set forth against him, it would be
a satisfaction of the whole cause of action.
The real defect of the libel was in making parties of persons who could not be made liable in that form of action.
It was a misjoinder merely, and so a defect of form. What,
then, should have been the ruling of the District Court?
The claimants say, to have dismissed the libel as to all the
parties. But this court said, in the case of The Schooner
Adelide:* "When merits clearly appear on the record, it is
the settled practice in admiralty proceedings not to dismiss
the libel, but to allow the party to assert his rights in a new
allegation." So in The Commander-in-Chieft they said: "Objections to parties, or for want of proper parties, should be
made in the court below, when amendments maybe granted
in the discretion of the court. Partiesimproperlyjoinedmay,
on motion, be stricken out, and new parties may be added by a
supplemental libel and petition."
But it is further objected that, by allowing the libellant to
amend, or dismissing the bill as to certain parties, injustice
was done to other parties-to the sureties; who, having
agreed to abide the result of a libel which could not be sustained, have to abide the result of one which has been thus
freed from objection. The same objection was raised in the
case of The Harmony,t but was not held of force. It was
there observed, that it would not have force in a common
lawsuit; and A fortiori would find no support in a court
exercising admiralty jurisdiction.
It being then established that the libel was not to be dismissed, the next question was, who were the improper parties, and how to get rid of them ? The District Court ruled
simply that the libellant could not proceed against all whom
he had made parties, and left it to himself to select those
* 9 Crunch, 244.

t 1 lallace, 352.

$ 1 Gallison, 125.

IfEWELL V. I oRTON AND SHIP.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant

whom he would pursue. He made his election, and then
the court made the order which it did. This, we suppose,
was in substance an amendment of the libel; and, if it was,
no question can be made to it here.*
The objection, that the libellant cannot proceed in the face
of an abandonment to the underwriters, is without force.
As owner of a steamboat employed in transporting goods
generally, the libellant was a common carrier and bailee,
and liable to the shippers. In the case of The Commanderin-Chief, above cited, this court intimated, that where the
libellant was prosecuting for the benefit of other parties not
named, as well as his own, it would be more regular that it
should be so averred in the libel; still they overruled the
objection for want of such an averment, observing that no
inconvenience could result from the rule, as there was ample
power in the court to protect the rights of shippers, who may
intervene at any time before the fund is actually paid out of
the registry. And, indeed, the specific defence, founded here
on the dealings between the libellant and the insurers or
owners of the cargo, is disposed of by the ruling of this court
in the case of the PropellerMonticello v. Xatteson,t with which
the bar is familiar.
The merits. It is impossible that a more ingenious argument could have been made on the evidence than has been.
All that careful collocation of the facts, and skilful presentation can do, has been done. But we shall not respond
largely to that sort of argument. The case is one of fact
only; and where, on a deal of conflicting testimony, two
courts from which appeals have been taken have decided in
one way, this court will not easily reconsider. This court is
already overburdened with business. It has more than it
can do in passing upon the great causes which properly belong to it; upon those momentous questions which arise
from our civil war; those great questions of national law
which arii in time of peace; questions of the rights of
foreigners; questions of the conflicting claims of States; of
* Spencer P Apsley, 20 Howard, 264

t 17 Howard, 152.

Dec. 1865.]

NEWELL V. JNORTON A19D SHIP.
Argument for the defendant.

the effect of State laws and of State decisions upon rights
claimed under the United States, and on interests which are
supposed to be put beyond the reach of State legislation by,
the Constitution of the United States. Mingled with which)
come of necessity questions of commercial, social, domestic,
and other law; all of which it must pass on; questions than
which, when considered in their immense magnitude and
number, it is impossible to conceive of any more various,
greater, or of higher dignity.
With what propriety, then, is this court so constantly vexed
with these questions of fact? called on to settle issues of
ebius vel non between two deck-hands of a Mississippi boat;
and to announce to the bar of the civilized world its solemn
judgment on the point, whether a half-tipsy sailor saw or
did not see, of a dark night, down a distant river, a particular signal, which another sailor, a little more or less tipsy
than himself, raised or did not raise for him to look at?
A common jury, it is no offence to this court to say, could
decide the case as well. The District and Circuit Courts,
which have more leisure to hear, and completer power to
examine witnesses, better. The decisions are unintelligible
when reported, and would be worthless if understood. Of
what importance is it to the law as a science, whether, on a
certain night, a certain boat-hand-as to whose having been
intoxicated ten persons swear one way, and ten others swear
another and opposite way-trimmed or did not trim his
lamp-wicks in the way in which he ought to have trimmed
them? or whether a second boat-band shouted or did not
shout as loud as he ought to have shouted, "ll alloa there!
Take care!"? Who on earth but the parties to the very suit
care for such decision when made? And of what interest
even to them is an opinion which shows, though incontestably, its rectitude? The court has laid down principles,
in accordance with ancient rules of law, that should keep
such cases out of this place, and which quite relieve us from
largely following the able arguments opposite, so far as they
apply to facts only. The ,S'ip lIarellws is in point.* Grier,
1 Black, 417; and see the able argument in The Cornelius, supra, p. 214.

N EWELL V. ioRTON AND SHIP.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

J., there declared, in behalf of the Bench, that any appellant coming here on cases of this sort has "all presumptions
against him."
Reply: If the argument of the other side would have
force in any case so long as statute gives appeals here as
well as writs of error, it can have none in this case. The
court below refused to hear us fully, because "the case was
one on which men might naturally form different conclusions;" and because, therefore, "appeal" and not "rehearing" was the proper remedy. We were sent to this court
by one of its then justices specifically, because of the conflict
of testimony, and the learned counsel would now send us
out of it for the precise same. reason. Certainly, we ought
to be heard, and to have justice, somewhere. But between
the upper and the nether courts, if such views as the opposite counsel would enforce prevail, justice would, in cases
like the present, be surely ground to powder.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The libel in this suit was originally against the steamboat
Hill, and against the master, who was part owner, and, also,
against the pilot. It was amended in the District Court by
dismissing it as to the pilot, and sustained as against the
vessel and the master, or owner. The allowance of this
amendment was within the discretion of the court, and was
very proper. The objection that a libel in re-m against a vessel, and in personam against the owner, cannot be joined,
was properly overruled; as it was in conformity with the
15th rule in admiralty as established by this court.
It has been objected here, that the allowance of the
amendment was injurious to the sureties in the bond given
for the property. But this objection is without foundation,
as their liability was neither increased nor diminished.
"Every person bailing such property is considered as holding it subject to all legal dispositions of the court."*
* The schooner Harmony, 1 Gallison, quoting King v. Holland, 4 Term,
459.

Dec. 1865.]

NEWELL V. IORTON AND SHIP.

267

Opinion of the court.

It has been contended, also, that the right of the libellant
to sustain this action ceased by his abandonment to the underwriters. The Circuit Court very properly ruled, that
as the libellant was the owner and master of .the steamer
World he was the bailee of the cargo, and so responsible to
the shippers or insurers for the safe transportation and delivery thereof, and to fulfil his obligations and secure his
reward, he was entitled to possession, and might maintain
an action for its destruction.* "The respondent is not presumed to know or bound to inquire as to the relative equities of parties claiming the damages. He is bound to make
satisfaction for the injury he has done. When he has once
made it to the injured parties, he cannot be made liable to
another suit at the instance of any merely equitable claimant."t
The question of merits was the next question argued.
During the five years in which this case was pending in
the District and Circuit Courts, more than a hundred depositions have been taken. In these there is the'usual conflict
of testimony which always attends such cases. The issue
is one entirely of fact, and depending on the credibility of
witnesses. The District and Circuit Courts, after patient
investigation of the testimony, concur in the opinion that
the libellant has fully established his case. The record contains the opinion delivered by the learned judge of the Circuit Court, which fully vindicates the correctness of his
decree.
It would be a very tedious as well as a very unprofitable
task to again examine and compare the conflicting statements of the witnesses in this volume of depositions. And,
even if we could make our opinion intelligible, the case
could never be a precedent for any other case, or worth the
Itrouble of understanding.
It is enough to say that we find ample testimony to support the decision, if believed; and that we again repeat,
what we have often before decided, that in such cases, par8See The Propeller Commerce, 1 Black, 582.
t See Monticello v. Mattison, 17 Howard. 152.

THE OTTAWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ties should not appeal to this court with any expectation
that we will reverse the decision of the courts below, because counsel can find in the mass of conflicting testimony
enough to support the allegations of the appellant, if the
testimony of the appellee be entirely disregarded; or by
attacking the character of his witnesses when the truth of
their testimony has been sustained by the opinions of both
the courts below. Parties ought not to expect this court to
revise their decrees merely on a doubt raised in our minds
as to the correctness of their judgment, on the credibility
of witnesses, or the weight of conflicting testimony. In the
present case we see no reason to doubt the correctness of
the decision of the Circuit Court, which is accordingly
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE OTTAWA.
1. The court admitting that within reasonable limits cross-examination is
a right, and on many accounts of great value, reflects upon an exercise
of it as excessive in a case where there were between four and five hundred cross-interrogatories.
2. Lookouts must be pqrsons of suitable experience, properly stationed on
the vessel, and actually and vigilantly employed in the performance
of their duty.
3. When acting as officer of the deck, and having charge of the navigation
of the vessel, the master of a steamer is not a proper lookout, nor is the
helmsman.
4. Lookouts should be stationed on the forward part of the vessel where
the view is not in any way obstructed. The wheel-house is not a proper place, especially if it is very dark and the view is obstructed.
6. Elevated positions, such as the hurricane deck, are said by the court to
be not in general as favorable in a dark night as those usually selected
on the forward part of the vessel, where the lookout stands nearer the
water-line, and is less likely to overlook small'vessels deeply laden.
6 These principles applied, and a steamer condemned in a collision case, for
want of a proper lookout; the case being one also where the lights of
the steamer were badly attended to and gave imperfect warning.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for

