YOUNGE V. GUMLBEAU.

[Sup. Ct,

Syllabus.

and sufficiently comprehensive in its terms to protect the
licensee, would afford any justification to the claimants.
6. Grounds of the decision, as already stated, render it
unnecessary, also, to examine the question of fraud, or to
remark upon the evidence respecting the prior voyage.
Decree of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to enter a decree of forfeiture against both the vessel and cargo.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

TOUNGE

v.

GUILBEAU.

1. The statute of Texas, relating to the organization, &c., of its District
Courts, which enacts that when a party shall file an affidavit of the loss
of an instrument recorded under the statute, or of his inability to procure the original, a certified copy of the record shall be admitted in
like manner as the original-does not dispense with the proof which is
exacted when the original instrument is filed, in case an affidavit (which
the statute also allows) alleging a belief of itsforgery, is made. It only
allows the certified copy to take the place of the original when that is
lost or cannot be procured: and the copy produced under such circumstances will have no greater weight than the original itself.
To avail himself, therefore, of the statute, the party must, in all cases,
file, as therein prescribed, the original or the copy from the record, and
give notice of the filing; and even then the statutory proof will be insufficient, if the affidavit alleging a belief of its forgery be made. Such
affidavit being filed, the party relying upon the deed must make proof
of its execution, with all its essential formalities, as required by the
rule of the common law.
2. To constitute delivery of a deed the grantor must, as a general thing,
part with the possession of it, or at least with the right to retain possession. Upon a question of delivery, its registry, if by him? is entitled
to great consideration, and might, perhaps, in the absence of opposing
evidence, justify a presumption of delivery. But where the grantee
had no knowledge of the existence of the deed, and the property which
it purported to convey always remained in the possession and under
the control of the grantor, and where, therefore, any registry was of
course without either his assent or knowledge, the presumption of a de-

Dec. 18G5.]

e.YouNGE

v. GUILBEAU.

Statement of the case.
livery from the fact of registry is repelled. [N. B. In the case at bar,
there was an allegation that the deed registered was a forgery.]

A STATUTE of Texas, relating to the registry of deeds, &c.,
provides as follows :*
"Every instrument of writing which is permitted or required
by law to be recorded in the office of the clerk of the eQunty
court, and which has been, or may be so recorded after being
proven or acknowledged in the manner provided for by the laws
in force at the time of its registration, shall be admitted as evidence, without the necessity of proving its execution j provided,
the party who wishes to give the same in evidence shall file the
same among the papers of the suit in which he proposes to use
it, at least three days before the commencement of the trial of
such suit, and give notice of such filing to the opposite party, or
his attorney, of record; and unless sulch opposite party, or somne
otherperson for him, shall, within one day after such notice, file an
affidavit that he believes such instrument of writing to be forged.
And whenever any party to a suit shall file among the papers
of the suit an affidavit, stating that any instrument of writing
recorded as aforesaid, has been lost, or that he cannot procure the
original, a certified copy of the record of any such instrument
shall be admitted in like manner as the original could be."
With this statute in force, Mrs. Younge brought trespass
against Guilbeau and eleven others in the Federal Court for
the Western District of Texas, to try the title to a lot of
ground in that district. She proved that the lot belonged
originally to one Nixon, her ancestor, now deceased, and
that she was his sole heir. Guilbeau and the others, defendants in the case, admitting the original ownership a]leged, set up that Nixon had conveyed the lot, by deed, in
his lifetime to a certain Shelby; from whom they, Guilbeau
and theother defendants, derived title to themselves.
The suit thus involved, in its merits, the existence of a
deed from Nixon to Shelby.
* Statute of May 11, 1816, relating to the organization, &c., of the District Courts; Oldham & White's Digest, of Texas Laws, art. 469, pp. 124-5.

YOUNGE v. GUILBEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

No original deed to Shelby was produced. A document,
however, purporting to be a deed executed by Nixon to
Shelby, embracing the premises in question, bearing date
the 10th day of October, 1838, and acknowledged the 29th
of the same month, had been filed for record on the 7th of
December, 1846, in the office of the clerk of the proper
county, in Texas, and was afterwards in due form placed
on the records of the office. A certified copy of this instrument was offered in evidence by the defendants and aditted against the objection of the plaintiffs.
The defendants, on their side, and as a foundation for the
admission of this certified copy, relied upon various affidavits
by one of the defendants, and the counsel of the others, to
show a loss of or inability to procure the original. None of
the affidavits, however, though circumstantial enough, were
clear and direct to this point; nor did any of them show,
plainly, and as a matter of fact, that the deed (genuine or
forged) which had been recorded, might not yet be in the
possession or control of some of the numerous defendants.
The plaintiff, on her side, and in anticipation that this certified copy instead of any original would be offered in evidence, had filed an affidavit under the statute, that the
original instrument purporting to be ' conveyance from her
ancestor to Shelby, and of which a copy was now offered,
was, as she verily believed, "forged."
The court charged the jury with respect to the effect of
this affidavit, as follows:
"It furnishes no proof whatever to the jury, that such deed
is a forgery. It merely lays the foundation, or affords a basis,
upon which the plaintiff might introduce evidence to sustain
the charge, and show to the satisfaction of the jury, if she could,
that it was, in fact, a forgery."
And further, in the same connection, and on the same
point, the court refused the following instruction, asked by
the plaintiff as to the effect of the affidavit, to wit:
"It devolves upon the defendants, in order to enable them to
hold the property under the said deed, to show, by evidence

Dec. 1865.]

e..OUNGE v. GUILBEAU.
Opinion of the court.

eatisfactory to the jury, that the said deed was, in fact, signed,
sealed, and delivered by Nixon in his lifetime. Otherwise the
fee (the legal title) to the property remained in him at the time
of his death, and was cast, by descent, on his heirs."
As to the delivery of the deed by Nixon to Shelby, the latter testified that he never knew of the existence of the deed
until after the death of Nixon, and that he never made any
claim to the property; and the evidence showed that the
deed and the property which it purported to convey remained in the possession and control of the grantor until
his death.
The court, at the instance of the defendant, charged the
jury on this head as follows:
"This suit is not to be regarded as the contest of creditors
against the deed, nor as a contest between deeds of different
dates; but as a contest, just as though Nixon himself was the
plaintiff; his heir being bound by all his acts. And if he made
the deed, the question of consideration is of no consequence, because as between Nixon and Shelby, or Shelby's vendors, the
deed was binding, whether there was any consideration or not,
or whether the deed was actually delivered to Shelby or not.
If it was Nixon's deed, and Shelby acted under it, Urs. Younge
is bound by those acts."
The defendants had judgment, and the plaintiff brought
her writ of error here.
Mlr. BevEry Jokhmson, for the plaintiff in error; i&2 G. W.
Pasehail,contra.
.Hr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The State of Texas has provided by her legislation, as has
been done in other States, a system for the registry of deeds
and conveyances affecting the title to real property; and in
connection with it, has modified, in some particulars, the
rule of the common law with respect to the proof of their
execution, when produced in the course of legal proceedings.
One of her statutes enacts that every such instrument, when

640

YOUNGE v. GUILBEAU.

[Sup. (Ct.

Opinion of the court.

duly acknowledged and recorded pursuant to laws in force
at the time, shall be admitted in evidence without proof of
its execution, if the party desiring its introduction file it
among the papers of the suit three days before the commencement of the trial, and give notice of the filing to the
opposite party, unless such opposite party, or some one for
him, shall, within one day after the notice, file an affidavit
that he believes the instrument to be forged. The same
statute enacts that when a party shall file an affidavit of the
loss of the recorded instrument, or his inability to procure
the original, a certified copy of the record shall be admitted
in like manner as the original.
This latter provision does not dispense with the proof
which is exacted when the original instrument is filed, in
case an affidavit alleging a belief of its forgery is made; it
only allows the certified copy to take the place of the original, when that is lost or cannot be procured. It was not
intended to give to the copy produced under such circumstances greater weight than to the original itself. To avail
himself, therefore, of the statute, the party must, in all cases,
file as therein prescribed, the original or the copy from the
record, and give notice of the filing; and even then thstatutory proof will be insufficient, if the affidavit alleging a
belief of its forgery be made. Such affidavit being filed, the
party relying upon the deed must make proof of its execution, with all its essential formalities, as required by the rule
of the common law.
The court below held otherwise, and instructed the jury
in substance, that the affidavit with respect to the deed under which the defendants claimed in this case, only laid the
foundation upon which she might introduce evidence to sustain the charge, and to show that such deed was in fact a
forgery, and refused an instruction requested, that under
these circumstances it devolved upon the defendants to shom
the due execution of the instrument.
The ruling of the court in this particular was clearly erroneous. The plaintiff, contesting the validity of the deed,
was at liberty to show that it was a forgery without a pre-

Dec. 1865.]

YouxaGn v.

GUILBEAIT.

Opinion of the court.

vious affidavit of his belief on the subject. The affidavit was
only required to meet the notice under the statute. that the
adverse party intended to rely upon the statutory proof.
No attempt was made to meet the requirements of The
common law in the proof of the deed. The affidavits of its
loss only negatived, upon information and belief, its possession by some of the defendants. Its possession by some of
them was consistent with every averment made. The defendants relied alone upon the copy from the record, and
the court erroneously held that such copy was sufficient.
We might rest our decision here, but it is proper to notice
another ruling of the court below, to prevent its repetition
on a second trial. The proof of the execution of the deed
necessarily involved proof of its delivery. The evidence
offered, so far as appears by the record, showed that the
grantor never parted with its possession, except as may be
inferred from the fact of its registry. And the grantee testified that he never knew of its existence until after the death
of the grantor, among whose papers it was found; and that
he never claimed any interest in the property. Yet the
court instructed the jury that as there was no contest of
creditors against the deed, the instrument was binding,
whether delivered or not. In this instruction there was also
clear error. The delivery of a deed is essential to the transfer of the title. It is the final act, without which all other
formalities are ineffectual. To constitute such delivery the
grantor must part with the possession of the deed, or the
right to retain it. Its registry by him is entitled to great
consideration upon this point, and might, perhaps, justify,
in the absence of opposing evidence, a presumption of delivery. But here any such presumption is repelled by the
attendant and subsequent circumstances. Hlere the registry
was of course made without the assent of the grantee, as he
had no knowledge of the existence of the deed, and the property it purported to convey always remained in the possession and under the control of the grantor.*
* Jackson v. Phipps, 12 Johnson, 419; Jackson v. Leek, 12 Wendell. 105:

VOL Ir,

41

UNITED STATES V.

SCOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The judgment of the District Court must be reversed, and
the cause remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ORDERED.

UNITED STATES V.

SCOTT.

Upon a comparison of the 25th section of the act of 3d March, 1863, passed
during the rebellion, "for enrolling and calling out the national forces,
and for other purposes," with the 12th section of the act of 24th February, 1864, enacting that any person who shall forcibly resist or oppose
any enrolment of persons for military service, &c., shall be punished,
&c. ; he&, that the former act is limited to the prevention of resistance
to the draft, and the latter to preventing resistance to the enrolment.
Comparing the two acts together, the latter one is to be regarded as a
legislative construction of the first, by which a service in relation to the
draft, is not a service in relation to the enrolment.

O the 3d March, 1863, Congress, with a view to enable
tlhe government to put down the rebellion, which was then
exerting itself to destroy the nation, passed "An act for
enrolling and calling out the national forces, and for other
purposes."* This act creates boards of enrolment, and prescribes their duties.
By one section, each board was to be composed of the
provost marshal of the district as president, and two other
persons, to be appointed by the president, one of whom was
to be a licensed and practising physician and surgeon.
By another, the board was to appoint enrolling officers,
whose duty it should be to enrol all persons of their districts
subject to military duty, noting their age and places of residence, and to report all to the board of enrolment, who
were to consolidate the names "into one list."
By another section it was enacted, that whenever it might
be necessary to call out the national forces for military services, the -Presidentmight assign to each district the number
Maynard v. Maynard, 10 Massachusetts, 456; Wiggins v. Lusk, 12 Illinois,
132; Roosevelt v. Carow, 6 Barbour, 194; 2 Washburn on Real Property,
581.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 731.

