Dec. 1865.]

FENNERSTEIN'S

C11AMPAGNE.

Statement of the case.

named in the statute were used after it took effect, no matter
when they were prepared, the offence was complete. lRevenue
laws are not penal laws in the sense that requires them to be
construed with great strictness in favor of the defendant.
They are rather to be regarded as remedial in their character,
and intended to prevent fraud, suppress public wrong,. and
promote the public good. They should be so construed as
to carry out the intention of the legislature in passing them
and most effectually accomplish these objects.*
JUDGMUENT AFFIRIMED

FENNERSTEIN'S CHAMPAGNE.
In order to show the actual market value of articles of merchandise at a
particular place in a foreign country, letters by third parties abroad to
other third parties-offering to sell at such rates-if written in ordinary course of the business of the party writing them, and contemporaneously with the transaction which is the subject of the suit-are admissible as evidence, even though neither the writers nor the recipients
of the letters are in any way connected with the subject of the suit, and
though there is no proof that the writers of the letters are dead.

O.N a libel of information and seizure in the District Court
for the :Northern District of California, the question was
whether certain champagne wines made at Rheims, in
France, and invoiced for this country in October, 1863, had
been knowingly invoiced below "the actual market value
of them at the time and place when and where manufactured," at which actual value the statute requires that they
should be valued.t 'Upon the trial, as appeared by the bill
of exceptions, the claimants introduced testimony tending
* Taylor v. United States, 3 Howard, 210.
- The reader who desires a full view of the nature and effect of this statute will find it in the preceding case. The present ease involved all the
questions recited in that, and the additional point presented in the syllabus
beside. Of course the latter only is reported.
VOL. II.

10

FENNERSTEIN'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

to show that champagne wines in the hands of the manufacturers in the champagne district of France, in a manufactured state, ready for consumption, have no fixed actual
market value, and are not sold or dealt in at the place of
production. To rebut this evidence and for the purpose of
showing that such wines are held for sale at current rates
and prices, at which they are freely offered and sold there,
and also to show, among other things, the market value of
the wines in question, the United States offered in evidence
seven letters, dated on and between October 27, 1863, and
May 12, 1864, from various persons, large dealers at Rheims,
where, as already said, the wines were manufactured. One
will exhibit the type of all:
"RmImS, 29th of April, 1864.

"3R. Aiios HILL, OF

CALIFORNIA,

Edwards's Hotel, Hanover Square, London.
"I received the letter which you have done me the honor to
write to me, under date of Liverpool, 26th instant, and I hasten
to answer it. I sell only one single quality of champagne wine,
'Qualitg Superieure,' Eugene Cliquot's brand. The price of this
wine is four francs the bottle, and fbur and a quarter francs the
two half-bottles, taken at lheims, packing included; and I allow
3 per cent. discount for payment in cash. I know perfectly well
the kinds of wine which suit the American taste. My brand is
also very highly appreciated in New York and California. I
have put the price at the lowest that I can sell wine, in consideration of the importance of your orders, and in the hope of establishing permanent relations with your respectable house.
"Accept, Monsieur, my hearty salutations.
"EUGENE

CLIQUOT."

To the introduction of these letters the claimant's counsel
objected, assigning the same grounds which were assigned
against the introduction of certain Prices-Current in the
preceding case of Cliquot's Champagne, to wit: because they
were immaterial and irrelevant; because they referred to
champagne wines different in kind, quality, and price fiom
those proceeded against in this action; because no actual
sale or purchase had been or was proposed to be proved,

Dec. 1865.]

FENNERSTEIN'S CHAMPAGNE.
Opinion of the court.

based upon or connected with the letters offered; assigning
also as ground additional that these letters were 'resinter alios
c'ta, and that the letters in reply to which they were written
were not produced.
The court below admitted the letters, and the government
had judgment. On error here their admissibility was the
point discussed.
.lr. D. B. Eaton, for the claimant: The theory of the law
of evidence, on which these letters were received, would
seem to have been this: that when the question is, whether
there is a market price for an article, ard what the same is
at a specific time and in a given city, in a foreign country,
the facts relative thereto may be proved by reading in evidence whatever any manufacturer of the article referred to
has written on the subject at any time, within about a year
of the date in question, to anybody else in any part of the
world; and that this may be done when all the letters to
which those read are responses, are withheld; when, for
aught that appears, those letters were mere decoys, written to
bring back a particular reply to be used in evidence; when
no account is given of the persons to whom the letters offered
in evidence purport to be addressed and when the name (Ir.
Amos Hil, in this one case), may be a psadonyme merely.
Is this court ready to declare, in solemn decision, such a
theory of evidence, a true one?
Independently of all the objections which in the case of
Cliquot's C0wii ayne were made to certain Prices-Current
there offered, and which apply as well to these letters, the
objection of res inter alios acra has direct and the strongest
bearing.
Xlr. Speed, A. G., and iJI. Lake, -D.A. for C,1 fornia, contra.
'r. Justice SWAY-E delivered the opinion of the court.
The only point of the several objections taken to the admission of the letters necessary to be considered is, that they
were res inter alios ata, and hence incompetent. The others
are disposed of by what was said in the preceding case.

FENNERSTEIN'S CHAMPAGNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In Taylor et al. v. United States,* foreign invoices relating
to goods other than those of the claimant, and received by
other merchants, were admitted to rebut the evidence given
by the claimant of a general usage to allow a deduction of
five per cent. for measurement-those invoices showing no
such allowance-and a foreign letter attached to one of the
invoices, though objected to, was also received. This court
approved the ruling of the court below. In the case of
Clipot's Champagne, just decided, we held that the answer
of a dealer, and a Price-Current, relative to the prices of his
wines, given by him to a witness, were competent evidence.
In Doe d. ratteshall v. Twifordt it was held by the King's
Bench, that the entry by an attorney of the service on a
tenant of a notice to quit, made in the ordinary course of his
business, was admissible. In Stapylton v. Clought a like entry
made by an attorney's clerk, contemporaneously with the
service, was held to be admissible for the same reasons; but
the after parol declaration of the clerk, offered to contradict
the entry, was rejected. In this case Lord Campbell said,
"I entirely approve of the decision in Doe d. Patteshall v.
T lrford, and the cases decided upon the same principle.
They lead to the admission of sincere evidence, and aid in
the investigation of truth."
In Canrolv. Tyler,ยง in Sherman v. Crosby,1j and in Shearman
v. Alcens -cases in Maryland, INew York, and Massachusetts-the receipts of third persons for money paid to them
by one of the parties to the suit were received in evidence
without the presence of the persons by whom the receipts
were given. In -olladay, Executor of Littlepage,v. Little age,**
in the Supreme Court of Appeals in Virginia, the parol declaration by a third person of such payment was admitted.
In Alston v. Taylor,tt in orth Carolina, a receipt given by
an attorney of another State for certain claims placed in his
hands for collection was held to be admissible, to show the
* 3 Howard, 210.

$ 22 English Law and Equity, 276.
tI11 Johnson, 70.
2 Miumford, 816.

t 3 Barnwell & Adolphus, 890.
2 Harris & Gill, 56.
4 Pickering, 283.
ft 1 Haywood, 395, note.

Dec. 1865.']

FENNEESTEIN'S
Dec.186]

C HAMPAGNE.

Wayne, Clifford, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

time at which he received the claims. In Pratherv. Johnson,*
the Court of Appeals of Maryland said: "If A., as surety of
B., pays a debt due to C., on proof of the payment, A. could
recover of B. He could recover on C.'s saybig he had paid,
and of course if C. wrote that A. had paid, surely it is evidence
whether the writing is i&a book or a letter."
'We think the letters in question in this case were properly
admitted. In reaching this conclusion we do not go beyond
the verge of the authorities to which we have referred. In
some of those cases the person asserted to be necessary as a
witness was dead. But that can make no difference in the
result.t The rule rests upon the consideration that the entry,
other writing, or parol declaration of the author, was within
his ordinary business. In most cases he must make the
entry contemporaneously with the occurrence to which it
relates.1 In all he has full knowledge, no motive to falsehood, and there is the strongest improbability of untruth.
Safer sanctions rarely surround the testimony of a witness
examined under oath. The rule is as firmly fixed as the
more general rule to which it is an exception. Modern legislation has largely and wisely liberalized the law of evidence.
We feel no disposition to contract the just operation of the
rule here under consideration.
JUDGMENT AFrFI

ED.

Justices WAY-NE, CLI[FFORD, and DAVIS declared
their inability to assent to so much of the preceding opinion
as decides that the letters, written by third persons and
addressed to third persons, were properly admitted in evidence.
* S Harris & Johnson, 487.
t 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,
120; Holladay v. Littlepage, 2 Mumford,
821.
$ Stapylton v. Clough, 22 E. L. & E. 276.

