150

WALKER v. THE TRANSPORTATION

Oo.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

WALiKER V. TiE TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
1. The first section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, entitled An
act to limit the liability of ship-owners and for other purposes," ex
empts the owners of vessels in cases of loss by fire from liability for the
negligence of their officers or agents, in which the owners have not
directly participated.
2. The proviso to that act allowing parties to make their own contracts in
regard to the liabilities of the owners, refers to express contracts.
3. A local custom that ship-owners shall be liable in such cages for the
negligence of their agents, is not a good custom; being directly opposed
to the statute.

"AN act to limit the liability of ship-owners and for other
purposes," passed by Congress March 3, 1851,* enacts by its
first section that no owner or owners, of any ship or vessel,
shall be liable to answer for any loss or damage which may
happen by reason or means of fire on board said ship or
vessel, "unless such fire is caused by the design or neglect of
such, owner or owners." The same section contains a proviso
that "nothing in the act shall prevent the partiesfiom making
such contract as they please, extending or limiting the liability
of such owner." And the sixth section enacts that "nothing
in the preceding sections shall be construed to take away or
affect the remedy to which any party may be entitled against
the master, officers, or mariners of such vessel for negligence,
fraud, or other malversation." Another, that the act shall
not apply to the owners of vessels engaged in "inland navigation."
With this act in force, Walker & Co. shipped, at Chicago,
a cargo of grain on a vessel belonging to the Western Transportation Company, common carriers upon our northern lakes,
to be delivered at Buffalo. The vessel caught fire, and the
grain was burnt up. Walker & Co. accordingly filed a libel
in personant against the company in the District Court for
Northern Illinois for the value of the wheat.
The company, admitting the receipt of the wheat on board
the vessel and the failure to deliver, set up three defences:
* 9 Stat. at Large, 635.

Dec. 1865.]

WALKER V. THE TRANSPORTATION Co.

151

Statement of the case.

1. That the wheat was destroyed by fire, which was not
caused by the "design or neglect" of the defendant. This
article of the defence being obviously framed so as to profit
by the act of 1851.
2. That the wheat was received on board, with reference
to the terms of the bills of lading usually given by the respondent, which contained an exception of the dangers of
navigation, fire, and collision.
3. That the wheat was received on board with the understanding that the usual bill of lading, common in that trade,
should be given and accepted as the contract between the
parties; and the article averred that such bill of lading contained a clause exempting the ship-owner from liability for
loss by "perils of navigation, perils of the sea, and other
equivalent words;" and that by usage and custom, those
words included loss by fire, unless the fire had been caused
by the negligence or misconduct of the owner or his servants or agents. It then averred that the fire did not occur
through the negligence or misconduct of the respondent, or
its servants or agents.
All three of the defences were excepted to in the District
Court in 1856; and the case being submitted there without
argument, the libel, without any rulings having been made
on the exceptions, was dismissed.
In 1860 this court, in 3loore and others v. The American
Traj'csporlation Co.,* decided that, notwithstanding "inland
navigation" was excepted in it, the act of 1851 applied to
vessels navigating our northern lakes. The libellants, then
perceiving the advantage to be gained in the face of the act
by the admission impliedly made on the other side that the
cargo had been shipped and received with an understanding
that if fire occurred through the negligence of the owner's
servants 0' agents the owner should be liable, awended their
libel, admitting in form that such was the understanding
and contract on both sides; meaning, now, of course, to
place their case-as they did afterwards-on the fact that
- 24 Howard, 1

152

WALKER V. THE TRANSPORTATION

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the fire had been caused by the negligence or misconduct of
the owner's servants or agents.
The case was then heard in the Circuit Court, on new testimony taken by both sides as to such negligence and misconduct. No proof however was given in either court as
to the alleged understanding, custom, or contract; and this
rested on the allegation of the answer and the admission of
the amended answer made in the way already stated.
The Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District
Court, dismissing the libel, and the case being now here on
appeal, two questions were considered:
1. Whether the owner of a vessel used in the trade on
the lakes is liable, independently of contract, for a loss by
fire, which occurs without any design or neglect of the
owner; although it may be traced to negligence of some of
the officers or agents having charge of the vessel?
2. Whether the special contract set up by the respondent,
although admitted by the libellants, was founded on a custom which the law would support, and whether or not,
therefore, the case was to be governed by the act of 1851 ?
J1ir. R ae, for the appellants; Mr. Spalding, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
1. The answer to the first of the two questions above presented, and which we have to consider, depends upon the
construction to be given to the act of Congress. That the
owners of vessels were liable at common law in the case
stated in the question, had been decided by this court in the
case of the New Jersey Steam .ravigation Co. v. The Merchants'
Bank.* That decision led to the enactment of the statute.
The statute has been the subject of consideration in this
court before, in the case of Moore and others v. The American
Transportation Co. The policy of the act, its relation to the
act of 53 George III, and other British statutes, are there
discussed; and it is decided- that being the principal question before the court-that the act embraces vessels engaged
* 6 Howard, 344.

Dee. 1865.]

WALKER v. THE TRANSPORTATION CO.

153

Opinion of the court.

in commerce on the great northern lakes as well as on the
ocean. It is quite evident that the statute intended to modify
the ship-owner's common-law liability for everything but
the act of God and the king's enemies. We think that it
goes so far as to relieve the ship-owner from liability for loss
by fire, to which he has not contributed either by his own
design or neglect.
By the language of the first section the owners are released from liability for loss by fEre in all cases not coming
within the exception there made. The exception is of cases
where the fire can be charged to the owners' design, or the
owners' neglect.
When we consider that the object of the act is to limit the
liability of owner's of vessels, and that the exception is not in
terms of negligence generally, but only of negligence of the
owners, it would be a strong construction of the act, in derogation of its general purpose, to hold that this exception
extends to the officers and crews of the vessels as representing the owners.

If,
however, there could be any doubt upon the construction of this section standing alone, it is removed by a consideration of the sixth section, which, in terms, saves the
remedy to which any party may be entitled against the master, officers, or mariners of such vessel, for negligence, fraud,
or other malversation. This implies that it was the purpose
of the preceding sections to release the owner from some
liability for conduct of the master and other agents of the
owner, for which these parties were themselves liable, and
were to remain so; and that is stated to be their negligence
and fraud.
We are, therefore, of opinion that in reference to fires
occurring on that class of vessels to which the statute applies, the owner is not liable for the misconduct of the officers
and mariners of the vessel in which he does not participate
personally.
2. But there is a proviso to the first section of the act,
which says, "that nothing in this act contained shall prevent
the parties from making such contract as they please, ex-

154

WALKER V. THE TRANSPORTATION

Co.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tending or limiting the liability of such owner." It is asserted by the libellants that the answer of the defendant sets
out a contract which makes the owners liable in case of loss
by fire from the negligence of their officers and agents; and
that, by the amendment to the libel, this contract is admitted; and that the only question left in the case is the existence of such negligence; a question on which testimony was
taken on both sides.
The respondent undoubtedly does set out, in one article
of his answer, that the wheat was received on board with the
understanding that the usual bill of lading, common in that
trade, should be given and accepted as the contract between
the parties, and avers that such bill of lading contained a
clause exempting the ship-owner from liability for loss by
"perils of navigation, perils of the sea, and other equivalent
words;" and that by usage and custom, those words included
loss by fire, unless said fire had been caused by the negligence or misconduct of the owner or his servants or agents.
This article was excepted to, as well as the other two defences we have mentioned, by libellants in the District
Court, when the case was tried ther6; but no ruling seems
to have been had on the exceptions. When the case came
to the Circuit Court, after the case of lioore v. The Transportation Co. had decided that the act of 1851 was applicable
to the lake trade, the libellants, perceiving the advantage to
be gained by such a special contract, amended their libel and
admitted it.
No proof was offered of the contract or of the custom; and
it may be doubted if the defendant intended to state, as an
affirmative proposition, that on such bills of lading as those
described, usage held the owners responsible for the negligence of their officers in cases of fire. But the custom is so
stated, and the libellants admit the contract and the construction given to it by custom.
It is obvious, however, that there is nothing in the language
of such bills of lading concerning "perils of navigation and
perils of the sea," which makes the owner liable for the neg.
igence of his servants in case of loss by fire. Can usage add

Dec. 1865.]

THE T OMPSOx.
Statement of the case.

to words which do not express it a liability from which the
act of Congress declares the ship-owner to be free? It was
the common law, or immemorial usage, which made him
liable before the statute. That relieved him from the force
of that usage or law. It cannot be that the liability can be
revived by merely attaching such usage to words in a contract
which have no such meaning of themselves. The contract
mentioned in the proviso, which can take a case out of the
statute, is one made by the parties, not by custom; in other
words, an express contract.
We do not believe, then, that the special contract set up
by respondent, founded on usage, although admitted by the
libellants, is founded on a custom which the law will support, and therefore the case must be governed by the act of
1851.
The construction which we have already given to that act
requires that the judgment of the Circuit Court, dismissing
the libel, shall be
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE THOMPSON.
1. Prize courts properly deny damages or costs where there has been "probable cause" for seizure.
2. Probable cause exists where there are circumstances sufficient to warrant
suspicion, even though not sufficient to warrant condemnation.
3. These principles applied to a case before the court where a captured vessel was restored, but without costs or damages.

Tn brig "Thompson," on her return voyage to Halifax
fiom Nassau, was captured at sea with a cargo of 486 casks
of turpentine and 81 bales of cotton, on the 16th of June,
1863, by the government steamer, the United States, and
sent into the port of New York for adjudication. The capture was made on suspicion that the vessel had broken the
blockade of our Southern coast, established by our govern-

