Dec. 1865.]

THE IRON-CLAD ATLANTA.
Statement of the case.

THE IRON-CLAD

ATLANTA.

I. On a question under the act of Congress of July 17, 1862, which distributes prize-money according to the fact whether the captured vesselis of equal or superior force to the vessel or vessels making the capture,
it is proper to consider as the capturing force, not only the flag-ship,
leading, actually firing and by her fire doing the only damage-immense damage-done; but also any other vessel, which by having diverted the fire of the vessel forced to surrender, by an obviously great
force, by its position, conduct, and plain purpose to come at once into
the engagement and to inflict perhaps complete destruction,-may
have hastened the surrender.
2. Where captors appoint an agent to 19represent their interest in prizemoney," binding themselves, their heirs and executors to pay such
agent one per cent. of all moneys which shall be collected and severally
adjudged to them as such, requesting, by the instrument of appointment, -the proper officers of government to pay the said fee to the
agent as a charge or fee to be deducted from the award of prize-money
to be paid us, previous to paying over the same for distribution," the
prize court has no power to award the percentage. The agent should
apply to the proper officers of the government intrusted with the distribution of the money.

AN act of Congress* of July 17, 1862, provides that prizes
taken by the navy at sea, when of equal or superior force to
the vessel or vessels making the capture, shall be the sole
property of the captors, and when of inferior force shall be
dicided equally between the United States and the officers
and men making the "capture."
When the United States
thus receive prize-money it is passed to the Naval Pension
Fund.
With this act in force the Atlanta, a vessel of the late
rebel confederacy, was captured by our navy and condemned,
with her armament and stores, as prize by the District Court
for Massachusetts.
Before the vessel could be brought into port for adjudication she was taken by the Secretary of the Navy for the use
of the government, and her appraised value, $351,000, deposited with the proper officers of the Treasury subject to
the order of the court.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 750.

TRE IRON-CLAD ATLANTA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In distributing this fund so deposited the question arose
betweon the United States and certain of the captors whether
the captured vessel was of s-ve)'r or of inferior force to the
force which had captured her; the importance of the question being, of course, in this,-that if she was of superior,
the captors would get the whole of her value: while, if of
inferior, they would have to share it with the government.
The facts of the capture were thus:
The Atlanta-originally the British ship Fingal, and converted, by enormous labor and the cost of near a million of
dollars, into a powerful iron-clad for the destruction of the
government fleets, then blockading the rebel ports and coast
-had -been for some time previous to her capture anchored
in Wassau Sound, Georgia. Two monitors of the United
States, the Weehawken and the :Nahaut, guarded the entrance to prevent her egress. The captain of the Weehawken, Captain Rodgers, U. S. h., was the senior and commanding officer of the government force in that region, and
the pilot was on board his monitor. The presce of the mozitors and their character and force were known to the rebels. In
the belief that the Atlanta was of superior force to both,
she was sent down the sound to capture or destroy them;
"General Beauregard," the log stated, or as Captain Rodgers
testified, "1the general commanding the rebel army in the
military department of Charleston and Savannah"-following
with a select party in a wooden gunboat behind to witness
her anticipated conquest. It was early in the morning of
the seventeenth of June, 1863, that her approach was descried by the monitors. These immediately prepared for
action. The Weehawken, laying further up the sound than
the Nahant, slipped her cable, and steamed towards the sea;
the INTahant weighed her anchor and, under orders of Captain
Rodgers, followed in the wake of the Weehawken. The
vessels took their course towards the sea for the purpose of
gaining time to get fully ready for engagement. After going
out some distance, the Weehawken turned suddenly toward
the enemy. At this moment the Atlanta opened her fire
on the Zhahant, which was then the nearer vessel to her, but

Dec. 1865.]

THE IRON-CLAD ATLANTA.

Statement of the ease.

the shot did not take effect. The Nahant soon afterwards
rounded, following the Weehawken, and the latter vessel,
being now within between three and four hundred yards of
the Atlanta, opened her fire, and when within two hundred
yards repeated it. The first shot of the Weehawken, weighing four lindred pounds and fired with tldrty-five pounds of
powcder,-the largest shot, it is said, ever fired in naval warfare,-struck the Atlanta upon the side of her casemate,
knoclng a hole in it, but without going through, and scattering over the inclosed decks great quantities of wood and
and iron splinters, some of dangerous size, wounding several men, and prostrating on deck, insensible, many others.
As many as forty persons were knocked down and either
wounded or stunned for the moment by the effects of this
shot, and it demoralized the entire crew. The next discharge carried a ball which struck the top of the pilot-house,
crushing and driving down the bars on the top and sides,
wounding both pilots and one helmsman, and stunning the
other helmsman as well as the wounded men. These men
fell in a heap on the floor of the pilot-house, and the rebel
officers said prevented any one from getting up into it. In
the words of Captain :Rodgers, "the first shot took away the
desire to fight, and the second the ability to get away."
Such, in short, was the terrific effect of the Weehawken's
shot, that the Atlanta . a fe- mntes surrendered. She
had, in fact, struck after the first shot, though, in the smoke,
her white flag was undistinguishable from a blue one used
as her battle-flag. In the meantime, the Nahant was advancing with all practicable speed, making directly for the
Atlanta, the captain reserving his fire until he could lay his
vessel alongside the enemy, thinking that it could then be
delivered with greater effect. The shortness of the period
-between the first fire of the Weehawken hnd the surrender
of the Atlanta prevented the captain of the Tahant from ac.
complishing his purpose.
The capture of this iron-clad Atlanta was one of the early
conclusive evidences that the rebel confederacy could not
stand at all before the power of the government; and it was

THE IRON-CLAD ATLANTA.

[Sup. or.

Argument for the Weehawken.

justly regarded as a great event of the war. In its bearings
upon naval science, and particularly upon naval gunnery, it
has been thought to be the most significant battle of modern
times except that of the Monitor and Merrimack.
The monitors were of 844 tons each; one had eighty-four
men, the other eighty-five; together, 1688 tons, and one
hundred and sixty-one men. They were as nearly equal to
each other as could be. The Atlanta was of about 1000
tons, and had a hundred and forty-three men.
Upon this case the court below, considering that the
Nabant had, in contemplation of law, taken part in the capture, and, therefore, that the capturing force was superior
to the vessel captured, decreed one-half the fund to the captors, and the other half to the United States.
From this decree the officers and crew of the Weehawken
appealed; a certain Hodge appealing also; the ground of his
appeal being that the entire officers, crew, and handseighty-five persons in number-had by power of attorney
appointed him their agent to represent their interest in the
prize-money, binding themselves, their heirs and executors,
to pay him one per cent. of all moneys which should be collected and severally adjudged to them as prize-money, and
by the instrument of appointment requesting "the proper
officers of government to pay the said fee to their said agent
as a charge or fee, to be deducted from the award of prizemoney to be paid to us, previous to paying over the same for
distribution:" and that the court below had distributed the
whole fund between the government and the captors without taking any notice at all of him, Mr. Hodge aforesaid.
31r. .Reverdy Johnson,forthe appellants; the Attorney-General,
Mr. Speed, and the Assistant Attorney-General, _3r. Ashton, not
opposing, having in fact left the court-room in company of
each other soon after the case was called.
What is a capturing force? Is it the vessel which took the
only active part in the capture, or does it include the other
vessels, present or within signal distance, who took no part
in the action, and in no way contributed to the successful

Dec. 1865.]

THE IRON-CLAD ATLANTA.
Argument for the 'Weebawken.

result? There were on the Union side two monitors, the
Weehawken and Nahant. The -Weehawken, when she approached the enemy, was the leading vessel, followed by the
Nahant. The Weehawken engaged the Atlanta, and compelled her to surrender before the Nahaut could get into
action or bad fired a gun; she was, therefore, really the
capturing force, unaided by the other monitor; and had the
Nahant been absent, it is evident that all the circumstances
and events of the fight, and the result, would have been
precisely the same. The result was due simply to the tremendous effect of a single shot; a shot, the like of which the
world never heard of, and of which science had not before
conceived. The old rules of warfare were superseded by
the use of novel engines of destruction. Whoever was first
struck was conquered. Whoever fired that shot was victor.
The Weehawken was notoriously a vessel of inferior force to
her antagonist. Will it be said that the presence of other
vessels has a great moral influence on the result (even if
these other vessels do not take an active part), by discouraging the one side and encouraging the other? There might
be some force in this argument, had the Atlanta suddenly
fallen in with the two monitors at sea by the lifting of the
fog or the breaking of the day, or had she in any other
manner come unexpectedly upon them; but no such moral
influence existed in this case; for the Atlanta-trusting in
her strength, really very great, and supposed to be capable of
resisting any shot, well knowing, too, what the opposing force
was-came down proudly and with deliberation to attack
the two monitors, with the conviction that she could take
or destroy both. The result was caused simply by the extraordinary and novel sort of armament, of which neither
she, nor till then any one but its inventors, had formed a
conception.
The officers of all these iron-clad monitors have had, may
it please the court, a most severe duty to perform. They
have lived in iron dungeons, under artificial ventilation,
never being able, as any one who has once seen a monitor

TnE

IRON-CLAD ATLANTA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Weehawken.

will readily believe, to appear on deck
sea was constantly beating over them.
too, without much hope and with only a
prize-money, as they were not cruising

when afloat: the
They have been,
slender chance of
vessels. This in

fact, we believe, is the only instance in which any of them
has made a dollar of prize-money. This engagement was

most important in its effects on the war. It did the highest
honor to the naval reputation and resources of the United
States abroad. If considerations of liberality are in any
way to influence a decision, this is certainly a strong case for
their exercise. We recall-needing but slightly to change
it-the language of a great judge of past time"in England,
when speaking of a memorable case before him :* "Affection, indeed, may never press on Judgment; yet it is a case
in which no man who hath any apprebension of nobleness,
but would lay hold of a twig or a twiae-thread to support so
honorable a claim." Nearly every prize taken during the
war has been by a superior force, as most of the prizes
have been blockade-runners.

In almost every case, there-

fore, the United States has received, for the Naval Pension
Fund, half of the amount. That fund has thus, it is said,
obtained nine to ten millions of dollars from captures. The
income of the sum received is five-fold of all demands upon
it. If it gets nothing here, there is nobody to complain,
nobody to suffer.
It is obvious that the government is desirous that if the
court can give the whole of this money to the gallant Rodgers
and his crew, it will give it. The attorney-general and his
young assistant-remarkable for the closeness and fidelity,
as for the ability also, with which they protect in ordinary
every interest of the government-have left this case undefended, as if willing to show, what without doubt they feel,
that if the letter of the statute calls for a construction in
favor of the government-which we deny-the case itself,
and the just reward of bravery, and the spirit of the whole
country, demand another.
* Sir William Jones, temp. Car. I;
Jenes, 96.

Case of the Earldom of De Vere, 1st

Dec. 1865.]

THE IRON-CLAD

ATLANTA.

431

Opinion of the court.

As respeets 3W. HUodge. The appointment given him by the
captors was lawful and proper; as much for their benefit and
for the interests of justice as for his own. He has done his
duty. The vessel has been condemned as prize. The constant changes that are occurring in the naval service will
render it impossible for him to trace up the eighty-five
officers and men of these vessels, scattered as they are in
the time since which the capture occurred. Some are dead.
The Weehawken, it is matter of well-known and sad histbry,
has been sunk, and between twenty and thirty of her crew
drowned. Except under a decree of the court, Mr. Hodge
is left without resource for collecting the percentage voluntarily allowed him by the brave captors.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of Congress of July 17, 1862, provides that if the
prize taken be of equal or superior force to the capturing
vessel or vessels, the whole shall go to the captors, but if it
be of an inferior force the'proceeds shall be divided equally
between them and the United States. The court below decided that the prize was of an inferior force, and, therefore,
awarded only one-half of the proceeds to the captors; and
from this decision the appeal is taken.
There is no dispute about the facts of the case; they are
stated with accuracy and clearness in the opinion of the
learned district judge, and we can do little more than repeat
his argument, and affirm his conclusion upon the point presented for our consideration.
The Atlanta had been for some time previous to her capture in Wassau Sound, and the monitors, the Weehawken
and the Nahant, guarded its entrance to prevent her egress.
The presence of the monitors and their character and force
were known to the rebels, but in the belief that the Atlanta
was of superior force to both, she was sent down the sound
to capture or destroy them. It was early in the morning of
the seventeenth of June, 1863, that her approach was descried. The monitors immediately began to prepare for ac.
tion. The Weehawken, lying further up the sound than the

THE IRON-OLAD ATLANTA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Kahant, slipped her cable, and steamed towards the sea; the
Nahant weighed her anchor and followed in the wake of the
Weehawken. Both vessels took this course for the purpose
of gaining time to get fully ready for the engagement. The
Weehawken first turned toward the enemy. At this moment the Atlanta opened her fire on the Nahant, then being
the nearest vessel to her, but her shot did not take effect.
The Kahant soon afterwards rounded, following the Weehawken, and the latter vessel, when within between three
and four hundred yards of the Atlanta, opened her fire, and
when within two hundred yards repeated it, and such was
the destructive effect of her shot, that the Atlanta in a few
minutes surrendered. In the meantime, the Nahant was advancing with all practicable speed, making directly for the
Atlanta, the captain reserving his fire until he could lay his
vessel alongside the enemy, thinking that it could then be
delivered with greater effect. The shortness of the period
between the first fire of the Weehawken and the surrender
of the Atlanta prevented the captain of the Nabant from accomplishing his purpose.
The point presented is whetler, under these circumstances, the iahant is to be regarded as one of the capturing
vessels within the meaning of the act of Congress. The importance of the point is this: the Weehawken was confessedly inferior in force to the Atlanta, and if she is alone to be
regarded in the comparison of forces, the whole prize-money
goes to the captors. On the other hand, the combined force
of the two monitors was superior to that of the Atlanta, and
if both are to be regarded as capturing vessels, only onehalf of the prize-money goes to the captors, and the decree
must be affirmed.
The mere fact that the only shot fired, and the only damage done, was by the Weehawken, is not decisive. Other
circumstances must be taken into account in determining
the matter-such as the force, position, conduct, and intention of the Nahant. The two vessels were known to be
under the same command, and of nearly equal force. The

Dec. 1865.]

TjE IRON-CLAD ATLANTA.
Opinion of the court.

Atlanta descended the sound to attack both, and governed
herself with reference to their combined action. It is not
'reasonable to suppose that her course would have been the
one pursued, had she had only the Weehawken to encounter. Besides, the fire of the Atlanta was directed entirely
to the Nahant, and of course diverted from her consort. It
is possible that a different result might have followed had
the fire been turned upon the Weehawken. This diversion
must be considered in every just sense of the terms as giving
aid to her. Again, the power of the shot of the Weehawken had evidently surprised the officers of the Atlanta, who
found their vessel speedily disabled and their crew demoralized. The advance upon her, at full speed, of a second monitor, of equal force, ready to inflict similar injuries, may have
hastened the surrender. It can hardly be supposed that the
approach of the second monitor did not enter into the consideration of the captain and officers of the Atlanta. If the
shot from the guns of one of the monitors could, in a few
moments, penetrate the casemate of the Atlanta, crush i.
'the bars of her pilot-house, and prostrate between forty ant:
ffty of her men, her captain might well conclude that the
combined fire of both would speedily sink his vessel and
destroy his entire crew. It cannot be affirmed, nor is it
reasonable to suppose, that any of the incidents of the battle
would have occurred as they did, if the Nahant had not been
present in the action.
We concur, therefore, in the view of the learned district
judge, that in the comparison of the forces engaged in the
conflict, the Nahant must be included with the Weehawken.
We fully appreciate the observations of counsel as to the
arduous service of the officers and crews of our iron-clad
monitors, but considerations of this character, or admiration
of conduct of highest merit are not allowed to influence our
decision, and however much we might feel disposed to do
so, we are not at liberty to award to the gallant officers and
men of the 'Weehawken and Nahant the entire proceeds of
the prize. Our duty is simply to announce and apply the
law; and there our power ends.
YOL. 11L

28

PERALTA V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

The appeal of lodge, the agent of the officers and crews
of the monitors, is dismissed. The court below had no
power to award payment from the prize-money of the compensation which was agreed upon between these parties.
lie must apply, under his power of attorney, to the proper
officers of the government charged with the distribution of
the money.
The decree of the court below is

PRALTA v. UNITED STATES.
1. Written documentary evidence, no matter how formal and complete, or
how well supported by the testimony of witnesses, if coming from private
hands, is insufficient to establish a Mexican grant if there is nothing
in the public records to show that such evidence ever existed; though
the court remarks that if the claimant can show to the satisfaction of
the court that the grant has been made in conformity to law and -recorded, and that the record has been lost or destroyed, he will then be
permitted to give secondary evidence of its contents.
2. A bare possession for a year before our conquest of California insufficient
to establish an equity in opposition to the above first-announced rule.
3. In this case the court enforces the necessity of adhering to general rules
when experience has demonstrated their wisdom, even though, sometimes, adherence to them should make cases of individual hardship.
APPEAL from the decree of the District Court for Northern
California on a claim presented in 1853, by Maria de Valencia, for herself and others, heirs of Teodora Peralta, for a
piece of land in California on which they were living; the
claim being founded on a grant alleged by them to have
been made in the spring of 1846 to the said Teodora by
Governor Pio Pico. The case had come of course to the
District Court on an appeal from the Board of Land Commissioners established by the act of March 3, 1851, to settle
private land claims in California.
The expediente which was produced by the claimant
showed that in 1845, the Sefiora Peralta petitioned the alcalde of San Rafael to obtain a report from the neighbors
or colihalantes of the tract which she desired to solicit from

