TERRITORY v7. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

TERRITORY V. LOCKWOOD.
A proceeding in the nature of a Quo Warranto, in one of the Territories of
the United States, to test the right of a person to exercise the functions
of a judge of a Supreme Court of the Territory, must be in the name
of the United States, and not in the name of the Territory. If taken
in the name of the Territory the error may be taken advantage of on
demurrer, and it is fatal.

THE act-of Congress organizing the Territory of Nebraska
ordains that the executive power in and over the Territory
shall be vested in a governor; that the legislative power
shall be vested in a governor and legislative assembly; and
that the judicial power of the Territory shall be vested in a
Supreme Court, &c. And the Code of the Territorial legislature* gives the remedy of information against "any person
unlawfully holding or exercising any public office or franchise within this Territory;" providing, also, that the defendant shall "answer such petition in the usualway; and, issue
being joined, it shall be tried in the ordinary manner."
With these provisions in force, the district attorney filed
in one of the District Courts of Nebraska Territory an
information in the nature of a Quo Warranto in the name
of the " Territory of Nebraska, on the relation of Eleazar
Wakely," against a certain Lockwood, to test the rights of
the said Lockwood to exercise the office of an associate judge
of the Supreme Court of the Territory; a court in which,
as is known, the judges are appointed by the President of
the United states. The information was full, explicit, and
technical in its statement of the case; alleging, with circumstance, that the relator had a right to the office, and that the
defendant held, exercised, usurped, and invaded, &c., without
any legal warrant, &c. The defendant demurred generally.
The District Court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment in his favor. The relator took the case to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, where the judgment below was
affirmed. This was a writ of error to reverse that judgment
* 10 Stat. at Large, 277.

Dec. 1865.]

TERRITORY v. ]LOCKWOOD.
Argument for the relator.

The question presented for the determination of this court
was, whether the petition was well brought in the name of
the Territory, or whether it should not have been in behalf
of the United States.
Mr. Woolworth for the Territory and relator,plaintiff in error:
The language of the Code, "any public office," plainly embraces the office of a Territorial judge. N~ot only does such
an officer hold an office "within the Territory," but the whole
of the judicial power of the Territory is vested in him and
his associates. He is an officer of the Territory. His duties
are all performed within it and concerns its people. The
expression of the organic act that "the judicial power of the
Territory" shall be vested, &c., indicates that the powers
belong to the Territory in its very nature; that is to say,
that they are inherent in it as a political entity. The Territory is made the sole governing power within its limits, so
far as its domestic affairs are concerned. All laws, we know,
are enacted, and all judicial proceedings conducted in it6
name. The usurper of one of its offices is an offender against
its dignity. The people of it suffer by the act of usurpation.
It is unimportant how either the relator or the defendant
claims; whether by appointment of the president, the governor, or by election flom the people. Each, in either or
any case, is equally within the spirit of the Code and organic
act.
Territorial courts are not constitutional courts in which
the judicial powers conferred by the Constitution on the
General Government can be deposited. They are legislative
courts, created in virtue of the general right of sovereignty
which exists in the government, or in virtue of that clause
which enables Congress to make laws regulating the territories belonging to the United States. The jurisdiction with
which they are invested is not a part of that judicial power
which is defined in the third article of the Constitution, but
is conferred by Congress in the exercise of its powers over
the Territories of the United States.*
* American Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Peters, 646.

TERRITORY V. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The Code does not contemplate a demurrer. It declares,
on the contrary, that the defendant shall "answer." But,
however this may be, the demurrer is but general. The defendant thus admits himself to be an intruder into a judicial
office, and rests upon the pretence that no cause of action is
shown by the information, though that information sets forth
the relator's right to the office and his unwarrantable exclusion from it by the defendant in as full, clear, direct, and
formal terms as are employed in any precedent to be found
in any book of Entries whatever. In such a case an objection
purely technical, as this is, an objection, to wit, that the name
of the United States, and not that of the Territory, should
be used, will be listened to with disfavor.
Lockwood, propriOpersona, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAY=E delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of Quo Warrantowas a common law writ. In the
course of time it was superseded by the speedier remedy of
an Information in the same nature.* It was a writ of right
for the king.t In the English courts an information for an
offence differs from an indictment, chiefly in the fact that it
is presented by the law officer of the crown without the
intervention of a grand jury.1 Whether filed by the attorney-general or the master of the crown office, and whether
it relates to public offences or to the class of private rights
specified in the statute of 9 Ann. ch. 20, in relation to which
it may be invoked as a remedy, it is brought in the name of
the king, and the practice is substantially the same in all
,3ases.ยง Any defect in the structure of the information may
be taken advantage of by demurrer.I
* 5 Bacon's Abridgment, 174, Tit. Information A; 3 Blackstone's Commentaries, 263.
t 7 Comyn's Digest, p. 190, Phila. ed., 1826; Tit. Quo War. A.
1 2 Hawkins' P. C., chap. 26, 4.
Cole on Informations, 65, 113; Rex v. Francis, 2 Term, 484; 4 Blackstone's Commentaries, 312.
11Regina v. Smith, 2 Moody & Robinson: 109; Regina v. Law, Id. 197.

Dec. 1865.]

TERRITORY V. LOCKWOOD.
Opinion of the court.

In this country the proceeding is conducted in the name
of the State or of the people, according to the local form in
indictments, and a departure fiom this form is a substantial
and fatal defect.*
In Wallace v. Anderson,t this court said, "that a writ of
Quo Warranto could not be maintained except at the instance
of the government; and as this writ was issued by a private
individual, without the authority of the government, it could
not be sustained, whatever might be the right of-the prosecutor or the person claiming to exercise the office in question." In the case of the Miners' Bank v. United Statest on
the relation of Grant, the information was filed in the name
of the United States in the District Court of Iowa Territory.
The sufficiency of the information in this respect does not
appear to have been questioned. A State court cannot issue
a writ of mandamus to an officer of the United States. "His
conduct can only be controlled by the power that created
him."ยง The validity of a patent for land issued by the
United States "is a question exclusively between the sovereignty making the grant and the grantee."[[
The judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Nebraska are appointed by the President and confirmed by
the Senate of the United States. The people of the Territory have no agency in appointing them and no power to
remove them. The Territorial legislature cannot prescribe
conditions for the tenure or loss of the office. Such legislation on their part would be a nullity. Impeachment and
conviction by them would be futile as to removal. The right
of the Territory to prosecute such an information as this
would carry with it the power of a motion without the consent of the government from which the appointment was
derived. This the Territory can no more accomplish in one
* Wright v. Allen, 2 Texas, 158; Wright v. The People, &c., 15 Illinois.
417; Donnelly v. The People, &c., 11 Id. 552; Eaton v. The State, 7 Blackford, 65; Comm. v. Lex & H. T. Co., 6 B. Monroe, 398.
: 5 Howard, 213.
- 5 Wheaton, 292.
M cClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheaton, 605.
Field v. Seabury et al., 19 Howard, 332.

THE CITY

v. BABCOCK.

[sup. ot,

Statement of the case.

way than in another. The subject is as much beyond the
sphere of its authority as it is beyond the authority of the
States as to the Federal officers whose duties are to be discharged within their respective limits. The right to institute such proceedings is inherently in the Government of
the nation. We do not find that it has been delegated to
the Territory. We think the demurrer was well taken.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE

CITY V. BABCOCK.

1. Courts sitting in error will not discuss questions not raised by the record
before them.
2. Wthere a party has a verdict given against him on insufficient evidence,
his remedy is by motion for new trial. He has no remedy ii, a court
of error.

AMONG the festal anniversaries of the city of Providence,
R. I., is that known as "Commencement Day." Upon this
occasion Brown University gives its degrees; and -citizens
and strangers throng the town. Upon the anniversary of
1859, Miss Babcock, of Connecticut, visited Providence and
was participating in the spectacle. A procession was passing through one of the streets in a central part of the city,
and Miss Babcock, who was walking in the same street,
then filled with people, fell through an opening in the pavement which gave entrance into a cellar below, whereby she
was severely injured.
A statute of Rhode Island imposes upon all cities within
its bounds an obligation to keep their ways "safe and conveldent for travellers ;" and the office of the mayor of the city
having, as was proved, been on the very street where the acident
happened, and almost di'ectly opposite to the place of its occurrence,
Miss Babcock brought suit against the city in the Circuit
Court for Rhode Island, to recover damages for the injury
she had suffered.

