Dec. 1865.]

Tim JOSEPHINE.
Syllabus.

court, while admitting the rule of construction, proceeds on
a contrary hypothesig, and with great ingenuity, and astute
reasoning, has given a construction most favorable to the
monopolist, and injurious to the people.
The judgment given by the majority of my brethren regards the general language of the act of incorporation as
first bringing to the Seisque]iarnacompany a provision that
"it shall not be lawful for any person or persons to erect
ony bridge," &c., across the east and west branches of the
Ddc'ware: as then bringing this specific clause into the charter of the Chenango company, and applying it to the Clieioligo river (a river with but a shzgle stream); making it,
moreover, apply to that stream for two miles, indeed, above
the bridge, but for three-quarters of a mile only below -it,
the river's entire extent in that direction, and finding the
complement of the "two miles," in a mile and a quarter of
the river Susquehanna, into which the Chenango falls and
is lost. While withal, by like construction only, the original
limitation of thirty years disappears, and the charter becomes perpetual.
This mode of interpreting a legislative grant appears to
me irrational, and beyond the most liberal construction that
has been given to that class of enactments. Indeed, the
fhct that it required so ingenious and labored an argument
by my learned brother to vindicate such a construction of
the act seems to me, of itself, conclusive evidence that the
construction should not be given to it.
[See infra, p. 210, Turmpike Co. V. Te State.-REP.]

THE JOSEPHINE.
1. The case of the Baigorry (2 'Wallace, 474), deciding that the blockade of
the coast of LouiLana, having no direct communication with the port

of New Orleans by navigation, was not terminated by the proclamation of May 12, 1862, discontinuing the blockade of that port-affirmed.
2. If a vessel is found without a proper license near a blockading squadroi',

Tiir

JOSEpia=' .

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
under circumstances indicating intent to run the blockade, and in suell
a position as that if not prevented she might pass the blockading force,
she cannot thus, flagrante facto, set up as an excuse that she was seeking
the squadron with a view of getting an authority to go on her desired
voyage.

By proclamation of President Lincoln, in April, 1861, a

blockade was established hiong our whole Southern coast,
then in possession of rebels against the authority of the
Government. In the beginning of May, 1862, New Orleans
and certain forts, Fort Jackson, Fort St. Philip, Fort Wood,
Fort Pike, Fort Livingston, &c., passed, in consequence of
the successes of Flag-Officer Farragut, into the possession of
the Government, and from the 6th of May at latest, the possession of New Orleans became complete. On the 12th of
Mlay, 1862, the President issued his proclamation declaring
that the blockade of the port of .eNw Orleans should so far
cease after the 1st of June, 1862, as that commercial intercourse with it might be carried on.
On the 28th July, 1862, nearly two months after the date
last named, the Josephine was captured by the United States
steamer Hatteras, on the high seas, and brought into Philadelphia, where she was libelled as prize. A certain Queyrouze intervened, claiming the cargo as the property of a
French neutral, one Laplante, resident in France. He gave
this history of the vessel: That she was loaded in New Orleans in February, 1862, with intention to proceed to Havana
"as soon as the port of New Orleans should be captured and
opened by the forces of the United- States;" that Laplante
intended to ship the cargo at Havana in another vessel for
Bordeaux; that he had written from Bordeaux to Queyrouze, at New Orleans, instructing him to load a vessel and
keep vessel and cargo there until the port was opened by
the United States authorities; that it had been expected
that an attack would be made on the city by the Government forces, and, anticipating its capture, Laplante had
deemed it expedient to have a vessel loaded ready to leave
immediately upon the opening of the port; that Queyrouze
obeyed the instruction, and the vessel, having been loaded,

Dec. 1865.]

THE JOSEPHIIE.

Statement of the case.

remained at the wharf of New Orleans until the investment
of the forts below the city, in April, 1862; that it then becoming evident the Federal forces would capture the city,
the rebel commander issued a proclamation commanding
the destruction of all vessels lying at New Orleans, with the
cotton, &e., on board, or in store for shipment; to avoid
which destruction the master of the Josephine caused her to
be towed into Bayou Chen6, to a point in the interior, and
distant from New Orleans, where she lay concealed for a
long time; that the master meantime endeavored to communicate the true character of vessel and cargo and destined
voyage to the Federal authorities, that he might be brought
within their protection and licensed to proceed to Havana,
but was unable to do so because the rebel governor had prohibited it by his proclamation; that about the 25th July,
1862, it having been reported that the rebel commander of
the district where she lay concealed designed to destroy the
vessel, the master managed to escape with his vessel and
cargo to the Gulf by some of the secret passages from the
body of the country to the Gulf with which that region
abounds; that he then sailed towards the mouth of the Mississippi, expecting to fall in with some of the United States
blockading squadron and obtain the license to proceed on
the intended voyage, but that on the 28th of July, 1862,
while hauling round Ship Shoal, in full view of the lighthouse, she was captured.
The master of the vessel, a resident of New Orleans, gave
a different account; and swore in effect that the cargo belonged to other persons than Laplante, to wit: to certain
Frenchmen, including one SLx6, resident and doing business
in New Orleans; that he signed three bills of lading; that
the cargo was deliverable to one Cabuzac, of Havana, to
whom he was to go for orders, if he arrived there; that
there were no papers of the kind inquired of on board; that
is, no contract, agreement, license, protection, passport, or
sea-brief from any government or officer thereof, but that he
had a mail, containing letters, on board at the time of sailing, which he was instructed by Mr. Six4 to destroy in case

THE JOSEPHINi-E.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of capture, and which he threw overboard in pursuance of
his instructions, and that he gave up no papers to the captors, having none; that he sailed from New Orleans four
days before the capture of that city by the United States
forces, and took his vessel to Bayou Chenb; that he got to
sea on the 27th of July, 1862, anid was bound to some port in
C ,ba or wherever Ihe could get his vessel; and that he was captured on the 28th of July, 1862, off Ship Shoal light-house,
bearing east-northeast, about ten miles from the light-house,
sailing under the English flag, without having cleared at
any custom-house.

96

9i0"

The mate, also a resident of Louisiana, corroborated the
master, so far as his knowledge extended; stating that they
sailed from Bayou Botey, Louisiana, and were bound for Hava,'a; that they sailed under the English flag, and that a

Dec. 1865.1

TnE

JOSEPHIINE.

Argument for the captors.

little before the capture the captain threw overboard a
bundle of papers. He presumed that the cause of the capture was the supposition that they had run the blockade.
Seacolor, a hand on board, said that the capture must
have been because they had run the blockade.
The ship's papers found on board consisted only of some
receipts for cotton,.dated on the brig Josephine, from the
15th to the 19th of February, but without signature.
The map will show the peculiar character of the region
in which the vessel was; a region which presents a reticulation of bqgo?.s interlacing with each other, in and through
which it is possible to run from one portion of the country
to another, in a manner rendering it almost impossible to
follow a course, which may be made devious to almost any
extent.
Cargo and vessel were both condemned (no claimant appearing for the latter); and the case was now here for
review; the main question considered by the court being
whether the vessel had violated the blockade; though the
condemnation was justified, also, on the ground of enemy's
property. A motion had been allowed, also, in this court,
owing to certain special facts, to allow some further proofs.
31lr. Asistant Attor)?ey-Gcwral Ashlo, and 171. COfe , speeial cotuwse for the ca)tors.
1. However owned, the ship was clearly captured whilst
violating the blockade of the Louisiana coast, and was, with
her cargo, liable to condemnation on that ground.
She left Yew Orleans, according to the master, four days
befbre its capture by the United States forces, and when she
was captured she was proceeding on the voyage then commenced. The blockade of that port was not then raised or
relaxed, and there can be no question that, when captured,
she was i? deliclo for that offence.
But, after she left New Orleans, the vessel lay for some
months in one of the bayous, which form the secure retreats
of rebel blockade-runners in Southern Louisiana, where, by
the admission of Queyrouze, she was within the red lines and

THE JOSEPHINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the captors.

control. She sailed out from those lines on the 27th 3f July,
and was captured on the 28th, off the coast, under a false
flag, on her way to Cuba. The master says, bound to some
port in Cuba; and the mate says, "bound to Havana."
At that time, the coast of Louisiana and its ports were
blockaded, all being in rebel possession and control, except
the port of New Orleans. The limited and conditional
cessation of the blockade of New Orleans, allowed by the
President's proclamation of 12th May, 1862, did not and
could not apply to any other port of Louisiana, or to any
portion of the coast in rebel po.ssession and control. This
was decided in The Baigarry,*a year only ago. That coast
was, at the date of capture, in a state of actual and lawful
blockade, and the Josephine was taken in the act of breakiug that blockade.
No evidence is necessary to fasten on the Josephine knowledge of the blockade, since she was sailing from a blockaded
port. In the "Prize Cases,"t Mr. Justice Grier observed,
that it is a settled rule in the law of nations, that a vessel in
a blockaded port is presumed to have notice of the blockade
as soon as it commences. But the claimant of this cargo
must be charged with an actual knowledge, for he asserts,
that at the time of capture the master of the Josephine was
shaping his course for the blockading squadron. The offenqe
wi-s, therefore, complete.
In addition to its proved falsehood, the story of Queyrouze,
that, at the time of the capture, the Josephine was seeking
the blockading squadron to get a license or permission to
proceed on her intended voyage, is subject to the further
infirmity, that, if it were true, it would not relieve her from
the penalty of blockade-running. No officer of the blockading squadron had any power to give such license or permission, and the law never accepts such an excuse from a vessel
caught in flagrante delicto. It is of the class of excuses animadverted on by Sir William Scott, in The Spes and The
L'ene,T where vessels approached the mouth of a blockaded
*2 Wallace, 474.

--2 Black, 677.

$ 6 R~obinson, 77.

Dec. 1865.]

TiE JOSEPHINE.
Argument for the claimants.

river, with pretence of making inquiry as to the blockade,
if they fall in with blockading vessels, but with intent to slip
into port if they escape such vessels.
But the absurdity of the pretence set up by the claimant,
of seeking the blockading squadron for a license, is proved
not only by the master's contradiction of it in the statement
that he was bound to Cuba, but by the facts that he was
sailing under a false flag, and just before capture destroyed
his papers. These acts, by the well-settled rules of law,
stamp the voyage as fraudulent, and sustain the allegation
of the libel.
2. The evidence proves that the cargo was owned by residents of New Orleans doing business there, and enemies
of tke United States. Six6 was one owner, and it having.
been by his instructions that the papers were destroyed,
every presumption will be raised against him.
On both grounds, therefore, the decree condemning the
cargo should be affirmed.
.31r. F. C. Brewster, of Philadelphia, eontra,for the clabnants
of the cargo.
1. Was the cargo liable for attempted breach of the blockade?
It is a self-evident proposition that, in order to justify a
seizure and condemnation of property as prize of war for
breach of a blockade, the blockade must in point of fact be
existing at the time of the seizure. And where the blockade has ceased before the capture is made, the penalty for a
breach of blockade is held to be remitted. Now, the proclamation of May 12 was a revocation of the notification of
blockade of the port of New Orleans; and on the first day
of June, 1862, the blockade of that port ceased. The Josephine was captured nearly two months afterwards. Inasmuch
as the delietam is done away when the blockade ceases,*
and as this is the rule even where the blockade existed at
the time the vessel sailed from the port, but ceased or was
raised before the capture was made, how can the vessel and
* The Lisette, 6 Robinson, 887.

THE JOSEPHINE..

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

cargo in question be held liable to the penalty for breach
of blockade?
But if there was a breach of blockade, was it an intentional breach on the part of the owner of the cargo? The
neutral must be chargeable with knowledge, either actual
or constructive, of the existence of the blockade, and with
an intent, and with some attempt to break it before he is to
suffer the penalty of a violation of it.*
Though the cargo is always, lyrinafacie, implicated, in the
guilt of the owner or master of the ship, its owner will,
nevertheless, be permitted to give proof of the innocence of
his intention. And, if this proof be satisfactory, the cargo
will be adjudged to be free from the guilt in which the ship
is involved, and be restored to its owner. In United $tates
v. Guillem ,t Taney, C. J., says: "Even in the case of a cargo
shipped as a mercantile adventure, and found on board of
a vessel liable to condemnation for a breach of blockade,
although it is prin faie involved in the offence of the
vessel, yet, if the owner can show that he did not participate in the offence, his property is not liable to forfeiture."
And the late Chief Justice of this court did here but declare
what had been previously said, in the case of T/e .Erchange,i
by Sir William Scott: "Where orders had been given for
goods," said the great English judge, "prior to the existence of a blockade, and it appeared that there was not time
for countermanding the shipment afterwards, the court has
held the owner of the cargo not responsible for the act of
the enemy's shipper, who might have an interest in sending off the goods in direct opposition to the interest of his
principal. And the same indulgence has been exercised
where there was no knowledge of the blockade till after the
ship had sailed, and the master, after receiving the information, obstinately persisted in going on to the port of his original destination."
In the present case, the owner of the cargo has established
* Fitzsimmons v. Newport Ins. Co., 4 Cranch, 185.

11 Howard, 62.

$ 1 Edwards, 39.

Dec. 1866.]

THE JOSEPHINE.
Argument for the claimants.

the innocence of his intention. The instructions given to
Queyrouze by Laplante show that Laplante never designed
any attempt to break the blockade. On the contrary, he
directed Queyrouze to keep the vessel and cargo at New
Orleans until the opening of that port by the United States.
Queyrouze followed these instructions, and detained the vessel after she had received her cargo, in port, until the act of
the enemy deprived him of further control over her. The
affidavit of Queyrouze is explicit upon these points.
With the guilt of the vessel (if there be such guilt) we
have nothing to do in this case. We ask the court to discriminate between the vessel and her cargo.
To hold the owner of the cargo responsible in the way in
which the captors wish, would be to put him completely in
the power of the master; and, no matter how pure he may
be, to make him bear the burden and suffer the penal consequences of a violation of the law which it was not in his
power to prevent, and of which he never suspected the master wohld be guilty.
As to the master's deslr'aetion of the mail co tainng letters.
The act of the master, in this respect, cannot operate to the
injury of the owner of the cargo. For, 1st, the carrying of
a mere private mail-that is, one which does not contain
desp,-fehes of the enemy-will not subject either the vessel or
1er cargo to seizure and confiscation. And, 2d, even where
the vessel carries despatches, and is seized in consequence
thereof, the cargo will not share her fate where.its owner or
owners have not participated in the offence. It cannot be
pretended, in the present case, that either Laplante or Queyrouze was guilty of any such offence. These letters werethe only papers which the master destroyed. He destroyed
no papers concerning the ownership of the cargo, for he had
!one such with him.
2. Was the cargo enemy's property?
It was the property of Laplante, a French subject, who
resided in his native country, and never had even a temporary residence in the South. The affidavit of Queyrouze
establishes this fact. The presumptions of the master of the

THIE J0SrPnINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

captured vessel upon this point, cannot stand against the
positive testimony of Queyrouze.
Nor can a hostile character be fastened upon it on account
of the residence of Mr. Queyrouze, Laplaute's agent, in New
Orleans, while that city was in the possession of the rebels.
For the rule is, that a neutral merchant may trade, in the
ordinary manner, to the country of a belligerent, by means
of a stationed agent there, and yet not contract the character
of a domiciled person.*
The OlHEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It was held at the last term, by this court, that the blockade of the coast of Louisian-a, having no direct connection
with New Orleans by navigation, was not terminated by the
discontinuance of the blockade of that port. In the cause
now before us it is not very clearly shown by the evidence
from what part of the coast the Josephine was coming when
she was captured by the blockading steamer; but she must
have been coming from some point west of Ship Shoal light,
which is laid down on the Coast Survey charts as more than
a hundred miles west of the mouths of the Mississippi. In
this part, it seems, the coast may be reached from New
Orleans, in some seasons at least, through the creeks and
bayous which form a sort of network of water communication in Lower Louisiana, and allow more or less egress and
ingress by small craft, to and from the Gulf. There does
not appear to be any regular or usual communication with
New Orleans from the Gulf by these ways. The Josephine
succeeded in getting through, but the whole country through
which she passed, and the coast where she came out, was in
possession of the enemy; and she was captured by a blockader soon after she entered the Gulf.
It is impossible, under these circumstances, to hold that
the blockade of that part of the coast was discontinued.
That it was not discontinued in fact, is clearly shown by the
evidence; and there was nothing in the occupation of the
city, or in the proclamation revoking the blockade of the port
The Anna Catharina, 4 Robinson, 107; The Indiana, 2 Gallison, 268.

Dec. 1865.]

SHEBOYGAN

CO. V. PARKER.

Syllabus.

of N ew Orleans which could work the legal termination of
blockade of the coast which remained under hostile control.
We think that the blockale was in full force, and that the
Josephine and her cargo were properly captured for violation of it. The appellant has filed an affidavit that the master of the Josephine was seeking the blockading fleet with
the purpose of procuring a license to proceed on his voyage;
but the statement of the master not only does not support
the affidavit, but goes far to discredit it. Nor, indeed, could
the alleged intent, if proved, avail the appellant; for it would
not excuse the violation of the blockade.
This view makes it unnecessary to consider the questions
made in the cause, respecting the ownership of the vessel
and cargo, or the motion for further proof.
The decree of the District Court must be

AFFIRMED.

[See infra, p. 231, The Cheshire, 2.-RiP.]

SHEBOYGAN CO. v. PARKER.
1. A county "officer" is one by whom the county performs its usual political
functions or offices of government; who exercises continuously, and as
a part of the regular and permanent administration of government, its
public powers, trusts, or duties. A fixed number of persons, specially
and by name appointed by the legislature to act as a board of commissioners, in a matter about which, though relating immediately to the
county, county officers, in the exercise of their general powers as such,
and without special authority from the legislature, have not authority'
to act, are not county "officers."
2. Hence, when special authority was given by the legislature to the people
of a county, to say whether or not they would subscribe to a railroad
and bind themselves to pay for it, that body, in giving the authority,
may properly direct the mode in which such subscription shall be
made and paid for;-may, ex. gr. appoint special persons to make the
subscription, and to issue bonds in behalf of the county therefor-even
though the constitution of the State in which the county is provides
that " all county officers
shall be elected by the electors of the county,"
and though there may be a regular board of county supervisors elected
accordingly, then administering the ordinary county affairs. Bonds
so executed and issued bind the county.
NoM. In this case, the statute enacted that any bonds issued under its
provisions should be "of full and complete evidence both in law and
equity to establish the indebtedness of the county."

