Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

673

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.
A proceeding in the District or Circuit Court of the United States under
the act of March Od, 1851,- for the ascertainment and settlement of
private land claims in the State of California, is in the nature of a proceeding in equity. A decree of the Circuit Court in one of these cases
transferred to it is therefore subject to appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States under the amendatory Judicial Act of 'March 3d,

1803.f

"TiEfourth section of an act of Congress of July 1, 1864,1
"To expedite the settlement of titles to lands in the State
of California," provides as follows:
"That whenever the district judge of any one of the District
Courts of the United States for California is interested in any
land the claim to which, under the said act of larch 3, 1851, is
pending before him on appeal from the Board of Commissioners
created by said act, the said District Court shall order the case
to be transferred to the Circuit Court of the United States for
California, which court shall thereupon take jurisdiction and determine the same. The said District Courts may also order 9,
transfer, to the said Circuit Court, of any other cases arising
under said act pending before them affecting the title to lands
within the corporate limits of any city or town; and in such
cases both the district and circuit judges may sit."
An appeal pending in the District Court for the Yorthern
District of California from a decree of the Board of Commissioners,-the United States being a party on one side and
the City of San Francisco party on the other-was transferred from the District Court to the Circuit under the above
section. It was there heard and decided in favor of the city;
and the United States, represented by the attorney-general,
considering itself aggrieved by the decree, applied in due
form to the Circuit Court for an appeal to this court. The
application, after full consideration, was denied, on the
ground that upon a true construction of the section above
quoted no appeal had been provided for.
* 9 Stat. at Large, 631.
VOL. 11.3

t 2 Id. 244.
43

+ 13 Id. 333.

674

UJNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The section itself, it will be seen, provides for no appeal.
On a petition by the United States for a mandamus to the
judges of the Circuit Court to allow one, the question accordingly was whether under the Constitution and different
statutes of the United States any appeal lay.
31r. Assistant Attorney-General Ashton and Mr. Black, for
the relatorsand in sp~port of the motion; Mr. T. W. Cope, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question raised by the present application is a nice
one in practice, and is not without its difficulties.
The section itself does not provide for an appeal, and, unless the case is governed by some general law, or established
practice of the court derived from acts of Congress, the right
of appeal cannot be maintained.

By the 22d section of the Judiciary Act, in connection
with the act of March 3, 1803, all judgments and decrees
in civil actions, and in suits in equity in a Circuit Court,
brought there by original process, or removed there from
courts of the several States, or removed there by arpealfrom
a District Court, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court. It is said that the present
case was not brought into the Circuit by an appeal from the
District Court, and hence is not within the provision. The
case, as we have seen, comes into the Circuit under the 4th
section of the act of 1864, not by appeal, but by an order
of the District Court transferring it to the Circuit.
This 4th section was taken from, or part of it, at least, is
but a transcript of the 11th section of an act of Congress,
passed May 8, 1792. The act provided that in all suits and
actions in any District Court of the United States in which
it shall appear that the judge is in any way interested, or
has been counsel for either party, it shall be his duty to
cause the fact to be entered in the minutes of his court, and
order an authenticated copy thereof, with all the proceedings in the suit, to the next Circuit Court, which -,ourt shall
thereupon take cognizance of the case, and hear and deter-

Dec. 1865.]

'UNITEDSTATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

675

Opinion of the court.

mine the same. And a similar provision will be found in
the act of Mlarch 2, 1809,* in case of the disability of the
district judge to perform the duties of his office during such
disability. The cases are transferred by the clerk on the
order of the circuit judge. And a like provision is found in
the act of Iarch 3, 1821,t in case of the relationship of the
judge to either of the parties to the suit.
Now, these acts, as will be seen from their date, have been
in force from an early period, and it has never been doubted
but that the judgments and decrees rendered in the Circuit
Court were subject to be re-examined, reversed, or affirmed
by the Supreme Court, as in any other case under the 22d
section of the Judiciary Act. A case was before us at the
present term that had been transferred to the Circuit under
the act of 1792.
The law providing for the transfer of the case from the
District Court to the Circuit, was regarded as enlarging the
cases provided for in the 22d section; and virtually incorpo-P
rated therein a removal by transfer, when thus authorized,
to the Circuit, in addition to the cases of removal by appeal
as provided for in that section.
It will be observed that this 4th section of the act of 1864
provides for a compulsory transfer only in the case of an interest of the judge in the land in controversy. But suppose
he has been counsel in the cause, or disabled by sickness, or
by reason of relationship to either of the parties, this 4th
section does not provide for the disability. The cases were,
however, already provided for by the acts of 1792, 1809, and
1821, and they are peremptory, that on application of the
counsel of either party, the case shall be transferred to the
Circuit Court. The construction, therefore, contended for,
would present the singular inconsistency of a denial of an
appeal, in case of the interest of the judge in the subjectmatter of the controversy; but its allowance in case of a
transfer, when he had been counsel in the cause, or general
disability to discharge his duties, or in case of relationship
to either of the parties.
* I Stat. at :Large, 534.

t" 3 Id. 643.

676

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT J UDGES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The remaining clause of this section makes it optional
with the judge to transfer other causes arising under the act
of 1851, affecting the title to lands within the corporate limits
of a city or town, and then both judges may sit.
But whether the transfer is optional or compulsory, cannot vary its legal effect. If made at all, it must be by the
authority of the 4th section-by the authority of law-the
same as in the case of interest of counsel, or general disability of the judge, or from relationship, and falls within
the practice applicable to, these cases.
This clause is subject to, an additional objection; for, as
the transfer is optional, and may be granted or not, if the
decree or judgment of the Circuit Court is not matter of appeal, or writ of error, whether any appeal be permitted or
not in the case, is within the power of the district judge. If
he retains the case and determines it, an appeal, it is admitted, lies; if he transfers the case, and the decree or judg"ment is in the Circuit, it must be denied. We think Congress could hardly have intended this result. It places the
right of an appeal not on the judgment of the circuit judge
who rendered it, but in the discretion of the judge of the
District Court.
It is urged that the proceedings under the act of 1851,
concerning California land titles, are special, and are not to
be regarded as cases either in law or equity. The law is
general, and concerns the title to the whole of the real property of the State. Many of the provisions of this law are
taken from the act of May 26, 1824, which provided for the
trial of claims under imperfect Spanish and French grants
within the State of Missouri before the district judge of that
district. These were grants under the protection of the
treaty of San Ildefonzo. The proceedings were informal,
like those under the act of 1851. The claims were to be determined according to the law of nations, the stipulations of
the treaty, the several acts of Congress in relation thereto,
the laws and ordinances of the government from which the
titles were derived. The proceedings were regarded as in
the nature of a proceeding in equity, though the analogy

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

677

Opinion of Field, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

was not very close, the decision on the claim being in the
form of a decree.
The proceedings under the act of 1851, we think, should
be regarded in the same light-in the nature of a proceeding in equity. The form of the decision has always been in
conformity thereto. An appeal is the appropriate mode of
bringing the case up to the appellate court for review, and
such has been the uniform practice under the act.
Upon the whole, our conclusion is, that an appeal lies in
behalf of the United States.
MNr. Justice FIELD, with whom concurred GRIER and
MILLER, JJ., dissenting:
Unable to concur in the opinion of a nmajority of the court,
which has just been read, I will proceed to give the grounds
of my dissent.
The Supreme Court, by the Constitution, takes its appellate jurisdiction over cases "with such exceptions, and under
such regulations as the Congress shall make." And the
designation, by acts of Congres%, of the cases to which this
jurisdiction shall extend, has uniformly been held to be a
legislative declaration that all other cases are excepted from
it. Thus in Wiscart v. Daaue y,* which was decided as early
as 1796, the court said, that if Congress had not provided
any rule to regulate its proceedings on appeal, it could not
exercise an appellate jurisdiction, and, if a rule were provided, the court could not depart fr-om it. And, in Cla,'ke v.
.Bazadone,t it was decided that a writ of error did not lie
from this court to the General Court for the Territory northwest of the Ohio, because Congress had not by its legislation authorized such writ. It was urged, on the argument,
that the judicial power under the Constitution extended to
all cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, and to controversies in which the United
States were a party; and that the Supreme Court had appellate jurisdiction in all these cases, with such exceptions
* 2 Dalla, 327.

t 1 Cranch, 212.

678

-UNITED STATES V. CIRcuIT JUDGES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Field, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

and under such regulations as Congress might make; that
Congress had made no exception in that case, which was
.one arising under the laws of the United States, and no
regulation was necessary to give the court the appellate
power; that it derived that from the Constitution itself.
But the court adhered to its previous ruling, although observing at the same time that from the manifest errors on
the face of the record it felt every disposition to support the
writ.
In Durousseauv. The United States* the subject was again
considered, and the court held, that though its appellate
powers were given by the Constitution, they were limited
and regulated by the judicial act and such other acts as had
been passed on the subject. "When the first legislature of
the Union," said Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering
the opinion of the court, "proceeded to carry the third article of the Constitution into effect, they must be understood
as intending to execute the power they possessed of making
exceptions to the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
They have not, indeed, made these exceptions in express
terms. They have not declared that the appellate power of
the court shall not extend to certain cases; but they have
described affirmatively its jurisdiction, and its affirmative
description has been understood to imply a negative on the
exercise of such appellate power as is not comprehended
within it." And, in illustration of this principle, reference
is made to the provision of the law which allows a writ of
error to a judgment of the Circuit Court, where the matter
in controversy exceeds the value of two thousand dollars.
"There is no express declaration," said the chief justice,
" that it will not lie where the matter in controversy shall
be of less value. But the court considers this affirmative
lescription as manifesting the intent of the legislature to
except from its appellate jurisdiction all cases decided in the
circuits where the matter in controversy is of less value, and
implies negative words."
* 6 Cranch, 307.

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. CIRcuIT JUDGES.

679

Opinion of Field, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

It follows, therefore, that the appellate jurisdiction of this
court exists only in those cases, in which it is expressly
granted. In conformity with this principle it has been held
that such jurisdiction does not extend to final judgments in
criminal cases, it not having been conferred by Congress.
A question arising in a criminal case can only be brought
before this court for decision upon a certificate of a division
of opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court.* So,
under the Judiciary Act of 1789, jurisdiction to review a
judgment or decree of the Circuit Court, rendered in an action brought before it from the District Court on writ of error,
was denied, as the act only mentioned judgments and decrees brought before the Circuit Court on appeal from the
District Court.t
The act of July 1st, 1864, under which the Circuit Court
acquired jurisdiction over this case, makes no provision for
an appeal from the decree of the court, or for any re-examination of the decree by the Supreme Court. If an appeal
exists it must be found in the amendatory Judicial Act of
March 3d, 1803, or in the act of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain
and settle private land claims in the State of California.
The Judiciary Act of 1789 only provides for a review upon
a w rit of error of the final judgments and decrees of the Circuit Court where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or
value of two thousand dollars. It is the act of 1803 which
extends the appellate power of the court to a review of final
judgments and decrees brought up on appeal when the matter in dispute is of the like amount or value; and it limits
the review to judgments and decrees rendered in "cases of
equity, of admiralty, and maritime ju'isdiction, and of prize
or no prize." Subsequent acts of Congress have reduced
the required amount or value of the matter in dispute in
some cases-as in suits for the protection of copyrights and
patents; but in none of them is there any change in the
character of the case in which the judgment or decree of tho
Forsyth v. The United States, 9 Howard, 571.
F
United States v. Goodwin, 7 Cranch, 108.

680

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of Field, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

Circuit Court can be reviewed on appeal. 'Where a review
of the action of the Circuit Court upon any other matter is
intended, it is authorized by special provision in the act
creating the proceeding.
The question, then, upon the act of 1803 is, whether its
terms embrace a proceeding taken for the ascertainment and
settlement of a claim to land derived from the Spanish or
Mexican governments? Such a proceeding is not a suit in
admiralty, of course; nor is it a suit in equity, as those terms
are there used. By those terms is meant a regular proceeding in a court of justice for relief on equitable grounds in
contradistinction to an action at law for the enforcement of
legal rights-a proceeding which can only be sustained when
plain, adequate, and complete remedy cannot be had at law.
The act mentions the pleadings by which the suit is to be
conducted; it requires a transcript of the bill, answer, and
deposition to be transmitted to the Supreme Court on appeal, clearly indicating the nature of the proceeding to which
it refers. The proceeding for the confirmation of a California land claim is of a very different character; is governed by different principles, and supported by different evidence. It is a proceeding taken under a statute conferring
a peculiar and limited jurisdiction, created for the purpose
of enabling the government to separate private lands from
the public domain, and to discharge its political obligations
under the treaty of cession. It is in the nature of an inquisition of the government, invoked by the petition of the
claimant, and governed by the stipulations of the treaty, the
law of nations, the laws, usages, and customs of the former
government, the principles of equity, and the decisions of
the Supreme Court, so far as they are applicable. Though
the principles of equity are to constitute one ground of the
decision, the proceeding has nothing in it whatever which
will justify its designation as a suit in equity as those terms
are used in the act of 1803.
The heads of the different departments are often required
by acts or resolutions of Congress to settle claims for losses
and liabilities incurred on behalf of the government, or in

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

681

Opinion of Field, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

the attempted performance of contracts on the principles of
equity. Thus, in the case of De Groot, who asserted claims
for furnishing materials for the Washington aqueduct, the
resolution of Congress directed the Secretary of War to settle
the claims "on the principles of justice and equity."* Yet,
no one would pretend that the proceeding before the secretary was a suit in equity, as these terms are understood in a
legal sense. Nor is an application for a patent, or a proceeding for the assessment of damages, where private property is taken for public purposes, a suit of that nature. Nor
would such special proceeding lose its distinctive and special
character if by an act of Congress it was made subject to review on appeal by the District Court of the United States.
These cases belong to that class of controversies which are
properly the subjects of administrative regulation, and do
not become converted into suits in equity because judicial
agency is brought in to aid the administrative proceeding.
They may be submitted to the entire disposition of a board
of commissioners without the violation of any principle, just
as the California land cases are submitted in the first instance
to such board for investigation.
The act of Mlarch 3d, 1851, does not provide for any consideration by the Circuit Court of cases of this character.
The jurisdiction over these cases is by that act vested, in the
first instance, in a board of commissioners, and afterwards,
on appeal from the decision of the board, in the District
Court. From the decrees of the District Court an appeal
lies directly to the Supreme Court. The language of the
act is, "that the District Court ......
.shall, on application of the party against whom judgment is rendered, grant
an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States."
The act of July 1st, 1864, authorizes a transfer from the
District Court to the Circuit Court of cases of this kind,
where the district judge is interested in the land, the claim
to which is pending before him, and also where the case
affects the title to lands within the corporate limits of any
* 12 Stat. at Large, 874.

682

UTNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

city or town; but it does not confer any right of appeal from
the action of the Circuit Court in these cases after they are
transferred. It is contended, however, by counsel, that the
right of appeal goes with the transfer of the case.
The argument is, that there is no rule for the decision of
the case after it is transferred, unless the provisions of the
act of 1851 on this point are considered as governing; and
that it is not to be presumed that Congress intended that
the right of appeal from the decision should depend upon
the contingency of the district judge haying an interest in
the claim, or the fact that some of the lands involved are
situated within the limits of a corporate city.
The answer to the first head of the argument is found in
the fact that the rules prescribed by the act of 1851 would
govern, independent of their statutory enactment. Whether
a title, alleged to have been acquired under the former
government, was in fact thus acquired, and entitled to recognition after a change of sovereignty by the new government, would necessarily depend upon the laws, customs,
and usages of the former government, the laws of nations,
the stipulations of the treaty by which a change of jurisdiction was effected, and the considerations which should govern a just nation in treating of the property of its newly
acquired subjects, as explained by the highest tribunal of
the country.
And as to the second head of the argument, it may be suggested that it would be a reasonable position to assume that
Congress, in passing the act in question, understood the
meaning of the language it used, and recognized the difference between the District and Circuit Courts of the United
States, and when it omitted to provide any appeal from the
decree of the Circuit Court, it intended that none should
exist. There is no repugnancy between the acts of 1851
and 1864. 1Reading them together, it would seem to be clear
that Congress intended that when a case was decided by the
District Court an appeal should lie; but when decided by
the Circuit Court, its decision should be final. There is
nothing singular in a provision of this kind, and if there

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

683

Opinion of Field, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

were, it is sufficient that such was the will of the legislature.
In matters of survey, which oftentimes determine the value
of the whole claim, the decision of the Circuit Court is
admitted to be final, made so in express terms by the act.
Is there any more reason for doubting the disposition of
Congress to trust to that court the final settlement of the
title, than there is to trust the final settlement of the boundaries of the land when the title is confirmed?
But it is not necessary to rest this matter upon reasons
of this nature. The absence of a provision allowing an appeal was not an oversight on the part of Congress. It is
evident, from the general language of the act, and the object
sought to be accomplished by it, that it was the intention of
the legislature to give finality to the action of the Circuit
Court?
The act was designed, as its name purports, to expedite the
settlement of titles to land in the State. Great delays and
embarrassments were found to exist in determining the location and boundaries of tracts confirmed after the question
of title had been adjudicated. The hearing by the District
Court of exceptions to surveys returned by the surveyorgeneral, interposed by parties possessing or asserting adverse interests, the taking of depositions, the discussion of

counsel, and the modifications or new surveys sometimes
ordered, necessarily occupied the time usually taken by an
ordinary suit at law. Then followed the right of appeal to
the Supreme Court from the action of the District Court,
not merely by the original contestants to the proceeding,
but by third parties intervening, whether adjoining proprietors, purchasers under the original grantee, or persons
claiming by pre-emption, settlement, or other right under
the United States. To obviate the delays and expense ne"cessarily attending proceedings of this character, particularly as occasioned by the appeal to the Supreme Court, and
to relieve that tribunal, burdened by a crowded docker', the
act limited its jurisdiction to cases in which appeals were
then pending, and vested jurisdiction in the Circuit Court,
over cases in which appeals might be subsequently taken

684

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, Grier, ai.d Miller, J3.., dissenting.

When from the decree of the District Court, approving or
correcting the survey, no appeal had been taken, "no appeal," says the act, "to that court shall be allowed, but an
appeal may be taken, within twelve months after this act
shall take effect, to the Circuit Court of the United States
for California, and said court shall proceed to fully determine the matter."
Following these provisions is the section which directs
that when the district judge is interested in any land, the
claim to which, under the act of March 3d, 1851, is pending
before him on appeal from the board of commissioners, the
case shall be transferred to the Circuit Court, "which shall
thereupon take jurisdiction and determine the same." The
act then proceeds as follows: "The said District Courts may
also order a transfer to the said Circuit Court of any other
cases arising under said act, pending before them, affecting
the title to lands within the corporate limits of any city or
town, and in such cases both the district and circuit judges
may sit."
The answer to the last objection will be more obvious if
reference is made to the circumstances under which the act
of 1864 was passed, as given in the opinion of the Circuit
Court. These circumstances are not referred to for the
purpose of controlling the construction of the language of
the act, but in answer to suppositions as to the intention
of Congress.
At the passage of the act there were only two cases pending in the District Courts of California, with reference to
which the authority conferred by the clause in question
could be exercised,-the case of the City of San Francisco,
and the case of the City of Sonoma, both against the United
States. The first case had then been pending in the District
Court for over eight years. In the mean time the city had
extended in all directions, and interests of vast magnitude
had grown up, which demanded that the title to the land
upon which the city rested should be, in some way, speedily
and finally settled. The land commissioners had adjudged
that the claim of the city was valid within certain described

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. CIRcUIT JUDGES.

685

Opinion of Field, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

limits. The United States, through their highest legal
officer, had assented to this adjudication, and the principal
question on appeal before the District Court was as to the

additional quantity claimed over the quantity confirmed.
The case of the City of Sonoma had been likewise pending in the District Court on appeal for over eight years. In
this case the United States had, through the attorney-general,
signified their assent to a confirmation of the decree of the
board, and the principal question on appeal here was also
as to the additional quantity claimed by the city.
It was under these circumstances that the law was passed
authorizing a transfer of these cases to the Circuit Court.
If an appeal from its action had been intended, no beneficial

object would have been accomplished by the transfer, for
the same delay would follow an appeal from the Circuit
Court as would follow an appeal from the District Court.
N~or can any reason, in that view, be assigned for allowing
both the district and circuit judges, if they desired, to sit in
the hearing of these cases.
The acts of 1792, 1809, and 1821, which authorize a transfer of causes from the District Court to the Circuit Court,
where the district judge is interested, or has been counsel
in the case, or is disabled from performing the duties of his
office, or is related to either of the parties, have no bearing
upon the question under consideration. They do not confer
any right of appeal from the action of the Circuit Court
after the cases are transferred, or any right to have such
action reviewed on writ of error. Such right, when it exists,
depends upon the acts of 1789 and 1803; that is, upon the
nature of the case and the amount or value of the matter in
controversy; and the latter act, which is the only one relating to appeals, does not cover, as I have endeavored to show,
a decree in a proceeding for the settlement of a California
land claim, where the right or title is alleged to have been
derived from the Spanish or Iexican governments.
NOTE.
For a short time it seemed possible that the present case might assume an
interest beyond that of the point of law involved. The decree of the Cir-

686

UNITED STATES V. CIRCUIT JUDGES.

[Sup.

at.

Note.
cult Court from which an appeal was prayed, and which was made May 18th,
1865, was one settling the title to a large part of the city of San Francisco;
how considerable will be seen from the decree itself, of which the fol.owing
is the material portion:
" The land of which confirmation is made, is a tract situated within th6
county of San Francisco, and embracing so much of the extreme upper portion of the peninsula above ordinary high-water mark (as the same existed at
the date of the conquest of the country, namely, the 7th of July, A.D. 1846),
on which the city of San Francisco is situated, as will contain an area of
four square leagues-said tract being bounded on the north and east by the
Bay of San Francisco; on the west by the Pacific Ocean; and on the south
by a due east and west line, drawn so as to include the area aforesaid, subject to the following deductions, namely: such parcels of land as have been
heretofore reserved or dedicated to public uses by the United States; and,
also, such parcels of land as have been by grants from lawful authority
vested in private proprietorship, and have been finally confirmed to parties
claiming under said grants by the tribunals of the UJnited States, or shall
hereafter be finally confirmed to parties claiming thereunder by said tribunals, in proceedings now pending therein for that purpose; all of which
said excepted parcels of land are included within the area of four square
leagues above mentioned, but are excluded from the confirmation to the
city. This confirmation is in trust, for the benefit of the lot-holders under
grants from the pueblo, town, or city of San Francisco, or other competent
authority, and as to any residue, in trust for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the city."
However, immediately after the expression of the views of the majority
of the judges, as given in the preceding case, Congress passed the following act:
An act to quiet the title to certain lands within the corporate lilmits of the City
of San Francisco.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled: That all the right and title of the United
States to the land situated within the corporate limits of the city of San
Francisco, in the State of California, confirmed to the city of San Francisco
by the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California, entered on the 18th day of May, 1865, be and the
same are hereby relinquished and granted to the said city of San Francisco
and its successors, and the claim of the said city to said land is hereby confirmed, subject, however, to the reservations and exceptions designated in
said decree, and upon the following trusts, namely: that all the said land,
not heretofore granted to said city, shall be disposed of and conveyed by said
city to parties in the bond fide actual possession thereof, by themselves or
tenants, on the passage of this act, in such quantities and upon such terms
and conditions as the legislature of the State of California may prescribe;
except such parcels thereof as may be reserved and set apart by ordinance
of said city for public uses. Provided,however, That the relinquishment and
grant, by this act, shall not interfere with or prejudice any valid adverse
right or claim, if such exist, to said land or any part thereof, whether derived from Spain, Mexico, or the United States, or preclude a judicial
examination and adjustment thereof.
Approved, March 8, 1866.

