DANIELS v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

before the jury, he is estopped from investigating the same
matters in another jurisdiction. He waived his right to have
the question of fraud litigated in a court of chancery, when
he presented it, as a defence to the action at law. And the
defence was legitimate and proper, for such questions of
fraud and irregularity as were raised could be disposed of
as well at law as in chancery.
A grossly inadequate price is, under some circumstances,
evidence of fraud, and a fit subject of inquiry by a jury, in
determining the validity of a sale made under legal process.
If the sale on the Hart execution was not made for the purpose of satisfying the judgment, but fraudulently to defeat
subsequent encumbrancers, and Brown was not a bond fide
purchaser for value, then his title was bad; and it was
equally bad, if the irregularities were such as to render the
sale void.
Evidence was given on all these matters, and was never
withdrawn from the consideration of the jury. In fact the
whole record shows that Blanchard claims equitable relief
on substantially the same grounds, and sustained by the
same evidence that he relied on to defeat the action of ejectment. The decision in Miles v. Caidwell is, therefore, applicable. In that case, as in this, the question of fraud had been
submitted to the jury, and determined against the complainant; and this court held that he was barred by the proceedings in ejectment, and could not raise anew in chancery the
same questions that were heard at law.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

DANIELS V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Under the act of April 29, 1802 ( 6), providing "that whenever any guesiion shall occur before a Circuit Court upon which the opinions of the
judges shall be opposed, the point upon which tbe disagreement shall
happen shall . . . be certified . . . to the Supreme Court, and shall
by the said court be finally decided"-the court will not even by con-

Dec. 1865.]

DANIELS i. RAIL-ROAD COMPANY.

251

Statement pf the case.

sent of parties take jurisdiction, unless the certificate of division present
in a precise form, a point of law upon a part of the case settled and
stated. Hence where the record stated certain facts, and with this
statement presented the testimony of numerous witnesses which was
directed to the establishment of others,-the whole case being, in fact,
brought up with a purpose, apparently, that this court should decide
both fact and law-and the question certified was whether in point of
law upon the facts as stated and proved the action could be maintained,
-the court dismissed the case as not within its jurisdiction.

THE sixth section of the act of Congress of 29th April,

1802,* provides:
"That whenever any question .shall occur before a Circuit
Court upon which the opinions of the judges shall be opposed,
thepoint upon which the disagreement shall happen, shall, &c.,
be statet under the direction of the judges and certified . . . to
the Supreme Court . . . and shall, by the said court, be finally
decided."
With this act in force Daniels brought a suit in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois against the
Rock Island Railway Company for injuries done him by a
collision on its railroad; there being a special plea to one of
the counts of the declaration-of which there were several,
denied generally-that the collision referred to was brought
about by the carelessness of the defendant's servant, and
without the knowledge or consent of the defendant, and
.that at the time of the injury the plaintiff himself was a servant serving as a fireman on the locomotive. The record

went on:
"On the trial it was proved that the defendant was a common
carrier of passengers; that at the time alleged the plaintiff was
on the engine of the defendant, for the purpose and in the mannier hereinafterstated, proceeding over the road of the defendant,
when by the negligence and carelessness of the engineer of the
locomotive (the said engineer being at the time a servant of the
defendant), upon which the plaintiff was riding, a collision took
place, which resulted in great personal injury to the plaintiff.
*

2 Stat. at Large, 169.

DANIELS V. IRAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup.Of

Statement of the case.

The circumstances connected with the plaintiff's trip and the
manner and purpose of his firing the engine, as well as some
conversation of his after the injury, are detailed by the witnesses as follows."
Then followed the testimony of seven witnesses-two on
one side, five on the other-examined and cross-examined.
These witnesses testified that the plaintiff had been, a week
previously to the accident, a fireman on the railroad, but had
been-as some signified it mioht be---" dismissed"-though,
as it rather appeared, possibly-" suspended;"--that is to
say, owing to the diminished business of the road at that
exact season, had been taken off the pay-list; as the company did continually with its hands on the decrease of its
business at particular times in the year, and put onla list of
persons who would be preferred when, with the increase of
business, the company would again require more aid. "Its
business was unsteady." Such persons, it was testified, were
under no obligation to come back, nor was the company
bound to employ them again, but it was a custom if they
were at hand to set them to work again as soon as there
was work. Daniels, it was testified, had been inquiring two
or three days previously to the day of the accident when he
should be employed again, and was told that it might be in
one, two, three, or four weeks; that it would depend on the
business of the road.
On the day of the accident he came to the master mechanic, within whose business it was to employ and discharge firemen, and asked, as some witnesses testified, for
"a pass"-though others heard nothing about "a pass"-to
go to a place called Peru to get his clothes. The master,
according to his own testimony, told him that the company
was going to send an extra engine down that night -orthe
next, and that he could "fire" that engine down; though
according to the testimony of another witness, the master
told him that if he would fire that engine down he would
give him a pass: "that was the understanding between
them." The master himself swore that there was no agree-

Dec. 1865.]

DANIELS v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

253

Opinion of the court.

mernt that he should fire the engine in consideration of his
passage on it. The company, it was sworn to, was not in
the habit of making that sort of agreement, and the master
mechanic had no right to make such arrangements or to
Ie supposed, according to his own testigive "passes."
mony, that a sub-officer whose duty it would be, unless
directed to the contrary, to put the man's name on the payroll when he saw him serving on the engine, would put his
name on the roll accordingly.
There was other testimony, all directed to the fact whether
or not the man was actually reinstated or whether he was
hanging on only, expecting to be, and had now, in consideration of" firing" the engine on a particular trip, been given
the privilege of a passage on it to go and get his clothes.
The record, after mentioning certain facts that were
proved, thus went on:
"This was all the evidence bearing upon the case, and thereupon it occurred as a question whether, in point of law, upon

the facts as stated and proved, the action could be maintained,
and whether, consequently, the jury should be instructed that
under the facts as proved the plaintiff could not recover; upon
which questions the opinions of the judges were opposed. Whereupon, &c., the foregoing points upon which the disagreement
has happened is ordered by the judges to be stated and certified
to the Supreme Court of the United States, &e., for its final decision."
The case came here accordingly by a certificate that the
opinions of the judges were opposed on the points set forth,
and was argued by IMessrs. Hllurd and Booth, for the plainteff,
and bg Messrs. Cook and Winston, contra, on the questions of
law and fact presented ;-questions, however, which this
court did not consider; their opinion going to the matter
of jurisdiction only.
Mr. Justice SWAY-E delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by a certificate that the
opinions of the judges of the Circuit Court below were
opposed upon the points set forth; the proceeding having

2b4

DANIELS V. RAILlROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

been taken under the sixth section of the act of the 29th of
April, 1802.
To come properly before us, the case must be within the
appellate jurisdiction of this court. In order to create such
jurisdiction in any case, two things must concur: the Constitution must give the capacity to take it, and an act of Congress must supply the requisite authority.*
The original jurisdiction of this court, and its power to
receive appellate jurisdiction, are created and defined by the
Constitution; and the legislative department of the government can enlarge neither one nor the other. But it is for
Congress to determine how far, within the limits of the
capacity of this court to take, appellate jurisdiction shall be
given, and when conferred, it can be exercised only to the
extent and in the manner prescribed by law. In these respects it is wholly the creature of legislation.t
The section referred to of the act of 1802 mentions several particulars, all of which must appear in the certificate.
They are jurisdictional, and a defect as to either is fatal.
The one which has most frequently been the subject of
discussion, and which it is necessary to consider in this case,
is "the point upon which the disagreement of the judges"
occurs.
It must be a question of law, and not of fact.T
It must arise in the progress of the cause, and not incidentally, or in relation to a collateral matter, after the rendition of the judgment or decree. Where the question certified was as to the amount of the bond to be given upon
the allowance of a writ of error, and where it was as to the
retaxation of costs after the principal of the judgment had
been collected, this court held that it could not take jurisdiction.§
• Marbury v. Madison, 1 Oranch, 137; Sheldon v. Sill, 8 Howard, 448.
t Durousseau v. United States, 6 Oranch, 314; United States v. Moore,
3 Id. 159; Barry v. Mercein, 5 Howard, 119.
t Dennistoun v. Stewart, 18 Id. 565.
Devereaux v. Marr, 12 Wheaton, 213; Bank United States v. Green, 6
Peters, 26.

Dec. 1865.]

DANIELS V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

255

*

It cannot arise upon a motion for a new trial, the decision
resting in the discretion of the court, and not being subject
to exception.*
It may arise upon a special verdict, or a motion in arrest
of judgment.t
The question, whether a demurrer shall be sustained? is
not sufficiently definite. The precise legal point involved,
upon which the judges were divided in opinion, should be
stated. The court is not bound to look beyond the certificate to ascertain the point.1
fNothing which may be decided according to the discretion
of the court can be made the subject of examination here
in this way.§
But if in connection with the discretion which the court
below is asked to exercise, questions are presented which
involve the right of the matter in controversy, this court
will entertain them.j
Except under peculiar circumstances, this court will not
take cognizance of a question certified upon a division pro
forriA.
The determination of the questions certified does not
affect the right to bring up the whole case, by a writ of error
or appeal, after it is terminated in the court below.** 'When
a certificate of division is brought into this court, only the
points certified are before us. The cause remains in the
Circuit Court, and may be proceeded in by that court according to its discretion.tt
Where the question certified was, whether a letter written
by a cashier without the knowledge of the directors was
* United States v. Daniel, 6 Wheaton, 645.

t Somerville Executors v. Hamilton, 4 Id. 230; United States v. Kelly,
11 Id. 417.
'United States v. Briggs, 5 Howard, 208.
Davis v. Braden, 10 Peters, 288.
I United States v. The City of Chicago, 7 Howard, 1&.
Webster v. Howard, 1 Id. 54; United States v. Stone, 14 Peters, 624.
•* Ogle v. Lee, 2 Cranch, 33; United States v. Bailey, 9 Peters, 273.
tt Kennedy et a]. v. The Bank of the State of Georgia, 8 Howard. 610.

DANIELS V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

*

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

binding on the bank, this court declined to answer, because
the solution of the question depended in part upon facts not
stated in the certificate.*
The whole case cannot be transferred to this court. Chief
Justice Marshall says:t "A construction which would authorize such transfer, would counteract the policy which
forbids writs of error or appeal until the judgment or decree
be final. If an interlocutory judgment or decree could be
brought into this court, the same case might again be
brought up after a final decision; and all the delays and
expense incident to a repeated revision of the same cause
be incurred. So if the whole cause, instead of an insulated
point, could be adjourned, the judgment or decree which
would be finally given by the Circuit Court might be
brought up by writ of error or appeal, and the whole subject be re-examined. Congress did not intend to expose
suitors to this inconvenience; and the language of the provision does not, we think, admit of this construction. A
division on a point, in the progress of a cause, on which the
judges may be divided in opinion, not the whole cause, is
to be certified to this court."
Where it appears the whole case has been divided into
points-some of which may never arise, if those which precede them in the certificate are decided in a particular way-the case will be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.1
The questions must be separate and distinct, and each one
must be particularly stated with reference to that part of the
case upon which it arose. They must not be "such as involve or imply conclusions or judgment by the judges upon
the weight or effect of the testimony or facts adduced in the
cause."§
The question must not be general nor abstract, nor a
mixed one of law and fact. If it be either, this court cannot
take jurisdiction.[]
* United States v. The City Bank of Columbus, 19 Howard, 384.
t United States v. Bailey, 9 Peters, 278.
j Nesmith et al. v. Sheldon et al. 6 Id. 41.
Dennistoun v. Stewart, Id. 18, 565.
[[ Ogilvie et al. v. The Knox Insurance Company, Id. 577

Dec. 1865.]

NEWELL V. NORTON AND SHIP.

257

Syllabus.

In the case before us the questions certified are, "whether,
in point of law, upon the facts as stated and proved, the action could be maintained; and whether, consequently, the
jury should be instructed that, under the facts as proved,
the plaintiff could not recover ?"
Upon looking into the record, we find a body of facts
stated as having been proved, and the testimony of numerous witnesses set forth at length, as respectively given. The
entire case is brought before us, as if we were called upon to
discharge the twofold functions of a court and jury. At the
threshold arises an important question of fact, not without
difficulty. It is, whether the plaintiff is to be regarded as
a passenger, or a servant of the defendant, at the time he
received, upon the locomotive, the injury for which he sues?
Upon the determination of this question depend the legal
principles to be 'applied. They must be very diferent, as
the solution may be one way or the other.
The Constitution wisely places the trial of such questions
within the province of a jury, and it cannot be taken from
them without the consent of both parties. Here, such consent is given; but it is ineffectual to clothe us with a power
not conferred by law. In the light of the authorities to
which we have referred, it is sufficient to add that the questions certified are not such that we can consider them.
According to the settled practice, the case will, therefore,
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and remanded to the
Circuit Court, with an order to proceed in it according to
law.
DISMISSED, AND ORDER ACCORDINGLY.
[See infra, p. 294, Havemeyer v. Iowa County, 2.-REP.]

NEWELL V. NORTON AND SHIP.
1. A libel in ron against a vessel and personally against her master may
properly under the present practice of the court be joined. And if the
libellant have originally proceeded against vessel, master, owners, and
pilot, the libel may with leave of the court be amended so as to apply
to the vessel and master only in the way mentioned.
VOL. III.

17

