Dec. 1865.]

D..CANDREWS V. THATCHER.
Syllabus

ilence it is obvious that plaintiff in errcr is mistaken
when he asserts that the suit in the Federal ',eurt drew to
it the question of title to the property, and that the suit in
the State court against the marshal could not withdraw that
issue from the former court. No such issue was before it,
or was likely to come before it, in the usual course of proceeding in such a suit.
It is true, that if under the intimations in Freean-v. Hfowe,
the claimant of the property had voluntarily gone before that
court and asked by petition that the property be ieleased
from the attachment and restored to his possession, he might
have raised such issue, and would have been bound by its
decision. But no such application was made, no such issue
was in fact raised, and no such issue belonged ordinarily to
the case. We see nothing therefore in the mere fict that
the writ issued from the Federal court, to prevent the marshal from being sued in the State court, in trespass fo his
own tort, in levying it upon the property of a man against
whom the writ did not run, and on property which was not
liable to it.
JUDGIENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

MCANDREWS

v.

THATCHER.

The liability of a cargo to contribute, in general average, in favor of the
ship, does not continue after the cargo has been completely separated
from the vesel, so as to leave no community of interest remaining.
This principle illustrated in the following case:
A ship was stranded near her port of destination, and the underwriters
upon her cargo sent an agent to assist the master in getting her off.
The master and agent made all proper efforts to do this, for two days;
when not succeeding at all, and the water increasing in the vessel, they
began to discharge the cargo in lighters, still making efforts to sve the
ship. This discharge of the cargo occupied four days; by which time
the whole of it was taken off, and, with the exception of a very small
fraction in the lower hold and not discovered, taken to the ship's agents,
who subsequently delivered it to its consignees, they giving the usual

MCANDREWS V. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ut.

Statement of the case.
average bond. By the time that the cargo was thus all got off, the ves.
sel, not assisted by being lightened, was settling in the sand, with the
tide ebbing and flowing through her as she lay. The agent considering
her case hopeless, and the consignees of the ship having refused to
authorize him to incur any further expense, now went away.
On the next morning, and while the master was yet aboard, the underwriters on the vessel sent their agent, who got to work to float the vessel.
Soon after the new agent came, the crew refused to do duty. The agent
got new hands, and the crew went away. They were soon followed by
the master, he leaving the vessel after the new agent had been in charge
of her for four days. After six weeks' labor, and an expenditure of
money somewhat exceeding her value when saved, the new agent succeeded in floating and rescuing the ship. The remnants of the cargo,
in a damaged state, were delivered to its consignees.
On a suit by the owners of the ship against the consignees of the cargo,
for contribution in general average for the expenses incurred after the
master went awayHeld, that the case was not one for contribution; there having been, as
the court considered, no community of interest remaining between the
ship and cargo, after the master, in the circumstances of the case, had
left the ship.

THnE ship Rachel, owned by Thatcher and others, of Boston, sailed from Liverpool for New York in July, 1859, with
a cargo, consisting, among other things, of four hundred
and four boxes of liquorice paste, consigned to McAndrews,
in Neew York. The vessel, with her cargo, arrived in safety
inside of Sandy Hook on the 21st of September; but, in
coming up the bay, struck in a gale on the west bank, in
the lower harbor, and became fast.
Regarding the ship and cargo as in peril, the master accepted the services of a steamer which that same day came
alongside, to get her off. This steamer passed her hawser on
board, and made fast; but, finding that her power was not
sufficient to accomplish the object, she set a signal for another
steam-tug. Another immediately came to her aid. The power
of both combined was tried, but they could not start the ship
from the place where she lay imbedded in the sand. These
steamers continued their efforts for several hours. During
this time a third steamer came alongside and made fast to
the ship; but in her endeavor to start it parted her hawser,
&Indall came to the conclusion that their efforts were fruit

:Dec. 1865.]

McANDREWS V. THATCHER.
Statement of the case.

less. The master, at six o'clock the same afternoon, left the
ship and went to the port for advice and assistance; but the
mate and mariners remained on board. At four o'clock on
the following morning it appeared that there was fourteen
and a half feet of water in the ship, and that this was fast
increasing. The cargo was insured in New York and the
ship in Boston. The underwriters of the cargo, with the
knowledge and consent of the consignees of the ship, during
the forenoon of the second day after the disaster, sent a
steamer and their agent, a certain Captain Merrit, to the
ship, for the purpose of saving, if possible, both it and the
cargo. The steamer had a schooner in tow, and every necessary appliance-such as steam-pumps and wrecking apparatus-to rescue the ship, or, if necessary, to discharge the
cargo. These continued their efforts, under the direction
of the master, who had returned to his ship, for two days;
but, finding that they were unable to get the ship off, they
got to work to discharge the cargo ito lighters, and trawsport it
to its place of destination. The discharge of the cargo occupied
four days, i. e. till the 26th of September; during which time
three hundred and ninety-one boxes of the liquorice paste
were taken off.
The cargo so discharged and transported was placed in
the custody of the agents qf the ship, who, upon receiving the
usual average bond, delivered the same to the consignees. Efforts
to get the ship off were continued by these parties until the
said twenty-sixth of September, when the steam-pumps were
taken down and carried away, having finished discharging
the cargo. Before the agent left the vessel finally he went
to New York and consulted with the consignees of the ship.
These refused to authorize him to incur any further expense; the ship at that time, as positive testimony declared,
having been settling in the sand, with the tide ebbing and
flowing in her as she lay.
Intelligence of the disasters having reached the underwriters of the ship, they sent their agent, one Captain Morris,
to the vessel. He went on board at one o'clock the next
morning, after the other agent went away, and took charge

MoANDREWS V.

THATOCER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of her; but the crew soon afterwards came aft and refused
to do duty. Deprived of their services, he went immediately
to New York and employed other men to supply their places,
and the crew left the ship. The next two days were spent
in procuring oil casks, and in attempts to buoy the ship by
their use, but without any beneficial result, except to save
some of the materials of the vessel. It was found, on the
next morning (that of the 30th), after a storm, that the ship,
at her hatches, had eighteen feet of water, and as the sea
was breaking over her, and she was apparently going to
pieces, her main topmast was, by order of Morris, cut away.
The master, unable to do more than he had done, now
abandoned the ship, and left her where she lay, inicharge of
Mforris, the agent of her underwriters. Not discouraged by
her condition, Morris continued his endeavors until the 11th
of November following; and on that day, by the assistance
of two steamers, succeeded "n getting herfree, and towed her up
to the Marine Railway, at Hunter's Point, for repairs. The
value of the ship as saved was somewhat less than the expense of getting her off after Morris came on board. Examination made at the Marine Railway showed that there were
remnants of the cargo, in a damaged state,* including eleven
boxes of the liquorice paste, not till then discovered, on board.
These were discharged and delivered to the consignees.t
The ship-owners sued the consignees of the liquorice paste
in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York,
for $3363.89, adjusted as in the note for their ratable pro* One box had been lost overboard in discharging the cargo.

t The whole expenses on the saving of vessel and cargo were, $13,772 07
The expenses, after Iforris came on board,
6,884 76
The ship as saved was valued at
.
.....
6,758 00
The cargo (including sales of damaged), $24,600 and $298.34,
:31,754 66
The freight earned was
.978
06
The sales of the whole of the defendants' consignment of 350 and
54 cases of liquorice was .11,747
28
Of that delivered from the ship after she got off, deducting
charges,
132 50
The contribution of their consignment to the whole expense as
adjusted, .3,363
89

Dec. 1865.']

D81cAYDREWS v. THATCHER.
Statement of the case.

portion of the expenses incurred in saving the ship after
Mforris came on board. The court below was of opinion
that the claim was well founded in law, and charged accordingly.
Its opinion expresses so well one view which may be taken
of the case that the reader will gain by having it entire:
"This is, perhaps, a close case, but we are inclined to think that,
on principle, the cargo of the defendants is bound to contribute
in general average to the expenses of saving the vessel. The
tact that the vessel stranded near the port of destination has
somewhat embarrassed the case, taken in connection with the
circumstances attending the delivery of the cargo by lighters.
It is open to the observation that the cargo was not only separated from the vessel and the common impending peril, before
most of the expenses in relieving the latter were incurred, but
that the separation took place at the instance and expense of
the consignees of the cargo. This view, however, to the extent
stated, is not sustained by the evidence. The cargo was discharged into the lighters to relieve the vessel; and the delivery
then at the port of destination is attributable to the accident of
the proximity of the port. The cargo was at the risk and responsibility of the ship until delivered by her consignees on
receiving bond for average contribution.
"It is true, in a literal sense, that after the discharge of the
cargo upon the lighters, and separation from the ship, the safety
of the cargo no longer depended upon the saving of the vessel;
and hence that there was no longer any common peril impending
or benefit derived from the expenses incurred. But is this true
in a more general view of the facts of the case, or in contemplation of law? By the accident which occasioned the stranding
of the vessel, both the vessel and cargo were exposed to one
common danger, and the expenses incurred were incurred with
a view to the safety of both, and of course for their common
benefit. Steam-tugs were employed, and efforts made to start
the vessel from her sand bed-steam-pumps and wrecking apparatus used. These efforts failing, then commenced sending
down yards and spars, and placing cargo into lighters. All these
were expenses incurred, and efforts made by the master, who
represented the interests of all concerned. These efforts were

MeANDREWS V. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
continued by the master until and after he was joined by Captain
Morris, the agent sent by the underwriters of the ship, who then
took charge of the business.
" The question, under these circumstances, is this, Was the
cargo exempt from all expenses incurred in relieving the ship
after it was placed in safety upon the lighters? We agree that,
if the consignees of the cargo had accepted it thus delivered, at
the sides of the stranded ship, the separation would have been
complete, and it would have been no longer connected with the
danger or its incidents. But this cannot be pretended. The
cargo continued as a part of the adventure not yet terminated.
It cannot be doubted but if any damage had happened to it in
the transfer to the lighters, or in the conveyance to the port,
the loss would have been the subject of general average, and the
ship liable for its share. And in this sense the cargo is still
interested in the safety of the ship. It is said the consignees of
the cargo do not claim any average contribution. But their
release or waiver cannot affect the question. The test is, is the
vessel legally liable?
"There is certainly a difficulty in laying down any general rule
by which to determine the measure of expense the master or
owner, in case of a vessel stranded by a peril of the sea, may
incur, and to which the cargo saved must contribute. That
expenses may be incurred, indeed that it is oftentimes the duty
of the masters or owner to incur them, is not to be denied. We
do not see but the measure of them must depend upon the exercise of sound judgment and good faith, under all the circumstances of the case. No fixed amount can be settled in advance.
There may be abuses, as in every case where the rule of liability
turns upon the exercise of the human judgment in the given
case. The only remedy we know of consists in the supervision
of the courts. We cannot say, in this case, that the owner should
have ceased his efforts when the cargo was saved, or that he
forfeited his right to the contribution by the continuance of
them."
The jury having found in favor of the plaintiff for the
$3363.89 claimed, and judgment having gone accordingly,
the case was now here on exceptions and error.

Dec. 1865.]

D

8NDREWS V. THATCHER.

Argument against the contribution.

Mr. Alexander Hanzilton, Jr., for the plaintiffs in error:
1. The general rule will not be disputed that expenditures
are not to be brought into general average, unless they are
of an extraordinary character, and incurred for the joint
benefit of ship and cargo.
In this case the cargo had been stored in safety at its
place of destination before the expenses to save the ship,
for which this action is brought, or any part of them, had
been incurred.
Certainly when Captain Morris took charge of the ship,
at the request of, and as agent for, the Boston underwriters
on the ship, the cargo had been discharged into lighters by
other parties, and safely stored at its place of destination,
and the freight earned, or was due thereon. No further
service was to be rendered to the cargo by the carrier, nor
had he any further connection with it, save his lien for freight
and charges. It was no longer at risk, and the separation
from the ship was complete and absolute.
All expenses thereafter incurred upon the ship were made
with a view to its preservation alone, and could not possibly
benefit the cargo, or affect the freight in any way.
Of the three interests, therefore, two-cargo and freightwere no longer at risk, but, on the contrary, were absolutely
secured, and entirely independent of the ship, whatever
might be its fate. The ship itself was an absolute loss; the
expenses of saving exceeding its value when saved.
Though the general principles which we here assert are
well settled in mercantile law and practice, the adjudicated
cases upon them are not numerous.
In England the first case affecting the question is'Sheppard
v. Wright, reported in Shower's Parliamentary Cases.* There
a ship, laden with silk and oils, fiom Messina to London,
was chased to Malaga by the French fleet. The factor of
the owners of the ship sent a lighter to save what he could of
the ship's cargo, and because the silks were of the greatest
value, they were put on board of a lighter, with a small por* Page 18.
VOL. I1.

23

354

McANDREWS v. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the contribution.

tion of the oil, and carried on shore. At night the French
left the port, when the master ceased to land any more cargo.
Some few days after the fleet again appeared, and the French
got the ship and the remaining cargo. The silks were afterwards put on board another ship, and delivered to their
owners in London. The action was brought by the owners
of the ship and oils against the owners of the silks, to have
contribution for their loss, but the bill was dismissed by the
chancellor, which was affirmed upon appeal by the House
of Lords. This was in 1693.
In the case of Job v. Langton,* the ship, with a cargo from
Liverpool, ran on shore accidentally on the coast of Ireland.
In order to get her off it became necessary to discharge the
whole of her cargo, which was taken out and placed in store
in Dublin. The ship was got off by digging a channel and
employing a steam-tug. The cargo was shipped in another
vessel and forwarded to its destination; but, for the purposes
of the case, it was to be considered as having been carried
on by the original ship after she had been repaired. The
qaestion was, were the expenses incurred after the cargo
was in safety, in getting off the ship and towing her to Liverpool for r'pairs, chargeable in general average, or to the ship
alone? Lord Campbell (all the court agreeing with him)
held ther were chargeable to the ship alone.
Conr, ecting this case with that of Moran v. Jones,t subsequendy decided in the same court, it will be seen that it was
put upon the ground that the expenses claimed were incurred under an agreement made subsequently to the saving
of the cargo, and were not part of a continuous series of
measures for the safety of the cargo and ship jointly. The
case at bar is like it. No objection is made by us to any
part of the expenses incurred in removing the cargo and
materials, down to the time that the cargo was safely landed
and the ship practically abandoned by her consignees. The
objection goes to the expenses incurred under Captain Mor6 Ellis & Blackburne (88 English Common Law), 779.
t 7 Id. (90 English Common Law), 532.

Dec. 1865.]

c 5ANDREWS v. THATCHER.
Argument in favor of the contribution.

ris's administration, after he was employed by the underwriters on the ship, twenty-four hours after the abandonment.
In Job v. Laagton another fact appeared, to which the
notice of the court is requested. The cargo in that case was
of coal; and, when it was discharged, a very small part of
it, to wit, fifty tons, were left on board the ship to "stiffen
her." In this case a small remnant of cargo, bearing the
proportion of one hundred and forty .fourth part of the whole,
was also left on board, to be removed because it could not
be got at; although, when Captain Morris went on board,
he supposed there was no cargo in the ship, and acted upon
that idea.
2. The stranding was involuntary, and, as a camse of loss
or expense, did not give rise to a claim for contribution in
general average.
3. The stranding occurred in entering the port of destination. In such cases expenses incurred in raising the ship
are not general average.*
As the vessel, after the cargo was taken out, did not float,
and was in fact a total loss-the expense of floating her
exceeding her value when raised-it is clear, under the
authorities, that these expenses cannot be brought into contribution in general average. t
31r. Daniel Lord and 31tr. George D. Lord, contra, for the
sh .p-owners.
1. The ship and cargo, when stranded, were jointly exposed to a common and imminent danger of loss. Nor
was the danger less common or less imminent because the
stranding was near the end of the voyage. That it was involuntary did but make the peril the greater. Neither fact
impaired the right to contribution.
The community of extraordinary peril commenced with
the stranding, and did not terminate until the arrival of the
* 2 Arnould on Insurance, P 325, p. 889, Boston ed., 1849; Stevens on
Average, 22
t- Stevens & Benecke, Phillips's edition, 139-40; Marshall v. Garner, 6
Barbour, 394; 2 Phif.ips on Insurance, 3d ed., 117.

MCANDREWS V. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in favor of the contribution.

vessel and cargo at the place of safe delivery.

The connec-

tion of vessel and cargo, as to common service, did not end

before.
2. The whole saving, with its attendant expenses, was one
continuous, unremitted operation, both in theory and in
point of fact, from its beginning until the ship with the
remnant of cargo reached the Marine Railway at New York.
Although the effort was taken in hand finally by those who
were substitutes for the original master and crew, yet the last,
as the former, represented the owners of the ship, and in the
line of their duty were acting as such representatives.
The vessel and cargo continued in the joint possession of
the owners of the ship and their agents, and the cargo was
not received from them until the various parts of the cargo
had all arrived and been delivered at the end of the voyage;
and had been received on the orders of the owners' agents,
and subject jointly to a claim of general average. The consignment of defendants was not received or saved by them,
separately or severally, or through any separate act of their
own. It also was protected by a right of contribution in
case of loss, while proceeding in the saving vessels from the
shoal to the place of delivery in the city of New York. Indeed, a part of the defendants' consignment remained in the
ship to the last, and was received by them from the ship's
agents, at the city of New York, and sold by the defendants.
Had this been of great value, it would not have been exempted from its contribution. But until actually delivered
and sold, its value could not be ascertained. And, moreover, its value could not vary the principle of the liability,
but merely the amount of its assessment. The defendants
stand in the same condition as if all their consignment had
been retained by the ship's agents, until received under a
common bond of united responsibility.
3. It is contrary to the principle of general average to
relieve any of the parts of the common adventure from its
ratable share of contribution, by reason of its delivery
being made successively, when made by the endeavors commenced and continued in common. The labor and expei±-

Dec. 1865.]

McAND-REWS V. THATCHER.
Argument in favor of the contribution.

diture of rescuing the part of an adventure first relieved, is
chargeable on the residue of the :cargo, and on the ship;
because the latter are thereby relieved of part of the danger.
The goods taken into lighters, on the relieving of the ship,
are still at the risk of the ship and cargo, which their unlading or jettison first relieves. But as the ship and residue
of the cargo are thus chargeable with a burden, they are
equally entitled to relief and contributions from the cargo
whose safety is promoted by it. Supposing the value of the
ship and the freight in peril large, and that of the cargo
small, if the cargo is relieved by common expenditures falling largely on the ship, the ship thus contributes largely for
the saving of the cargo; the equity is the same, if the values
are reversed and the cargo is made to bear more, according
to its just proportion.
Adjudged cases support our view. Bevan v. Bank of the
United States,* in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, may
almost be said to be in point. The reporter's syllabus of the
case runs thus:
"A vessel bound to Philadelphia, and having a large sum of
specie on board belonging to the defendants, arrived in the bay
of the Delaware, in the month of December, and after encountering various difficulties was stranded and ice-bound, near
Reedy Island, in a situation of imminent peril. The specie was
carried over the ice to the shore, and by land to Philadelphia,
where it was delivered to the defendants. Some weeks afterwards the vessel reached Philadelphia in safety with the remainder of the cargo, which had been in whole or in part
discharged into lighters, and afterwards reshipped. HUeld, that
the defendants were liable to contribute to the charges and
expenses incurred after the landing of the specie, as general
average."

As in some degree illustrating the subject, we may next
refer to Bedford Commercial Insurance Co. v. Parker et al., in
the Supreme Court of Massachusetts.t In that case, a ship
insured was accidentally stranded within a few miles of her
* 4 Wharton, 301.

t 2 Pickering, 1.

MOPANDREWS v. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument in favor of the contribution.

port of destination. A., the owner of the cargo, which consisted of iron, saved part of it at his own expense. The
insurers afterwards sent men on board, who endeavored
without success to get the ship off, and at the same time the
men employed by A. saved forty tons more of the iron. The
two parties of men acted separately, though sometimes assisting each other. After this the insurers contracted to pay
B. $2600, if he would get the ship off; and A. agreed that
they might offer B. $600 for saving the iron, provided the
ship should not be saved. B. got the ship off, and brought
her to the wharf with 155 tons of iron on board. It was
held, that the 155 tons were liable to contribute in general
average to the $2600, though the rest of the iron was not.
Nelson v. Bebnont, in iew York,* is, perhaps, more in point.
The following is an extract from the syllabus, which presents the case as adjudged. Some general observations in the
opinion-dicta merely-need not be referred to, since they
cannot operate in a counter way.
"The cargo of a vessel being on fire, the master transferred a
quantity of specie to another ship, which by his request convoyed him into a port of distress. He there incurred expenses
in putting out the fire and repairing damages to the vessel, the
specie being meantime deposited in a bank. The damages were
found to be such that the cargo was sold and the voyage abandoned. .Held, that the specie was liable in general average for
the expenses at the port of distress."
The counsel of the other side have referred to and commented upon fforan v. oes, and have endeavored, perhaps,
to explain it away. Here, again, we present the syllabus of
the case, or its material parts. It seems to sustain our view.
"A ship was chartered to proceed from Liverpool to a foreign
port. She took on board an outward cargo, and sailed. She
was driven on a bank, by a storm, near Liverpool; and the
cargo was rescued from her and carried to Liverpool, and there
warehoused, the ship still remaining ashore in a situation of
* 21 New York, 36.

Dec. 1865.]

McANDREWS

v. THAOER.

Reply against the contribution.

peril. Some days afterwards the ship was got off and taken to
Liverpool, where she was repaired, and again took the cargo on
board and proceeded on her voyage.
"The question for the court was, whether the expenses, incurred after the goods were in Liverpool in getting the ship off,
without which she could not have proceeded on her voyage or
earned the chartered freight, were general average to which
ship, fieight, and cargo were to contribute; or were chargeable
to ship alone; or were chargeable on any other principle.
"The court drew the inference of fact, that the whole saving
of the cargo and ship was one continued transaction; and on
that hypothesis held, that the expenses were general average to
which ship, freight, and cargo must contribute."
Reply: One position of the other side is, that a portion of
the cargo was still on board, and, therefore, the separation
was not completely made between ship and cargo.
An answer to this is, that the portion remaining was a
mere damaged remnant under water, abandoned as not
worth saving, and amounting only in value, to about ,Ilth
part of the whole. Such a remnant-nothing to speak of-.
comes within the rule "de m'inmis," and cannot be allowed
to drag after it into contribution the cargo saved as an entirety. To allow that would be refining too much. If such
a remnant could be made use of to controvert the fact of the
separation between ship and cargo, then no such separation
would ever practically be made, for it is in the highest degree improbable where a vessel takes the bottom and is
strained and injured by striking and rolling so as to lose her
keel, and open her seams, that every particle of an assorted
cargo shall be fully taken out of her.
Another and apparently better position of the other side
is, that the efforts and expenditures to save the ship formed
part of a continuous series of measures for the common
benefit, and should, therefore, be justly brought into contribution with other expenditures incurred, and that all these
expenses were defrayed by the parties to whom the master
of the ship, as agent of all concerned, had consigned the
vessel in the absence of her owners.

McANDREws v. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply against the contribution.

But the case shows that so far from there being a "continuous series of measures" to save, there were two distinct
sets of efforts, by different parties, and different interests;
the first being for the benefit of all; the second for one interest alone, undertaken when it appeared to be, and was,
in fact, a desperate enterprise, leading to a waste of money.
As respects the authorities cited by my brothers Lord: The
whole matter in the case at bar consists more in the application of a principle to facts not disputed than in anything
else. To understand therefore how far the cases cited apply,
it is necessary to state them more fully than the opposite
counsel have done.
Bevan v. The Bank of the United States, is the first and the
strongest case they have. There the plaintiffs were the
owners of a ship which arrived in Delaware Bay in December, 1831, from New Orleans for Philadelphia, and became
stranded in a situation of imminent peril. It was necessary
to remove her cargo as in case of wreck. Among the first
articles landed was a sum of specie belonging to the defendants. It was received on the ice in sleds, and immediately
conveyed to the shore, on the morning of the 16th of Decem-

ber, 1831. It was then sent to Philadelphia, and on the following day delivered to the defendants. Eight weeks after,
the vessel arrived in Philadelphia with the remainder of her
cargo, which had been in whole or in part discharged into
lighters and afterwards reshipped.
During the period of eight weeks a large number of additional charges had been incurred for the safety of the vessel and the remainder oy the cargo.
In this case the question was, whether the expenses incurred in getting the ship into port after the specie had
been sent forward should be brought into general average,
including the specie, and it was held that they should.
The only ground upon which an argument can be made
to sustain this decision is, that the same series of measures
taken by the captain to save his ship and cargo continued
to be taken by him up to the time that his ship and cargo

Dec. 1865.']

eMANDREWS

V.

THATCHER.

Reply, against the contribution.

arrived in Philadelphia. In the case before the court no
such fact exists.
Mr. Phillips, in his work on Insurance,* questions this
decision, and shows that the passage in Benecke, the authority on which the case of Bevan mainly relies, is not analogous to the case in question, and that the case of the specie
"does not," to use his language, " seem to be distinguishable
from that of a part of the cargo being landed after arrival at
the port of destination, and a subsequent general average
loss on the ship and remainder of the cargo still on board,
to which the part delivered would unquestionably not be
liable to contribute; the remainder of the cargo, in the case
in question, not having been delivered to the consignees,
but landed and reloaded on the ship, being afloat again, continued to be within the ordinary category of contributory
interest." So too the Court of Appeals of New York, in
Nelson v. Bebnont, discusses the opinion in the case, and
doubts whether it can be sustained upon either of the
grounds upon which it is put. For the purposes of this
case, however, it is sufficient to say, that in its important
facts it is so different, that it is not an authority to sustain
the position of the defendant in error here.
The next case referred to, on the opposite side, is Bedford
Commercial .Insurance Co. v. Parker. In that case, the ship
was on her voyage from a foreign port to NKew Bedford, and
struck on a reef outside the harbor, about nine miles from
the town. Shortly after she struck, the defendants, who
were owners of ship and cargo, offered to abandon her to the
plaintiffs, who were the underwriters. These refused to accept, but determined to save the ship if they could, the defendants agreeing that nothing done by the plaintiff with
that object should prejudice them on the question of the
defendants' right to abandon. Men were sent to the vessel
by the plaintiffs to save what they could of the sails and
rigging, and some of the iron of which the cargo consisted
was taken out by them and carried to New Bedford. A
* Vol. 2,

1407: see also 1 Parsons on Maritime Law, 326.

McANDRDWS V. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct,

Reply, against the contribution.

large quantity of iron was saved, also, by men employed at
the expense of the defendants. Considerable quantities of
iron were taken out of the hold, and some of the men employed by the plaintiffs aided by pumping and otherwise to
save the cargo; but during the time the defendants had men
on board who were employed by them at their expense in
getting out the iron. Forty tons of iron were taken from
the ship and were brought to New Bedford by a sloop in
the employment of the plaintiffs, but the defendants had
vessels there, ready to have taken it. The labor and difficulty in saving it was in getting it from the ship's hold, and
this was done by the defendants' men. After this, the directors of the company authorized two of their number to
offer $2000 as a compensation to any one who would undertake to get the ship off, the contractor to be paid nothing
unless he should succeed, and with the consent of Parker,
one of the defendants, the agents were to offer $600, pro¢ided the iron should be all taken out, and the vessel should
not be removed; and so in a certain proportion for so much
iron as should be taken out.
The agents contracted with one Delano, engaging to pay
him $2600 if the vessel and the whole cargo should be made
secure, but no express stipulation was made relative to the
iron separately. It was understood, however, that the contractors were to be paid in proportion to what might be
saved, to the extent of $600. They got the vessel off and
brought her safely into the harbor, having about 155 tons
of iron still on board. The ship was also repaired by the
defendants, the parties to the policy having agreed that the
insurer should pay $1750 for repairs necessary upon the
ship.
It was also in evidence, that when the plaintiffs settled
their accounts with the laborers, who also assisted in saving
the iron, they refused to pay those men who were engaged
by the defendants. These parties of men acted separately,
though sometimes assisting each other.
The question was, what part of the cargo, if any, should
contribute to the expenses of raising the ship, and the court

Dec. 1865.]

McANDREWS

v.

THATCHER.

Reply. against the contribution.

held that only that part of the cargo that was in her when
she was raised should contribute to the expenses of raising
hber.
This case is, in fact, an authority against the plaintiff in
error. It is parallel with that now before the court, except
that in the case in Massachusetts, the ship and cargo were
owned by the same persons, who separated to some extent
from the underwriters, in their efforts to save their several
interests ;-,while in this case the owners of the cargo and
ship being different persons, acted in concert down to the
time that the underwriters on the ship took sole possession
of her.
In Nelson v. Belmont, the next case referred to, the Galena
sailed from New Orleans for Hlavre with a cargo of cotton
and 830,853 in specie belonging to the defendant. On July
2f3, 1853, the vessel was struck by lightning in the Gulf
Stream, and was found to be on fire in the hold. After attempting to extinguish it, a Danish vessel came in sight, and
the passengers and their baggage were transferred to her.
On the following day an arrangement was made with the
Danish captain by which he was to take the specie on board
his vessel and accompany the Galena to Charleston. This
was done because he had the passengers on board and as a
protection to the crew in case they had to leave the Galena.
The specie was transferred because if the fire broke out it
might be too late to remove it from the Galena. Both vessels reached Charleston. Engines of the city poured water
into the Galena till she filled and sank to the upper deck.
The cotton absorbed a good deal of water, very little of it
having been previously injured, and the captain determined
to abandon the voyage. He sold the cargo there and remitted the proceeds. While in the harbor and before reaching the wharf, he got the specie from the Danish vessel and
deposited it in the bank. The question was whether the
specie was liable to contribute in general average to the
amount paid for the services of the Danish brig, the expenses at Charleston of sinking and raising the vessel, the
repairs, and damage to the cotton by water, &c.

MCANDREWS V. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

In delivering the opinion of the court, Selden, J., says :*
"1My conclusion is, notwithstanding the case of Bevan v. United
States Bank, that if the owner of any portion of the cargo, even
after a peril has occurred, and after a series of measures to avert
it has commenced, can succeed in so separating his own property from the rest that it is no longer in any case at risk, he
cannot be held liable to contribute to the expenses subsequently
incurred."
After some remarks upon the term "at risk," he goes on
to indicate where the line of distinction lies:
"Ifthe voyage is not abandoned, and the property, though
separated from the rest and removed from the ship, is still under
the control of the master and liable to be taken again on board, for
the purpose of being carried to its destined port, the relations of the
several owners are in no respect changed."
These expressions show what would have been the decision in a case like the present one. They are not dicta,
either; but expressions which show the general view of the
court on the point here in issue. On precedent and on principle, therefore, we think the case (even if a "close" one) is
with us. On the English cases, we have already remarked.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.t
Views of the defendants are, that the case, as stated, is
not a case for contribution in general average, and that the
court erred in instructing the jury that the plaintiffs were
entitled to recover.
Primary proposition maintained by the defendants is, that
expenses incurred in a voyage, although they were necessary
and proper, are not to be carried into general average unless
they were of an extraordinary character, nor unless it appears that they were incurred for the joint benefit of the
ship and cargo; and that inasmuch as it appears in this case
that the cargo had been stored in safety, at the place of des.
tination, before the expenses, for which the suit was corn* Page 42.

t :Field, J., not having sat.

Dec. 1865.]

MoANDREWS v. THATCHER.

Opinion of the court.

menced, were incurred, the claim of the plaintiffs cannot be
sustained.
Decision and judgment in the case must depend upon the
question, whether the several sums expended by the agent
of the underwriters of the ship, after he went on board aud
took charge of the vessel and the men and means employed
to save her, were properly carried into the adjustment; because it is plain that if those sums are not properly included
in the expenses of general average the judgment should be
reversed.
I. Sacrifices, voluntarily made in the course of the voyage,
of part of the ship or cargo, to save the residue of the adventure from an impending peril, or extraordinary expenses
incurred for the joint benefit of both ship and cargo, and
which became necessary in consequence of a common peril,
are usually regarded as the proper subjects of general average,
All losses which give a claim to general average contribution, says a standard writer upon the law of insurance,
may be divided into two great classes:
1. Those which arise from sacrifices of part of the ship
or part of the cargo, purposely made in order to save the
whole adventure from perishing.
2. Those which arise out of extraordinary expenses incurred for the joint benefit of both ship and cargo.*
Present case, if the defendants are liable at all, falls within
the latter class, and, consequently, it will not be necessary to
remark upon the former class, although cases of jettison are
much more frequently presented for decision than cases
growing out of the stranding of the vessel. Stranding in this
case was involuntary; but it cannot be doubted that the
ship and cargo were jointly exposed to a common peril, and
were in imminent danger of being wholly lost. Such being
the fact, it is clear that the expenses of saving the ship and
cargo were a proper sulject of joint and ratable contribution in general average by vessel, freight, and cargo, provided
the vessel and cargo were saved by the same series of mea
* 2 Arnould on Insurance, 881.

MCANDREWS V. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sures during the continuance of the common peril which
created the joint necessity for the expenses.*
Undoubtedly, the community of extraordinary peril commenced with the stranding of the vessel; but the question
is, where it terminated? Three theories may be suggested:
1. That it terminated when the cargo was separated from
the ship, and was transported to the port of destination and
delivered to the consignee.
2. That it terminated when the master, acting in good
faith as the agent of all concerned, yielded to the necessities
of his situation and abandoned the endeavors to save the
ship, and left her wliere she was stranded, in charge of the
agent of her underwriters.
3. That it did not terminate until the ship was got off
from the bank where she was stranded, and arrived at the
marine railway for repairs in her port of destination.
Theory of defendants is substantially expressed in the first
proposition; but the plaintiffs insist that the community of
peril did not terminate until the arrival of the vessel at the
port of destination; and if not, then the charge of the court
was correct, and the judgment of the court must be affirmed.
Nhatural justice requires that where two or more parties
are in a common sea risk, and one of them makes a sacrifice
or incurs extraordinary expenses for the general safety, the
loss or expenses so incurred shall be assessed upon all in proportion to the share of each in the adventure; or, in other
words, the owners of the other shares are bound to make
contribution in the proportion of the value of their several
interests.t
Courts universally admit that the Rhodian law was the
parent of maritime contribution, although, in terms, it made
no provision for any case of general average, except for that
of jettison of goods as the means of lightening the vessel.
But the rule, as there laid down, has never been understood
as being confined to that particular case, but has always
* Benecke & Stevens on Average, 96; Baily on Average, 45, 71; Birkley
v. Presgrave, 1 East, 220; Addison on Contracts, 490.
f 2 Phillips on Insurance, 65; Holt on Shipping, 482.

Dec. 1865.]

MCANDREWS

v.

THATCHER.

Opinion of the court.

been regarded as a general regulation, applicable in all cases
falling within the principle on which it is founded.
Principle of the rule is, that "what is given for the general benefit of all, shall be made good by the contribution
of all;" and hence it is that losses, which arise out of extraordinary expenses incurred for the joint benefit of ship
and cargo, are as clearly to be carried into the adjustment
as those which arise from sacrifices of part of the ship or
part of the cargo.
Settled rule, also, is, that when a vessel is accidentally
stranded in the course of her voyage, and by labor and expense she is set afloat, and completes her voyage with the
cargo on board, the expense incurred for that object, as it
produced benefit to all, so it shall be a charge upon all, according to the rates apportioning general average.*
In case of accidental stranding, says Ir. Phillips, the
expenses incurred for getting off the vessel, as far as they
are incurred for the purpose of saving the ship, cargo, and
freight, and are common to all those interests, are a subject
of contribution by all. Expenses, however incurred for any
separate interest, he says, are wholly chargeable to that interest, and there can be no doubt that the proposition, as
stated, is correct as a general rule, and yet it is apparent that
there will often be difficulties in its application. Foreseeing
those difficulties, the same author attempts to obviate them
by three practical illustrations, which it becomes important
to notice:

1. That if the ship is got off without discharging the
cargo, or by discharging only a part of it, then the whole
expense is general average, unless the vessel needs repairs;
but if she needs repairs, those are particular average.
2. That if the vessel does not float when the whole cargo
is discharged, the subsequent expenses do not concern the
cargo, but are particular average on the vessel in the same
manner as repairs.
* Bedford Commercial Insurance Company v. Parker, 2 Pickering, 7;
Benecke & Stevens on Average, 139.

MOADREWS

v.

THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

3. That goods, when landed from a stranded ship, and
delivered to the consignee, cease to be liable to contribute
for expenses subsequently incurred.
Unquestionably, the rule enunciated in the first illustration is correct; but grave doubts are entertained whether
the second and third can be admitted in all cases without
important qualifications.
Although the stranded vessel may not float, as a consequence of the unlading of the goods, still she may be so
lightened by the operation, that the usual appliances at
hand may be amply sufficient to enable the master to rescue
the vessel without much expense or delay, and put her in a
condition to receive back the cargo and transport it to the
port of destination; and, in the case supposed, it cannot be
doubted that the expense of saving the vessel, as well as the
expense of preserving and reloading the cargo, would be
the proper subject of general contribution.
So, where the cargo consists of various consignments, and
the vessel is stranded in the harbor of the port of destination, it will seldom or never happen that all the consignments will be delivered at the same time. On the contrary,
some of necessity will be delivered before others; and yet,
if the unlading of the cargo has the effect to make the vessel float, and the whole adventure is saved by one continued,
unremitted operation, under the directions of the master, as
the agent of all concerned, it would seem that the case was
one falling directly within the equitable principle of general
average, which requires that all the interests shall contribute
for the expenses incurred to save the whole adventure from
common peril.*
Unless the rule is so, a new statement of the adjustment
would be necessary upon each respective part of the cargo
delivered as they successively reached a safe destination,
which would be impracticable, and contrary to the usual
course of adjusting such losses.
On the other hand, it is an undoubted rule that goods, or
* Benecke & Stevens on Average, 141, and note.

Dec. 1865.]

D CAi5. DREWS V. THATCHER.
Opinion of the court.

any interest, are not liable to contribute for any general
average or expenses incurred subsequently to their ceasing
to be at risk; because all that was not actually at risk at the
time the sacrifice was made or the expense incurred was
not saved thereby, and no interest is compelled to contribute to the loss or expense which was not benefited by the
sacrifice.*
I. Light is shed upon this inquiry by referring to the duty
of the master, who, in case the vessel is stranded, becomes
the agent of all concerned. Duties remain to be performed
by the master, as the agent of the owner or of all concerned,
after the voyage is suspended by the stranding of the vessel.
Itis duty is, if practicable, to relieve the ship and prosecute
the voyage; and his obligation to take all possible care of
the goods still continues, and is by no means discharged or
lessened while it appears that the goods have not perished
with the wreck. Safe custody is as much the duty of the
carrier as due transport and right delivery; and when he is
unable to carry the goods forward to their place of destination by the stranding of the vessel, he is still bound by the
original obligation to take all possible care of the goods, and
is responsible for every loss or injury which human skill and
prudence could prevent.t
Conscious of the nature and extent of his obligations, the
master accepted the services of the several steamers which
went to the relief of the ship, and continued his endeavors
to save both ship and cargo until the latter was safely delivered at the port of destination, and until the consignees
of the ship declined to authorize any further expense.
Evidence, as reported, is satisfactory that the master acted
throughout in good faith, and there is not the slightest
ground to conclude that he was wanting either in personal
energy or in nautical skill. Take the circumstances as detailed in the statement of the case, and it is clear that he
2 Phillips on Insurance, 1407; 2 Arnould on Insurance,
38.
- The Propeller Niagara, 21 Howard, 27; King v. Shepherd, 3 Story,
358; Elliot v. Russel, 10 Johnson, 7.
VOL. III.

24

370

McANDREWS

v.

THATCHER.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the court.

could not have been justified in doing less than he did; but
the question is, whether or not he was required to do more?
Plainly his duty was not ended when the vessel was stranded,
nor even when the cargo had been removed for the double
purpose of saving it and of lightening the ship, as a part of
the means adopted to get her off.
Mfeans devised on the occasion were such as are usually
employed for the purpose, and not a doubt is entertained
that if the master had been successful in saving the ship as
well as the cargo, the whole expense, inasmuch as it was the
result of one continuous, unremitted operation, would have
been properly regarded as a general average expenditure.
Where the ship is stranded, much is necessarily confided to
the discretion of the master; and if the ship had been saved
through the means which he employed, it is clear that the
expenditure would have fallen directly within the definition
of general average, as given by the best writers upon the
subject.
Ill. General average denotes that contribution which is
made by all who are parties to the same adventure towards
a logs arising out of extraordinary sacrifices made, or extraordinary expenses incurred, by some of them, for the common benefit of ship and cargo.
Usual conditions annexed to such a loss, in order that it
may be the object of such contribution, as generally stated,
are, that it must have been of an extraordinary uature, advisedly incurred, under circumstances of imminent danger,
for the common benefit of ship and cargo; and it must have
aided at least in the accomplishment of that purpose.*
Suggestion is, that the cargo was separated from the ship;
but the mere fact that the cargo is unladen, although it is
done, in part for the purpose of saving the goods, yet, if it is
also done for the purpose of lightening the vessel, and as a
means of causing her to float, and of saving her from the
common peril, will not necessarily divest the transaction of
* M. & P. on Ship. 320; Rtaclachlan on Shippini, 556; Smith's Mercantile Law, 6th ed. 336; Barnard v. Adams, 19 Howard, 270.

Dec. 1865.]

McA.NDREWS

v.

THATCHER.

Opinion of the court.

its character as an act performed for the joint benefit of the
ship and cargo.
Except when the disaster occurs in the port of destination,
or so near it that the voyage may be regarded as ended, the
master, if the goods are nbt perishable, has the right, and if
practicable, it is his duty to get off the ship, reload the cargo,
and prosecute the voyage to its termination.
Where the whole adventure is saved by the master, as
the agent of all concerned, the consignments of the cargo
first unladed and stored in safety are not relieved from contributing towards the expenses of saving the residue, nor is
the cargo, in that state of the case, relieved from contributing to the expenses of saving the ship, provided the ship
and cargo were exposed to a common peril, and the whole
adventure was saved by the master in his capacity as agent
of all the interests, and by one continuonis series of measures.
Ship and cargo were in imminent danger from a common
peril, and, under those circumstances, it was the duty of the
master, as the agent of all concerned, to use his best endeavors and employ his best exertions to save the whole adventure.
Viewing the matter in that light, his first efforts were directed to the object of relieving the vessel by means of the
steamers which came alongside; but, finding that the ship
was too fast in the sand to be got off by those means, he
commenced to discharge the cargo, to save the goods and
lighten the ship as, apparently, the best possible measure
which could be adopted to save the whole adventure.
IV. None of these propositions are controverted by the
plaintiff; but they insist that the subsequent expenses incurred by the agent of the underwriters of the ship should
also be carried into the adjustment, and that the cargo saved
by the master should be adjudged liable to contribute towards the expenses incurred by the agent of the underwriters
of the ship in accomplishing, at the end of six weeks, what
the master abandoned as hopeless and as a total loss.
Before the last-named agent came on board, the master,
ascertaining that the consignees of the ship would not au-

McANDREWS V. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

thorize any further expenditure, had dismissed the steamers
that went to the aid of the ship and had sent back to the
port all the steam-pumps and wrecking apparatus he had
employed in his endeavors to save the ship as well as the
cargo, and bad, in fact, decided -to abandon the ship as a
total loss, and left her in charge of the agent of her underwriters.
Prior to that decision the cargo, except a few remnants of
small value, subsequently found in the lower hold, had been
discharged into lighters and transported to the place of destination, and bad been delivered into the possession of the
consignees.
Having saved the cargo, and finding that further efforts
to save the ship. with the means at his command were fruitless, he relinquished his endeavors and abandoned the undertaking.
Such are the undisputed facts of the case, and, under the
circumstances, it is not possible to hold that the ship, as
subsequently got off, was, as matter of fact, saved by a continuation of the same series of measures as those by which
the cargo was saved.
Complete separation had taken place between the cargo
and the ship, and the ship was no longer bound to the cargo
nor the cargo to the ship.
Undoubtedly the doctrine of general average contribution
is deeply founded in the principles of equity and natural
justice, but it is not believed that any decided case can be
found where the liability to such contribution has been
pushed to such an extent as that assumed by the plaintiffs.*.
V. First case cited for the plaintiffs is that of Bevan v.
United States Bank,t which is the strongest reported case in
their favor. Plaintiffs were the owners of the vessel, and
the defendants were the owners of a certain quantity of
specie, which constituted a part of the cargo. Voyage was
* Slater v. Rubber Co., 26 Connecticut, 129; Nemick v. Holmes, 25 Penn.
3ylvania State, 371.
f 4 Wharton, 301.

Dec. 1865.]

D. cANDREWS v.

THATCHER.

Opinion of the court.

from New Orleans to Philadelphia; and the vessel was
stranded in Delaware Bay in a situation of imminent peril.
Statement of the case shows that the specie was among the
first articles landed, and it was immediately sent overland
to'the port of destination, and on the following day was delivered to the defendants. Eight weeks afterwards the vessel reached the same port in safety with the remainder of
the cargo, which had been discharged into lighters and was
afterwards reshipped. Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held
that the defendants were liable to contribute in general average to the charges and expenses incurred subsequently to
the landing of the specie.
fuch stress is laid, in the opinion of the court, upon the
fact that the vessel and the residue of the cargo left on
board, were subsequently brought into por by the extraordinary exertions of the master; and if the conclusion can be
sustained at all, it must be upon the ground that the whole
adventure was saved by a continuous series of measures,
prosecuted by the master as the agent of all concerned,
which commenced with the saving of the specie, and ended
with the saving of the vessel and the residue of the cargo.
Stranding in that case was outside of the harbor of the port
of destination, and there was no abandonment of the vessel,
nor any suspension in the endeavors of the master to save
the entire adventure. But the statement of the case shows
that the master and mariners remained on board, and that
they saved the ship, and having returned the residue of the
cargo to the ship, the same was duly transported to the
place of destination.* Standard text-writers have doubted
'the correctness of that decision ;t but it is unnecessary to determine the question at the present time, as it is clearly distinguishable from the case before the court.
Second case cited is that of Bedford Com. Ins. Co. v. Parker
!t alq7 which can scarcely be reconciled with the preceding
Lewis v. Williams, 1 Hall S. C., 436; Gray v. Waln, 2 Sergeant &
Rawie, 239.
t 1 Parsons' Mercantile Law, 326; 2 Phillips on Insurance,
1 2 Pickering, 1.

1407.

McADRtEWS

v.

HATCHERt.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

case. Insurers of the ship were the plaintiffs, and the defendants were the owners of the cargo. She was stranded
nine miles from the port of destination. Part of the cargo
was saved by men employed by the owners of the same, at
their own expense. Other parts of the same were subsequently saved by the underwriters of the ship; and it appears that at one time the latter had a hundred men employed in efforts to save the cargo, and the sails and rigging
of the vessel. They afterwards entered into a contract with
a third party, and agreed to pay a certain sum if he would
save the ship and the residue of the cargo.
Reported facts show that the contractor ultimately succeeded, and brought the ship and such part of the cargo as
remained on board, safely into the harbor; and the court
held, and well held, that only that part of the cargo which
was on board when the contract was made, was liable to
contribute in general average to pay the amount as stipulated in the contract. Clear inference, from the statement
of the case, is, that the master had abandoned the ship, and
that he had no participation in the previous endeavors to
save the cargo. Decision was, that everything which is
saved in such a case, by common expense and labor, shall
contribute to pay that expense in proportion to its value;
but the court decided that the part of the cargo taken from
the vessel by the owners, before the contract was made, was
not saved by the successful efforts of the contracting party,
and there can be no doubt that the decision was correct.*
Earliest case upon the subject is that of Shepherd v. Wiht,t
which was an appeal from a decree in the Court of Chancery.
Appellants shipped a part of the cargo, and were the owners
of the ship, and the residue of the cargo belonged to the respondents. Ship sailed from Messina, bound to London, and
on the voyage she was chased by an armed vessel into
Malaga. Advised of the danger, the factor of the ship sent
lighters to the master, to save what he could of the cargo;
* Columbia Insurance Co. v.Ashby, 13 Peters, 331.

" Showers's Parliamentary Cases, 28.

Dec. 1865.]

e1 ANDREWS V.

THATCHER.

Opinion of the court.

and as the goods of the respondents were silks, they were
first carried on shore. Night came, and the armed vessel
left, and as the danger no longer continued, the master forbore to land any more of the goods. Six days afterwards
the armed vessel returned, and captured the ship and the
goods on board, belonging to the appellants.
They brought the bill of complaint against the respondents, to compel contribution; but the chancellor dismissed
the bill of complaint, and the decree was affirmed in the
House of Lords. Ground of the decree was, that the appellants' loss did not contribute to the preservation of the respondents' shipment. Whole adventure was saved from the
first peril, and the shipment of respondents was not exposed
to the second, by which the ship and the appellants' goods
were lost. Evidently the case was rightly decided, and it is
perfectly consistent with the views herein already expresaed.*
Third case cited by the plaintiffs is that of Nelson v. Bel2oat ,t which has an important bearing upon the question
under consideration. Plaintiff in that case being the owner
of the ship, claimed general average contribution of the defendant, as the shipper of a certain amount of specie. Intended voyage was from New Orleans to Havre; but the
ship was struck with lightning in the Gulf Stream, and was
obliged to make a port of distress. Unable to extinguish
the fire, the master signalled a vessel in sight, and accepted
assistance. He transferred the specie to the other vessel,
and the arrangement was, that the other vessel should accompany the vessel in distress to Charleston; but after ar.
riving in the harbor, and before the vessels reached the
wharf, the master took back the specie, and subsequently
deposited it in bank. Damage was done to the residue of
the cargo by the fire; and the means adopted to extinguish
the fire, after the vessel reached the wharf, caused her to
sink, and the master was obliged to incur expense to raise
the vessel, in order to prosecute the voyage. Judgment of
the Court of Appeals was, that the specie was liable, in
* Benecke & Stevens on Average, 61.

t 21 New York, 38.

McANDREWS v. THATCHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

general average, for the amount paid for the services of the
other vessel, and for the expenses incurred at the-port of
distress.
Precise doctrine advanced was, that the liability to general
average continues until the property has been completely
separated from the rest of the cargo, and from the whole
adventure, so as to leave no community of interest remaining. Majority of the court went firther, and held that if
the voyage is not abandoned, and the property, although
separated from the rest, is still under the control of the master, and liable to be taken again on board for the purpose
of prosecuting the voyage, the common interest remains,
and whatever is done for its protection, is done at the
common expense. Correctness of that decision cannot be
doubted; and yet the question may often arise in practice,
whether in a given case the separation is, or is not so complete as to justify the conclusion that no community of interest remains. Close cases may doubtless arise, but it is
believed that in general there will not be much difficulty in
ascertaining the true line of distinction.
VI. Where a ship was stranded by perils of the sea, and
in order to lighten the vessel, the cargo was discharged and
forwarded in another vessel, and subsequently Rew measures
were adopted, and additional expenses were incurred in getting the ship off and taking her into port for repairs, it was
held that the expenses incurred from the misadventure until
the cargo was discharged, constituted a general average, but
that the subsequent expenses were particular average, and
chargeable only to the ship.*
Statement of facts shows that it became necessary to cut a
channel for the vessel, and employ a steam-tug in order to
get the vessel off; and the view of the court was, that the
goods had been previously saved by a distinct and completed
operation, and that afterwards a new operation began for the
benefit of the ship-owner.
Job v. Langton, 6 Ellis & Blackburne, 779; M. & P. on Ship. (3d d.),
822.

Dec. 1865.]

BROWN

v.

TARKINGTON.

Syllabus.

Judgment, in that case, was given by Lord Campbell, and
in a subsequent case he repeated and enforced the reasons
on which the former judgment rested.* Voyage, in the last
case, was from Liverpool to Callao. Ship was driven on a.
bank by a storm, near the port of departure. Cargo was
discharged and transported back to the port whence it came,
and some days afterwards the ship was got off, taken to the
port, and repaired, and again took the cargo on board and
proceeded on the voyage; and it was held that the saving
of the ship and of the cargo was one continued transaction,
and that the expenses were general average, to which the
ship, freight, and cargo must contribute. Considering that
the goods remained under the control of the ,aster until the
ship was got off, repaired, and was enabled to take the goods
on board and prosecute her voyage, it is clear that the decision was correct, and entirely consistent with the previous
adjudication.t
Applying those principles to the present case, we are of
opinion that there was no community of interest remaining
between the ship and the cargo when the master, as declared
in the statement of the case, abandoned the ship, and left
her in charge of the agent of the underwriters, after the consignees of the ship had declined to authorize the master to
incur any further expense.
Judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to issue a
NEW VENIRE.

BRowN

v.

TARKINGTON.

Promissory notes given for a balance found due on settlement in a transaction itself forbidden by statute and illegal, or for money lent to enable a party to pay bills which the person taking the promissory notes
* Moran v. Jones, 7 Ellis & Blackburne, 532.

t Maclachlan on Shipping, 578, 576.

