Dec. 1865.]

THE T OMPSOx.
Statement of the case.

to words which do not express it a liability from which the
act of Congress declares the ship-owner to be free? It was
the common law, or immemorial usage, which made him
liable before the statute. That relieved him from the force
of that usage or law. It cannot be that the liability can be
revived by merely attaching such usage to words in a contract
which have no such meaning of themselves. The contract
mentioned in the proviso, which can take a case out of the
statute, is one made by the parties, not by custom; in other
words, an express contract.
We do not believe, then, that the special contract set up
by respondent, founded on usage, although admitted by the
libellants, is founded on a custom which the law will support, and therefore the case must be governed by the act of
1851.
The construction which we have already given to that act
requires that the judgment of the Circuit Court, dismissing
the libel, shall be
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE THOMPSON.
1. Prize courts properly deny damages or costs where there has been "probable cause" for seizure.
2. Probable cause exists where there are circumstances sufficient to warrant
suspicion, even though not sufficient to warrant condemnation.
3. These principles applied to a case before the court where a captured vessel was restored, but without costs or damages.

Tn brig "Thompson," on her return voyage to Halifax
fiom Nassau, was captured at sea with a cargo of 486 casks
of turpentine and 81 bales of cotton, on the 16th of June,
1863, by the government steamer, the United States, and
sent into the port of New York for adjudication. The capture was made on suspicion that the vessel had broken the
blockade of our Southern coast, established by our govern-

THE THomPso.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

ment during the rebellion, or had on board a cargo brought
from a blockaded port, and transferred to her under circumstances justifying condemnation. One Clements, of Nova
Scotia, in behalf of himself and of a certain Martin & Co.,
of Nassau, all parties being British subjedts, put in a claim
for the cargo; another British subject claiming as owner the
vessel.
In favor of the claimants were the facts that the vessel
when hailed had surrendered without opposition and submitted freely to search; that her papers were unspoiled,
regular, and apparently fair; that the master and ship's company were British subjects, without any interest in either the
vessel or cargo; that, so far as the face of things showed,
the voyage commenced at Halifax and was to have ended
there; that the vessel made no port between Halifax and
Nassau on her outward voyage, nor any between the same
places on her return, and that she was not near any port
when captured; neither were any proofs given that the cargo
was procured from a blockaded port by any person or persons
on board of or interested in the prize vessel, or that it was
the property of such person.
On the other band was the fact well known that, during
the rebellion, the subjects of Great Britain, actively engaged
in attempts to break our blockade, made the British island
of Nassau an entrep6t, thus dividing their operations into two
parts; first running vessels from the blockaded port to this
"neutral" island, and then transhipping their cargoes at it
to other vessels, on which they were carried as i on a new
voyage to some other, the originally real port of destination;
and so vice versa.
In the specific case before the court it was shown that a
schooner, named the Argyle, from Wilmington, North Carolina, with a valuable cargo of cotton and spirits of turpentine, having escaped the vigilance of our fleet, had reached
the harbor of Nassau; that she did not discharge her cargo
at the wharf, but hauled alongside the Thompson, which was
at anchor, and that she transferred enough of her cargo to
the latter vessel to load it. "I was told," said the cook of

Dec. 1865.]

Tim Tnoxpson
Statement of the case.

the Thompson, one witness who proved these facts, "that
the captain of the Argyle owned part of the vessel. He was
a Southern man, from Wilmington."
In -addition to this it was obvious that Martin & Co.,
claimants of the cargo, were more or less in sympathy with
the rebel cause and with the interests of blockade runners.
They write to their correspondents at New York and Halifax
as follows:
NASSAU, N. P., June 5, 1863.
MEssRS. WIER & Co., HALIFAX, N. S.
DEA. Sins: We are in receipt of yours of 8th May; contents
noted; your craft has not yet arrived. Will care for her when
she does.
We have sent by this brig a cargo consisting of'486 casks spirits
of turpentine and 81 bales of cotton. We desire it disposed of
most to our advantage, either by shipping to England or America, as may appear. We shall write Messrs. Dollner, Potter &
Co., of New York, immediately on arrival of the brig. You will
telegraph to them and request their instructions. We are happy
to announce the arrival of the schooner Argyle with a full and valuable cargo, about .542,000. The old thing is about being used up,
her bottom being badly wormed. You will, of course, upon consultation with Captain Clements, and Dollner, Potter & Co., if
they so decide it most to the interests of all concerned, sell at
Halifax. We do not like to have our property shipped on our account
to the Urdted ,States. Captain Clements is the owner of one-half
the cargo, being that brought out by "Argyle."
We are largely into steamers; one leaves about the 10th for Dixie
with valuable cargo; will bring back 1200 bales cotton. Don't
you want to invest three to five dollars in a good company. One
company's stock is already worth 1200 per cent. in cost in gold.
We are doing quite well. Write often.
Yours, respectfully,
M1ARTIN & CO.
NASSAU, N.

P., June 5, 1863.

MESSRs. DOLLNER, POTTER & Co., :NEW YORK.
DEARt SIRs: We inclose herewith invoice and bill of lading of

cargo cn board brig "Thompson," consigned to Messrs. B. Wiez

THE THomPson.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

& Co. We have instructed them to confer with you in regard
to its disposition, as under our present situation we cannot ship
our stuff to you direct. You will order it wherever you may,
on consultation with them, agree is most to our interests. We
have instructed them of this fact. The cargo is jointly owned
by the owners of the A 1 boat.
We are happy to tell you the famous boat arrived ten days ago
with 460 casks spirits, 90 bales cotton, and 50 to 60 barrels .NVo. 2
rosin in bulk, which we shall send to you as soon as a chance offers.
We've also 28 bales on hand. We will write you by steamer at
once so as to go on Monday.
Yours truly,
MARTIN & CO.

The District Court for New York, where the libel was
filed, considering that there was sufficient cause to bring
the vessel and cargo in for adjudication, but not enough to
condemn them, restored them both, but restored them without damages or costs. From this last part of the decree the
claimants, who insisted on recompense in damages, severally
appealed.
Mr. -Donohue,in their behalf.
1. As to the vessel. No cause whatever existed, either at
the time of seizure or trial, for her capture. All her papers
were regular and fair; she was bound on a legitimate voyage, and in its due prosecution. Being a neutral, owing to
us no allegiance, and taken on the high seas, she is entitled
to recompense for her damages.
2. As to the cargo. It is clear that this cargo, if proved to
have run the blockade, had reached the territory of a foreign
nation, the home of one of the claimants, and was within his
power in such neutral country. The mere fact of so having
vun the blockade, no more subjects it to forfeiture than does
the same fact subject most of the cotton to be found on ther
high seas between Havana, Matamoras, Nassau, and Euro.
pean or American ports. Almost all such cotton has been
run out from blockaded ports. In fact, every day shows the

Dec. 1865.]

THrE TnoMPsoN.
Argument for the claimants.

arrival and entry of such cotton in our own ports. Blockaderunning is not a crime. It is but an enterprise attended
with peril. N~eutrals have rights quite as good as belligerents. Because two nations have got into a quarrel-an
absurd or wicked one perhaps-a third nation, which did
nothing to bring it on, and cares nothing, perhaps, about it,
except that it shall come to a conclusion, is not to have her
commerce ruined. The restriction upon the rights of third
parties must not be made too oppressive.
3. As to both vessel and cargo. By the nature of prize
evidence, the claimant has but little means of proving bad
faith, or showing bad faith in the captors; but, in this case,
we submit that the seizure was a speculation, proving an
intent to make the appearance of official duty cover an
ulterior and interested motive. Extraordinary conduct, in
such cases, is liable to severe censure.* When dealing with
foreign nations, a frank and generous system is to be established. Foreigners will thus understand, as they have understood, that while we can and will protect and enforce our
rights, we are not disposed to cover speculative efforts to
get prize-money.
Finally. No amount of good intention or good faith can
excuse a damage to a neutral, if the captor is mistaken in
law as to his rights, and he has the means before him to
ascertain the facts. In the Acteon,t where the vessel was
in good faith, but without right destroyed, the court says:
"There are circumstances that may have afforded very good
reason for destroying the vessel, and made it a meritorious
act in Captain Capel, as far as his own judgment is concerned;
but these furnish no reason why the American owner should
suffer. It does not appear that Captain Capel is charged with
having acted with corrupt or malicious motives. If, as I believe to have been the case, be has acted from a sense of duty
and of obedience to orders, I can have no doubt that he will be
indemnified. I must pronounce for costs and damages, and this
without imputation in the conduct of the captain."
If the
* Le :Louis, 2 Dodson, 240.

t 2 Dodson, 61, 52.

THE THOwPSOx.

[Sup. t

Argument for the captors.

captor has acted from error and mistaken duty, the suffering
party is still entitled to full compensation (if not contributing
to the loss)."
In The John,* the court says:
"1Most certainly it is not sufficient for a party to plead ignorance as a legal excuse for making compensation to another, if
his ignorance was vincible to himself at the time at which the
transaction took place. In an unfortunate case like the present,
the court would certainly be disposed to give the captain all
possible relief; but I need not add, that no relief is possible
which cannot be given consistently with the justice due the
claimant-that is the true rule."
We respectfully submit, then, that, on well-settled principles, on evidence here, the court was wrong in withholding
costs and damages from us, and the decree, in that respect,
should be reversed.
1r. Coffey, special counsel of the United States, contra. The
evidence shows not that the court below leaned too much
in favor of the captors, but that it went too far in favor
of the claimants. It shows that the cargo of the Thompson consisted certainly in part, and probably in whole, of
the cargo which had broken the blockade of the port of
Wilmington on the Argyle; that it was transhipped from
the Argyle to the Thompson, without any landing whatever
at Nassau; that no change of ownership or possession of the
cargo took place at Nassau; that it never entered into the
commerce or became part of the common stock of Nassau,
and that its transfer to the Thompson for carriage to Halifax
was part of the commercial venture which had its origin in
Wilmington, and would have had its end at Halifax. The
cargo brought from Wilmington to Nassau on the Argyle
had no comnercial destination to Nassau, and that port can in
no just commercial sense be called the end of its voyage
from Wilmington. It was simply an intermediate port for
transhipment on the way from Wilmington to Halifax.
2 Dodson, 61, 339.

Dec. 1865.]

Mir, THiOMPSON.
Argument for the captors.

The evidence discloses, moreover, the existence of an
organization of blockade-breakers, represented at Nassau by
Martin & Co.; at Halifax, by B. Wier & Co.; at New York,
by Dollner, Potter & Co., and of which Clements, one of the
claimants, is also an active partner. Adopting the familiar
devices by which blockade-breakers sought to lessen the
risks of their business, they divided their operations into two
parts; first, running vess els from the blockaded port to
Nassau, and, secondly, transhipping their cargoes at Nassau
to other vessels, on which they were transported, as if on a
new voyage, to Halifax, or some other port of real destination. The cargoes thus run out were to be sold at the port
of real destination, "upon consultation" of the parties interested, as they should "decide it most to the interests of
all concerned." Of the vessels employed in this business,
the Argyle is a sample of one class, and the Thompson of
the other. They were as much parts of one commercial
venture, common agents in a single voyage, beginning at
Wilmington, and ending at Halifax, as are two locomotives
which draw a train of cars over separate parts of the same
railroad.
This cargo was shipped at Wilmington, with the intention
of being at Nassau transhipped for further transportation to
its market, with unehanged ownership and eo)?trol. This intention in the original shipment furnishes the test by which a
prize court will determine the status of the cargo when captured, if the cargo be taken on the voyage, prosecuted in
execution of that intention.
There was thus sufficient ground even for condemnation.
That both vessel and cargo were not condemned is evidence
that the rights of neutrals are respected by our courts with
sensitive regard.
But if the facts would not have justified condemnation,
beyond question they justified the refusal of costs and damages. For they amount to proof of probable cause of capture; and this is the test by which, in doubtful cases, prize
courts determine whether costs and damages ought to be
VOL.

III

11

THE TnoMPsox.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

allowed or refused, and the question is one purely in the
discretion of the court.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The District Courts of the United States have original exclusive jurisdiction in questions of prize, and are authorized
to decree restitution in whole or in part when the capture is
wrongful; and if it is mdde wit~out probable cause, may order and decree damages and costs against the captors.*
In time of war, the party who makes a seizure does not
always act at his peril, and is not always liable to damages
and costs if he fails to establish the forfeiture of the vessel.
In fact, prize courts deny damages in case of restitution
when there was probable cause for the seizure, and are often
justified in awarding to the captors their costs and expenses.t
The question recurs, what, in the sense of the prize law,
is meant by the terms "probable cause." Chief Justice Marshall, in Locke v. United States,t held that the terms "probable cause," according to their usual acceptation, meant less
than evidence which would justify condemnation, and in all
cases of seizure had a fixed and well-known meaning; that
they import a seizure made under circumstances which warrant suspicion. The court in that case were construing the
71st section of the collection law of 1799, which provided
that the onus probandi should be on the claimant only where
probable cause was shown for the prosecution. It was con,
tended, that in order to justify seizure, the evidence must be
such as, if unanswered, would justify condemnation. But
the court held that such a construction would render totally
inoperative the provision of the act of Congress. Judge
Story, in The George,ยง which was a libel for damages for an
alleged illegal capture, gave the same exposition of the terms
"probable cause" in matters of prize, and held that the capture of a ship was justifiable where the circumstances were
* Glass v. The Sloop Betsy, 3 Dallas, 16; Act of June 26, 1812, J 6; 2
Stat. at Large, 161.
t The Apollon, 9 Wheaton 372.
$ 7 Cranch, 339.
1 Mason, 24.

Dec. 1865.]

THE THoMPsoN.

163

Opinion of the court.

such as would warrant a reasonable ground of suspicion that
she was engaged in an illegal traffic. And such is the view
held by all writers on maritime warfare and prize.* To
adopt a harsher rule, and hold that the captors must decide
for themselves the merits of each case, would involve perils
which few would be willing to encounter.
Testing this case by these principles, was the District
Court justified in decreeing restitution without costs and
damages against the captors?
Does not the fact that the schooner Argyle did not discharge her cargo at Nassau, but hauled alongside of the
Thompson, then at anchor, and transferred enough of her
cargo to load the latter vessel, afford a reasonable ground
of suspicion that there was concert between the vessels, and
that the Thompson was purposely at I\assau to receive the
cargo of the Argyle? And if further evidence was wanted
to fix the character of the transaction, it is furnished in the
letters of Martin & Co., who claim, in conjunction with Cap,
tain Clements, the ownership of the cargo, to Wier & Co.,
of Halifax, and Dollner, Potter & Co., of New York. These
letters are written in a strain of high exultation. The Ar
gyle has arrived with a cargo worth $42,000, in which Clements is interested, and Martin & Co. are sending steamers
to Southern ports for return cargoes of cotton, in which
ventures they want the participation of Wier & Co. "The
famous boat" with cotton, rosin, and casks of spirit has also
reached port, and would be sent forward as soon as an opportunity offered.

And, withal, Martin & Co., as if fearing

evil, dread to have their property shipped on their account
to the United States. Could any foreign merchant interested in lawful commerce wish to avoid the markets of this
country ?
It is too plain for controversy, that all these parties were
extensively engaged in illegal traffic with the States in rebellion, and that the business was profitable. And the whole
evidence tends strongly to show that the voyage from WilStory's Notes, by Pratt; The St. Antonius, 1 Acton, 118.

TiE LOUISIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

mington to Halifax was a continuous one; that there was
no intention to terminate it at Nassau, and that the cargo of
the Argyle ,was to be -eshipped with unbroken ownership
and control, so that it could be taken to a port which furnished a better market. If such was the intention, when
the cargo left Wilmington, then its status is fixed, and the
original guilt continued to the time of the capture, notwithstanding the stoppage at an intermediate port, and transhipment.*
A case of "probable cause" is clearly made out, and it is
unnecessary to discuss the evidence with a view of showing
whether the cargo or vessel should have been condemned,
as the captors do not complain of the judgment of the court
below.
The District Court committed no error in refusing to give
the claimants damages and costs, as against the United
States, or the captors.
DECREE APFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE LOUISIANA.
1. A vessel drifting from her moorings and striking against another vessel
aground on a bar out of the channel or course of navigation will be
liable for damage done to the vessel aground, unless the drifting vessel
can show affirmatively that the drifting was the result of inevitable
accident, or of a vis major, which human skill and precaution could not
have prevented.
2. The fact that a vessel on arriving at a wharf is moored in a way which,
in reference to the state of the tide and wind at that time, is proper,
and that in this position she is made as fast as she can be, is not an excuse
for her breaking away on a change of tide and wind, if ordinary nautical skill would have suggested that such a change would produce
different and reversed conditions of risk.
DURING

the .Southern rebellion, the Louisiana, a large

* The Thomyris, Edwards, 17; The Maria, 5 Robinson, 365; The Maria,
6 Id. 201; The Oharlotte Soph'a, Id. 204, note; The William, 5 Id. 385.

