MINING COMPANY v. BOGGS.

[Sup. ot,

Statement of the case.

circumstances it is the settled practice of this court to decline
to answer. It is necessary that the question should involve
a distinct legal point, and that sufficient facts should be set
forth to show its bearing upon the rights of the parties.* In
this case all the facts relied upon as operating to ratify should
have been set forth. Any point of disagreement between
the judges relating to the subject would then have appeared
in its proper light and could have been definitely answered.
As the question is presented the answer, if given, would be
equally general, and, like the question, a mere abstraction,
which could subserve no useful purpose in the further progress of the cause.
The answer to the first and second questions certified up
will be that, under the circumstances, the statute referred to
must be held in this case to be a local act, and not a general
law.
To the third question, for the reasons stated, no answer
will be given.
ORDER IN CONFORMITY.
[See, on the last point of this case, supra,p. 250, Daniels v. RailroadCompany.-REP.]

MINN G COMPANY v. BOGGS.
1. In a suit to recover mineral lands on the Pacific coast, with the mines
therein, an allegation of record, of prior possession of the land for the
purpose of taking out the minerals, without an allegation that such
possession is had under authority, or by some treaty or statute of the
United States, does not give this court jurisdiction to re-examine the
case under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
2. Nor has the court jurisdiction where the decision below is that, as a mat.
ter of fact, no such license exists; the courts of the State, to whose
highest court of law and equity the writ of error is sent, having the
power, under the constitution of its State, to decide both law and fact
upon submission of the case by the parties.

lessee of Fr6niont, brought a suit in one of the
inferior State courts of California against the Merced Mining
BOGGS,

* Crooker et al. v. Newton, 18 Howard, 581; United States v. The City
Bank of Columbus, 19 Id. 885.

Dec. 1865.]

MLNING COMPANY

v. BoeGs.

Statement of the case.

Company, for the possession of certain mneral lands, with the
mines therein, situated in Mariposa County.
The case, according to a frequent practice in the courts
just named, was submitted to the court, both as to matters
offact and matters of law, without a jury. The recovery was
resisted on several grounds. Among them was possession
of the land-prior to any claim of the lessor of Boggs"according to the usages and regulations established and in
force in the rihzing district within which it was, for the purpose of extracting the gold from the rock;" by which prior
possession of the said mineral lands and appropriation of the
quartz veins therein, the mining company asserted itself to
have acquired a perfect right thereto.
The pleadings nowhere developed more fully than as
above the nature of the title thus set up by way of defence;
nor indeed did anything else in the record brought here;
though as matter of fact it was no doubt, the reporter supposes, meant to be rested on what was a subject of general
knowledge; to wit, that the United States had impliedly,
and to a greater or less extent, allowed persons to take possession of and to work the mining lands of the Pacific coast,
though such persons had no patent for them from it.* Under
an agreement, too, between the attorneys in the case, the
defendant had the right to set up in defence any matter which
could be the subject of a bill in equity.
The court in which the suit was brought found,, as matter
of fact, that the premises sued for had been granted by the
United States to Boggs's lessor; and that, in virtue of his
lease, Boggs became and still was owner of them; that the
Mining Company, defendant in the case, was in possession
of them, without the consent and against the will of the
plaintiff, and was guilty of the trespass alleged.
It found, also, that in May, 1851, prior to the date of the
lease to Boggs, the premises were vacant; that the Mining
Company entered upon them undet one Moffat; but it was
not shown that the said Moffat himself had any title; but,
* See Strong v. Sparrow, supra, pp. 99, 100, 104; and the Appendix,
No. 1.
20
VOL. I11.

MINING COMPANY V. BOGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

on the contrary, the premises were then the public domain
of the United States, except in so far, &c.; that the Mining
Company commenced improving the premises for mining
purposes in 1851, and had ever since used and occupied them
for such purposes, "pursuant to the mining regulations prevailing in the district," and had made improvements and
expenditures to the extent of more than eight hundred thousand dollars. But the court found, also, that the plaintiff
was not estopped from asserting his title, and, on the whole
case, found in his favor. Judgment went accordingly for
him.
The case then went up to the Supreme Court of the State.
That court, in its opinion (which was not, however, any part
of the record), recapitulating the case, and noting that one
ground relied on to defeat the recovery was "a license from
the government to enter on the premises and extract the
gold,"-thus proceeded:
"If the company has a right to the possession and use of the
land as against its true owner, for the purpose of extracting the
precious metals, it must be upon the ground that the mineral
does not pass with the soil as an incident to it, but belongs either
to the United States or to the State of California, and that the
defendant has an effectual license to enter on the premises and
extract them .......
"Assuming, for the purpose of this case, that the mineral belongs to the United States, has the defendant any such license?
"It is sometimes said, in speaking of the public lands, that
there is a general license from the United States to work the
mines which these lands contain. But this language, though it
has found its way into some judicial decisions, is inaccurate as
applied to the action, or rather want of action, of the government. There is no license, in the legal meaning of that term.
A license to work the mines implies a permission to extract and
remove the mineral. Such license from an individual owner can
be created only by writing, and from the General Government
only by act of Congress. It carries an interest in the land, and
arises only from grant. The mineral, whether a distinct possession or otherwise, constitutes part of the realty, as much so
as growing timber, and no interest in it can pass except in the

Dec. 1865.]

Dec.
MINNG
185.] COMNPANTY V. BOGGS.
Argument for the dismission.

ordinary modes for the disposition of land. It is under the
exclusive control of Congress, equally with any other interest
which the government possesses in land. But Congress has
adopted no specific action on the subject, and has left that matter
to be controlled by its previous general legislation respecting
the public domain. And it is from its want of specific action,
from its passiveness, that the inference is drawn of a general
license. The most which can be said is, that the government
has forborne to exercise its r.ghts; but this forbearance confees
no positive right upon the minder which would avail as a protection
against the assertion of its claimas to the mineral. The supposed
license from the General Government, then, to work the mines
in the public lands, consists in its simple forbearance. Any other
license rests in mere assertion, and is untrue in fact, and unwarranted in law."
That court accordingly affirmed the judgment; and the
MKining Company brought the case here, considering that it
fell within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
which gives a right of re-examination in this court in cases
where there has been drawn in question, in the highest court
or iaw or equity in a State, "the validity of a treaty or statute
of or an authority exercised under the United States, and the
decision is against their validity;" which statute, however,
also enacts that "no other error shall be assigned or regarded
as ground of reversal in any such case as aforesaid than such
as appears on the face of the record, and iynmeditey respecbtg
the before-mentioned questions of validity or construction,
1[r. David Dudley Field, representing here the defendant
in error, having moved to dismiss the case, as not within the
provision of the statute, and stated fully the grounds of his
.aotion*-to wit, that it must clearly appear on the record
that an authority exercised under the United States was distinctly presented-that it "did arise and was applied"-and
that the decision was against the authority so set up; and
Citing Day v. Gallup, 2 Wallace, 97; Towle v. Farney, 1 Black, 350;
Hoyt v. Shelden, Id. 520; Maxwell v. Newbold, 18 Howard, 515; and earlier
precedents.

808

MINING COMPANY v. Boes.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the jurisdiction.

arguing that a mere forbearance by the government to assert
rights was not an "authority" to take the minerals-Mr.
Reverdy Johnson was heard contra:
He contended that, by the laws of Mexico, from which this
region came to us, a grant of the mere land did not carry the
minerals under it; that the law of England was apparently
the same as respected the government, and that this appeared
by the Case of the .Mines reported by Plowden ;* that in the
case at bar, the grant by the United States to Boggs's lessor,
Frgmont, had passed no metals; and that, so far as Frgmont
was concerned, these still belonged to the United States.
He referred to the fact, as well known, that a special system
of law had grown up in the mining States, by which possessory claims, though perhaps, in a view purely abstract,
trespasses against the United States, had been long impliedly
protected and upheld by the N~ational Government, and had
recently beefi even the subject of protection by statute.t
This court had also recognized the value of such claims independently of the statute. In Sparrow v. Strongt the court
said it was impossible to shut our eyes to the public history
which informs us that, under Territorial and State legislation, and "not only without interference by the INational
Government, but under its implied sanction, vast mining
interests have grown up, employing many millions of capital,
and contributing largely to the prosperity and improvement
of the whole country." It was of course under this implied
authority from the government that the Mining Company
rested their case, as to one of its defences, in the court below.
The lands were confessedly mineral lands. The suit was for
the mines as well as for the lands.
The company asserted, among other things, that they were
* Page 310.

t-"No possessory action between individuals in any of the courts of the
United States for the recovery of any mining title, or for damages to such
title, shall be affected by the fact that the paramount title to the land on
which said mines are, is in the United States; but each case shall be adjudged
by the law of possession." (Act of Februay 27, 3865, 13 Stat. at Large, 441.)
$ SuTra, 104.

Dec. 1865.]

D.

MNILN
CO01PANY V. BoGacs.
Opinion of the court.

in prior possession, "according to the usages and regulations
established and in force in the mining district,for the purpose
of extracting gold from the rock;" plainly making it to be understood that they were there in the only way in which they
could so be there, to wit, under the authority of the United
States; whether a permissive authority or one by direct
grant, it mattered not. Either was enough to make the
party there rightfully. The court below decidecl against
the authority so set up under the United States. The decision was as matter of law; or, to use the court's own language, there was "no license within the legal meanig of that
term." Nothing short of an act of Congress, the court considered, could constitute a license; that forbearance was all
that existed here, and that forbearance was not enough; it
alone conferred "no positive right." The decision, therefore, was plainly on law as well as on fact; or on law alone,
fact being assumed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
No question is raised by the pleadings, of which this court
has jurisdiction upon writs of error to the Supreme Court
of California, unless by the allegation of prior possession
of this land for the purpose of taking out the minerals. But
this allegation does not set up any authority exercised under
the United States in taking such possession, nor any treaty
or statute of the United States, in virtue of which it was
taken. Nor does it anywhere appear from the record that
the decision of the State court was against the validity of
any such authority, treaty, or statute. The case brought
before us is, therefore, wanting in the requirement made
essential to our jurisdiction by the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
If we were at liberty to look into the opinion of the court
for the purpose of ascertaining what questions were made
on the argument, and decided by the court, we should find
that, upon a liberal construction of the stipulations of counsel, the defendants were allowed to insist that they were
warranted in their possession of the lands, for the purpose

810

THE

GRANITE STATE.

[Sup. Ct,

Syllabus.

of extracting the minerals, by a license inferred from the
general policy of the State or of the United States, in relation
.to mines of gold and silver and the lands containing them.
We doubt whether such a claim, even if made in the
pleadings, would be such an allegation as would give jurisdiction to this court.
However that may be, there was no decision of the court
against the validity of such a license. The decision was,
that no such license existed; and this was a finding by the
court of a question of fact upon the submission of the whole
case by the parties, rather than a judgment upon a question
of law.
It is the same case, in principle, as would be made by an
allegation in defence to an action of ejectment, of a patent
from the United States with an averment of its loss or destruction, and a finding by the jury that no such patent
existed, and a consequent judgment for the defendant.
Such a judgment would deny, not the validity, but the existence of the patent. And this court would have no jurisdiction to review it.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
DISMISSED.

THE GiANITE STATE.
1. Where the question of fault in a collision lies, on the one hand, between
a boat fast at a wharf, out of the track of other vessels, and moored, in
all respects of place and signals, or want of them, according to the port
regulations of the place, and, on the other, a steamer navigating a
channel of sufficient width for her to move and stop at pleasure, the
fault, under almost any circumstances, where there is no unusual action
of the elements or other superior force driving her to the place of collision, will be held to be with the steamer.
Hence a steamer which, in going in the dark from a broad channel into
her dock, runs-though in an effort to avoid other steamers coming out
of their docks-against a barge moored at a wharf according to the port
regulations, is responsible for the collision. Nor is it an excuse that
the barge was without masts, lay low, and owing to her color was not

