Dec. 1865.]

D

NITED
]
STATES V. MURPHY.
Syllabus.

Congress in enacting section twelve of the act of 1864. At
the time the act of 1863 was passed, it was not anticipated
that any trouble would be made to the officers engaged in
merely obtaining the names of persons liable to draft, while
it wias supposed there might be some resistance, in particular
cases, to the enforcement of the actual draft. But a year's
experience showed many defects in the act of 1863, requiring
amendment. Among these it was found that resistance to
the enrolment was a thing to be exTected, quite as often as
resistance to the draft. The extent and malignity of this
resistance had also been found to be greater than had been
anticipated, and the increased demand for soldiers, rendered
more stringent legislation necessary. Hence Congress,
among many other amendments, provided1 for the case of
resistance to the enrolment, and in doing so, made the penalty heavier than what it had provided for resisting the
draft, and added a provision for punishment in cases of resistance resulting in the death of an officer or agent engaged
in making the enrolment. That it did not provide for a
similar homicide occurring in a service relating to the draft,
may have been an omission, but not a remarkable one, when
we consider the many other weighty matters which the pressure of the rebellion forced on its attention, and also that
the law of the State made full provision for cases of murder.
QUESTION ANSWERED IN THE NEGATIVE.

[See the next case.-REP.]

UNITED STATES V. M1URPY.
I Under the second section of the act of 8th August, 1840, "to regulate
the proceedings in the Circuit and District Courts," and which, after
authorizing the transfer of criminal causes from either court to the
other on motion of the district attorney, says that "the court to which
such remission is made, shall, after the order of remission is filed

UNITED STATES V. MURPHY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
therein, act and proceed in the case as if the indictment and all the
other proceedings in the same had been originated in said court," an
indictment may be remitted from the District Court to the Circuit
Court, though it have come into the District Court originally only by
being sent there from the Circuit Court. And a demurrer to the indictment made in the District Court, may properly receive a joinder
in the Circuit Court.
2. The twenty-fifth section of the act of 3d -March, 1863, 1'for enrolling
and calling out the national forces and for other purposes," must be
construed by the twelfth section of the amendatory act of 24th February, 1864; and so construed it does not embrace services in relation to
an enrolment.

AN act of Congress, passed during the late rebellion, entitled "An act for enrolling and calling out the national
forces, and for other purposes," and which has numerous
provisions tending to prescribe a mode of giving effict to its
purpose, provides in its 23d section, that

" If any person shall resist any draft of men enrolled under
this act into the service of the United States, or shall counsel,
or aid any person to resist any such draft, or shall assault or obstruct any officer in making such, draft, or in the performance of any
service in relation thereto, or shall counsel any person to assault or
obstruct ayy such officer, such person shall be subject to summary
arrest by the provost marshal, and shall be forthwith delivered
to the civil authorities, and upon conviction thereof be punished
by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment
not exceeding two years, or by both of said punishments."
This act was passed March 3,1863.
On the 24th February, 1864, Congress passed an act
amendatory of it. The 12th section of this amendatory act
runs thus:
"That any person who shall forcibly resist or oppose any en-

rolment, or shall incite, counsel, encourage, or who shall conspire
or confederate with any other person or persons forcibly to resist or oppose any such enrolment, or who shall aid or assist, or
take any part in any forcible resistance or opposition thereto,
or who shall assault, obstruct, impede, or threaten any officer or
other person employed in making or aiding to make any such
enrolment, or employed in the performance, or aiding in the per-

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. MURPHY.

651

Statement of the case.

formance of any service in any way relating thereto, &c., shall,
upon conviction, be punished by fine not exceeding $5000, or by
imprisonment, &c. And in cases where such assaulting, &c., shall
produce the death of such officer or other person the offender
shall be guilty of murder, and upon conviction, &c., be punished
with death."
The amendatory act repeals so much of the former act as
may be inconsistent with it.
In July, 1863, that is to say before the passage of the act
last mentioned, but after the passage of the one of March 3,
1863, and while it alone was in force, a certain Mi's. Mlurphy,
with two other "married women" of Milwaukie, were indicted in the Cira.titCourt for Wisconsin, for assaulting and
obstructing Patrick Finney, "an enrolling officer" for that
district, "duly appointed as such by the board of enrolment
organized under and by virtue of an act of the Congress of
the United States of America, approved on the third day of
Mlarch, A. D. 1863, entitled 'An act for enrolling and calling
oat the nationaiforeces, and for othep' rposes,' in making a draft
of men enrolled under said act into the service of the United
States, and in the performance of service in relation thereto,
to wit, ilt inalig an enro mned of persos subject to do military
dty ia said district, for said draft; and that they then and
there did violently strike and beat the said Patrick, enrolling
officer as aforesaid, by means whereof he was grievously hurt
and wounded; and did counsel certain persons to assault
and obstruct the said Patrick, enrolling officer as aforesaid,
against the peace and dignity of the United States, and contrary to the form of the statute in such case made and provided."
The indictment thus pending in the Circuit Court, that
court, in October, 1863, remitted the case, on motion of the
'district attorney, to the District Court, where the defendants
filed a general demurrer. In April, 1864, the District Court
on the motion of the same district attorney, remitted the case
back to the Circuit Court; and in this last court the United
States joined in the demurrer.
These remissions, forward and back, were conceived by

UNITED STATES V. MURPHY.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the district attorney to be warranted by the act of Congress
of 8th August, 1846. That act thus ran:
"Whenever the district attorney shall deem it necessary, it
shall be lawful for any Circuit Court, in session, by order entered on its minutes, to remit to the next term or session of the
District Court of the same district any indictment pending in
the said Circuit Court, when the offence or offences therein
charged may be cognizable by the said District Court; and in
like manner it shall be lawful for any District Court to remit to
the next term or session of the Circuit Court of the same district any indictment pending in the said District Court; and
such remission shall carry with it all recognizances, processes,
and pleadings pending in the case in the court from which the
remission is made, and the court to which such remission is made
shall, after the order of remission is filed therein, act and proceed in
the case as if the indictment and all other proceedings in the same
had been originatedin said court."
The demurrer coming on to be argued, the Circuit Court
was divided in opinion as to the questions:
1st. Whether the court had jurisdiction, the indictment having
been found in the Circuit Court, remitted to the District Court,
and by the District Court again remitted into this court.
2d. Whether the offence charged in the indictment, namely,
an assault and obstruction of an officer in making an enrolment
of men for military duty, is embraced in the 25th section of the
act of 1863, as an assault or obstruction of an officer in making
the draft or in the performance of services in relation thereto.
And these two questions were now here for resolution.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Ashton argued them in behalf
of the United States; no one contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that under the circumstances of this
case, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the cause.
We see no reason in the nature of the transaction, nor in

Dec. 1865.]

UNITED STATES V. MURPHY.
Opinion of the court.

the language of the statute of 8th of August, 1846, under
which the remission is supposed by the counsel of the
United States to be justified, why a case brought into the
District Court by an order of this kind should not be sent
back under proper circumstances. The order can only be
made on the motion of the district attorney, or whenever
in the opinion of the District Court difficult and important
questions of law are involved in the case. There is, therefore, no danger of collision between the courts on account
of such orders; and as they tend to the despatch of business,
and to sound decisions on legal propositions, there is no
reason for limiting the rule further than the language of the
statute requires.
As res))eets the second question.-The defendants were indicted for assaulting an officer while engaged "in making an
enrolment of men subject to do military duty." This language describes with entire accuracy the offence provided
for by the 12th section of the act of February 24, 1864. But
the indictment was found before that act was passed. It
was found under the 25th section of the act of March 8,
1863, on the supposition that making an enrolment was a
service relating to the draft; and the judges divided on the
question whether this was so, within the meaning of the lastmentioned act.
If Congress had not passed the amendatory act of February 24, 1864, it might very well have been asserted that
making an enrolment of persons liable to draft, was a service relating to the draft; for being a necessary preliminary
to putting the draft in force, it bears a very close relation to
it. We have, however, held in the case of the Udted States
v. Scott, just preceding, upon a comparison of the 25th section of the act of 1863, with the 12th section of the act of
1864, that the one is limited to the prevention of resistance
to the draft, and the other to preventing resistance to the
enrolment. Comparing the two acts together, the later one
must be held to be a legislative construction of the first, by
which a service in relation to the enrolment cannot be held
to be a service in relation to the draft.

IROGERS V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

The first of the questions certified to us must be answered
in the affirmative, and the second in the negative.
A 1SWERS ACCORDINGLY.

IROGERS V. BURLINGTON.
1. Where a demurrer to a declaration in the Circuit Court is improperly
sustained, and judgment is rendered accordingly, the case may be reexamined here upon a writ of error without any formal bill of exceptions.
2. Power "to borrow money for any public purpose" gives authority to a
municipal corporation to borrow money to aid a railroad company,
making its road as a way for public travel and transportation; and, as
a means of borrowing money to accomplish this object, such municipal
corporation may issue its bonds, to be sold by the railway company,
to raise the money.
8. Power to issue the bonds being shown, the municipal corporation, as
against bonafide holders of them for value, is estopped to deny that the
power was properly executed.

THE act of incorporation of the city of Burlington, in

[owa, vested the government and legislative power of the
city in a city council, composed of the mayor and a board
of aldermen. In addition to conferring various police powers, it authorized the city council to establish and organize
fire companies, and provide them with proper engines, and
such other instruments as might be necessary to extinguish
fires; to establish and construct landing-places, wharves,
docks, and basins within the city; to cause all grounds
within the city, where water should at any time become
stagnant, to be raised, filled up, or drained; and to cause to
be opened, paved, repaired, or improved, any street, lane,
alley, market-space, public landing, or common. The act
then provides, in its 27th section, as follows:
"1That whenever, in tie opinion of the city council, it is ex.
podient to borrow moneb for any public purpose, the question

