[Sup. Ct.

DE SOBRY V. NVICHOLSON.
Statement of the case.

stitution of the Tnited States, and the laws and treaties
made in pursuance thereof.
If authority for this proposition, in its application to the
Indians, is needed, it may be found in the cases of the Cherokee _Nation v. The State of Georgia,* and Worcester v. The State
of Georgia.t
The results to which we arrive from this examination of
the law, as regards the questions certified to us, is, that both
questions in the case against Hlaas must be answered in the
affirmative; and in the case against Holliday, the first three
must be answered in the affirmative, and the last two in the
negative.
It is, however, proper to say, that in the fourth question
in the latter case is included a query, whether the Indian,
Otibsko, was a citizen of the State of MKichigan ?
As the views which we have advanced render this proposition immaterial to the decision of the case, the court is to
be understood as expressing no opinion upon it.

DE SOBRY v. NIcHOLSON.
1. A motion to dismiss a case, from want of proper citizenship in the parties,
cannot be made at the trial and after pleading a general issue and special defences.
2. 'Where a contract, under which a party would be prevented, from want
of proper citizenship, from suing in the Federal courts, is set out but
as inducement to a subsequent one under which he would not be so prevented, the jurisdiction of such courts will not be taken away from the
fact of the old contract's being set forth as inducement only somewhat
indefinitely. Coming, in such a case, within the principle of a contract
defectively stated, but not of one defective, the mode of stating it is
cured by the verdict.

THE. Judiciary Act declares that the assignee of a chose in
action shall not recover in a suit brought on it in the Fede*. 5 :Peters, 1.

f61ad.

m1.

Dec. 1865.]

DE SOBRY V. "ICHOLS0N.
Statement of the case.

ral courts, "unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such
courts, &c., if no a signent had been made."
With this provision in force, a partnership in Pennsylvania,

of which a certain Nicholson was one member, and Armstrong and others the remaining partners, made a contract
with De Sobry, of Louisiana, "to build a mill" on his plantation. The Pennsylvania partnership, after the contract was
made, went into liquidation, Nicholson remaining the liquidating partner; and after it had gone into liquidation, Armstrong became a resident of Louisiana, where, as already
said, De Sobry also lived.
De Sobry not fulfilling his part of the contract, i'Yieholson
brought suit against him in the Louisiana Circuit. Nicholson's declaration, or "complaint," as the old varratio appears to be called in that State, originally French, set forth
the contract of De Sobry (entitled of Louisiana) with the
Pennsylvania firm, the firm's then citizenship in PennsVlvania, the dissolution of the firm "before the completion
of the contract," and that he, Nicholson, of Pennsylvania,
"became liquidator of its afhirs and owner of all its contracts." The plaintiff then represented that "the contract
was fully executed on ds part," and that the mill had been
completely "put up and delivered, according to the contract
on his part."
The defence of De Sobry, denying generally the allegations of micholson, and that Nicholson was "the transferree"
of the Pennsylvania firm, and showing further wherein the
contract was not fulfilled, prayed that judgment might be
rendered, "in reconvention (cross-demand), in his favor,
against the said Nicholson."
On the trial the defendant proved the fact that, at the time
of the suit brought, Armstrong was, with De Sobry, a resident of Louisiana, and moved to dismiss the case for want
of jarisdictiom,under well-known principles of the court, for
identity of citizenship between the parties suing.
The court overruled the motion; and the defendant ex.
cepting, the case, after verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, came here on error.

iDE SOBRY V. NICHOLSON.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

2Mr. Dobbin, for the plairtiff inerror: The citizenship of the
parties to the proceeding is no doubt sufficiently set forth;
but it is not so as to that of the members of the firm with
whom De Sobry, the here plaintiff in error, is alleged to have
entered into the contract on which the action is founded.
The allegation as to their citizenship does not refer to the
time of the institution of the suit, as it should do, but to the
date of the contract. Since that date and before bringing
the suit it was changed. The language of the Judiciary
Act would seem to establish, by itself, without need of interpretation, that whenever there is a suit upon a chose in
action assigned, the assignor must be (and of course must be
distinctly alleged to be) a citizen of a difterent State from
that of the defendant, at the time of suit brought. And this is
conceded by the authorities.*
That the defendant in error claims as assignee, is manifest
from the petition itself; for, according to its allegations, he
was but one of the original contractors, and only became
"owner" of the contract upon the dissolution of the firm,
the date of which is not set forth. Of course, he could only
have acquired the sole interest in a joint contract by assignment of the interests of his co-contractors. Nor does he
even aver that he himself wholly performed the contract, or
that no part of it had been performed before he became
owner. .On the contrary, he only and cautiously charges
that he became owner "before the eornpletion of the contract," and the part which he alleges that he performed was
simply that of" delivering" and "putting up" the mill; not
that of "building" it, which was the heaviest part of the job
for which the contract provided.
The case, therefore, stands upon the ordinary ground of a
cho~e in action assigned, and is not only not excluded from
the operation of the Judiciary Act, but seems to be clearly
brought within it by the decision in .llcMieken v. Webb~t in
this court.
* See M.illedollar v. Bell, 2 Wallace, Jr., 334, 338, and cases cited;
Thaxter v. Hatch, 6 McLean, 68.
1 11 Peters, 25.

Dec.1865.]

DE SOBRY V. NTICHOLSON.
Opinion of the court.

It may be added, with propriety, that the abuse of jurisdiction, against which the section of the Judiciary Act relied
on by us was levelled as a matter of policy and in prevention
of fraud, is quite as likely to occur by contrivance, in cases
of original joint interests, alleged to have become afterwards
sole, as in cases where the assignor and assignee had, orig.
inally, no connection in the transaction.
.Mr,.

WilUs, Co'ntra.

Ir. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
No exception can be considered here which was not taken
in the court below.*
The point relied upon to reverse the judgment is not that
the copartners of the plaintiff below could not assign their
interests in the original contract so as to vest in him the
right to sue in his own name alone, but that one of the
assignors was, at the time of the commencement of the
action, a citizen and resident of the same State with the
defendant, and that hence the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction.
To this tbere are two answers.
The objection to jurisdiction upon the ground of citizenship, in actions at law, can only be made by a plea in abatement. After the general issue, it is too late. It cannot be
raised at the trial upon the merits.t If a plea in abatement
be filed with the general issue, the latter waives the former.
Where a plea in abatement is relied upon, the burden of
proof rests upon the defendant.ยง In equity, the defence
must be presented by plea or demurrer, and not by answer.I]
The court below properly overruled the motion.
We think, also, that a new contract between the plaintiff
* Stoddard et al. v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 285; MlcDonald v. Small!
al., 1 Peters, 62@.
t Smith et al. v. Kernochen, 7 Howard, 216.
1 Bailey v. Dozier, 6 Id. P0; Sheppard et al. v. Graves, 14 Id. 505.
1b. 505, 512.
U Livingston v. Story, 11 Peters, 'e51.

eot

424

BARREL V.

TRANSPORTATION

COMPANY.

[Sup. qt.

Opinion of the court.

and the defendant, and its execution by the plaintiff, are substantially averred, and that the original contract is set out as
inducement. It is said by the counsel for the plaintiff in
error, that if such a contract be alleged, it is done with careful ambiguity and indefiniteness. Conceding- this to be so,
it is a case, not of a defective title, but of a title defectively
stated, which is always cured by the verdict.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

BARREL V. TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
A petition for an appeal to this court from the Circuit Court, filed in the
office of the clerk of the Circuit Court merely, unaccompanied by an
allowance of the appeal by that court, does not bring the case up. An
appeal thus made dismissed.
MOTION by Mr. Browning (Mr. Rae, contra) to dismiss an
appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The record showed that no appeal had been prayed or
allowed in the Circuit Court. Accompanying the record,
however, was a petition addressed to that court, which prayed
.or an appeal. This petition was dated on the 20th July,
1865, ten days after the decree, and was filed on the same
20th of July, in the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court.

The CBIEF JUSTICE: The motion to dismiss in this
case must prevail. The proceeding in the case is not warranted by any act of Congress, and we have no authority to
act on such a petition. The filing of it in the clerk's office,
even if it could be regarded as addressed to the Circuit Court,
would b0e of no avail, unless accompanied by an allowance
of an appeal by that court; and in the case before us there
was no allowance.
CASE DISMISSED.
I Chitty's Pleading (10th American ed.), 672.

