GRAHAM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

MINNESOTA COMPANY V. CHAMBERLAIN.
GRAHAM & SCOTT V. SAME, IMPLEADED WITH LA CROSSE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
f.rhe language of a decree in chancery must be construed in reference to the
issue which is put forward by the prayer for relief and other pleadings,
and which these show it was meant to decide. Hence, though the language of the decree be very broad and emphatic,-enough so, perhaps,
when taken in the abstract merely, to include the decision of questions
between codefendants,-yet where the pleadings, including the prayer
for relief, are not framed in the way usual in equity when it is meant to
bring the respective claims and rights of codefendants before the court,
but are framed as in a controversy between the complainant and defendant chiefly or only-such general language will be held down to these
two principal parties alone.
THESE

were appeals from decrees of the Circuit Court for

Wisconsin, sustaining demurrers to two bills of complaint.
Both bills and the essential question in each were the same;

certain small differences between the bills being noted further on. The case was this:
In September, 1857, the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company, a company organized to build a railroad from
Milwaukie to La Crosse, across the State of Wisconsin, but
whose road was not then completed, entered into articles of
agreement with Chamberlain, for the double purpose of insuring the completion of the road and securing to him a
large debt, alleged to be due from the company. By this
contract the road was leased to Chamberlain, in consideration that he would apply the income to the working and extension of the road, to the payment of interest on debts of
the company, and to the payment of Chamberlain's own
debt, on satisfaction of which, either by application of the
income or otherwise, the road was to be restored to the company. After the execution of this contract, and in the following month, the company confessed a judgment in his
favor for $629,089.72. Afterwards, and in the same month,

Dec. 1865.]

GRAiIAM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

705

Statement of the case.

Cleveland obtained a judgment against the company for .111,700.71.
To enforce the satisfaction of this judgment, by sale of the
road and other property of the La Crosse Company, as for
brevity the corporation was usually styled, Cleveland filed
his bill in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin, against that company and Chamberlain, with whom were joined some other defendants.
In this bill, according to the account given of it by the
complainants in the present cases, Cleveland insisted that
the lease to Chamberlain and the judgment confessed in his
favor were without consideration and in fraud of creditors,
and that they hindered the collection of his judgment, and
he prayed that they might be declared void. The La Crosse
Company and Chamberlain answered, denying all fraud, and
Cleveland took issue by replication.
The court found against the respondents, and at January
Term, 1859, decreed that the articles of agreement between
the La Crosse Company and Chamberlain "be and hereby
are vacalcd, anwlled, and made void, so that the same shall
not be of aiig force and eftect whtlteccr," and that "the judgment and all executions and proceedings thereon be and
hereby are vaeafed, anwled, made void, and set aside, so that
the same shall have no effect w],cItever." The decree also
"perpetually enjoined and restrained" Chamberlain from
"controlling or meddling with the railroad or anything belonging to it under the articles of agreement."
In 1860, a company-called for brevity the Minfiesota Company-suceeded, through a purchase, and through a subsequent organization, such as is allowed by the statutes of
Wisconsin, as a railroad company, in order to take and manage the property acquired by the purchase, to all the property, franchises, and rights of the La Crosse Company; subject, however, to prior incumbrauces.
This Minnesota Company being thus interested in the matter, alleged by their bill below (the first of the two cases now
under review), that by this decree the agreement and the
VOL. 111.

45

706

GRAHAM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

confessed judgment were made absolutely void, not only
against Cleveland, the judgment creditor, but also as between
Chainberlain and the La Crosse Company, and that Chamberlain, notwithstanding this decree, having purchased the Cleveland judgment, remained in possession of the road, receiving
large sums of money, amounting altogether to more than
$200,000, for which he was bound to account. They prayed,
therefore, that Chamberlain might be ordered to apply to
the payment of the Cleveland judgment, from the money so
received, a sum sufficient for that purpose; that he might be
ordered to account; that he might be credited with the sum
applied to the Cleveland judgment; that the balance be ascertained; that the Cleveland judgment be ordered to be
cancelled; and that the ascertained balance, if against Chamberlain, be paid to the Minnesota Company, or, if in his
favor, by the Minnesota Company to him. They also prayed
further relief.
The bill of Scott & Graham-the second of the two bills
below and now here for review-was, as already signified,
essentially like the first, that of the Minnesota Company.
Like it, it did not seek specifically to set aside Chamberlain's lease; but while prominently making its alleged
fraudulent nature inducement in this case, went on the
assumption that the lease and judgment were already vacated as to everybody and for all purposes by the decree of
January, 1859. The bill, however, in this second case, did
allege, also, that the lease was ultra vires, and void, therefore, on its face; as also void, because, by its terms, hindering creditors; but its general tenor was, as already mentioned; and as in the first bill the Minnesota Company asked
that the fund arising from the working of the road should
be applied in satisfaction of the Cleveland judgment, for an
account, &c., so the only prayer of Graham & Scott was that
the same money might be applied in payment of their debt.
The essential question in both cases, therefore, considered
by the court, was this: whether the lease made to Chamberlain, and the judgment confessed in his favor by the La
Crosse Company, in 1857, was annulled as between the

Dec. 1865.]

GRAA-M V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

707

Argument for the appellant.

partiks to the lease and Udgmet, by the decree of the District
Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, akt
the January Term, 1859, or only as against aeveland,thejudy.
nmat creditor, in whose suit against the company and Chamberlain the decree was rendered?
The court, it may here be said, had been informed by the
counsel for the Minnesota Company and for Graham & Scott,
as well as by the counsel for Chamberlain, that there was
now pending in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Wisconsin a suit, brought by the company
against Chamberlain, for the specific purpose of setting aside
the contract between Chamberlain and the La Crosse Company.
Messrs. Car enter and Cushig, for the appellant: The decree was not one merely postponing the lease and judgment of Chamberlain as to other creditors, but one which
annulled the lease and vacated the judgment. The language
of it is of that kind, in regard to which it is impossible to
attempt to give it strength; as impossible as to prove an
axiom; or to reason into force a seal plainly set upon a
bond. No illustration can make the decree plainer; for no
language can be more specific, complete, or absolute, than
that of the decree itself' When a lease is "vacated, annulled, and made void, so that the same shall not hereafter
be of cn force or effect whatever;" and the lessee is "plelpetaallg enjoined and restrained" from claiming or doing anything under or by virtue of the lease; can anything more
be done to complete its destruction? When a judgment is
"vacated, annulled, made void, set aside, so that the same
shall have no further effect whatever," can it be asserted that
the judgment is good as between the parties to it, and remains a lien upon the debtor's property against all the world,
except one? If this lease and judgment have any existence
after the sweeping decree above quoted, then it is not in the
power of any court to destroy either of them. By nothing,
in short, but by violence upon language, can this decree be
read otherwise than as it is written,-a clear, complete, abso-

GRAIIAM V. RAILROAD C03IPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

lute annihilation of both lease and judgment, to all intents
and purposes, and as to all persons and parties.
But three parties, it will be remembered, were before the
court.
1. Cleveland, a judgment creditor.
2. The Railroad Company.
. ChamberlaiA.
It is certain Chamberlain could not thereafter manage the
road under his lease, for he was "perpetually enjoined and
restrained." The decree did not authorize Cleveland to work
it, or in any way interfere with it, by appointing a receiver
or otherwise. Who was to work it? Manifestly the railroad company and no one else. In the nature of things,
the court must have intended that the company should resume control of the road after Chamberlain was enjoined.
The court could not have intended that a great public enterprise like the one in question should be abandoned, its
franchises become forfeited, and creditors, and everybody
else connected with it, be ruined outright. It is impossible
to say that this decree did not change the relations of Chamberlain and the company, inter se, as to this great property.
It bound Chamberlain hand and foot, not for a time, nor for
a purpose, but absolutely, perpetually, forever. It manifestly proceeded upon the ground, that the lease was an
unauthorized act of the company, ultra vires, void as between
the parties, and as between the parties and the public; and
so it extirpated the lease, trampled it under foot and out of
existence. It was no longer to be any protection to Chamberlain in his usurpation of great corporate franchises; no
longer to protect the company in its evasion of its duty to
work this road itself. And the moment the decree was
enrolled, it became the right and the duty of the company
to resume its abdicated franchises, and exercise them for the
public benefit, according to its charter obligations to the
State, and neither Chamberlain nor any one else could interfere.
It is the boast of a court of equity, that it does complete
justice, and not by halves; that its decrees not only settle

LIec.

I8t5.]

GRAIAM

V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

709

Opinion of the court.

rights as between plaintiff and defendants, but as between
the defendants themselves. The reason given for making
all persons interested in the subject-matter parties defendant is, that the court may by one decree accomplish what
would otherwise require many suits, and may at once adjust
the rights of all parties interested. This its decrees would
not do, if they were not as binding among defendants in
subsequent litigation, between themselves, as between the
plaintiff and the defendants. Cases establish this quality
of decrees in equity. .Farq harson v. Seaton* is a strong
authority to show that this decree would be conclusive in
any subsequent litigation upon the subject between Chamberlain and the company. So is Chamly v.. Lord Dunsany,t
in Irish chancery; a case decided by Lord Redesdale, as able
a chancellor as ever sat.
The counsel also argued extensively on a comparison of
the charter-powers of the La Crosse Company, which were
exhibited in the record, with those exercised in the lease to
Chamberlain, also shown, that the lease made by the company was beyond their charter-powers, and was void as
ultra vires; that it was void, therefore, absolutely and irrespective of intent. They argued also that independently of
this, it and the judgment were, in fact, made to defraud
creditors, and that both were void on that score also.
After full argument by 3essrs. Cary and Carlisle, confoa
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
These two appeals present the same controlling question
to be decided upon the same facts and principles. That
question is, 'Were the lease made to Chamberlain and the
judgment confessed in his favor by the La Crosse Company,
annulled as between the parties to the lease and judgment
by the decree of 1859, or only as against Cleveland, the
judgment creditor, in whose suit against the company and
Chamberlain the decree was rendered?
5 Russel 45.

T- 2 Schonle: 4 Lefroy, 718.

GRAHAM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It was the manifest intention of the Minnesota Company,
in the bill filed by it, as the pleadings show, to seek a de.cree in this suit only upon hypothesis of the nullity of the
Cleveland judgment, and the prayer for particular relief was
framed accordingly. We are also informed by counsel that
there is now pending in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Wisconsin, a suit, brought by the
company against Chamberlain, for the direct object of setting aside the contract between Chamberlain and the La
Crosse Company. In disposing of the cause before us, therefore, we shall not inquire whether that contract was or was
not one which the La Crosse Company could legally make,
nor whether the contract and the judgment were or were
not in law void absolutely or as against creditors only.
These matters may be better and more regularly investigated and passed upon in the cause now before the Circuit
Court, and, if necessary, upon appeal from the decree in
that cause. At present we shall only inquire into the effect
of the decree of the District Court upon the article of agreement and the judgment which it declared to be void.
We have seen already that, according to the allegation of
the Minnesota Company in their bill now before us, the
issue between Cleveland, the complainant, and the La Crosse
Company and Chamberlain, the respondents in the cause in
which that decree was made, was upon the question whether
the agreement and judgment were or were not void as against
Cleveland and his judgment. The decree was evidently intended to determine that issue. It was, as evidently, not
intended to determine the question whether the making of
the agreement was beyond the corporate powers of the La
Crosse Company, for there are no terms which affirm its inherent invalidity without regard to intent. It is our duty to
construe the decree with reference to the issue it was meant
to decide. Its words are very broad and very emphatic; but
we cannot say that they were intended by the District Court
to have any greater effect than to avoid and set aside, as
against Cleveland, the agreement and the judgment impeached by his bill. We think, on the contrary, that a de-

Dec. 1865.]

GRAHAM v. RAILROAD COIMPANY.

711

Opinion of the court.

cree having such an effect could not have been properly
rendered upon the pleadingsand issue in that cause. Yeifher
the La Crosse Company nor Chamberlain sought to avoid
the agreement or the judgment, nor asked any relief whatever as against each other. Indeed, the case shows that both
regarded the agreement and the judgment as essential to
their respective interests. We cannot ascribe to any court
an intention, by a decree on such pleadings, to annul such
an arrangement as between the parties to it, nor could we
approve such action even were the intent clear beyond question. No question was made between Chamberlain and the
La Crosse Company, nor could any question arise between
them of any such nature as that between those parties and
Cleveland, nor could they be required, in a suit prosecuted
by Cleveland to enforce satisfaction of his judgment by setting aside their arrangement as void against creditors, to
submit that arrangement, as between themselves, to the
action of the court.
It is true that it is the constant practice of courts of equity
to decree between codefendants upon proper proofs, and
under pleadings between plaintiffs and defendants, which
bring the respective claims and rights of such codefendants
between themselves under judicial cognizance. In the case
of Flrquharson v. &ton, cited by counsel, the pleadings
showed that Farquharson, as a co-defen"ant with Seton in
another suit, had, by answer, set up the same case against
him that he afterward set up by bill. In the former suit the
decree had been against Farquharson, and he afterward
sought to renew the litigation by an original proceeding, and
it was held properly that the former decree, though between
codefendants, was a bar. So in the case of 6winhy v. Lord
Dui'sa))y,the general litigation was for the settling and marshaling of incumbrances, and it was held that where a case
was made out between defendants, by evidence arising fiom
pleadings and proofs between plaintiffs and defendants, a
court of equity was entitled to make a decree between the
defendants. In this case the decree was between defendants
who asserted adverse interests in the incumbered estate.

712

GRAHAM V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

But neither of these cases assert the doctrine maintained
here foi the appellants, that a court of equity may decree
between defendants when neither pleadings nor proofs show
any controversy or adverse interest between them. Nor have
we been referred to any case which does assert that doctrine.
We think, therefore, that the decree of the District Court
in the case of Cleveland against the La Crosse Company and
Chamberlain must be regarded as having made void the
arrangement between the company and Chamberlain only as
against the judgment creditor, Cleveland, and not as having
determined anything between those parties.
Nor do we intend here to determine anything as between
them. We leave all questions concerning the validity of
Chamberlain's judgment and its lien on the railroad, or
touching the validity of the articles of agreement between
Chamberlain and the La Crosse Company, or relating to the
rights of parties in or to Chamberlain's receipts under that
agreement, to be investigated and determined in the suit now
pending in the Circuit Court.
Nor do we understand the decrees dismissing the bills in
the two cases before us as determining anything on either of
,these points, but only as determining that the Cleveland
decree adjudged nothing between Chamberlain and the La
Crosse Company, and, therefore, cannot be regarded as evidence of the annulment of the contract between them in
another suit where the validity of the contract is directly in
controversy.
In the second of the cases before us, that of Graham and
Scott v. Chamberlain and The La Crosse Company, there
are averments in the bill which would require an answer if
the general structure and the special prayer of the bill and
the absence of a general prayer did not show that in this
case, as in the case of the Minnesota Company, the real
object of the suit was to establish the Cleveland decree as
an absolute bar to the assertion by Chamberlain of any right
whatever under his agreement and judgment. We do not
think it such a bar, and therefore, without prejudice to any

Dec. 185.]

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
Syllabus.

suit which is now pending, or may be hereafter brought, to

determine any other controversy of the La Crosse Company,
or of its creditors, or of its successors in right or interest,
we shall affirm the decrees of the Circuit Court in the two,
cases now before us by appeal.
AFFIRMANCE ACCORDINGLY.

GILMAN V. PHILADELPHIA.
The power to regulate commerce comprehends the control for that purpose,
and to the extent necessary, of all the navigable waters of the United
States which are accessible from a State other than those on which they
lie; and includes, necessarily, the power to keep them open and free
from any obstruction to their navigation, interposed by the States or
otherwise. And it is for Congress to determine when its full power
shall be brought into activity, and as to the regulations and sanctions
which shall be provided.
This power, however, covering as it does a wide field, and embracing a great
variety of subjects, some of the subjects will call for uniform rules and
national legislation; while others can be best regulated by rules and
provi'ions suggested by the varying circumstances of differing places,
and limited in their operation to such places respectively. And to the
extent required by these last cases, the power to regulate commerce
may be exercised by the States.
To explain. Bridges, turnpikes, streets, and railroads, are means of cormercial transportation as well as navigable waters, and the commerce
which passes over a bridge may be much greater than that which will
ever be transported on the water which it obstructs. Accordingly, in
a question whether a bridge may be erected over one of its own tidal
and navigable streams, it is for the municipal power to weigh and
balance against each otler the considerations which belong to the subject-the obstruction of navigation on the one hand, and the advantage
to commerce on the other-and to decide which shall be preferred, and
how far one shall be made subservient to the other. And if such erection be authorized in good faith, not covertly and for an unconstitutional purpose, the Federal courts are not bound to enjoin it.
H)wever, Congre-s may interpose whenever it shall be deemed necessary,
by either general or special laws. It may regulate all bridges over
navigable waters, remove offending bridges, and punish those who shall
thereafter erect them. Within the sphere of their authority, both the
legislative and judicial power of the nation are supreme,

