MAGENAU v. AETNA FREIGHT LINES.

273

Syllabus.

MAGENAU, ADMINISTRATOR, v. AETNA
FREIGHT LINES, INC.
ERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 439. Argued May 18, 1959.Decided June 15, 1959.
Basing jurisdiction on diversity of citizenship, petitioner sued in a
Federal District Court to recover for the wrongful death of his
decedent, who was killed when a tractor-trailer leased by respondent
crashed off a Pennsylvania highway. The case was tried to a jury
on a negligence theory and judgment went for petitioner. The
Court of Appeals reversed on the ground that the decedent was an
employee of respondent and the Pennsylvania Workmen's Compensation Act provided the exclusive remedy. Both courts treated
the question whether the decedent was respondent's employee
within the meaning of the Pennsylvania statute as a question of
law for determination by the judge, instead of the jury. Held:
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for a new
trial. Pp. 274-279.
(a) In a Federal District Court, all disputed issues of fact necessary to a determination as to whether the decdent was respondent's
employee within the meaning of the Pennsylvania Workmen's Compensation Act were for jury determination, regardless of the practice in the state courts, unless the State's assignment of those factual issues to the judge rather than the jury has been "announced
as an integral part of the special relationship created by the
statute." Byrd v. Blue Ridge Electrical Cooperative, 356 U. S.
525. P. 278.
(b) No such reason for the distinction has been shown here, and,
on the record in this case, not all of the disputed issues of fact
necessary to a determination as to whether the decedent was
respondent's employee within the meaning of the Pennsylvania
statute were submitted to, 6r passed on by, the jury. Therefore,
a new trial is necessary. Pp. 276-279.
257 F. 2d 445, reversed and cause remanded.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

360 U. S.

Harry L. Shniderman argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were M. Fletcher Gornall, Jr. and
William W. Knox.
William F. Illig argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief was John E. Britton.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a diversity case for wrongful death of petitioner's
decedent, who was killed when a tractor-trailer leased by
respondent crashed off a Pennsylvania highway. The
action was tried to a jury on a negligence theory and judgment went for petitioner. 161 F. Supp. 875. The Court
of Appeals reversed, finding that under Pennsylvania
law the decedent was an employee of respondent and that
the Pennsylvania Workmen's Compensation Act, Purdon's Pa. Stat. Ann;, 1952, Tit. 77, provided the exclusive
remedy. 257 F. 2d 445. We granted certiorari, 358
U. S. 927, on the question whether, in the light of Byrd
v. Blue Ridge Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc., 356 U. S.
525 (1958) (decided after this case was argued in the
Court of Appeals), the matter of the relationship of the
decedent torespondent was a jury question. We have
concluded that Byrd does control that issue and that the
judgment must therefore be reversed.
Respondent is an interstate motor carrier of freight
certificated under the Interstate Commerce Act. It had
leased a tractor-trailer, complete with driver, from one
Fidler, an" independent contractor. Its lease contract,
which had been in effect for four years, required Fidler
to furnish the driver as well as to keep the leased equipment in repair. In this connection the evidence indicates
that Fidler had authorized his driver, where circumstances
required, to hire services and purchase necessities on trips
of this kind. The vehicle and driver leased by respondent
were en route from Syracuse, N. Y., to Midland, Pa., with
36,000. pounds of steel, when the mishap leading to

MAGENAU v. AETNA FREIGHT LINES.
273

275

Opinion of the Court.

decedent's death occurred: The trip from Syracuse had
been so beset with difficulties, such as tire replacements,
battery trouble and brake failure, as well as bad weather,
that it had already consumed 7 days' time. Under
ordinary conditions 20 hours .of elapsed time would have
been sufficient. During a stop at a tavern near Waterford, Pa., the driver, Schroyer, was talking to the tavern
keeper about his truck troubles when decedent and
his cousin entered the place. Schroyer offered the
cousin $25 to accompany him for the remainder of the
trip and, upon. refusal, made the same offer to decedent.
The latter accepted. While the evidence is weak on the
point, the indications are that decedent's job was to aid
the driver in the event further trouble with the truck
was encountered. Decedent was experienced with cars
and had worked for a short time as a mechanic. Schroyer
and decedent proceeded in the truck-trailer toward their
destination, with the former driving. Some hours later
the vehicle was found off the road on the downside of
an embankment. Both men were dead.
This action ensued, in which petitioner alleged negligence on the part of Fidler and respondent for continuing
to operate the vehicle with knowledge of its defective
brakes. Liability of respondent was rested upon the
rule that its status as a certificated carrier made it
liable for the negligence of Fidler, its independent contractor, whose motor equipment was operated under the
former's I. C. C. certificate. This is the law of Pennsylvania, Kissell v. Motor Age Transit Lines, 357 Pa. 204,
209, 53 A. 2d 593, 597.' Petitioner's theory was that his
decedent was an invitee on the tractor-trailer, and that
Fidler and his driver, Schroyer, therefore, owed decedent
1 Also see 49 Stat. 557, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 315, which provides that a certificate holder must carry insurance to satisfy any
final judgment for injuries due to the "negligent . ..use of motor
vehicles under such certificate."

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

360 U. S.

a duty of due care for breach of which respondent was
liable under its I. C. C. certificate. Respondent claimed
that decedent was a trespasser and, under Pennsylvania
law, that it was therefore liable only for wanton misconduct. After discovery had been exhausted, respondent
moved for summary judgment on the ground that the circumstances of decedent's engagement by Schroyer created
an employer-employee relationship between it and decedent under the State workmen's compensation statute.
The motion was denied and the case went to trial. It was
submitted to the jury on special interrogatories covering
the issues as to liability and a general charge as to the
damages. The trial judge entered judgment on the
special issues and the damage verdict for $76,500.
Interrogatory No. 1,2 the meaning of which is now in
controversy, inquired as to whether it was "reasonably
necessary for the protection of defendant's [respondent's]
interests" to engage decedent. The Court of Appeals
held that the affirmative answer of the jury classified
decedent as respondent's employee bringing him within
the general definition of § 104 of the Pennsylvania Workmen's Compensation Act.' It noted that respondent had
2 "Interrogatory Number 1. Under the evidence in this case, do
you find that an unforeseen contingency arose which made it reason-

ably necessary for the protection of the defendant's interests that
the driver Charles Schroyer engage the decedent Norman Ormsbee,
Jr. to accompanying him for the remainder of the trip ?"
3 Section 104 of the Pennsylvania Workmen's Compensation Act,
Purdon's Pa. Stat. Ann., 1952, Tit. 77, § 22, Cum. Supp., provides:
"The term 'employe,' as used in this act is declared to be synonymous with servant, and includes-"All natural persons who perform services for another for a valuable consideration, exclusive of persons whose employment is casual
in character and not in the regular course of the business of the
employer, and exclusive of persons to whom articles or materials
are given out to be made up, cleaned, washed, altered, ornamented,
finished, or repaired, or adapted for sale in the worker's own home,
or on other premises, not under the control or management of the

MAGENAU v. AETNA FREIGHT LINES.
273

277

Opinion of the Court.

conceded that decedent Was its "casual" employee but
that this was not enough to take him out of the Act's
coverage for, in addition, such casual employment must
"not be in the regular course of business" of respondent.
This, the Court of Appeals said, was a question of law
under Pennsylvania practice and open to review. It held
that the finding under Interrogatory No. 1 put decedent
"into the regular business" of respondent. This holding
would call for the dismissal of this suit, as petitioner's
exclusive remedy would be under the Pennsylvania Workmen's Compensation Act.
Since the keystone of the Court of Appeals' holding
depends on its interpretation of Special Interrogatory
No. 1, we note the views of the trial judge on that issue.
In his opinion on the motion of respondent for judgment
non obstante verdicto, he observed that "the interrogatory . . . was not so phrased as to require the jury to
determine whether decedent was an employee of Aetna."
Rather, it "was simply to secure a finding from the jury as
to the reasonable necessity of Schroyer engaging decedent." 161 F. Supp., at 878: Likewise during the trial,
in a colloquy with counsel as to this interrogatory, he
advised: "[Y]ou notice there I refrain from saying just
what his [decedent's] status is. I don't think it necessary
to have the jury find whether he was employed or not; I
think that is a question for the law." On balance we
believe that an examination of the record supports this
interpretation of Interrogatory No. 1, although it must be
admitted that the apparently inadvertent use of the.
words in "protection of the defendant's interest" in the
interrogatory may have been taken in a different light
by the jury.
employer. Every executive officer of a corporation elected or appointed in accordance with the charter and by-laws of the corporation,
except elected officers of the Commonwealth or any of its political
subdivisions, shall be an employe of the corporation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

360 U. S.

Be this as it may, however, not only the question of
the relationship of the decedent to respondent should have
been submitted to the jury but, in order to meet § 104's
deinition, it should likewise have passed upon whether
the employment, if any, was "casual" and not "in the
regular course" of respondent's business. Our opinion in
Byrd came down subsequent to argument in the Court
of Appeals. As we said in that case "An essential characteristic of [the federal system] is the manner in which,
in civil common-law actions, it distributes trial functions
between judge and jury . . . [assigning] the decisions of
disputed questions of fact to the jury." Byrd v. Blue
Ridge Rural Electric Coop., supra, at 537. We found
there that the South Carolina rule in compensation cases,
permitting courts to decide such factual issues without
the aid of juries, was not "announced as an integral part
of the special relationship created by the statute."
Id., at 536. We held that under such circumstances
"the federal court should not follow the state rule."
Id., at 538. The same reasoning applies here. We have
been given no reason for the distinction in the Pennsylvania practice of trying guch disputed factual issues
to the court. Respondent does not claim that the rule is
an "integral part of the special relationship" created by
its statute but rather that the disputed issue of employment was in fact submitted to the jury. It cannot be
gainsaid that all of the disputed issues were not so submitted. In order to determine whether the Pennsylvania
Act bars recovery here the court must have a full answer
as to the status of the decedent as an employee under § 104
of the Act. If the jury, under proper instructions, finds
facts which show that, under § 104, the decedent was
respondent's employee and that such employment was
"casual" and not "in the regular course" of respondent's
business, then it can find for petitioner.

MAGENAU v. AETNA FREIGHT LINES.
273

FRANKFURTER,

279

J., dissenting.

We are therefore of the opinion that a new trial on the
whole case is necessary, since these disputed issues are so
interrelated With the ultimate issues of liability and
damages that a limited hearing would not be in the
interest of fairness and efficiency in judicial administration. If the evidence on that trial is such as to justify
with reason different conclusions on the factual issues as
to the relationship of decedent as an employee, under
§ 104 of Pennsylvania's Act, of either respondent or its
contractor, Fidler, resolution of those issues, along with
others that arise from the evidence. will be for the jury.
The jury's verdict at that trial will determine if as well
as in what amount petitioner may recover in this action.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, whom MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE STEWART join, dissenting.

The issues in this case have had a shifting history.
Today the problem of the case appears to be cast into
these questions: was the issue of decedent Ormsbee's
employment submitted to the jury and, if not, should it
have been? But at trial the evidence massed on both
sides was to prove or disprove that decedent was a trespasser. In the course of showing he was something other
than a trespasser, petitioner introduced evidence which
tended to prove that decedent was in fact a temporary
employee of respondent, hired by the truck driver to aid
in an emergency. Respondent countered by urging that
the evidence introduced by petitioner, if believed, proved
decedent was an employee of Aetna and therefore, under
applicable Pennsylvania law, deprived petitioner of a
common-law remedy against Aetna. The- trial judge,
believing employment to be a question of law, reserved
until after the verdict a ruling on the effect of the Penn509615 0-59-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

360 U. S.

sylvania Workmen's Compensation Act, Purdon's Pa.
Stat. Ann., 1952, Tit. 77, §§ 22, 52, 462. And so, putting
aside this question, and keeping the original issue regarding the status of decedent as a trespasser in mind,
the judge framed one of the four interrogatories submitted to the jury to elicit its opinion whether decedent
was or was not a trespasser. The jury found that he
was not by answering the following interrogatory in the
affirmative:
"Under the evidence in this case, do you find that
an unforeseen contingency arose which made it reasonably necessary for the protection of the defendant's interests that the driver Charles Schroyer
engage the decedent Norman Ormsbee, Jr. to accompany him for the remainder of the trip?"
The jury also returned a general verdict for petitioner.
In his opinion refusing Aetna's motions for a new trial
or judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the trial judge
reasoned that the Pennsylvania Act did not bar petitioner's recovery at common law because the nature of
decedent's employment did not, under the Pennsylvania
decisions, bring him under the Workmen's Compensation
Act. 161 F. Supp. 875. The Court of Appeals disagreed
with the trial judge's interpretation of the interrogatory,
of the Pennsylvania statute and of the decisions thereunder. Reviewing the jury's verdict for decedent's
administrator, that court held that the affirmative answer
to the interrogatory necessitated a finding that decedent was an employee of Aetna within the definition
of that status in the Pennsylvania Act and that therefore
the only remedy was under that Act. 257 F. 2d 445. In
so doing, the court was applying to facts as found by a
jury the law made applicable to the parties to this action
by Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, and the Rules
of Decision Act, 28 U. S. C. § 1652.

MAGENAU v. AETNA FREIGHT LINES.
273

FRANKFURTER,

281

J., dissenting.

Petitioner now asserts that our opinion in Byrd v. Blue
Ridge Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc., 356 U. S. 525,
required the jury in the federal courts to decide the issue
of employment and that the jury did not make that determination here. To agree with this second proposition
we must either find that the Court of Appeals totally
misinterpreted the answer of the jury to the interrogatory or that the rule stated in Byrd requires not only that
disputed questions of fact be submitted to the jury but
also that the application of law to facts likewise restp with
the jury. The former ruling would deviate from the settled practice of this Court to accept the interpretation of
proceedings below adopted by the Court of Appeals unless
that interpretation is baseless.' Moreover, the ruling
of the Court of Appeals was based primarily on an interpretation of Pennsylvania law and not on an extrapolation from the jury's finding. Judge Goodrich held that
"[w]e cannot escape the conclusion that the [jury] finding
that authorized the hiring of Ormsbee put him into the
regular business of the defendant, namely, transportation
of goods by truck. If that was not what he was doing,
he had no business riding with Schroyer at all." 257 F.
2d, at'448. Thus the Court of Appeals applied the juryfound facts to the court-interpreted statute and said that
the Pennsylvania law barred a common-law remedy. We
should not review here the finding of the Court of Appeals
on the meaning of he Pennsylvania statute. This Court
has repeatedly deferred to decisions on local law reached
by the lower federal courts.2 What reason is there to
'See, e. g., Labor Board v. Pittsburgh S. S. Co., 340 U. S. 498,
502-503; Federal Trade Comm'n v. American Tobacco Co., 274 U. S:
543.
2 Railroad Comm'n v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S.496, 499; Reitz v.
Mealey, 314 U. S. 33,.39; MacGregorv. State Mutual Life Assurance
Co., 315 U. S.280, 281; Helvering v. Stuart, 317 U. S. 154, 162163, modified on other grounds, 317 U. S.602; Palmer v. Hoffman,

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
J., dissenting.

360 U. S.

deviate from that practice in this case?

The meaning

FRANKFURTER,

given to the Pennsylvania statutory language and to the

cases interpreting it was the determination of three
uncommonly experienced Pennsylvania circuit judges.
Finally, no prior federal case would justify a ruling that
in the federal courts application of law to fact is a jury
function.3 Nor does historical analysis support the
assumption that such was the case at the time of the adoption of the Seventh Amendment. 4 Whether a given set
of facts constitutes an employment relationship is a pure
question of law and as such not within a jury's province.
The charge, interrogatory, and answer thereto, as reasonably interpreted by the Court of Appeals, do not permit
the conclusion that issues were withheld from the jury
which were within its sphere of power, duty, and
capability.
But suppose it be correct to conclude that the Court of
Appeals erred in its opinion that the jury resolved all relevant factual inquiries. Still the petitioner has no case
318 U. S. 109, 118; Huddleston v. Dwyer, 322 U. S. 232, 237; Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U. S. 620, 630; Steele v. General Mills,
Inc., 329 U. S. 433, 438-439; Gardner v. New Jersey, 329 U. S. 565,
575; Francis v. Southern Pacific Co., 333 U. S. 445, 447-448; Estate
of Spiegel v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 335 U. S. 701, 707708; Propper v. Clark, 337 U. S. 472, 486-487; Ragan v. Merchants
Transfer & Warehouse Co., 337 U. S. 530, 534; Skelly Oil Co. v.
Phillips Petroleum Co., 339 U. S. 667, 674; United States v. Gerlach
Live Stock Co., 339 U. S. 725, 755; Williams v. United States, 341
U. S. 97, 100; Sutton v. Leib, 342 U. S. 402, 411; Bernhardt v.
Polygraphic Co., 350 U. S. 198, 204-205; id., at 209, 212 (concurring
opinions); General Box Co. v. United States, 351 U. S. 159, 165;
id., at 169-170 (dissenting opinion).
3Cf. Ex parte Peterson, 253 U. S. 300, 310: "The limitation imposed by the [Seventh] Amendment is merely that enjoyment of
the right of trial by jury be not obstructed, and that the ultimate
determination of issues of fact by the jury be not interfered with."
4See Scott, Trial by Jury and the Reform of Civil Procedure, 31
Harv. L. Rev. 669, 684-686 (1918).

MAGENAU v. AETNA FREIGHT LINES. 283
273

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

that should prevail here. For not only did the petitioner
fail at trial to request the question of employment to be
submitted to a jury, he himself stated during the course
of the trial that employment was a question of law.'
And when the trial judge said that he believed that as a
question of law it ought not to be submitted to a jury,
the petitioner did not claim otherwise.' Indeed it was
the respondent who requested that the question be submitted to the jury and who objected when this request
was refused. I shall continue to believe it to be law in
civil cases in the federal courts that, barring some
extraordinary circumstances not here present, failure to
request a given issue to be submitted to a jury constitutes a waiver of any right to such submission 7 The
least requisite for raising such failure on appeal is notice
to the trial court by way of an objection.8
Certiorari was granted upon a petition, which urged
that the Court of Appeals had so ruled as to deprive petitioner of the right to a jury determination of employment status and thus that the case raised the same basic
question as that dealt with by this Court in Byrd. More
particular consideration than could be expected to be
given to the petition for certiorari 9 has made it apparent
5"The Court: In other words, the finding of trespasser is a conclusion of law.
"Mr. Knox (attorney for petitioner): The same as employees."
Transcript of Record, p. 173a.
6 "The Court: I don't think it is necessary to have the jury find
whether he was employed or not; I think that is a question for the
law." Transcript of Record, p. 169a.
TSee, e. g., Pennsylvania R. Co. v. 'Minds, 250 U. S. 368, 375;
Shutte v. Thompson, 15 Wall. 151, 164.
8 Fed. Rules Civ. Proc., 49, 51.
9 "We are not aided by oral arguments and necessarily rely in an
especial way upon petitions, replies and supporting briefs. Unless
these are carefully prepared, contain appropriate references to the
record and present with studied accuracy, brevity and clearness

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

360 U. S.

that neither statement is correct. The briefs on the
merits and oral argument made it inescapably clear that
petitioner failed to present a case which qualifies for our
consideration in the light of the historical development of
our certiorari jurisdiction '0 and the rule which we have
promulgated to guide its exercise."' This is an ordinary
diversity case turning solely on the application of Pennsylvania-law to a unique set of facts and involving ro
question which justifies review under our discretionary
jurisdiction. When the Court has discovered, even after
argument, that there existed no question suitable for this
Court's determination, certiorari has been dismissed as
improvidently granted.12 The reasons for such a disposition of a case even after argument-action so often taken
as fairly to be part of the settled practice of the Courtwere thus expounded by Mr. Chief Justice Taft:
"If it be suggested that as much effort and time
as we have given to the consideration of the alleged
conflict would have enabled us to dispose of the case
before us on the merits, the answer is that it is very
important that we be consistent in not granting the
writ of certiorari except in cases involving principles
the settlement of which is of importance to the
public as distinguished from that of the parties, and
in cases where there is a real and embarrassing conwhatever is essential to ready and adequate understanding of points
requiring our attention, the rights of interested parties may be
prejudiced and the court will be impeded in its efforts properly to
dispose of the causes which constantly crowd its docket." Furness,
Withy & Co. v. Yang-Tsze Ins. Agsn., 242 U. S. 430, 434.
10 See Dick v. New York Life Ins. Co., 359 U. S. 437, 447 (dissenting opinion).
11Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States, Rule 19.
12 Layne & Bowler Corp. v. Western Well Works, Inc., 261 U. S.

MAGENAU v. AETNA FREIGHT LINES.
273

HARLAN,

285

J.; dissenting.

flict of opinion and authority between the circuit
courts of appeal. The present case certainly comes
under neither head." '"
And so, since upon full consideration of this case it
becomes clear that the complained-of error was probably
not committed and that in any event petitioner is not in
a position to assert it, due regard for the controlling
importance of observing the conditions for the proper.
exercise of our discretionary jurisdiction requires that the
writ of certiorari should be dismissed as improvidently
granted.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, whom MR. JUSTICE STEWART
joins, dissenting.
Plenary consideration of this case, and indeed
the
opinion of the majority 6f this Court, have made it clear
that the Court of Appeals dealt with the factual issues
involved on the basis of a concession by the respondent
and the jury's answer to Interrogatory No. 1. It is therefore now apparent that this case presents no question
concerning the classification of these issues as for the court
or for the jury under the decision in Byrd v. Blue Ridge
Rural Cooperative, Inc., 356 U. S. 525, and that the
premise on which we granted certiorari was accordingly
a mistaken one. And whether or not the Court of Appeals
in acting as it did was correct in its assessment of the trial
record is certainly not a matter justifying the exercise of
our certiorari power within the criteria of Rule 19. I
therefore agree with my Brother FRANKFURTER that the
writ of certiorari should be dismissed as improvidently
granted, and join in his dissenting opinion.
Even if a Byrd issue could be considered as properly
presented, the most that should be done is to remand the
13

Id., at 393.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

360 U. S.

case to the Court of Appeals for further consideration in
light of that decision. A retrial of this case would be
justified under Byrd only if the Pennsylvania practice
treating factual issues under § 104 of the Workmen's
Compensation Act as for the court, instead of for the jury,
see Persing v. Citizens Traction Co., 294 Pa. 230, 144 A.
97; Vescio v. Pennsylvania Electric Co., 336 Pa. 502,
9 A. 2d 546, is merely a "form and mode" of procedure
rather than "an integral part" of the rights created by
the Act. Before deciding such a difficult and subtle question of local law, this Court should have the aid of the
Court of Appeals whose members are more competent
than we to speak on Pennsylvania law.

