OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

201 U. S.

to try to know its purpose, not only from its text but from external circumstances. His misunderstanding needs to be accounted for.* The misunderstanding of the protesting citizens
of Chicago needs to be accounted for. Explanation cannot be
found by, asserting ambiguities in the act. There is not a syllable of evidence to indicate that any were perceived or regarded of consequence. The Governor was confident ' in his
views. Of one of the effects of the act, and one which could
not result. unless his construction was correct, he said he had
heard no other claimed for it than that which he entertained
and expressed. There was no doubt with him, therefore, no
disguise of the measure by its advocates. We are, however,
now asked to believe that the legislature alone either saw or
was persuaded of the real merits of the measure, and passed it
over a groundless veto and ignorant opposition, with consciousness that it would be construed to have the meaning now
given it'. I am unable to so believe and am constrained to dissent from the judgment.

WEST CHICAGO STREET RAILROAD COMPANY v.
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS ex rel. CITY
OF CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 241.

Argued January 10,' 11, 1906.-Decided April 9, 1906.

Although the judgment of the state court rests, partli on grounds of local
or general law, and although the opinion may not expressly refer to the
Constitution of the United States, if by its necessary operatibn the judgment rejects a claim, based on a constitutional right specially set up in
the answer, that the relief prayed cannot, in any view of the case, be
granted consistently with the contract or due process clauses of the
Constitution, this court has'jurisdiction to review under § 709, Rev. Stat.
In a navigable stream the public right is paramount, and the owner of the
soil under the bed can only use it so far as consistent with the public
right; and a municipality, through which a navigable stream flows,
cannot grant a right to obstruct the navigation thereof nor bind itself
to permit the continuance of an obstruction, and this rule is not affected

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by the fact that the person claiming a right to continue such an obstruction is the owner in fee of the bed of .the stream.
A municipal ordinance giving permission to a street railroad company. to
construct a tunnel under a navigable stream, the law of the State providing that railways shall not be constructed so as to interrupt the navigation of any water. in the State, does not amount to a contract under
the contract clause of the. Constitution, so that the city could not subsequently require the company to lower the tunnel so as'not to interfere
with the increased demands of -navigation; nor,.in the absence of any
provision to that effect, would it be construed as containing an implied
covenant that the municipality would bear the expense of such alterations required by subsequent ordinances.
A municipality is under the duty of protecting the unobstructed: navigation of navigable rivbrs under its jurisdiction; and it cannot be exempted
therefrom by making agreements in regard thereto.
Courts may look through and behind mere forms, and interfere, whenever
necessary, for the protection of private rights against an illegal, arbitrary
'exercise of governmental power.
The right' of a railroad company to maintain a tunnel under a navigable
river is subject to the paramount public right of navigation, and where
it has been constructed under municipal ordinance and state law that
it shall not interrupt navigation, the duty of not obstructing the navi'gation is a. continuing one; and,, if the increased demands of navigation
at any time require a deeper channel than when the tunnel was originally.
constructed, it is within the power of the municipality to compel the
railroad company at the latter's own expense to either remove the tunnel
or lower it to conform with the necessities of commerce, and, as in:this
case, to the rule established by act of Congress,.and such action. of the
municipality is not unconstitutional, and does not amount either to
taking the property for public use without compensation, or depriving
the company of its 1iroperty without due process of. law. C., B. & Q,
R. R. Co. v. Drainage Commission, 200 U. S. 251, followed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John P. Wilson, with whom Mr. Charles S. Babcock.was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:.
This court has jurisdiction. The judgment seeks to enforce
an ordinance passed by the city council of Chicago. Whether
or not such subsequent ordinance impairs the obligation of the
contract between the company and the city depends upon the
construction' given to such contract. The Supreme Court of
Illinois entered its judgment requiring the company to comply
with the ordinance which, it is alleged, impairs the obligation

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

201 U. S.

of the contract between the company and the city. The judgment is based upon a construction of the contract between the
city and the company, which is denied by the company.
If this court should uphold the company's construction of
the contract, then the subsequent ordinance, enforced by the
judgment, impairs the obligation of such contract. This presents a Federal question involving an independent determination by this court of the true constructi6n and legal effect of
the contract between the city and the company under which
the tunnel was constructed. Vicksburg R. R. Co. v. Dennis,
116 U. S. 667; Bryan v. Board of Education, 151 U. S. 639;
City Light Co. v. Tallahassee, 186 U. S. 406; Wilson v. Standefer,
184 U. S. 399; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244; Chicago R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57; University v. The
People, 99 U. S. 321; Houston &c. R. R. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66.
An ordinance passed by the city council is a law within the
meaning of the impairment clause of the Federal Constitution.
St. Paul Gas. Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 148.
The railroad company's tunnel when and as constructed was
lawful and was private property -owned in fee by the railroad
company. The company was the owner in fee of the bed of
the river at the point where the tunnel was constructed. Chicago v. Laflin, 49 Illinois, 172; McCartney v. C. & E. R. R.
Co., 112 Illinois, 611; Chicago v. Van Ingen, 152 Illinois, 624.
The tunnel was constructed wholly below the bed of the
Chicago river and at a depth sufficient to allow the free navigation of said river by vessels of the largest size in use on the
river at the time of the completion of the tunnel and below the
depth of said river -as established by any lawful authority having jurisdiction.
At the date of the. contract made by the city under which
the tunnel was constructed the city of Chicago under its charter
had jurisdiction over the river and full power to authorize the
construction of the tunnel. Rev. Stat. Ill. c. 24, art. 5. Until the United States assumed jurisdiction over the Chicago
.river by the act of Congress, September 13, 1900, the State of

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Illinois had plenary authority over the' Chicago river., - Wilson
v. Blackbird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Peters, 245; Gilman v. Philadelphia; 3 Wall. 713; Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459; Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635; Corrigan Transportation
Co. v. Sanitary District, 125 Fed. Rep. 611; Escanaba v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; Miller v. Mayor of New York, 109 U. S.
385; Cardwell v. Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205; County of Mobile
v. Kimball, 102 U. S.691; Prosserv. North Pac. R. R. Co., 152
U. S. 59; Willamette Iron Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1.
The tunnel was "aslawful as though it had been directly constructed by.-the cify itself under its charter powers. McCartney v. Chicago & Evanston R. R. Co., 112 Illinois, 611. The
carrying of passengers through the tunnel is commerce of the
same grade as the carrying of passengers or freight on the river.
Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635.
ordinance requiring the company to lower the tunnel,
constructed by it under agreement with the city; was void and
inoperative- as it impaired the obligation of that contract, in violation of§ 10, Art. I, of the Constitution'of the United States.
The tunnel being the lawful property of the railroad company could not be taken- from the company-for the purpose of
improving the navigation of the Chicago river without compensation beifig made to the company. Yates v. Milwaukee,
10 Wall. 497; Bridge Co. v. United States, 105 U. S. 470; United States v. Navigation Co., 148 U. S.312; Scranton v. Wheeler,
179 U. S. 141; United States v. Lynch,. 1,8 U. S. 445; Chicago v.
Laflin, 49 Illinois, 172; Chicago v. Van Ingen, 152 Illinois, 624.
The enforcement of the judgment of the state court would
constitute'a taking of the railroad company's property. The
mandate is either to remove the tunnel or to lower it, at the
expense of the company. A removal of the tunnel at the expense of the company would take the tunnel away from the
company and also take from it the cost of its removal. The
lowering of the tunnel would take from the company the money
expended in such lowering. In either case the private property of the company is taken from it for public use, namely,
-The

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

201 U. S.

in 'the interest of the improvement of the navigation of the
Chicago river. Bridge Co. v. United States, 105 U. S. 470, 506.
The enforcement of the ordinance requiring the railroad company to lower its tunnel at its own cost would deprive the
company of its property without due process of law. C., B.
& Q. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 235.
There was no reservation, express or implied, in the contract under which the tunnel was constructed that the company would lower or remove its tunnel in case it became an
obstruction to navigation. When the ordinance was passed
under which the tunnel was constructed, the State of Illinois
had plenary power over the Chicago river. Escanaba Co. v.
Chicago, 107 U. S. 683. This power included the right to construct a bridge over or across the river without a draw. Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713. See also TransportationCo.
v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635, where the right of the city to construct a tunnel under the river at La Salle street was involved.
The Supreme Court of Illinois had decided in McCartney v. C.
& E. R. R. Co., 112 Illinois, 611, that where a railroad company
constructed a bridge across the river under an ordinance passed
by the city council, that in legal effect the bridge was constructed by the city of Chicago under its charter powers.
Relying upon this decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois,
and on the authority and power given to the city of Chicago to
construct tunnels under the river, the railway company entered
into the contract under which the tunnel was constructed.
The tunnels and bridges constructed by the city directly have
long been obstructions to navigation.
The city of Chicago had no power to require or authorize
any changes to be made in the bed of the Chicago river without the approval of the Secretary of War, and therefore the com-,
pany was neither under obligation nor had 'the right to do the
work required by the ordinance and the mandate of the court.
§10, River and Harbor Act of 1899; River and Harbor Act of
:1890; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; Chicago v. Law,
144 Illinois, 569; Lussem v. Sanitary District, 192 Illinois, 404

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U.S.

Argumeni for Defendants in Error.

Mr. James Hamilton Lewis and Mr. Granville W. Browning
for defendants in error:
The writ Qf error should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court of Illinois decides that the question of fact,
under the Illinois law, is finally settled by the Appellate Court
that this tunnel is an obstruction to navigation of the Chicago
river at the point where situated. West Chicago St. R. R. Co. v.
The People, 214 Illinois, 18. When the decision of the highest
court of a State is brought before this court by writ of error,
the conclusions of fact found by the state court will not be
reviewed.. Tellurtde Power Co. v. Rio Grande &c. Ry., 175
U. S. 639; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S.189. This construction of
the state statute will, be adopted by this court. Bacon v.
Texas, 163 U. S. 207; Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149.
Where the state court construes the charter of the company
in such a manner that the subsequent legislation or ordinance
can cut no.figure, there is no Federal question and the writ of
error will be dismissed. Henderson Bridge Company v. Henderstn, 141 U. S.: 679. The Illinois Supreme Court has construed plaintiff's charter rights-its contract-under the ordinance of 1888. As that construction was broad enough to
dispose of the whole case, this writ of error must be dismissed.
Before this court can be called upon to decide whether there
has been an impairment of a contract it must first appear that
there was a valid contract, subject to impairment. New Orleans v. Water Works Co., 142 U. -S. 79; Bacon v. Texas, 163
U. S.207; Baltimore & Potomac R. R. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S.
210; Whie v. Leovy, 174 U. S.91; Central Land Co. v. Laidley,
159 U. S.103; Yesler v. Commissioners, 146 U. S.646.
Plaintiff's title is not disputed, nor its franchise, nor its
right to maintain a tunnel under the river which will not inter-,
fere with navigation. The question of the title of the riparian
owner is one of local law. Whitaker v. McBride, 197 U. S.510.
Plaintiff's tunnel is now an unlawful structure. Plaintiff
claims that without the ordinance of 1888 it has the right to
maintain its tunnel in the bed of the river because it owns both

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

201 U. S.

sides of the river at that point. To constitute a lawful structure in this navigable river there must be a grant from the
State, or, in this case, by the city, the agent of the State, and
since the United States Government has taken jurisdiction over
the river, the Government also must give its consent. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; Atlee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389.
But whether the plaintiff's right rests on the ordinance of
1888 or rests on the ownership of both banks of the river, when
the tunnel, by the growth of commerce, becomes an obstruction
to navigation, it must be abated as a nuisance; it is an unlawful structure. Any structure in the bed of a navigable stream
is erected and maintained subject to the paramount right of
navigation. C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. The People, 212 Illinois,
103; United Stales v. Bellingham Boom Co., 176 U. S. 211.
Plaintiff's title is subject to the permanent right of navigation, and the maintenance of the tunnel is subject to the same
right. The title to the soil under the bed of the river is in the
plaintiff but it is a qualified title, subject at all times to the
public easement of navigation.
Any structure put under the river bed must be at plaintiff's
risk, and ,must be removed or lowered whenever navigation
requires. The People v. West Chicago R. R. Co., 203 Illinois, 551;
C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. The People, 212 Illinois, 103; Chicago v.,,
Laflin, 49 Illinois, 172; Stockton v. B. & N. Y. Ry., 32 Fed.
Rep. 9; Braxon v. Breslet, 64 Illinois, 488; Hawkins Point Light
House Case, 39 Fed. Rep. 87; Illinois Central R. R. v. Illinois,
146 U. S. 458; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 163; S. C., 57
Fed. Rep. 809; Parmenter v. Attorney General, 10 Price, 412;
Sage v. Mayor, 154 N. Y. 61; Attorney General v. Johnson, 2
Wils. Ch. 87; Attorney General v. Richards, 2 Const. 603.
The State could give the city the power to lessen or destroy
the navigability of the river, or to enable plaintiff so to do,
only by explicit language, if at all.. There can be no pretense
that it has attempted so to do. Chicago v. Blair, 149 Illinois,
310; Coquard v. Oquawaka, 192 Illinois, 355; Kiel v. Chicago,
176 Illinois, 137; Smith v. McDowell, 148 Illinois, 51.

WEST. CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

513

Opinion of the Court.

The city has power to order this obstruction removed or
lowered. Under the Cities and Villages Act of 1872 the city
has the power to construct tunnels and regulate the use thereof,
and to deepen, widen, alter or change, the channel of water
courses. It has jurisdiction on all waters within or bordering
upon the same to the extent of three miles beyond the limits
of the city. While the authority of Congress is paramount, if
there were a difference of opinion, the power is cumulative and
concurrent. Lake Shore & Mich. S. Ry. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365;
Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410.
Plaintiff is not entitled to compensation. The decisions of
the state Supreme Court in this case are conclusive on this
point and are. binding on this court. In these decisions are
found a construction of the rights of a riparian. owner on a
navigp.ble sieam entirely within the State, a construction of
the Horse and Dummy Act, and a construction of plaintiff's
contract. Neither of these is a Federal question, and wherever
such matters are construed by the state, courts, this court*follows the construction of the state court. West Chicago St.
R. R. Co. v. The People, 214 Illinois, 9; The People v. West
Chicago St. R. R. Co., 203. Illinois, '551; C., B. & Q' Ry. Co. v.
The People, 212 Illinois, 103; TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99
U. S. 635; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, 276; United
States v. Bellingham Bay Boom Co., 176 U. S. 211; Scranton v.
Wheeler, 179 U. S. 159; S. C.,57 Fed. Rep. 803; Bridge Co. v.
United States, 105 U. S. 470; State v. The Wheeling Bridge Co.,
13 How. 518; United States v. Moline, 82 Fed. Rep. 592;
Hawkin, Point Light House Case, 39 Fed. Rep. 77; Stockton v.
B. & N. Y. Ry., 32 Fed. Rep. 9; State v. Sargent, 45 Connecticut, 358; New Orleans Gas Co. v. Drainage Commissioners of
N. 0.,. 197 U. S. 453.
MR- JU TICE HALAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents 'some questions of jurisdiction and constitutionality arising out of the relative rights and duties, of"
the city of Chicago and the West Chicago Street Railroad ComVOL. o-33

514.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

pany in respect of a tunnel maintained by that company under
the South Branch of Chicago river, at or near Van Buren street
in that city.
The judgment in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois,
was in favor of the railroad company, but it was reversed in
the Appellate Court, First 'District, the former court being directed to give to the city the relief asked. Upon appeal to the
Supreme Court of Illinois a judgment was rendered in favor
of the city.
The contention of the company is that the judgment under
review cannot be sustained consistently either with the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States or with
the due process of law enjoined by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The case presented by the record is substantially as will be
now stated.
On or about April 2, 1888, the City: Council of Chicago
adopted in due form the following ordinance:
"Wherea, the board of directors of the West Chicago Street
Railroad Company, on the second day of April, 1888, by and
at the request of the Mayor of the city of Chicago, adopted the
following resolution: Resolved, That the-West Chicago Street
Railroad Company, in consideration of the passage and ap.
proval by the Mayor of the three ordinances passed by the
City Council of Chicago on the thirtieth day of March, 1888;
one granting to the West Division Railway Company the right
to change -its motive power from horse to cable or electric
power; one granting to the Chicago Passenger Railway Company the right to make the same change;. and one grianting to
the West Chicago Street Railroad Company the right to construct its tracks on Jefferson street between Madison and Washington streets, and to use horse, cable or electric power thereon,
hereby agrees by and with the city of Chicago at its own
expense to construct a tunnel under the Chicago river and
acquire the necessary right of way therefor on a route to be
located by'said company between Madison and Twelfth streets;,
with the east terminus at Fifth avenue or west thereof, and'

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court;

the western terminus at Halsted street or east thereof; provided, however, that this company shall have the right from
said city to construct said tunnel under any intervening street
or streets and said river within said limits, but such location
and construction shall be such as not to interfere with the
capacity, usefulness or grade of said streets; said tunnel to be
used by this company for street railroad tracks, and the construction thereof shall be commenced within three years and
be completed within four years after the said City Council shall
grant permission to said railroad company to make said improvements, unless prevented by injunctions or strikes, and
the time said construction is so interfered with shall be added
to said four years, all work to be done in a manner satisfactory
to the Commissioner of Public Works, and the tracks through
the unnel .shall be connected with the street railroad tracks
controlled by this company. Now, therefore, be it ordained by
the City Council: That the agreement in said resolution contained be and the same is hereby accepted by and on behalf of
the city, of Chicago as a. consideration from said company for.
the passage and approval by. the Mayor of the ordinances in
said resolution specified, and authority is hereby granted said
company to make the improvements therein mentioned.'"
When this ordinance was passed there was in force what is
known -as the Horse and Dummy Act. passed in 1874, which
provided: "That any company which has been or shall be incorporated under the general laws of this State, for the purpose
of constructing, maintaining or operating any horse or dummy
railroad or tramway, may enter upon and appropriate any
property necessary for the construction, maintenance and oper- '.

ation of its road, and all necessary siding, side tracks and appurtenances, and may,. subject to the provisions contained in
this act, locate and construct --its road upon or over any street,
alley, road or highway, or across or over any. waters in this
State, in such manner as not to unnecessarily obstruct the public
use of such street, alley, road or highway, or interrupt the navigation of such waters.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

In West Chicago Street R. R. Co. v. The People, 214 Illinois,
9, 19, the Supreme Court of Illinois, referring to this act, said:
"This act was an addition to the charter of any company organized under the general incorporation act, and its provisions
have existed under some form ever since, conferring powers,
upon street railroad companies organized as the defendant is.
It gave the defendant the right to construct its railroad either
.over or across the Chicago river,. which included the tunnel,
subject to the condition contained in it. Defendant could only
hold real estate for the transaction of its business of maintaining and operatihg a street railroad, and the statute fixed the
conditions under which it might use its real estate for building
the tunnel."
The tunnel-was completed by the railroad company-in March,
1894, and has ever since been used and is now being used as a
passageway under the river for its cars. When constructed
(as well as at the present time) the water in the South Branch
of the Chicago river over the tunnel near Van Buren street
varied in depth from seventeen to eighteen-and three-tenths
feet.
On the third day of March, 1899, Congress passed a River
and Harbor Act, among the provisions of which was one directing the Secretary of War to cause surveys to be made and
the cost of improving certain rivers and harbors to be estimated
and reported to Congress, as follows: "Improving Chicago
river in Illinois: survey and estimate of cost for a channel
twenty-one feet deep from its .mouth to the stock yards, on
the South Branch, and to Belmont avenue, on the North Branch
so far as may be permitted by existing docks and wharves,
exclusive of cost of removing or constructing bridges or piers
or lowering tunnels; and the aforesaid depth of twenty-one
feet is hereby adopted as the project depth for the improvement in lieu of that fixed by the act of June third, eighteen
hundred and ninety-six; Provided, that all the work of removing and reconstructing bridges and piers and. lowering tunnels
necessary to permit a practicable channel with said depth to

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be obtained shall be done, or caused to be done, by the city
of Chicago, without expense to the United States." 30 Stat.
1121, 1156.
After the passage of that act steps were taken to dredge the
Chicago river so as to deepen its channel in acoordance with
the provisions of the act of Congress, and, it is alleged, such
work "has been proceeding under the authority and supervision of the Government of the United States, for the purpose
of providing a sufficiently deep channel for the uses and purposes of commerce and navigation as aforesaid."
For the purpose of obeying the act of Congress, and in order
to obtain a free and unobstructed 'navigation of the Chicago
river for the benefit of commerce, interstate and domestic, the
City Council of Chicago, on the nineteenth day of March, 1900,
duly passed the following ordinance: "Whereas, by act of Congress of March 3,,1899, it is provided that in the survey and estimate of cost for a channel twenty-one feet deep, in the improvement of the Chicago river from its mouth to the stock yards on
the South-Branch, and to Belmont avenue on the North Branch,
the aforesaid depth of twenty-one feet is adopted as,the project
depth for such improvement; whereas, i6 is in said act furtherprovided that all the work of removing and reconstructing
bridges and piers and lowering tunnels necessary to permit a
practicable channel with said depth to be obtained, shall be
done or caused to be done by the city of Chicago, without expense to the United States; w ereas, the tunnel under the
South Branch of the Chicago river at Van Buren street was
constructed by the West Chicago Street. Railroad Company
under a certain ordinance of the city of Chicago, passed April 2,
1888; whereas, a channel in the Chicago river, of the depth of
at least twenty-one feet is now made necessary by the requirements of navigation and by the increase ii' the draft of vessels
engaged in the shipping trade of the Lakes; whereas, the said
tunnel is an obstruction to said proposed improvement to the
Chicago river .andto 'the navigation thereof, and as such obstruction must -be lowered so that there may be above it in

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

said river a depth of at least twenty-one feet of water, or be
removed altogether: Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City
Council ol the city of Chicago: That the West Chicago Street
.Railroad Company be and it is hereby ordered and Hirected
within three months after the date of the passage of this ordinance, at the sole cost and expense of said West Chicago Street
Railroad Company and without 'cost, damage, loss or expense
of any kind, whatsoever to the city of Chicago, to proceed to
lower the tunnel under the South Branch of the Chicago river
at or. near Van Buren street, being the same tunnel heretofore
constructed by the said West Chicago Street Railroad Company
under an agreement dated April 2, 1888, between the said West
Chicago Street Railroad Company and the city of Chicago, and
an ordinance passed by the City Council of the city of Chicago,
April 2, 1888, authorizing the cohstruction of said tunnel in
accordance with the provisions of said agreement, so as to provide for a clear depth above said tunnel of at least twenty-one
feet. of water at all times. Said work shall be performed by the
said West Chicago Street Railroad Company under the supervision and direction and subject to the approval of the Commissioner of Public Works of the city of Chicago, and shall be
completed on or before March 1, 1901."
In execution of the provisions of that ordinance the city
caused notice to be given to the railroad company, demanding
compliance with its provisions. The company did not heed
that notice.
The present action was thereupon instituted by the people
of Illinois, on the relation of the city of Chicago, against the
railroad company. The specific relief asked was the issuing
of a writ of mandamus directing the railroad company, without
cost, damage, loss or expense of any kind whatsoever to the
city, to proceed to lower its tunnel under the South Branch of
the Chicago river at or near Van Buren street, so as to provide
for a clear depth above it of at least twenty-one feet of water
at all times; for its entire width and length, or to wholly remove
it "so that the same shall cease to be an obstruction to the free

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

519

Opinion of the Ccurt.

navigation of said Chicago river or the South Branch thereof,
and to perform said work under the supervision and directionof the Commissioner of Public Works of the city of Chicago."
The Circuit Court found the issues for the defendant, and
denied the application for a mandamus. Upon error to the
Appellate Court, First District, the judgment of the Circuit
Court was reversed and the cause remanded with directions
"to issue a writ of mandamus commanding the railroad company to remove its tunnel, said writ not to be executed until
the- Washington street and La Salle street tunnels are both
removed or lowered to a sufficient depth to be no longer an
obstruction to navigation."
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Illinois a final judgment was there entered awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus as prayed for in the petition. West Chicago Street R. R.
Co. v. People, 214 Illinois, 9.
. As explanatory of the reference to the tunnels on Washington
and La Salle streets it may be here stated that those tunnels
belonged to the city, and were located between the tunnel at
Van Buren street, owned by the railroad -company, and the
mouth of the river at the Lake.' .Of course, until the city's
tunnels are lowered or removed, the lowering or removal of the
tunnel on Van Buren street would not be of material aid to
navigation.
We come now to consider the questions arising on the record
and discussed at the bar.
1. The-contention of the city that the writ of error should
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court cannot be
sustained. It is true that the judgment of the state court rests
partly upon grounds of local or general law. But, by its necessary operation-although the opinion of the state court does
not expressly refer to the Constitution of the United Statesthe judgment rejects the claim of the company, specially set up
in its answer, that the relief asked by the city cannot, in any
view of the case, be granted consistently, either with the contract clause of the Constitution or with the clause prohibiting

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U.S.

the State from depriving anyone of his property without due
process of law. If that position be well taken, thena judgment
based merely upon grounds of local or general law would be
error; for, the Federal questions raised cover the whole case,
and are of such a nature that the rights of the parties could
not be finally determined without deciding them. As the judgment, by its necessary operation, denied the company's claims
based on the Constitution of the United States, this court has
jurisdiction to inquire whether those claims are. sustained by.
that instrument. Our views on this question are fully stated
in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561.
2. Great stress is placed by the railroad company on the fact
that it is the owner. in fee of the bed of the river at the point
where the tunnel was constructed. But that fact is not vital
in the present discussion; for it was adjudged by the state
court-in harmony with settled doctrines, as will presently appear-that "the title to land under a navigable river is not the
same as the title to the shore land;" that "in a navigable
stream the public right is paramount, and the owner of the soil
under the bed of such a stream can only use and enjoy it in
so far as is consistent with the public right, which must be
free and unobstructed; "that " the title to the upland is absolute and paramount, while the title to the lands over which
the navigable water flows is subordinate to the public right of
navigation;" and that "the city could not, if it would, grant
the right to obstruct the navigation of the river, or bind itself
to permit anything which has .become an obstruction to be
continued." 214 Illinois, 9, 20, 21.
3. We next consider the first of the strictly Federal questions
raised by the company. Its contention is that the tunnel was
constructed under a valid contract with the city, evidenced by
the ordinance of 1888, and that the mere order to remove or
lower the tunnel impaired the obligation of that contract, in
violation of the Constitution.
Upon a careful scrutiny of the ordinance of 1888, we find no

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Coui't.

clause or provision which so restricted the power of the city
that it coUld not require the railroad company to lower or remove the tunnel when the public interests, as involved in the
unobstructed navigation of Chicago river, demanded that to
be done. The railroad c6mpany, in consideration of certain
rights and privileges granted to it by the city, undertook to
construct the tunnel; and it is true that when constructed the
tunnel did not interfere with navigation; nor would it now obstruct navigation, if only boats and vessels of the size and capacity in use when the tunnel was constructed were engaged
in commerce on the river. But such boats and vessels are insufficient to meet the present needs of commerce at Chicago.
The business of that city has enormously increased since the
passage of the ordinance of 1888, and, admittedly, the tunnel
is now an obstruction to free navigation on the river by boats
and iressels of large size. The railroad company may have
believed, when the ordinance of 1888 was passed, that the tunnel would never interrupt or obstruct navigation. Nevertheless, the ordinance did not expressly or by necessary implication bind the city to .forbear the exercise of any power it had
to deepen the channel of the river and thereby improve navigation. As the city could not legally adopt an ordinance inconsistent with a statute of the State, we must read into the
ordinance of 1888 that part of the act of 1874 which, as construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, made it a condition
of the right of a street railroad company to cross its cars through
a tunnel under Chicago river that its road and tunnel should
be so located and constructed as not unnecessarily to interrupt
navigation. Apart from any question as to the power of the
city to bargain away or surrender its authority to improve
navigation and protect it against obstruction, the railroad cornpany must be held to have accepted the ordinance and constructed the tunnel subject to the requirement that navigation
should not be interrupted by it. As the present tunnel is an
obstruction to the use of the river by many boats and vessels
employed in commerce on the Lakes, and as, by. the ordinhince

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

in question, the city did not stipulate-even if it could lawfully have stipulated-that it would not exert whatever powers it had in order to protect the free navigation of Chicago
river whenever it became necessary or proper to do so, the result must be that the execution of the order to lower or remove
the tunnel would not impair the obligation of any contract
protected by the Constitution of the United States. If, in the
ordinance of 1888, the city had stipulated that it would meet
the expense of any alteration of the tunnel made by its direction, a different question would have been presented., But the
ordinance cannot be construed as containing such a stipulation,
and consistently with the settled doctrines of this court no such
stipulation can arise Irom mere implication. - There is, in our
judgment, no ground whatever for holding that the city, by
the ordinance of 1888, came under the obligation of a contract
to meet the cost of any changes in thetunnel that might be
,lawfully required in order that the rivercould be safely navigated by large vessels.
4. This brings us to the principal question in the case:
Whether, consistently with the Constitution of the UnitedStates,,
the railroad company can be required to lower or remove the
tunnel in question and (if it continues-to use a tunnel in crossing Chicago river with its cars) to construct and maintain, at
its own expense, such a tunnel as will conform to the provisions
of the ordinance of March -19, 1900.
It is indisputable, on this record, that the depth of water over
the present tunnel is not sufficient to accommodate many boats
and vessels now commonly employed in commerce between
Chicago and other cities and towns on the Lakes. It is to be
taken also as indisputable that in order that such boats and
vessels may navigate the South Branch of Chicago river with
safety, the depth of water over the Van Buren street tunnel
must be at least as great as that specified in the city ordinance
of 100. We assume also--as by the record we may properly
do-that the ordinance is a reasonable, not an arbitrary exertion of the power conferred on the city "to construct and keep

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

OPinion of the Court.

in repair bridges, viaducts and. tunnels and to regulate the use
thereof," and "to deepen, widen, dock, cover, wall, alter and
change the channel of watercourses." We must, in addition,
upon this record, assume that the means adopted by the city
have a direct, real and substantial connection with the public
object intended to be accomplished, namely, to free the navigation of'the South Branch of Chicago river from an obstruction which prevents the use of that river by vessels of the size
demanded by the vast business transacted at Chicago.
As already observed, the contention of the company is, in
effect, that even if the present tunnel be an obstruction to the
navigation of the river by large vessels, the lowering or removal
of the tunnel against the company's will, would be a taking of
private property for public use without compensation, in violation of the constitutional guarantee of due process of
law.
This result, it is supposed by the railroad company, necessarily follows from the fact that the present tunnel was constructed with the assent of the city, and when constructed was
sufficient for purposes of navigation by vessels, of whatever
size, then engaged in commerce on the Chicago river. But
these facts are not all that must be considered in 3his discussion.
They cannot be considered.'apart from other matters of a vital
character, namely: That the city was under the duty of protecting the free navigation of the river and its branches-a duty
from the discharge of which it could not be exempted by.any
agreement it might make with the railroad company; that the
city granted the right to construct the present tunnel under the
river subject to the condition, necessarily implied by the statute of 1874 in force when the ordinance of 1888 was adopted,
that the tunnel should not interrupt navigation; that if the
assent of the company to such a condition was important, it
must be held to have given such assent by accepting the ordinance of 1888, into which, as already indicated, must be read
the requirement in the statute of 1874 that navigation should
not be unnecessarily interrupted; and that the provision in

OCTOBER-TERM, 1905.
Opinion of theCourt.

201 U. S.

that statute forbidding any interruption of the navigation of
the river had reference to the needs of navigation not only at
the time the tunnel was constructed, but its needs at any-subsequent period as found and declared by the city, upon reasonable grounds; which declaration would, of course, be subject
to the condition, vital in our system of government, that the
courts may look through and behind mere forms, and interfere,
whenever necessary, for the protection of private rights against
an illegal, arbitrary exercise of governmental power.
In addition to these considerations we may suggest the important one that the rights of the company, as the owner of the
fee of land on either side of the river or in its bed, were subject
to the paramount right of navigation over the waters of the
river. Weber v. Harbor Com'rs, 18 Wall. 57, 66; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387, 458; Shively v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 1, 30; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, 276;
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 163; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. People,
212 Illinois, 103; Brazen v. Bressler,.64 Illinois, 488; People v.
Vanderbilt, 28 N. Y. 396; Sage v. Mayor, 154 N. Y. 61; State
v. Parrott,71 N. Car. 311; State v. Dibble, 4-Jones (N. C.), 107;
Diedrich v. Northwesiern &c. Ry. Co., 42 Wisconsin, 248; Parmeter v. Attorney General, 10 Price, 412; Williams v. Wilcox,
8 Ad. & El. 314; Colchester v. Brooke, 7 Q. B. 339. The principle is thus declared by a leading text-writer: "The privilege
of. navigation upon all waters which are capable of such use
in their natural condition and are accessible without trespassing upon private lands, is a common and paramount right.
. . . At common law the, right of navigating a public
stream is paramount to the right of passage across the stream
by means of a bridge." Gould on Waters, § 86, 88.
If, then, the right of the railroad company to have and maintain a tunnel under the Chicago river is subject to the paramount public right of navigation; if its right to maintain a
tunnel in the river is a qualified one, because subject to the
specific condition in the act of 1874 that no tunnel should interrupt navigation; if the present tunnel is an obstruction to

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

525

Opinion of the Court.

navigation, as upon this record we must take, itto be; 'and'if
the city, as' representing the State and public, may rightfully
insist that such obstruction shall not longer remain in the way
of free navigation; it .necessarily follows that the railway 'company is under a duty to comply with the demand made upon
it to remove, at its own expense, the obstruction which itself
has created and maintains. If the obstruction cannot be.removed except by lowering th.e tunnel to the required depth and
(if a tunnel is to be maintained) providing one that will not
interrupt navigation, then the cost attendant upon such work
must be met by the company. The city asks nothing more
than that the railroad company shall do what is neceisary to
free navigation from an obstruction for which it is responsible,
and (if it intends not to abandon its right to maintain a tunnel
at or near Van Buren street) that it shall itself provide a new
tunnel with the necessary depth of water 'above it. The case
differs somewhat from Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co.
v. Drainage'Commissioners,200 .U.S. 561, just decided. In
that case we held it to be the duty of the railway company, at
its own cost, to remove the bridge, culvert, timbers, and stones
which it placed in -Rob Roy creek, and which prevented the
execution of the plan devised by'the Drainage Commissioners.
But the. Commissioners demanded that more be done; for,
their plan contemplated that earth outside of the railroad
bridge and culvert be removed, in, order, that the channel be
enlarged, widened and deepened. But in that improvei:nt
the railway company had no interest. It was not respoiible
for the inadequacy of the original channel of Rob Roy creek
for the system of drainage adopted by the Commissioners. Its
only duty, aiid the only burden imposed 'upon it, was to remove, at its own cost, the obstructions placed by it in the.creek,
and which stood in the way of the proposed system of drainage.
In the case before us the public demands nothing to be done
by the 'railroad. company except to remove the obstruction
which itself placed and maintains in the river under the condition that navigation should not :at any time be thereby in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

terrupted. The removal of such obstruction is all that is
needed to protect nayigation. So that whatever cost attends
the removal of the obstruction must be borne by the railroad
company. The condition under which the company placed its
tunnel in the river being met by the company, the public has
no further demands upon it. This cannot be deemed a taking
of private property for public'use or a denialof the equal protection of laws within the meaning of the Constitution, but is
only the result of the lawful exercise of a governmental power
for the common good. This appears from the authorities cited
in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Drainage Com'rs,
supra,' just decided. 1 The state court has well said that to
maintain the navigable character of the stream in a lawful way
is not, within the meaning of the law, the taking of private
property-or any property right of the owner of the soil under
the river, such.ownership being subject to the right of free and
unobstructed navigation. People v. West Chicago Street R. R.
Co., 203 Illinois, 551, 557. What the city asks, and all that it
asks, is that the railroad company be required, in the exercise
of its rights and in the use of its property, to respect the public
needs as declared by competent authority, upon reasonable
grounds, to exist. This is not an arbitrary' or unreasonable
demand. It does not, in any legal sense, take or appropriate
the company's property for the public benefit, but only insists
that the company shall not use its property so as to interrupt
navigation.
Further discussion of the general question will" be found in
I Transportation Co. v.' Chicago, 99 U. s. 635, 642; Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623, 669; N. Y. & N. E. Railroad Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556,
661; Chicago, Burlington ana Quincy R. R Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226,
-252; Gison v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, 271, 276; Scranton v. Wheeler,
179 U. S. 141, 164; New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Drainage Commission,
197 U. S. 453; Mills v. United States, 46 Fed. Rep. 738; United States. v.
Lynch, i88 U. S. 445; Hedord v. United States, 192 U. S. 217; Ohio & Min.
R. R. C6. v. McClelland, 25 Illinois, 140, 144; Kankakee & Seneca R. R.
Co. v. Horan,,131 Ill nois, 288; Village of Carthage v. Frederick, 122 N. Y.
268; .Sedgwick's Const. & Stat Law, 313, 320.

WEST CHICAGO RAILROAD v. CHICAGO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Drainage Corn'rs,
supra, just decided. We need not repeat all said in the opinion
in that case on'this question.
Another matter requires notice. The railroad company con-,
tends that the city had no power to require or authorize any

.changes in the bed of the river without the approval of the
Secretary of War. River, and Harbor Act of 1899, § 10; 30
Stat. 1151. The same act contains directions for the improvemeht-of Chicago river. Construing all the provisions together,
.we think it clear that when Congress declared in the River and
Harbor Act of '1899, under the heading of "Improving Chicago
riverin Illinois," p. 1156, that "all the work of removing and
reconstructing bridges and piers and lowering tunnels necessary
to permit a navigable channel" with the prescribed "project"
depth of twenty-one feet in Chicago river should be done by
the city, without expense to the United States, it meant to give
the assent of the United States to any work done by the city
towards accomplishing the end which the Government had in
view. The state court properly said that '-'the city has power,
under its charter, to deepen the channel, and as a preliminary
to doing so, to require this tunnel to be lowered or removed,
and the act of Congress permits it"to proceedW so far as the lowering of the tunnel is concerned."
As showing that the action taken by the city of Chicago is in.
accordance with the will of Congress, we may refer to the act
of Congress of April 27, 1904, relating tocertain tunnels under
Chicago.river, including th6 particular tunnel here in question.
That act provides: 'That the tunnels under the Chicago river
in the State of Illinois at La Salle Street, Washington street,
and near Van Buren street, in the city of Chicago, in said'State
of Illinois, are, aind each of them is hereby, declared to be, as
now constructed, an. unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of said Chicago river, and each of said tunnels is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance. And it shall be the duty of
the Secretary of War to give notice t6 the 'persons or corporations owning or controlling said tunnels, or any of them, so to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

alter the same as to render navigation over said tunnels free,
easy, and unobstructed, -and in giving such notice he shall
specify the changes recommended by the Chief of Engineers
that are needed to be made in order that said tunnels, or. any
of them, shall not thereafter be an obstruction- to navigation,
and. shall prescribe in each case-a reasonable time in which to
make said changes. If. at the expiration of such time such
changes havernot been made,, the Secretary of War shall forthwith notify the -United States District Attorney for the .Northern District of Illinois, in which said tunnels are situated, to,
the end that the criminal proceedings hereinafter prescribed
may be taken. If the person or persons, corporation-or corporations, owning or controlling any of the said tunnels shall,
after receiving notice to that effect, as hereinbefore required,
from the Secretary of War, and within the time. prescribed by
him; fail or refuse to remove the same or tomake the changes
specified in the notice of the Secretary .of War, such person or
persons, corporation or corporations, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by
a fine not exbeeding ten thousand dollars; and each and every.
month such person or persons, corporation or corporations,
shall remain in default in respect to the. removal or alteration
of such -tunnel shall be deemed a new offense and subject the
person or lpersons, corporation or .corporations, so offending to
the peiialty herein.prescribed: Provided That in. any case arising under the provisions of this act an appeal or writ of error
may'be taken from the District Court or.from the Circuit, Court
direct to the Supreme Court either by the United States or by
the defendants." 33 Stat. 314. For some reason, not ex,plained in the record, no allusion was made to this act in the
' 9pinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois, nor is it alluded, to in
in the briefs of counsel., That act, it seems to the court, emphasizes and strengthens the vie-Fs expressed in this opinion,
and tends to support the conclusions reached.
For the reasons we have stated, and in conformity with the
principles announced in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.

CLEVELAND v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RY.
201 U. S.

529

Syllabus.

Co. v. Drainage Com'rs, the judgment of the Supreme Court
must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR.' JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the judgment, upon the
authority of Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

and MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, dissent.

CLEVELANIJ v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
-

No. 183.

Argued Febuary 27, 28, 1906.-Decided' April 9,1906.

In construing municipal ordinances dealing with important matters such
as 'extensions of street railw"ay franchises it may reasonably be presuned
that no provision escaped attention or was misunderstood;- and, while a
mistake might occur in one ordinance, it will not be supposed that: the
mistake occurred in four ordinances dealing, with the same subject.
Ordinances granting an extension to a consolidated street railway corporation, possessing franchises expiring at different times, on conditions'
involving great expense to the corporation and resulting in substan-"
tial benefits to the public as to transfers for single fares and relating to the entire, system as well as the extensions granted, and providing
that the right granted terminate with the then existing grants of the
main line at a specified date later than that of- termination of some of
the franchises, amount, on the acceptance by the company and compliance with the conditions, to a contract within the protection of the
impairment clause of the Constitution extending the iarious franchises
to that date; the period, in this case of ,four year , not being an unreasonable one in view of the substantial benefits accruing to the public.
Cleveland v. Cleveland City Railway Co., 194 U. S. 517, followed as to the
power of the city council of Cleveland to pass ordinances diminishing
the rate of fare on street railways in view of the contracts contained- in
ordinances heretofore passed in regard to street railways.

VOL. cci-34

