'202

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

As to the suggested irregularities in the appeal bonds, they
do not render the writs of error void, and we do not feel called
on to enter any orders in regard to them, as these cases must
go back for further proceedings.
Judgments reversed and causes remanded for further proceedings in conformity with law.

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCK.
IN EQUITY.
No. 12, Original.

Argued February 21, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

The provisions in the enabling act of August 6, 1846, authorizing the people
of the then Territory of Wisconsin to form a state government, and by
which section 16 in every township of the public lands, in that.Territory, not sold or otherwise disposed of was granted to the State for the
use of schools, did not operate to vest in the State section 16 of townships within the La Pointe or Bad River and the Flambeau Indian Reservations from which the Indians have never been required to'remove;
and this notwithstanding by the provisions in treaties executed prior to
1846 the Indians occupying them ceded those lands to the United States
only retaining the privileges of occupancy thereof until required to remove therefrom by the President of the United States, and that a er
1846 the same lands were included in the reservations as they now exist.
United States v. Thomas, 151 U. S. 557, followed, as determinative of this
case (although it did not have reference to the particular Reservation
involved in this case). It was held that the court will not, at this time
and at the instance of the State, interfere with the administration by
the Interior Department of the lands in question for the benefit of the
Indians for whom the Reservation was established.

THE State of Wisconsin seeks by this suit to enjoin the defendant as Secretary of the Interior from interfering; in anywise, with its. use, possession or enjoyment of certain lands,
embraced within the present La Pointe or Bad River and the
Flambeau Indian Reservations in that State.

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCK.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The State traces its title back to the act of Congress of
August 6, 1846, authorizing the people of Wisconsin Territory
to form a state constitution and providing for the admission
of such State into the Union. 9 Stat. 56, c. 89.
The defendant Hitchcock, as Secretary of the Interior, demurred to the bill upon the ground, among others, that it did
not appear that the State was entitled to the relief asked.
The general question is whether the State has such interest,
present or prospective, in the lands in dispute as to preclude
their being administered by the Secretary of the Interior for
the benefit of certain Indians.
The case, as presented by the record and by official documents of which judicial notice may be taken, is as follows:
On the twenty-eighth day of March, 1843, by a treaty between the United States and the Chippewa Indians of "the
Mississippi and Lake Superior," the latter ceded to the United
States all the country embraced within a specified boundary,
including the lands here in controversy. The second and third
articles of that treaty provided: "Art. 2. The Indians stipulate for the right of hunting on the ceded territory, with the
other usual privileges o1 occupancy, until required to remove by
the Presidentof the United States, and that the laws of the United
States shall be continued in force, in respect to their trade and
intercourse with the whites, until otherwise ordered by Congress. Art. 3. It is agreed by the parties to this treaty that
whenever the Indians shall be required to remove from the
ceded district, all the unceded lands belonging to the Indians
of Fond du Lac, Sandy Lake, and Mississippi bands shall be
the common property and home of all the Indian party to this
treaty." In consideration of the above cession the United
States (art. 4) engaged to pay the Indians annually for twentyfive years certain sums; and this consideration for the ceded
lands was paid by the United States. Revision of Indian
Treaties, 217.
By an act of Congress approved August 6, 1846, the people of
the then Territory of Wisconsin were authorized to form a consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U S.

tution and state government for the purpose of being admitted
into the Union on an equal footing with the original States
in all respects whatsoever, with certain specified boundaries.
The seventh section of that act was as follows: "That the following propositions are hereby submitted to the convention
which shall assemble for the purpose of forming a constitution
for the State of Wisconsin, for acceptance or rejection; and if
,accepted by said convention, and ratified by an article in said
constitution, they shall be obligatory on the United States:
'First. That section numbered sixteen, in every township of
the public lands in said State, and, where such section has been
sold or otherwise disposed of, other lands equivalent thereto,
and as contiguous as may be, shall be granted to said State for
the use of schools. ...
'
9 Stat. 57.
The conditions prescribed by the enabling act of 1846 were
duly accepted by Wisconsin, and that Territory was admitted
into the Union as a State by an act of Congress approved
May 29, 1848. 2 Charters and Constitutions, 2029; 9 Stat. 233.
By a treaty made and concluded September 30, 1854, between the United States and the Chippewa Indians of Lake
Superior and the Mississippi, and which treaty was proclaimed
January 29, 1855, 10 Stat. 1109, the Chippewas of Lake Superior ceded to the United States the lands theretofore owned
by them in common with the Chippewas of the Mississippi
within the present boundary of Minnesota and lying east of a
certain boundary. The Chippewas of the Mississippi assented
to that cession and agreed that the whole amount of the consideration money for the country ceded as above should be paid
to the Chippewas of Lake Superior, the latter relinquishing to
the Chippewas of the Mississippi all their interest in and claims
to the lands theretofore owned by them in common, lying west
of the above boundary line.
The lands described in the first article of the treaty of 1854
are within the present State of Minnesota and constitute no
part of the land embraced in the treaty of 1843.
By the second article of that treatythe United States agreed,

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCK.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

among other things, to set apart and withhold from sale certain lands for the use of the La Pointe band and such other
Indians as might settle with them. For the other Wisconsin
bands, a tract of land was to be set apart and withheld from
sale, ",lying about Lac de Flambeau, and another tract on La
Court Orielles, each equal in extent to three townships, the
boundaries of which shall be hereafter agreed upon or fixed
under the direction of the President." The lands described
in that article of the treaty of 1854 to be set apart and withheld from sale "for the La Pointe band" and "for the other
Wisconsin bands" were part of the lands ceded to the United
States by the treaty of 1843.
The third article of the treaty was in these words: "Article 3. The United States shall define 'the boundaries of these
reserved tracts, whenever it may be necessary, by actual survey, and the President may, from time to time, at his discretion, cause the whole to be surveyed, and may assign to each
head of a family or single person over twenty-one years of age
eighty acres of land for his or their separate use; and he may
at his discretion, as fast as the occupants become capable of
transacting their own affairs, issue patent therefor to such occupants, with such restrictions of the power of alienation as he
may see fit to impose. And he may also, at his discretion,
.make rules and regulations respecting the disposition of the
lands in case of the death of the head of a family or a single
person occupying the same, or in case of its abandonment by
them. And he may also assign other lands in exchange for
mineral lands, if any such are found in the tracts herein set
apart. And he may also make such changes in the boundaries
of such reserved tracts, or otherwise, as shall be necessary to
prevent interference with any vested rights. All necessary
roads, highways and -railroads, the lines of which may run
through any of the reserved tracts, shall have the right of way
through the same, compensation being made therefor as in
other cases."
The bill alleges: "That under the enabling act of Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

aforesaid and under the state constitution and under and in
view of the cession of. their lands by said Chippewa Indians,
contained in said treaty of 1843, all of the lands surveyed and
to be surveyed as sections 16 of the various townships within
the territory covered by said treaty vested in the State of Wisconsin, and said State 'of Wisconsin has at all times heretofore,
since its admission to the Union, claimed a right to the fee of
all lands in sections 16 in the several townships within said
reservations, and, since the sectional survey thereof by the
United States, has claimed the actual fee in said sections and
has exercised dominion and ownership over the same and has
issued sundry and divers patents to divers persons and corporations for portions thereof, sundry of which persons and corporations, grantees of the State as aforesaid, have also exercised
acts of ownership thereof, and have paid taxes and made improvements thereon, and have cut and hauled timber therefrom
until forbidden by orders of the defendant;, Ethan Allen Hitchcock, as Secretary of the Interior of the Uhited States, as hereinafter more particularly mentioned; that patents for all of
said osctions 16 within said La Pointe Reservation have heretofore been. issued by said State to divers parties, and patents
upon about fourteen forties of said sections 16 within said Lac
Du Flambeau Reservation have been issued by said State to
divers parties, and there still remain about twenty-nine forties
in said sections 16 within said Lac Du Flambeau Reservation;
the title to which is still in and claimed by said State. That
underthe treaty of 1854 aforesaid and in carrying out its provisions, the said Secretary of the Interior has proceeded, through
..
the United .States Indian. Department, to allot from time to
time to the various members of. said tribes of La Pointe bands
of Indians and to various menibers of the Wisconsin bands on
said Lac Dui Flambeau Reservation eighty acres'per capita of
lands within Said reservations and has caused patents therefor
to be issued to the members of said tribes as individuals, and
-such members have become full citizens of the United States,
and have terminated their tribal relations, and have ceased to

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCK.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

occupy. any material part of. said reservation in common. That
the lands within said reservation, exclusive of the lands in section 16, are sufficient to secure eighty acres to each individual
Indian who has hitherto appeared and claimed a right .to an
allotment. That no allotment has hitherto been allowed to
any member of said tribes of Indians of any land embraced
within any of said sections 16. That beginning about the year
1899, and from thence hitherto, the defendant, Ethan Allen
Hitchcock, as Secretary of the Interior, and the Commissioner
of the Indian Office of the United States, and divers agents and
servants under them, have set up on behalf of said La Pointe
and other bands of Indians, or the members thereof, a claim
of interest or title7 in and to sections 16 aforesaid in the reservation townships afores.id, paramount and adverse to the title
of the State of Wisconsin, and have claimed and continue to
claim that said sections 16 are still held by the United States
in trust for said Indians to the same extent as other lands in
said reserved townships, and have forbidden purchasers of such
lands holding patents from the State to enter or make improvements or cut any timber thereon, and have thereby cast a 0loud
upon the title of the State and its grantees to said lands, and
have interfered with, and are continuing to interfere with the
use and enjoyment of the.same by the owners thereof..
That by Chap. 95 of the Laws of the State of Wisconsin for the
year 1903,_ approved April 20, 1903, the Attorney General of
the State of Wisconsin was duly authorized to institute proceedings in this court under the provisions of the act of Congress
passed March 2, 1901, and hereinbefore referred to, to determine the rights of said State to what are commonly known as
school lands within any reservation or Indian cession within
said State, where any Indian tribe claims any right to or interest in said lands, or to the disposition thereof by the United
States, and particularly to determine the title of the lands embraced within sections 16 in the several townships constituting
the present Bad River or La Pointe and the Flambeau Indian
Reservations within said State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

201 U. S.

Mr. T. W. Spence, with whom Mr. L. M. Sturtevant, Attorney
General of the State of Wisconsin,. was on the brief, for Complainant:
The cession of the Chippewa territory in Wisconsin in 1843
conveyed the whole Indian title. and right of occupancy.
There can be no doubt that these Indians parted with every
vestige of claim, legal, equitable, or as wards of a Nation, to
every parcel of land embraced within the treaty, except a license to wander over any part which the United States failed
otherwise to dispose of, until ordered by the President to get
off. The United States was not, by such a stipulation for temporary occupancy, disabled from, or fettered in, making a disposition of specific portions of the lands.
Such a privilege of temporary Indian occupancy was considered in Ward v. Race Horse, 160 U. S. 504, and held to be
destroyed and terminated by the mere act of admitting the
State (Wyoming) into the Union. It is characterized by the
court (p. 510) as "temporary and precarious" and not in any
way to stay the advance of settlement and improvement or
the jurisdiction of the newly created State over the territory.
Although not expressly overruling the ex parte decision in United States v. Thomas,. theprinciples announced are incompatible
with the language relied upon by the Government in the
Thomas case.
The United States, having the complete title to the land,
unincumbered' by anything but a temporary license to roam,and hunt over it, when Wisconsin was admitted as a State,
could not after its specific grant to the State make such license
a basis or consideration for creating an adverse title, whether
the land were surveyed or not at the time of the grant.
From 1843 to 1854 there was no Chippewa Indian Reservation
or country in Wisconsin. , It had all been ceded by the treaty
of 1843. The members of the tribe hunted and fished over it
merely by sufferance. The United States had and exercised
the- right during that period, at will, to dispose of any portion
to, settlers or otherwise, and in 1848 contracted with and

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCK.,
201 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

granted to the new State of Wisconsin, for school purposes,
practically one thirty-sixth of the territory covered by the cession of 1843 and not previously disposed of. The right of Wisconsin to the land covered by such grant thereupon became
absolute; the legal title awaited the survey, but the jus ad ren
arose simultaneously with the birth of the State. Beecher v.
Wetherby, 95 U. S. 524. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 390,
distinguished.
The treaty of 1854 expressly saved all precedent rights
granted by the United States under the title acquired by it
through the cession by the Indians in 1843.
Under the treaty of 1843 the Indians reserved no title, and
under the treaty of 1854 acquired no right to any particular
land in the territory. The intervening title granted by the
United States to the State is paramount, and that the treaty
of 1854 only promised the Indians the equivalent in area or
acres of the reservations provided for. Gaines v. Nicholson, 9
How. 365.
The State had a grant of explicitly designated portions of
the land within the territory, not in every instance surveyed
at the time of the grant, but unmistakably ascertainable by
survey. As far as the lands in question are concerned, the
inclosing township and range lines were actually surveyed by
the Land Department prior to 1854.
The conditions in the case of Minnesotav. Hitchcock, 185 U. S.
373, are, therefore, entirely reversed in the present case. - In the
Minnesota case the lands involved were unceded Indian lands
at the date of Minnesota's admission into the Union.
Mr. A. C. Campbell, special assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Frank L. Campbell, Assistant Attorney
General, was on the brief, for defendant:
' The grant describes and is confined to public lands. Lands
are not public unless they are sibject to sale or other disposal
under the general land laws. They are not subject to sale and
disposal under such, laws if, at the date of the grant, they are
VOL. cci-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant.

201 U. S.

burdened with an Indian right of occupancy. Nor are they
public lands, as the term is understood, until surveyed into
townships and designated by sections. Newhall v. Sanger, 92
U. S. 761, 763; Leavenworth &c. Railway Company v. United
States, 92 U. S. 733, 741; Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad
Company v. Roberts, 152 U. S. 114, 119; Northern Pac. R. R.
Co. v. Musser-Sauntry Company, 168 U. S. 604, 609; In re Tyler B. Thompson, 32 Li, D. 468, 470.
No title to sections mentioned in a school 'grant vests in a
State until the same are identified by a public survey. Gaines
v. Nicholson, 9 How. 356, 365; Cooper v. Roberts, 18 How. 173,
179; Sherman v. Buick, 93 U. S. 209, 214, 215; Heydenfeldt v.
Daney Gold &c. Company, 93 U. S. 634, 640; Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517, 524; Water & Mining Company v. Bugbey,
96 U. S. 165, 167; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 393;
Bullock v. Rouse, 81 California, 591, 593, State of Colorado, 6 L.
D. 412, 415; Barnhurst v. State of Utah, 30 L. D. 314, 317;
Mahoganey Number 2 Lode Claim, 33 L. D. 37.
Sections of land contemplated by a school grant which, while'
unsurveyed, fall within an Indian reservation are subject to
the Indian right of occupancy, and until such occupancy has
been extinguished such sections are in suspension. Cases supra
and Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 48; Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Pet. 498, 513; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U.S. 373, 388, 389;
Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481; United States v. Rickert, 188
U. S. 432; Scott v. Carver, 196 U. S. 100, 109, 111; United States
v. Winans, 198 U. S. 371, 380, 381; Northern Pacific Railroad
Company v. Maclay et al., 61 Fed. Rep. 554, 556.
If, at the time of the public survey, a tract of land contenplated by a school grant is encumbered by a right of occupancy
in an Indian tribe, the State may elect to take equivalent lands,
or it may wait until such right of occupancy has been extinguished and take the land contemplated. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373; State of Colorado, 6 L. D. 412; State of
Colorado, 12 L. D. 70, 71; State of Louisiana, 17 L. D. 440.
At the date of a school grant to a State, if the sections are

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not identified by the Government survey, and are within an
Indian reservation, Congress is not obliged to transform them
from their original status, and may dispose of them for other
purposes. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373.
It is not, necessary that the treaty providing for a reservation
should describe the particular tract to be thereafter, occupied
by the Indians, nor is it necessary that a particular tract be
designated for that purpose by Congress or by the President.
If, after the treaty is signed, the Indians obcupy a particular
tract without objection by, or interference from, the Government, such tract is a reservation to the same extent as though
it had been specifically designated by the treaty. United States
v. Carpenter, 111 U. S. 347, 349; Spalding v. Chandler, 160
U. S. 394, 404; Minnesota. v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 390;
State of Minnesota, 22 L. D. 388.
A treaty which provides for a reservation for the Indians is a
grant of rights from and not to them, and a retention to them of
rights not granted. United States v. Winans, 198 U. S.371,381.
The Secretary of the Interior, under the direction of the
President, has the power, and it is his duty, to prevent intrusion upon Indian reservations and to remove intruders therefrom. Morris v. Hitchcock, 194 U. S. 384, 391, 392; United
States v. Mullin, 71 Fed. Rep. 286, 288, 289.
Where a treaty with an Indian tribe, or an act of Congress,
provides that an Indian reservation shall be allotted to the
Indians in severalty, the Secretary of the Interior, pending.
allotment, has jurisdiction over the reservation and the power
to remove intruders therefrom, and the courts will not interfere with his action in respect to allotment or with the exercise
of his power to remove intruders. Morris v. Hitchcock, supra;
Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S.473, 477; New Orleans v.Payne,
147 U. S.261, 264.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The State contends that the effect of the treaty of 1843 was

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

that the Chippewa Indians released to the United States all of
their claim of title or interest in or to the lands therein described and each and every part thereof, and ceded the same
to the United .States, which thereupon became the absolute
owner thereof free from any claim of said Indians; and that the
State, upon its acceptance of the conditions prescribed by the
enabling act of 1846, and its admission into the Union, became
vested with an absolute right in and to all the sections 16
within:said territory previously surveyed, as well as to the lands
subsequently surveyed by the United States, with the right in
the State to have the temporary possession or occupancy of the
Indians terminated by the United States.
The determination of the question suggested by this contention and the decision of this case is controlled by United States
v. Thomas, 151 U. S. 577. That case involved the rights of
the State of Wisconsin in and over certain lands in the La Court
Orielles Reservation, as established for the benefit of the Chippewa Indians. Thomas, an Indian of the Chippewa tribe, was
indicted for the murder of another Indian of the same tribe,
committed within the limits of that reservation. The evidence
showed that the offense was committed upon section 16 in a
township embraced in the reservation. The accused contended
that by the provisions of the enabling act by which Wisconsin
was admitted into the Union, section 16 in every township in
that State was ceded to it for school purposes, and could not be
subsequently taken by the United States as part of an Indian
reservation. It appeared that previous to the alleged murder,
namely in 1859, the section upon which the crime was committed, had been settled, platted and set apart by the United
States as a part and parcel of said reservation and was continuously thereafter occupied by the Indians as such, although
claimed and sold by the State as and for a part of the school
land ceded to it by the act of Congress. By act of Congress,
approved March 3, 1885, c. 341, 23 Stat. 362, 385, it was provided that Indians committing certain crimes, among them
murder, "against the person or property of another Indian or

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other person within the boundaries of any State of the United
States, and within the limits of any Indian reservation, shall
be-subject to the same laws, tried in the same courts and in the
same manner, and subject to the same penalties as are all other
persons committing any of the above crimes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States." So the question was
distinctly presented as to the relative rights of the State and
the Indians in said section.16 within the Indian reservation on
which the alleged murder was committed.
This court said: "The Indians have never been removed
from .the lands thus ceded (meaning by the treaty of 1842) and
no executive order has ever been made for their removal and
no change has taken place in their occupancy of the lands except as provided by the treaty of September 30, 1854, 10 Stat.
1109. By that treaty the Chippewas ceded a large portion
of their territory, previously retained in Wisconsin and elsewhere, and provision was made in consideration thereof for the
formation of permanent reservations for their benefit, each to
embrace three full townships and their boundaries to be established under the direction of the President. One of these
included the tract comprised in the La Court Orielles Reservation. In the-provision for these reservations nothing was said
of the sixteenth section of any townships, and it is clear that
it was not contemplated that any section should be left out of
any one of them. The land reserved was to be, as near as possible, in a compact form, except so far as the meandered lakes
were concerned. When the townships composing these reservations were surveyed, the sixteenth section was already disposed of in the sense of the enabling act of 1846. It had been
included within the limits of the reservations. As it will be
seen by the treaty of 1842, ratified in 1843, which was previous
to the enabling act, the Indians stipulated for the right of occupancy to the lands. That right of occupancy gave them the
enjoyment of the lands until they were required to surrender
it by the President of the United States, which requirement was
never made. Whatever right the State of Wisconsin acquired

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 V. S.

by the enabling act to the sixteenth section was subordinate to
this right of occupancy for which the Indians stipulated and
which the United States recognized. The general rule established by the Land Department in reference to the school lands
in the different States is that the title to them vests in the several States in which the land is situated, subject to any prior
right of occupation by the Indians or others which the Government had stipulated to recognize."
Again: "We therefore are of the opinion that by virtue of
the treaty of 1842, in-the absence of any proof that the Chippewa Indians have surrendered their right of occupancy, the
right still remains with them, and that the title and right which
the State may claim ultimately in the sixteeith section of every
township for the use of schools is subordinate to this right of
occupancy of the Indians, which has, so far as the court is informed, never been released to any of their lands, except as it
may be inferred from the provisions of the treaty of 1854.
That treaty provided for the permanent reservations, which
included the section in question. The treaty did not operate
to defeat the prior right of occupancy to that particular section, but, by including it in the new reservations, made as a
condition of the cession of large tracts of land in Wisconsin,
continued it in force. The State of Wisconsin, therefore, had
no such control over that section or right to it as would prevent
its being set apart by the United States with the consent of
the Indians, asa. part of their permanent reservation. So, by
authority of their original right of occupancy, as well as by the
fact that the section is included within the tract set aside as
a portion of the permanent reservation in consideration of the
cession of lands, the title never vested in the State, except as
subordinate to that right of occupation of the Indians." United States v. Thomas, 151 U. S. 577, 582, 584.
It is true that-the Thomas case did not have reference to the
particular Indian reservations involved in the present suitthe Bad River or La Pointe and Flambeau Reservations-but
only to the La Court Orielles Indian Reservation-. But all

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCIX.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

three reservations had their origin alike in the same treatiesthat of 1842, proclaimed in 1843, and that of 1854; and the
effect of those treaties was considered in that case in connection
with the enabling act of 1846 under which the State now claims,
as it claimed in that case, absolute title to and full control over
all the sections 16 named in that act. What the court-said
in the Thomas case as to the rights of Indians in virtue of their
occupancy of the lands set apart for their use in the La Court
Orielles Reservation, is strictly applicable to the rights of the
Indians who have occupied, and, so far as appears, still occupy,
the Bad River or La Pointe and Flambeau Reservations. We
could not sustain the claim of the State in the present suit without overruling the principles announced in the Thomas case;,
and that we are not disposed to do. The principles of the
Thomas case were recognized and enforced in Minnesota v.
Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 391 et seq., which related to an act of
Congress for the admission of Minnesota into the Union, and
which act contained a provision similar to the one found in the
enabling act for Wisconsin, namely, that certain sections "in
every township of public lands in said State, and where either
of said sections or any part thereof has been sold or otherwise
disposed of, other lands, equivalent thereto and as contiguous
as may be, shall be granted to said State for the use of schools."
Without repeating all that was said in previous decisions,
we hold, on the authority of those decisions, that the State is
not entitled to the relief asked nor to any order that would interfere, at this time, with the administration by the Interior
Department, of the lands in question for the benefit of the Indians for whom the Bad River or La Pointe Reservation and
the Flambeau Reservations were established. Consequently,
the bill must be dismissed.
It is so ordered.

