ST. LOUIS BEEF CO. v. CASUALTY CO.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ST. LOUIS DRESSED BEEF AND PROVISION COMPANY
v. MARYLAND CASUALTY COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 197. Argued March 7. 1906.-Decided March 19. 1906.
An insurance company issued its policy insuring the assured against statutory and common-law liability for damages caused by negligence of
insured or its employ6s, the insured to give immediate notice of any
accident to the company, which agreed to defend any suit for damages
brought against the assured, the latter not to make any settlement
without the company's consent, and not to bring any action under the
policy except for loss actually paid in satisfaction of judgment after
trial. After an accident of which notice was duly given the assured
Was sued and the company refused to defend-on the ground that the accident was not within the risks assumed.- The assured to avoid heavy
judgments settled the suits out of court and sued the company. Held,
that:
The refusal of the company to defend the suits constituted such a breach
of the contract that it released the assured from the agreement not to
settle
the that
claim without its consent and amounted to a waiver of the
condition
it was only liable for judgment rendered
against the assured after trial and satisfied.
Under the circumstances of this case the liability of the assured to the
person injured and the extent of the liability may be litigated in the
first instance' in the actio, brought by the assured against the company
on the policy.

THIS case was brought here on the following certificate:
"The judgment which the writ of error challenges sustained,,
a demu'rrer to the petition and dismissed the action. The,
plaintiff in its petition alleged the existence of these facts:
The plaintiff is a corporation of the State of Missouri, and the
defendant is a corporation of the State of Maryland. On
June 16, 1900, the defendant in consideration of the payment
of $168 issued to the plaintiff a policy which contained these
provisions: '-In consideration of the application for this policy, a copy of which is hereto attached and which is made part

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

of this contract, and of one hundred sixty-eight dollars ($168)
premium, Maryland Casualty Company, of Baltimore, Maryland (hereinafter called "the company"), does hereby agree to
indemnify St. Louis Dressed Beef & Provision Co. of St. Louis,.
county of -, State of Missouri, hereinafter called "the assured" for the term of one year beginning on the fifth day of
July, 1900, at noon, and ending on the fifth day of July, 1901,
at noon, standard time, at the place where this policy has been
countersigned, against loss from common law or statutory liability for damages on account of bodily injuries, fatal or nonfatal, accidentally suffered by any person or persons, and caused
through the negligence of the assured, by means of the horses
or vehicles in his services, and the use thereof, as described in
the application and while in thie charge of the. assured or his
employ~s. Provided, however, that:
"'.A. The company's liability for an accident resulting in
injuries to, or in the death of one person is limited to five
thousand dollars ($5,000) and subject to the same limit for
each person; the total liability for any one accident resulting
in injuries to, or in the death of any number of persons is liniited to ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
" 'This insurance is subject to the following conditiobs,
which are to be construed as conditions precedent of this contract:
" '1. The assured, upon the occurrence of an accident, shall
give immediate notice thereof in writing, with full particulars
to the home office of any claim which may be made on account
of such accident.
1"'2.
If thereafter any suit is brought against the assured to
enforce a claim for damages on account of an accident covered
by this policy, immediate notice thereof shall be given to the
company, and the company will defend against such proceedi"g, in the name and on behalf of the assured, or settle the
same at its own cost, unless it shall elect to pay the assured
the indemnity provided for in clause A" of special agreements
as limited therein.

ST. LOUIS BEEF CO. v. CASUALTY CO.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

'3. The assured shall not settle any claim, except at his
own cost, nor incur any expense, nor interfere in any negotiation for settlement or in any legal proceeding, without the consent of the company previously given in writing, but he may
provide at the time of the accident such immediate surgical
relief as is imperative. The assured when requested by the
company shall aid in securing information and evidence and
in effecting settlements, and in case the company.calls for the
attendance of any emrploy4 or employds as witnesses at inquests and in suits, the assured will secure his or their attendance, making no charge for his or their loss of time.
" '8. No action shall lie against the company as respects any
loss under this policy unless it shall be brought by the assured
himself to reimburse him for loss actually sustained and paid
by him in satisfaction of a' judgment after trial of the issue.
No such action shall lie unless brought within the period within
which a claimant might sue the assured for damages- unless at
the expiry of such period there is such an action pending
against the assured, in which case an action may be brought
against the company by the assured within thirty days after
final judgment has been rendered and 'satisfied as above. - in
no case except that of minors shall any action lie against the
company after the expiration of six years from the date of the
given injuries or death. The company does not prejudice by
this clause any defenses to such action which it may be entitled
to make under this policy.
" 'This policy shall only cover losses sustained by and liability for any claims against the assured as a result of the risk
specified ih the contract or contracts hereto attached, and is
issued and accepted upon the condition that all the provisions
printed on the slip or slips attached to this policy are accepted
and shall be fulfilled by the assured as part of this contract as
fully as if they were recited at length over the signatures hereto
affixed.'
"The portion of the policy hereinbefore quoted commencing
with the words 'against loss from common law or statutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

liability' and ending with the words 'entitled to make under
this policy' at the close of paragraph numbered 8, were printed
on the slip attached to the policy.
"On May 25, 1901, the plaintiff became liable for damages
on account of bodily injuries accidentally suffered, by Mrs.
Nellie Heideman and caused through the negligence of the
plaintiff by means of a horse and vehicle in its service and the
use thereof as described in the application for the policy and
while in charge of one John Berry, who was one .of the plaintiff's
employ6s. The plaintiff immediately gave the defendant notice of the accident and of the fact that Nellie Heideman made
a claim against the plaintiff for damages on account of the
bodily injuries she had suffered from the accident and that
Henry Heideman, her husband, also made a claim for damages
against it bn accouht of the loss of the services of his wife and
of the expenses of physicians and nurses which resulted to him
from her bodily injuries. On August 16, 1901, the defendant
notified the plaintiff that it denied that it was liable to it on
account of the damages resulting from the accident under its
policy because, as it alleged, the driver of the plaintiff's wagon
was not an employ6 of the plaintiff, but the fact was that this
driver was an employ6 of the plaintiff and the accident and the
damages were covered by the policy. On November 23, 1901,
Nellie Heideman sued the plaintiff for $10,000 damages on account of the bodily injuries to her caused by the negligence of
the plaintiff's driver and by the accident, and Henry Heideman
brought an action- against it for $3,000 damages which he alleged he sustained from the same cause. On November 29,
1901, the plaintiff in writing notified the defendant of the commencement of -these suits and requested it to undertake the
defense of said suits as its said policy provdes it would do.
But the defendant declined to undertake the defense upon the
alleged ground that its policy did not cover the accident or the
claims, while the fact was that it covered both. The injuries
to Mrs. Heideman were, among others, the breaking of her
right hipjoint socket bone, were serious and permanent and

ST. LOUIS BEEF CO. v. CASUALTY CO.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the plaintiff was liable for damages in each of the suits. It
feared heavy judgments if the actions were permitted to proceed to trial. Thereupon, on April 15, 1902, it compromised
the suits and paid Mrs. Heideman $2,000 damages and her
husband $500 damages on account of the injuries caused by
the accident and the negligence of i's driver.
"The petition also contained the following averments: 'The
plaintiff served on defendant a written notice notifying it of
the terms of settlement offered by said Nellie Heideman and
Henry Heideman for the injuries sustained and damages suffered by them respectively, as aforesaid, and that plaintiff proposed to accept said settlements and pay said amounts, and
to hold defendant responsible for such payment under its aforesaid policy; that defendant interposed no objection to said
proposed settlements, relying upon its 'disclaimer of any .liability under said policy by reason of its alleged claim that the
driver of said wagon was not in the employ of the plaintiff
herein; and that said defendant by reason of the said denial
and disclaimer of any liability waived all the conditions of -the
said policy as herein set forth. Plaintiff further states that'by
reason of defendant's failure and refusal to defend said actions
brought by Nellie Heideman and Henry Heideman against
plaintiff, and by reason of the waiver aforesaid, it was obliged
to and did defend said actions and employed counsel for
that purpose, at an expense of two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00), and that said employment of counsel was reasonably
necessary, and that said sum of $250.00 is the reasonable value
of 'said services so performed.'
And the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit further certifies that the following questions of law are presented
by the assignment of errors in this case, that their decision is
indispensable to a decision of this case and that to the end that
this court mayproperly decide the issues of law presented it
desires the instruction of the Supreme Court of the United
States upon the following questions:
"1. Did the denial of all liability by the assurer and its reVOL. cci-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

fusal to defend the suits in the name and on behalf of the assured as provided by paragraph 2 of the policy constitute such
a breach of the contract on, its part that it released the assured
from its agreement in paragraph 3 that itwould not settle any
claim except at its pwn cost without the consent of the assurer
previously given in writing, and from the provision of paragraph 8 that no action should lie against the assurer as respects
any loss unless for loss actually sustained and paid by the assured in satisfaction of a judgment after trial of the issue?
"2. Were the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 8 of the policy
that the a~sured should not settle any claim except at its own
cost, without the consent 0f the, assurer, previously given, in
writing,, and that no action should lie against the assurer as
respects any loss under the policy unless brought by the assured to -reimburse it for. loss actually sustained and paid by
it in satisfaction. of a judgment after trial of the issue, waivedby the assurer's denial of liability under the policy and by its
failure and. refusal to defend the suits, against the assured according to the provision. in paragraph 2?
"3. Did the aompromise by the assured of the suits against
it, after the assurer denied liability and refused to defend them
and the payment by the assured of the damages claimed of it
pursuant to the compromise, without the consent of the assurer and without the rendition of a judgment or a trial of the
issues, prevent the assured fromsecuring any recovery of the
assurer upon. the policy on account of the negligence, accident
and injuries described?.
"4. Considering the terms of -the policy, is the right of the
assurer to, insist upon the condition of paragraph 8 respecting
the rendition of judgment after trial and its satisfaction by the
assured dependent upon. the assurer's defense of, the action
against the assured according to the provision in paragraph 2?
"5. Considering the terms of the policy) is the assurer's denial of liability under the policy a waiver of the condition in
paragraph 8 respecting the. rendition of judgment after tiial
aod its satisfaction by.the assured?

ST. LOUIS BEEF CO. v. CASUALTY CO.
201 U. S.

Argument for St. Louis Beef Co.

"6. Under the terms of the policy may the liability of the
assured -to the injured person and the extent of that liability
be litigated in the first instance in an action between the assured'
and the assurer where the assurer has denied its liability under
the policy and has- refused to defend' an action brought
against the assured by the injured person ?"
Mr. Ford W. Thompson with whom Mr. William B. Thompson and Mr. Ralph Crews were on the brief, for St. Louis Beef Co.
This question of the difference between contracts of indemnity against loss and indemnity against liability for loss, has
never been presented to this court for decision. It has' however, been presented to several of the Supreme Courts of the
States. See Fenton v. Fidelity & Casualty Company, 36 Oregon, 283; Hoven v. Lake Superior Iron Co., 93 Wisconsin, 201.
The fact that $3,000.has been paid to compromise the loss
does not fix the amount; it establishes the fact that all the loss
which the complainant was liable for, or ]has sustained, has been
paid' A judgment against an indemnitee, after notice to the
insurer to defend suit, is conclusive of the amount and liability. 16 Am. & Eng..Ency. of Law, 180, note 4, and cases cited;
Showers v. Wadsworth, 81, Califoria, 279.
Such a judgment, without -any notice to,an indemnitor, is
Oresumptive evidence of liIbility and its amount only., 16
Ai. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 180,.note 5; Kansas City &c.* R. Co.,
v. Southern Ry. News, 151 Missouri, 373, 391; Laing v. Hanson
(Texas), 36 S. W. Rep. 116, .118.
The provision for the judgment and its payment is of the
'same nature and effect as the provision in fire insurance policies for a determination of amount and liability by arbitration,
and that such arbitration "shall be a condition precedent to
any right of action in law or in equity to recover f(r such loss."
Such contracts are valid and binding as long as the indemnitor
proceeds in accordance with them, and does not deny its liabiliby. Hamilton v. Ins. Co., 1-36 U. S. 242, 252.
But they are ineffective and are waived when the insurer

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

denies all liability. Weiner v. Fire Ins. Co., 153 Massachusetts, 235, 238; Savage v. Phcnix Ins. Co., 12 Montana, 458;
Pensel v. Home Ins. Co., 3 Washington, 485.
The provisions of this contract are nothing more than a
method of proof which is waived when the company, denies its
liability and refuses to follow that method. Ross v. American
&c. Ins. Co., 56 N. J. Eq. 55; Southern Ry. News Co. v. Fidelity & Casualty Co., 83 S. W. Rep. (Ky.) 620. See also Taylor
v. Insurance Co., 9 How. 390; 4 Joyce on Insurance, ยง 3211;
Knickerbocker Ins. Co. v. Pendleton, 112 U. S. 696; Bailey v. Etna
Ins. Co., 46 N. W. Rep. (Wis.) 440; Beach on Insurance, ยง 1244.
Mr. FrankGosnell and Mr. Geo. Weems Williams for the Casualty Co.:
The company agreed to indemnify :the insured against loss
from common law or statutory liability only. There is a clear
distinction between a contract against "liability for damages"
and a contract of indemnity against "loss from liability for
damages." Under the latter clause no liability arises until
payment by the assured of a judgment after a trial. Gilbert
v. Wiman, 1 N. Y. 550; Frye v. Bath Gas Co., 97 Maine, 241;
Moses v. Travellers Ins. Co., 63 N. J. Eq. 260; Finby v. United
States Casualty Co., 83 S. W. Rep. 2; Cushman v. Fuel Co., 122
Iowa, 656; Connolly v. Bolster, 72 N. E. Rep. (Mass.) 981;
O'Connell v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R., 187 Massachusetts, 272.
Sanders v. Frankfort Ins. Co., 72 N. H. 465, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

An elementary remark or two will do something toward answering these questions. The form of the declaration does not
appear, but we may suppose a count upon the Casualty Company's refusal lb defend the suit against the plaintiff. If the
defendant's contention is right, that breach made it impossible
for the plaintiff to entitle itself to the payment promised in the
policy according to its terms, But the defendant could not selt

ST. LOUIS BEEF CO. v. CASUALTY CO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

itself free by so simple a device. In general, when one party
by his fault prevents the other party to a contract from entitling himself to a benefit under it according to its terms, the
former is liable for the value of that benefit less the value or
cost of what the plaintiff would have had to do -to get it. In
this case the plaintiff had nothing more to do or to pay after
it had been compelled to satisfy the claim against it. Ahd
therefore, on general principles, it would be entitled to demand
the whole amount which the jury might find that it would have
received had the contract been performed. Hinckley v. Pittsburg Bessemer Steel Co., 121 U. S. 264.
It is suggested, to be sure, that the plaintiff should have defended the suit against it. But not only was that not one of
the plaintiff's undertakings, but it-was expressly forbidden to
the plaintiff by the contract, as no doubt the defendant would
have pointed out had that course been taken. Moreover, the
defendant, by its refusal, cut at the very roft of the mutual

obligation and put an end to its right to demand further compliance with the supposed term of the contract on the other
side. The only concern of the plaintiff was to estgblish reasonable ground for believing that if the defendant had not
broken its contract it would have been called on to make a
payment to the plaintiff, and how much that payment would
have been.
Looking at the substance of the-matter, it makes no practical difference, no difference in the amount of the defendant's
liability, whether we say that the defendant by its conduct
made performance of the conditions by the plaintiff impossible,
and therefore was chargeable for the sum which it would have
had to pay if those conditions'had been performed, or answer,
in the language of the questions, that performance of the conditions was waived. The sole difference would be in the form
of the declaration. In either case the plaintiff would declare
upon the policy, only the breaches assigned would not be the
same. In the former the breach would be the refusal to defend, in the latter the refusal to pay. If it is necessary to con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

sider the question in a technical aspect, we think that the
plaintiff was entitled to treat the contract as on foot, notwithstanding the defendant's act, and go on with it cypres.' Under the circumstances it could not comply literally with the
words, and was justified in doing the best thing that could be
done for the interest of both. The defendant by its abdication put the plaintiff in its place with all its rights. To limit
its liability as if its only promise was to pay a loss paid upon a
judgment is to neglect the meaning and purpose of the reference to a judgment, and even the words of the promise. The
promise in form is to indemnify against loss by certain kinds
of liability. The judgment contemplated in the condition is
a judgment in a suit defended by the defendant in case it elects
not to settle. The substance of the promise is to pay a loss
which the plaintiff shall have been compelled to pay, after such
precautions and with such safeguards as the defendant may
insist upon. It saw fit to insist upon none.
We assume that the settlement was reasonable,- and that the
plaintiff could not expect to escape at less cost by defending
the suits. If this were otherwise no doubt the defendant would
profit by the fact. The defendant did not agree to repay a
gratuity, or more than fairly could be said to have been paid
upon compulsion. But a sum paid in the prudent settlement
of a suit is paid under the compulsion of the suit as truly as
if it were paid upon execution.
But there is an'other aspect of the eighth condition of the
slip which requires a few words more. It is said that this con-,
dition expressly contemplates a breach of contract by the company and defines the plaintiff's rights in that case. The words
''no action shall lie against the company as respects any loss
under this policy unless," etc., certainly do contemplate a case
in court in which the company may turn out to be in the wrong,
and therefore technically guilty of a breach of contract. But
notwithstanding the contrary suggestion in Sanders v. Frankfort Marine, Accident & Plate Glass Ins. Co., 72 N. H. 485, 498,
499, we. think that the only breach which that condition has

ST. LOUIS BEEF CO. v. CASUALTY CO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of.the Court.

in view is a refusal by the company to pay after the decision
in a case of which it has taken charge, .when, notwithstanding
the judgment, it conceives itself to have a defense. The action referred to is an action for money alleged to be due under
the policy. Contracts rarely provide in detail for their nonperformance. It wbuld be stretching the words quoted to a
significance equally hurtful to both parties, and probably
equally absent from the minds of both, to read them as having
within their scope an initial repudiation of liability by the defendant and a requirement that in that event the plaintiff
should be bound to try the case against itself, although it
should be piain that. by a compromise it could reduce its claim
on the defendant as well as its own loss. -%
If there is anything in the doubt whether the defendant, by
assuring the defense of the original suit, would not lose its
right to deny that the policy applied, even if it purported to
save that right, it does not change 'our opinion. 'The requirement of a trial,.and judgment would not accomplish the object
suggested, to make collusion impossible. The objections to
thus hampering the dominus litis have been touched upon, and
there would be presented the anomaly, if not the monstrosity,
of a party attempting to provide by contract that if he should
do what by general principles of contract forfeited his right to
make further requirements of the other side, his conduct, on
the contrary, should impose new obligations on the other side.
If the defendant kept its contract, it would defend the suit,
and the plaintiff would have no duties. If it refused to do'as
it had promised, we cannot think that it was entitled to complain that the plaintiff did not do it when the interest of both.
was the other way. Before a policy should be construed to
have such an extraordinary effect honesty requires that the
unmistakable words!
assured should be notified of his duties in,
We answer the first, second, fourth and fifth questions in
the affirmative, the third in the negative and the sixth in the
affirmative, so far as the question is warranted by the facts.
It will be so certified.
set. forth.

