OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United StateS.

201 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. DOWNING.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 104. Argued March 2, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.
Carbon sticks from twelve to twenty inches in length and which require
only a slight and inexpensive process to adapt them for use in electric
lighting are manufactured articles similar in material, quality, texture
and use to 'carboiis for electric lighting enumerated in paragraph 98 of
the Tariff Act of 1897, 30 Stat. 156, 205, and therefore under } 7 of that
act are subject to the same duty.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James C. McReynolds, Assistant Attorney General, for
the United States:
Under sundry provisions of the tariff law use is made the
test of classification, and it is necessary to determine whether
in order to be included therein the enumerated articles must
be completely prepared for the ultimate use specified or
whether it suffices to show that as imported they can have
no useful purpose except the one named notwithstanding
something further may be required for their perfection. See
Dingelstedt v. United States, 87 Fed. Rep. 190; S. C.,. 91 Fed.
Rep. 112; United States v. Gabriel, 99 Fed. Rep. 716; United
States v. Waddell, 113 Fed. Rep. 1021.
The descriptive words in the act are not carbons for electric,
lamps "-the style and capacity of which might change from
time to time-nor "carbons for electric lights," but "carbons
for electric lighting"; and the stipulation shows the process
of manufacture had advanced so far that the sole use to which
the articles could be put was for such lighting. See Magone
v. Heller, 150 U. S. 70, 74; Elgin Watch Co. v. Spaulding, 19
Fed. Rep. 411; Worthington v. Robbins, 139 U. S. 337; Hart-

UNITED STATES v. DOWNING
201 U.S.

Argument for Respondents.

ran/t v. Meyer, 149 U. S. 544; Robinson v. United States, 122
Fed. Rep. 970.
If not specifically enumerated as carbons for electric lighting in paragraph 98 the imports were similar thereto and
chargeable with the same duty, under sec. 7 of the act. The'
articles were manifestly similar in material, quality and use to
finally completed carbons for electric lighting. Similarity in
one of the particulars mentioned is sufficient to subject an unenumerated article to the duty levied on an enumerated one.
Pickhardt v. Merritt, 132 U,. S. 252, 258.
Mr. J. Stuart Tompkins for respondents:
The unfinished carbon sticks in question are not dutiable
directly under paragraph 98 at ninety cents per hundred as
carbons for electric lightingAs showing the nicety and exactness of language which has
always *been required and deemed essential in tariff laws, see
United States v. Nichols, 186 U. S.298; United States v. Austin
Nichols & Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 729.
About one-twelfth the foreign market value of the carbons must be expended in labor performed in this country.
The case is very similar to the pearl disks complete for use as
buttons except for the piercing of t'he holes, involved in United
States v. Blumenthal, 51 Fed. Rep. 76; S.C., aff'd, 1 U. S. App.
680. See also United States. v. Simon, 84 Fed. Rep. 154;
Hunter v. United States, 126 Fed. Rep. 894; United States v.
Merck, 66 Fed. Rep. 251; Cowl v. United States, 124 Fed. Rep.
475;'In re Maltby Lumber Co., T. D. 25,407; Vanacker v.
Spaulding, 24 Fed. Rep. 88.
These sticks are "carbons" as defined by the dictionaries.
See Standard and Century dictionaries.
This court has sanctioned reference to dictionary definitions
as an aid to the memory and understanding of the court in
determining the usual and ordinary meaning of words in lariff
laws. Nix v. Hedden, 149 U. S. 304; Marvel v. Merritt, 116
U. S. 11, 12.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

There being no evidence that the word "carbons" has a,
special meaning in trade and -o6mmerce different from its
conmon and ordinary signification, the latter or common
meaning, as understood in everyday speech, must be taken
as the criterion-in determining whether or not these imported
stickii are '"carbons" for electric lighting within the purview'
of.that.term as used in paragraph 98. Sonn v. Magone, 159
U. S- 417.
The language of the statute is plain and unambiguous, and
it is the duty of the court to enforce it according to the obvious
meaning of the words, without attempting to change it by
adopting a different construction, based upon some supposed
policy of Congress in. regard to the subject of- legislation.
Bate"Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1; Gardner v.
Collins, 2 Pet.- 58, 93.
The dutiable classification of this merchandise must be
determined according to the condition in which it was imported, not according to its condition when further manipulated or manufactured, after arrival. United Stdtes v. Schoverling, 146 U. S. 76, 82.
- That the defendants imported their merchandise
in its unfinished condition "for tariff purposes" ,isin no way prejudicial
to them. Merritt v. Welsh, 104 U. S. 694; Magone v. Luckemeyer, 139 U. S. 612; United States v. Schoverling, 146 U. S. 81.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the. court.

This case involves the rate of duty under the Tariff Act of
1897, 30 Stat. 151, 156, 205, upon certain sticks of'carbon used
for electric lighting. The collector of customs of the port of
New York held them to be dutiable at ninety cents per one
hundred sticks, Under paragraph 98 of the act of 1897, which
provides as follows:
"Gas retorts, three dollars each; lava tips for burners, ten
cents per gross and fifteen per centum ad valore. carbons
for electric lighting, ninety cents per hundred; filter tubes,

UNITED STATES v. DOWNING.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

forty-five per centum ad valorem; porous carbon 'pots for
electric batteries without metallic connections, twenty per
centum ad valorem."
On protest and review by the board of appraisers the decision of the collector was affirmed. The board of appraisers,
however, held that the sticks were not within the terms of
paragraph 98, basing the ruling on United States v. Reisinger,
94 Fed. Rep. 1002, nor within paragraph 97, under the rule
in the Gabriel case, 99 Fed. Rep. 716. And held further, that
while the articles in question were Jnot enumerated in the act
of 1897, they were "similar in material, texture and use to
carbons for electric lighting," and dutiable under paragraph 98
by virtue of the similitude clause (sec. 7) of the act of 1897.
The Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York held
that the articles were dutiable under paragraph 97 and reversed the ruling of the board of appraisers upon the authority
of United States v. Reisinger, supra, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the Circuit Court.
It appears from the evidence that the carbon sticks are from
twelve and a half to twenty inches in length, and to render
them ready for use one-half inch must be cut off from the
shorter ones and their ends burnished or smoothed, the process
costing about one-tenth of one per cent. The longer sticks
-must be cut in two and sharpened at both ends, and it iA
stipulated that those steps for their completion being done
the only use for the sticks "is as carbons for electric lighting."
They are undoubtedly "carbons" and their use is "for electric
lighting," In a general sense they come within the description of paragraph 98. It is contended, however, that they are
not covered by that paragraph, because they must undergo
a process of manufacture, though slight that process need be.
The contention virtually'is that the articles imported arenot
'carbons," either. in the trade or popular sense, and do not
become such until fit for use in lamps. In other words, it is
the finished stick that constitutes the entity contemplated and
made dutiable at ninety cents per hundred under paragraph 98,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

and that the articles imported are accurately described and
enumerated only in paragraph 97, as articles composed of carbon, not specially provided for. Paragraph 97 is as follows:
"Articles and wares composed wholly or in chief value of
earthy or mineral substances, or carbon, not specially provided for in this act, if not decorated in any manner, thirty-five
per centum ad .valorem; if decorated, forty-five per centum
ad valorem."
There is much to justify the contention of respondents as
to paragraph 98. The act of 1897 recognizes in many places
the difference between finished and unfinished articles of manufacture, but it also recognizes in many places use as determining the duty. The words "electric lighting" are very general
and it is the effect of the stipulation of the parties that the
imported articles have no useful purpose except for electric
lighting, though something further may be required for exact
adaptation. However, we may put our decision on another
ground, which .will be best developed in considering the contention of respondents under paragraph 97.
The contention encounters a serious difficulty. As was decided in Dingelstedt v. United States, 91 Fed. Rep. 112, the
paragraph covers articles which are susceptible of decoration,
ahd not, as contended by respondent, articles decorated or not
decorated, irrespective of their capability of being decorated.
If the articles in question do not fall within paragraph 98,
because- not finished, and do not fall within paragraph 97, because not susceptible of decoration, where do they fall? They
would seem necessarily to fall under that part of section 6,
which provides that "on all articles manufactured) in whole
or in part, not provided for," and subject to a duty of twenty
per cent ad valorem. But there is a circumstance to be considered that arrests this effect. Sectioin 7 provides that each
and every imported article, not. enumerated in this act, which
is similar, either in material, quality, texture, or the use to
which it may be applied, to any article enumerated in this act
as chargeable with duty, shall pay the same rate of duty which

SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

is levied on the enumerated article which it most resembles
in any of the particulars before mentioned;

.

"

The imported merchandise are undoubtedly manufactured
articles and do not miss by a great deal being identical with
"carbons for electric lighting" in the most restricted sense of
that description. They have, therefore, similarity in all the
particulars mentioned in section 7 to such carbons.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
Circuit Court are reversed and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to sustain the decision of the
Board'of General Appraisers.

SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS COMPANY.
ERROR, TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MAINE.
No. 206.

Argued March 9.12. 13, 1906.-Decided April 2,1906.

The distinction between trespass and disseisin may be modified by statute.
as properly as it may be established by -common law. Nothing in the
Fourteenth Amendment hinders a State from enacting that in future
the doing of such overt acts of ownership as are possible on wild lands,
under a recorded deed showing that the actor claims title coupled with
,the payment of taxes, the owner not paying any meanwhile or doing any
act indicative of ownership, shall constitute a disseisin which if continued
long enough shall bar an action for the land; nor is such an act unconstitutional because it fixes the period at twenty years and allows it to
become operative as to suits commenced five years after its enactment
as it would be within the power of the legislature to fix the entire period
of limitation at five years, and the owner would have an opportunity
to defeat the disseisin by asserting ownership within that time; such a
statute would not be construed' as permitting suit to be barred by a
period of twenty years' inactivity prior to the enactment of the statute.
if acts of ownership were exercised thereafter.
Ifa state statute, as construed by the state court, is constitutional, this court
follows that construction.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

