KEEN v. KEEN.
201 U.' S.

Statement of the Case.

We are therefore of opinion that the decree of the Supreme
Court dismissing the petition must be reversed, and the causeremanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE DAY dissented upon the question of
juTisdiction.

KEEN v. KEEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 188.

Argued March 7, 8, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

Where the only assignment of error does not involve any Federal question
the mere statement in the motion for new trial that the judgment deprives
plaintiff in error of his property without due process of law, denies him
equal protection of the laws, and is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, without any allegation as to why the judgment has this effect, no
notice of which is taken by the state court in denying the motion does
not properly raise a Federal question so as to give this court jurisdiction
to review under ยง 709, Rev. Stat., even though the writ be allowed by
the presiding judge -of the state court.
What facts constitute a common-law marriage in a State is purely a local,
and not a Federil, question.

THIS was an action of ejectment begun by Sophronia K.
Keen in the Circuit Court of St. Charles County against Ellis
Keen, to recover a tract of land in that county to which plain-

tiff averred she was lawfully entitled. The petition was in
the usual form of a declaration in ejectment, and the answer
a general denial.
Eli Keen was the common source of title, plaintiff claiming
one-half of the land, subject to the payment of debts, under
section 2939 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, upon the
ground that she was the widow of Eli Keen, who died in

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

1901, leaving, as plaintiff alleged, no children capable of inheriting.
Defendant 'claimed to be the legitimate child of an alleged
common-law marriage between Eli Keen, a white man, and
Phoebe, a negro woman.
There was judgment below for the plaintiff, which was af-.
firmed by the Supreme Court. 184 Missouri, 358.
Mr. David P. Dyer for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. W. Bates, with whom Mr. John F. McGinnis and
Mr. C. W. Wilson were on the brief, for defendant in error,
submitted.
MR. JuSTIcE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The court deduced, as a conclusion of law from certain facts
found, that no marriage at common Iaw had ever existed between Eli Keen and Phoebe, a former slave of Eli's father, and
that the former died without leaving 'any. child or children or
other descendants capable of inheriting from him, and hence
that.'plaintiff was entitled to recover possession of an undivided half of the lands as his wife. No ceremonial marriage
was claimed.
It is difficult to see any facts upon which to found our jurisdiction of the case. No Federal question appears in the pleadings or in the testimony, a transcript of which is contained in
the record. The first glimmer of one -appears in the motion
for a new trial in the Circuit Court, in which it is charged that
the judgment deprived the defendant of his property without
due' process of law, and also denied him the equal protection
of the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution. But no allegation is made as' to why 'the judgment had this effect. No notice was taken of the constitutional point in the opinion of the Supreme Court, although the
writ Of error from this court was allowed by the presiding

HOUSTON & TEX. CENT. RAILROAD v. MAYES. 321
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

judge. In the assignment of errors filed in this court the only
error charged is that, although the court below found there was
no common-law marriage between Eli Keen and Phoebe, yet
in its special findings, it found all the facts required to establish such common-law marriage between them, and that from
the facts so found the law presumed a null and void marriage
between said Eli Keen and Phoebe Keen, the issue of which
was capable of inheriting under the statutes of Missouri.
Revised Statutes, ยง 2918. No reference is made to the Constitution of the United States in this connection. In addition
to -this, the question what facts constitute a common-law
marriage is, purely a local one. We have searched the record
for a Federal question, but. have found none. The writ of
error is, therefore,
..
Dismissed.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. MAYES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS
TRICT OF
No. 198.

THE

STATE

OF

FOR THE. THIRD DISTEXAS.

Argiued March 8, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

An absolute requirement that a railroad engaged in interstate commerce
shall furnish a certain number of cars on a specified day, to transport
merchandise to another State, regardless of every other consideration
except strikes and other public calamities, transcends the police power
of the States and amounts to a burden upon interstate commerce; and.
articles 4497-5000, Rev. Stat. Texas, being-ucha requirement, are, when
applied to interstate commerce shipments, void as a violation of the commerce clause .of the Federal Constitution.
Such a regulation cannot be sustained as to interstate commerce shipments
as an exercise of the police power of the State.
THIS, was an action begun by Mayes in. the District Court of
Llano County, Texas, against the Houston and Texas -Central
Railroad Company to recover a penalty of $475, by reason of
defendant's failure to furnish seventeen stock cars, applied for in
VOL. CCi-21

