. ST. JOHN v. NEW YORK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would not be conclusive as to the facts if in any way those facts
came in question. It is decided as well as admitted that a
decree like that rendered in Connecticut in favor of a deserting
husband is binding in the State where it is rendered. Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S. 190. I think it enough to read that case
in order to be convinced that at that time the court had no
thought of the divorce being confined in its effects to the Territory where it was granted, and enough to read Atherton v.
Atherton to see that its whole drift and tendency now are reversed and its necessary consequences denied.

ST. JOHN v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 210. Argued March 14, 1906.-Decided April 16, 1906.

A State may classify persons and objects for the purpose of legislation, provided the classification is based on proper and justifiable distinctions; and so held that chap. 338 of the laws oft New York of 1893,
prohibiting the sale of adulterated milk, is not in conflict with the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because in certain respects, it provides different prohibitions and penalties as to producing
and non-producing vendors of milk.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Brennan, Jr., for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Horace McGuire, with whom Mr. Julius M. Mayer,
Attorney General of the State of New York, was on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff iA error is a non-producing wholesale and retail milk
dealer in the city of Buffalo, New York. In February, 1903,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

he exposed for sale and sold a quantity of milkin violation of
sections 20 and 22 of chapter 338 of the laws of New York for
the year 1893, and its amendments and supplements, in that
the said milk contained more than 88% of water and less than
12% of milk solids, to wit, 89.24% of water and 10.36% of
milk solids.
The Commissioner of Agriculture of the State in pursuance
of said laws filed a complaint against plaintiff in error in the
Supreme Court of the State, charging him with the violation
of the laws, and that it was his second offense. Judgment was
prayed for the sum of $200 in pursuance of section 37. Plaintiff in error admitted the charge, but alleged in defense that
the laws were in contravention of section 1 of. the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States; also of
the constitution of New York.
At the trial he offered to show that the milk from which the:
sample exhibited in the case was taken was in the same condition when the sample was taken as it was when it left the herd
of the producer. The testimony'was rejected and plaintiff in
error excepted. The court directed the jury to find a verdict
.against him for $100 and costs, which was done. He excepted
to the' ruling. Under the procedure in New York the court
ordered the exceptions to be heard in the Appellate -Division.
In that court the exceptions were overruled, a motion for a
new trial was denied and judgment entered on the verdict.
On appeal, the Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, and
the record and proceedings were remanded to the -Supreme
Court, where judgment was entered in accordance with the
remittitur from the Court of Appeals. This writ of error was
then sued out.
The purpose of the law which is assailed is to prevent the
sale of adulterated and unwholesome milk. Section 20 ' deI SEC. 20. Definitions. .
The term, adulterated milk, when so used, means:
1. Milk containing more than eighty-eight per centum of water or fluids.
2. Milk containing less than twelve per centum of milk solids.
3. Milk containing less than three per centum of fats.

ST. JOHN v. NEW YORK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fines what milk shall be deemed adulterated, and it gives a
very comprehensive meaning to the word. Section 22 prohibits the sale or offering for sale of such milk, or "any unclean,
impure, unhealthy, adulterated or unwholesome milk." Section 7 makes intention immaterial. Section 37 provides for
the forfeiture to the People of the State of New York of not
less than $50 for the first violation of the law, and increased
sums for second and subsequent violations, and also makes
violations of the law misdemeanors. -Section 12 is the one
which is especially complained of. It was materially amended
in 1898, and is (omitting matter not necessary to quote) as
follows:
"SEc.

12., Inspection, how conducted.

.

In taking

samples of milk for analysis at a creamery, factory, platform
or other place where the same is delivered by the producer for
manufacture, sale or shipment, or from a milk vendor who
produces the milk which he sells, with a view of prosecuting
the producer of such milk for delivering, selling or offering for
sale adulterated milk, the said Commissioner of Agriculture' or
assistant or his agent or agents shall, within ten days thereafter, with the consent of said producer, take a sample in a
like manner of the mixed milk of the herd of'cows from which
the milk first sampled was drawn and shall deliver the duplicate sample to the said producer and shall cause the sample
taken by himself or his agent to be analyzed. If the sample of
4. Milk drawn from cows within fifteen days before and five days after'
parturition.
5. Milk drawn from animals fed on distillery waste or any substance
in a state of fermentation or putrefaction or any unhealthy food.
6. Milk drawn from cows kept in a crowded or unhealthy condition.
7. Milk from which any part of the cream has been removed.
8. ,Milk which has been diluted with water or any other fluid, or to which
has been added or into which has been introduced any foreign substance
whatever.
All adulterated -milk shall be deemed unclean, unhealthy, impure and
unwholesome.
SEc. 22. Prohibition of the sale of adulterated milk.-No person shall
sell or exchange, or offer or expose for sale or exchange, any unclean, impure, unhealthy, adulterated or unwholesome milk. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

milk last taken by the Commissioner of Agriculture or his agent
or agents shall upon analysis prove to contain no -higher percentage of milk solids, or no higher percentage of fat than as the
sample taken at the creamery, factory, platform or other place,
then no action shall lie against the said producer for violation
of subdivisions one, two, three, seven and eight of section 20
of the Agricultural Law. In taking a second sample, as above
set forth, from the mixed milk of the herd, it shall be the duty
of the Commissioner of Agriculture to have an assistant, agent
or agents present during the entire time in which the said cattle
are being milked to' observe closely so as to be sure that the
milk thus to be sampled is not adulterated, and to see that it
is thoroughly mixed so that the sample taken shall be a fair
sample of the average quality of the mixed milk of the entire
dairy or herd of cows of said producer. If, however, the said
producer refuses to allow such examination of the milk produced by his, dairy, then he shall be precluded from offering
any evidence whatever tending to show that the milk delivered by him at the said creamery, factory,, platform or other
place was just as it came from the cow. If the said producer
does permit such examination the Commissioner of Agriculture
shall, upon receiving application therefor, send to said producer
a copy of the analysis of each of the samples of milk so taken
and analyzed as above provided."
The contention of plaintiff in error is that non-producing
vendors are discriminated against, and hence fdenied the equal
protection of the laws, contrary to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
in that they may not, as producing vendors may, exempt themselves from actions or penalties for violations of subdivisions
one, two, three, seven and eight of section 20 by showing that
the milk sold or offered for sale by them is in the same condition as when it left the herd of the producer.
It has been decided many times that a State may classify
persons and objects for the purpose of legislation. We will
assume the cases are known and proceed immediately to con-

ST. JOHN v. NEW YORK.
201 U. S.'•

Opinion of the Court.

sider whether the classification of the law is based on proper
and justifiable distinctions, considering the purpose of the law
and the means to be observed to effect that purpose.
By referring to sectioh 20 it will be observed that adulterated milk, as there defined, includes not only that to which
something hasbeen added, but milk from which the cream has
been removed, or which is deficient naturally in certain substances, or taken from cows fed on certain things, or cows in
certain conditions when milked. In other words, the purpose
of the law is to secure to the population, adult and infant,
milk attaining a certain standard of purity and strength. All
other milk is declared to be "unclean, impure, unhealthy,
adulterated or unwholesome.
It is not contended that such purpose is not within the,power
of the State but, it is contended, that the power is not exercised
on- all alike who stand in the same relation to the purpose, and
quite dramatic illustrations are used to show discrimination.
A picture is exhibited of producing and non-producing vendors
selling milk side by side; the latter, it may be, a purchaser
from the former; the act, of ofte permitted, the act of the other"
prohibited or penalized. If we could look no farther than the
mere act of selling, the injustice of the law might be .demonstrated, but' something more must be considered. Not only
the final purpose of the law must be considered, but the means
of its administration-the ways it may be defeated. Legislation to be practical and efficient must regard this special purpose as well as the ultimate purpose. The ultimate purpose
is that wholesome milk shall reach the consumer, and it is the
conception of the law that milk below a certain strength is not
wholesome, but a difference is. made between milk 'naturally
deficient and milk made so by dilution. It is not for us to say
that this is not a proper difference, and regarding it the law
fixes its standard by milk in the condition that it comes from
the herd. It is certain that if milk starts pure from the producer it will reach the consumer pure, if not tampered with on
the way. To prevent such tampering the law is framed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

201 U. S.

its penalties adjusted.,r As the Standard established can be
proved in the hands of a producing vendor, he is exempt from
the penalty; as it cannot certainly be proved in the hands of
other vendors so as to prevent evasions of the law, such vendors
are not exempt. In the one case the source of milk can be
known and the tests of the statute applied; in the other case
this would be impossible, except in few instances. We cannot
see that any particular hardship results. The non-producing
vendor must exercise care in his purchases, and good all around
may be accomplished. Through penalty on the non-producing
vendor the producer is ultimately reached, though he may
seem to be indulged. He will have to raise the standard of the
milk of his herd if he would keep or extend his trade, as anything but a mere retailer of his product.
Judgment affirmed.

RAWLINS v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT
No. 547.

OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

Argued April 6. 1006.-Decided April 16, 1906.

If the state constitution and laws in regard to selection of jurors, as construed by the state court, are consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment, this court can go no further, and will not revise the decision of the
state court as to whether the local law has been coriiplied with.
There is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment which prevents a State
from excluding and exempting from jury duty certain classes on the
bona fide ground that it is for the good of the community that their
regular work should not be interrupted.
Even when persons liable to jury duty under the state laws are excluded
it is no ground for challenge to the array, if a sufficient number of unexceptionable persons are present.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Randolph Cooper, with whom Mr. Oscar M. Smith
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.

