OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

201 U. S.

a married woman from becoming under any circumstances the
owner of bank shares-as counsel for plaintiff in error insists
is the case-a question would be presented that does not arise
upon the record of this case; and as the local law does not
forbid married women from becoming the owners of bank
stock, we do not go beyond what is necessary for the decision
of the present case under the national banking law. All that
we now decide is that the court. below properly interpreted
the statute, and did not err in rendering a personal judgment
against Mrs. Christopher, as a shareholder in the bank, for the
amount due under the assessment of the Comptroller. In
what way the plaintiff may proceed in order to obtain satisfaction of the judgment is not a question to be determined
in this action.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

concur in

the result.

WYMAN v. WALLACE.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 191.

Submitted March 6, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

Where a national bank has gone into liquidation under § 5220, Rev. Stat.,
and one holding its notes seeks to enforce the additional liability imposed

by § 5151, Rev. Stat., against a stockholder by a suit in the nature of a
creditor's bill on behalf of himself and all other creditors, a case is presented under the laws of the United States giving the Circuit Court jurisdiction independently of diverse citizenship, and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not final but an appeal therefrom will lie to this
court.
It is not necessary in order to maintain such a suit that the creditor should
first obtain judgment on the notes.
A national bank finding itself embarrassed though possessed, of a large
amount of assets apparently in excess of its obligations is not prohibited

WYMAN v. WALLACE.
20i U. S.

Statement of the-Case.

by the national banking act from borrowing, and it has the power to borrow, money to meet pressing demands, which it has not the cash to meet,
and to give its time obligations therefor, secured by all of its assets; and if it
subsequently goes into liquidation, and the collateral is insufficient to meet
the obligations, the stockholders, both assenting and non-assenting to
the liquidation are subject to the additional liability to the extent imposed by § 5151, Rev. Stat., and the holder of the notes can enforce the
same by creditor's bill.
PRIOR to December 21, 1895, the American National Bank
and the Union National Bank, hereinafter called respectively
the American Bank and the Union Bank, were each engaged
in business in the city of Omaha, Nebraska. During that month
the American Bank was in such financial condition that it became necessary for it to provide for the payment of a large
amount of deposits on or about January 1, 1896, for though possessed of abundant nominal assets it (lid not have sufficient cash
to make such payment. It knew that a neglect to pay would
precipitate a run alid bring on a failure of the bank. Thereupon in order to obtain the money necessary therefor its officers
and leading stockholders entered into negotiations with the
Union Bank for the payment of its immediate obligations and
thus enabling it to secure an opportunity to realize upon its
assets. As a result of such negotiations a contract was entered into by and between the two banks through their boards
of directors. By its terms the Union Bank was to assume the
payment of all the liabilities of the American Bank, receiving
therefor cash and such bills receivable as it was willing to
accept at par and without recourse. The difference between
the amounts so received and the liabilities assumed was to be
represented by three non-negotiable promissory notes of the
American Bank, the payment of which was to be secured by
a pledge of all its remaining assets to Thomas L. Kimball, as
trustee. This contract was carried out. The Union Bank
moved into and took possession of the offices of the American
Bank. Upon adjustment, as above indicated, the difference
was found to be- $201,000, for which the American Bank
executedlito -the Union Bank three non-negotiable promissory

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

notes, each being, for $67,000, and payable in one, two and
three years, respectively. In accordance. with the contract
the remaining assets of the American.. Bank -were placed in
,the hands of the trustee, Thomas L. Kimball, who proceeded
to collect them and apply the proceeds on the notes until his
death during the pendency of this suit. Subsequently a successor was appointed, who continued in performance of the
trust until the entry of the decree. The execution of the contract of, December 21, 1895, by the president and cashier of
the American Bank was directed by resolution of its 'board
of directors. On January 14, 1896, at an annual meeting of
the shareholders of that bank, at which was represented
1,665- shares out of a total of 2,000, a resolution was adopted
instructing the directors to take action looking to the liquidation of the bank. On February 25, 1896, another meeting of
the shareholders was held, at which 1,696 shares were represented, and a resolution for voluntary liquidation was adopted
by an affirmative vote of 1,639- shares. The Union Bank
fulfilled its obligations under the contract, having taken up all
the liabilities assur~ed by it. The trustee meeting with little
success in collection of the assets, this suit was, after the first
note had matured, instituted in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Nebraska by Sumner Wallace, a citizen of New Hampshire, to whom the note had been transferred, against the Union Bank,-Thomas L. Kimball the trustee,
the American Bank and its stockholders, including the appellants. By an amended bill the complainant sought on behalf
of himself and all other creditors of the American Bank the
winding up of the affairs of that bank, the determination of
the amount due upon his note, the ascertainment of all the
creditors and the amounts of their claims, the subjection of
the remaining assets to the payment of those claims and the
enforcement of the liability of the stockholders. He had not
reduced the note to judgment prior to the commencement of
this suit. Upon a final hearing a decree was entered ascertaining the amounts due the complainant and the Union Bank

WYMAN v. WALLACE.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

(they being the only creditors), after the application of all
credits, the number of shares of stock held by each shareholder
of the American Bank and directing a recovery of $97.23 on
account of each share of stock. This decree was affirmed by
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, 68 C. C. A. 40; 135 Fed. Rep. 286, from whose decision
an appeal was taken to this court.
Mr. W. W. Morsman and Mr. Howard B. Smith for appellants in this case and in Nos. 192 and 193, submitted simultaneously herewith. 1
Mr. Richard S. Horton'for appellant in No. 194, argued at
time of submission hereof. 2
Mr. Richard S. Horton-and Mr. Charles Battelle for appellants in No. 195, submitted simultaneously herewith. 3
The court did not have jurisdiction on the ground of citizenship, because complainant is the assignee of a non-negotiable
chose in action and his'assignor, the Union National Bank,
is a bank located in Nebraska, 'while the American National
Bank, Kimball, and these appellants, were also citizens of
Nebraska. Wilson v. Knox Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 481; Parker
v. Armsby, 141 U. S. 81; Mexican Nat. R. R. Co. v. Davidson,
157 U. S. 201; Cloud v. City of Sumas, 32 Fed. Rep. 177.
The American National Bank did not go into voluntary
liquidation within, the meaning and purpose of the United
States banking laws. The word "liquidation," used in said
sec. 2 and in sec. 5220, Rev. Stat., has a definite meaning and
presupposes the existence of assets to be liquidated in the
manner provided. But there remained -under the control of
the American National Bank or of its directors nothing to
liquidate. All the assets of the American had been turned
I No. 192, Frenzer v. Wallace; No. 193, Morsman v. Wallace, post,
pp. 244, 245.
2 No. 194, Poppleton v. Wallace, post, p. 245..
3 No. 195, McClellan v. Wallace, post, p. 244.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for AppeUants.

201 U. S.

over to the Union and Kimball, for them to collect and apply
to the payment of the three notes, and they had proceeded
to do this and were still engaged in the process of liquidation
at the time the vote was taken.
The complainant has not filed "a bill in the nature of a
creditor's bill," as positively required by said sec. 2; for
neither of his bills alleges and -his proof does not show, any
action at law upon his note. But a creditor's bill presupposes
two things: (1), that the creditor has been able to establish
his claim to be a valid and honest claim before the proper
court at law; and (2), that he needs. the assistance of a court
of equity in order to realize upon it.- Jones v.- Green, 1 Wall.
330; Smith v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 398;'Scott v. Neely,
140 U. S. 106; Nat. Tube Works Co. v. Ballou, 140 U. S. 517;
Hollins v. Brierfield C. & I. Co., 150 U. S. 371.
The American National Bank and its shareholders have been
deprived of their right to have the validity of the note sued
on determined in the proper court and before a jury. This
right to a jury trial is preserved by the Seventh Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, and by sec. VI of.
Art. I of the constitution of Nebraska. Cates v. Allen, 149
U. S. 451; Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106.
There are only two methods of liquidating a national bank,
one by direction of the Comptroller and the other under
§5220, Rev. Stat., and the bringing of this action by a party
not a judgment creditor conflicts with both of these methods.
The American National Bank wa's not obligated to make
good any deficiency remaining after the exhaustion of its
assets in the hands of the Union National Bank and Kimball,
and hence appellants Were not liable therefor as shareholders.
Cases in the Federal courts sustain the power of national'
banks to borrow money only where the moneys were loaned,
borrowed and used by banks in good faith in the usual course
of the business of banking; or if not actually so used the loaning.banks had no knowledge of the diversion thereof and were
not parties thereto. Those cases establish that the power to

WYMAN v. WALLACE.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

borrow money is incidental and limited to occasions when
borrowing is necessary to carry on the business of banking,
and that all borrowing must be of a temporary nature. First
Nat. Bank v. Nat. Exch. Bank, 92 U. S. 122; Western Nat.
Bank v. Armstrong, 152 U. S. 346, 351; U. S. Nat. Bank v.
First Nat. Bank, 27 U. S. App. 605; Auten v. U. S. Nat. Bank,
174 U. S. 125; Stapleton v. Stockton, 91 Fed. Rep. 326; Ditty
v. Dominion Nat. Bank, 75 Fed. Rep. 769; Aldrich v. Chemical
Nat. Bank, 176 U. S. 618.
In this case the nature of the transaction and its natural
and inevitable results was not a simple borrowing of money
but was one beyond the powers of the board of directors
acting alone, and ultra vires the bank itself.
Directors have no power to perform acts not within the
ordinary business of the corporation. Chicago City Ry. Co.
v. Allerton, 18 Wall. 233.
If a national bank is ,in contemplation of insolvency when
the fact becomes reasonably apparent to its officers that the
concern will presently be unable to meet its obligations, the
Comptroller should have been notified and the shareholders
of the bank would, under §5205, have then been by him given
the option either to continue the business of the bank by making good its capital stock, or to submit to liquidation under
the supervision of the Comptroller. Roberts v. Hill, 24 Fed.
Rep. 571.
If, on the other hand, a bank is insolvent only when it is
unable to meet the demands actually made upon it, then the
circumstances did not authorize the directors to take the action
they did; and the condition of the American National Bank
was well known to the officers of the Union National Bank.
Corporations, including national banks, have such -powers
and such powers only as are expressly or impliedly conferred
upon them, and any act which is not within the powers so
conferred is impliedly prohibited. Germania &c. Co. v. Boynton, 71 Fed. Rep. 797, 801; Central Trans. Co. v. P. P. C. Co.,
139 U. S. 24; Cal. Nat. Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, 366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

20i U. S.

The power to enter into this transaction, if existing, must
be an incidental power, as it is not expressly conferred. The
incidental powers of national banks are defined and limited
in and by § 5136, Rev. Stat., and do not authorize a transaction such as"the one between the banks. The power to enter
into such a transaction is impliedly denied by the general
trend of the laws governing national banks and the object
such laws have in view.
The power to -enter into such a transaction is impliedly
prohibited by Rev. Stat. §§ 5133, 5137, 5145, 5146, 5147, 5153,
5202, 5222, 5230, 5497 and expressly prohibited by § 5242.
National banks are public corporations and the banking
laws governing them are complete in themselves, provide
expressly when and by whom a bank shall be liquidated, and
exclude all other methods. National Bank v. United States,
107 U. S. 445; In re Mfrs. Nat. Bank, 5 Biss. 499; First Nat.
Bank v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609; Hunt v. American &c. Co., 81
Fed., Rep. 532; Bank Commissioners v. The Bank of Brest,
1 Harr. Ch. (Mich.) 106, 111, 112.
The fact that a contract had been executed by one party of
which the other, party has received the benefit, does not give
the contract validity, and no action will lie on the contract,
and stockholders of a bank may show the nature of the transaction, i. e., that it was not such as to impose any liability
upon them, Pearce v. Madison R. R., 21 How. 441; Central
Trans. Co. v. P. P. C. Co., 139 U. S. 24; Louisville &c. v.
Louisville &c., 174 U. S., 552, 567; O'Brien v. Wkelock, 184
U. S. 450, 490; Whitman v. Nat. Bank, 176 U. S. 559; Ward
v. Joslin, 186 U. S. 142.
The liability of shareholders in national banks is a restricted
liability and the transaction between the banks was of such a
nature that appellants are not liable for any deficit arising
therefrom. Sec. 5151, Rev. Stat., is the only provision imposing liability upon shareholders of national banks; and the
cases show: that the liability imposed by § 5151 is a means
of securing the payment of a bank's debts at the time when

WYMAN v. WALLACE.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

it is no longer able to continue business; that the purpose of
the section is to secure the effectual winding up of the bank's
affairs; that such liability cannot be prolonged; and that there
can be no liability on the part of shareholders unless the contracts, debts and engagements of the bank have been contracted duly, and in the ordinary course of -the business of
banking. They further show that the fact, that the 'new
obligation takes the place of an old obligation for which the
shareholders may have, been liable, does not make -them liable
for such new obligation. Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S. 27;
Schrader v. Mfrs. Nat. Bank, 133 U. S. 67; Ward v. Joslin,
186 U. S. 142, 152.
The "business of banking" is- defined in Mercantile Bank v.
New York, 121 U. S. 138 (1887), and the transaction between
the two banks does not fall under that definition.
The debt represented by the note sued on was not duly
contracted because the transaction was ultra vires not only
the board of directors but the bank itself, and because the
debt was not incurred in the .ordinary course of the business
of banking, and because the transaction was such as to increase and prolong the liability of the shareholders as it existed on December 21, 23, 1895.
Such a transaction and the debt arising therefrom cannot
be said to have been within the "legal contemplation" of the
shareholders of the American National Bank at the time they
purchased the shares held by them.
Appellants have not done anything to estop them to deny
their liability to make good the balance remaining unpaid upon
the notes.
Assuming that a contract ultra vires a corporation can be
rendered enforceable against its shareholders by the principle
of estoppel, the doctrines of estoppel can be applied only
to persons individually, not en masse. No official action was
taken by the shareholders in meeting assembled and none of
these appellants did or failed to -do anything from which ratification could be implied. Their silence could not affect their

OCTOBER-TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellees.

201 U. S.

rights, as the duty to speak was not imposed on them. There
was no express ratification such as could give validity to the
original transaction. &ovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143; Thomas
v. West Jersey R. R. Co., 101 U. S. 71; Bloomfield v. Charter

Oak Nat. Bank, 121 U. S. 121, 135; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Mowry, 96 U. S. 544, 547.
But a contract ultra vires a corporation cannot be rendered
enforceable against its shareholders by ratification or by estoppel. Central Trans. Co. v. P. P. C. Co., 139 U. S. 24;
Cal. Nat. Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362; First Nat. Bank v.
Conrad, 174 U. S. 364, 372; Ward v. Joslin, 186 U. S. 142, 151.

To hold that the notes represented contracts, debts and
engagements of the American for which its shareholders were
liable and that-for that reason the Union should recover against
appellants, would be to overrule in effect the cases cited last
above. Such a conclusion is not based upon any averment in
the bill-or the amended bill; is opposed to Richmond v. Irons,
Schrader v. Mfrs. Nat. Bank and Ward v. Joslin, supra, and

would deprive the shareholders of their right to contest their
liability for such claims.
The transaction was an entirely new deal and, the Union
National Bank was under no prior obligation to pay the debts
of the American National and was a volunteer.
Ins. Co. v. Middleport, 124 U. S. 548.

Etna Life

Mr. James M. Woolworth and Mr. R. S. Hall for appellees
in this case and in Nos. 192, 193, 194 and i95, submitted:
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court did not depend upon.
citizenship-but on sec. 2 of the act of June 30, 1876, which has
never been repealed. King v. Pomeroy, 121 Fed. Rep. 287;
Williamson v. American Bank, 115 Fed. Rep. 793.
A suit arises under the Constitution and laws of the United
States whenever its correct decision depends upon the construction of either. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 262; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 258; Starin v. New York, 115 U. S.
249; Union National Bank v. Milleri 15 Fed. Rep. 703.

WYMAN v. WALLACE.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

A contract by a national bank to assume and pay the liabilities of another bank in consideration of -the transfer to it
by the other bank of its Office furniture and its cash and cash
assets, and the further assignment to a trustee for its benefit.
of bills receivable and securities is not ultra vires but is within
its power conferred by statute to conduct a general banking
business. Schofield v. State National Bank, 97 Fed. Rep. 282.
The doctrine of ultra vires, when invoked for or against a
corporation, should not, be allowed to prevail where it would
defeat the ends of justice or work a legal wrong. Railway Co.
v. McCarthy, 96 U. S.258; Benseik v. Thomas, 66 Fed. Rep.
104; American National Bank v. National Wall Paper Company, 77 Fed. Rep. 85; Aldrich v. Chemical National Bank,
176 U. S. 611. See also Western National Bank v. Armstrong,
152 U. S. 346; Ditty v. Dominion National Bank, 22 C. C. A.
376; S. C., 75 Fed. Rep. 769.
If the directors of the American National Bank possessed
the authority to protect its depositors and to borrow money
to discharge the obligations as held in the case of Schofield v.
State National Bank, 97 Fed. Rep. 282, then the stockholders,
of course, will be liable and if the American is liable upon the
theory of money had and received to its use and benefit, then
the stockholders are liable also.
The bank is clearly liable for money had and received even
assuming that the directors did not act in due form. Cary v.
Curtis, 3 How. 236; Kennedy v. Baltimore Ins. Co.,. 3 H. & J.
367. Assumpsit will lie whenever the defendant received
money which is the property of the plaintiff, and which the
-defendant is obliged by natural justice and equity to-refund.
Byrne et al. v. United States, 93 U. S. 642, 643. And the
form of the indebtedness or the mode in which it was incurred,
is immaterial, and the obligations arising in this manner are
binding even on the United States. United States v. State
Bank, 96 U. S.30.
There is no statutory authority for the borrowing of~money.
The courts, however, hold that it can do so. State v.First

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Nat. Bank of Orleans, 88 Fed. Rep. 947; First Nat. Bank v.
•Exchange Nat. Bank, 92 U. S. 127; Western Nat. Bank v. Armstrong,152 U. S. 347; Armstrong v. Chemical Nat. Bank, 83
Fed. Rep. 565.
The transaction was a loan and not a sale.
If the language in this contract is at all ambiguous, the way
in .whi'h the parties understood it and acted upon it will be
of aid to the court.
The practical interpretation given to it by the parties themselves,, when engaged in the performance of the agreement,
and before any controver y has arisen concerning it, is one of
the best indications of its true intent. Schofield v. State
National Bank, 97 Fed. Rep. 285. Also Topliff v. Topliff, 122
U. S. 121; Chicago v. Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50, 54.
The Federal court on the equity side has jurisdiction to sustain a bill brought by a general creditor under the statute.
The statute plainly says "any creditor." Without this
statute the judgment creditor or lien holder might maintain
his bill in equity. This statute did not .take away any equitable
rights. But because to exhaust the remedy at law, in cases
like these of national banks, would practically destroy the
benefit to the creditor, this statute was passed giving to "any
creditor" the right to file a bill in the nature of a creditor's
bill, thus affording a speedy and efficient remedy to a creditor.
Darrighv. H. Wetter Mfg. Co., 78 Fed. Rep. 7; Nat. Security
Co. v. State-Bank, 120 Fed. Rep. 593; Jones v. Mutual Fidelity
Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 508.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
-A matter of jurisdiction is first presented. The note, which
is the foundation of plaintiff's suit, is-one made by the, American Bank to the Union Bank, both located in Nebraska, and
under the statute, for the purpose of jurisdiction, to be con-'
sidered citizens of Nebraska. 25 Stat. 436; sec. 4. The
plaintiff is a citizen of New Hampshire. He could not main-

WYMAN v. WALLACE.

. 241

Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

tain an action agaist the maker of the note, although a citizen
of a State other than that of the maker and payee. 25 Stat.
.434; sec. 1. But if diverse citizenship was the sole basis of
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, the decision of the Court
of Appeals would be final and t'here would be no appeal t6 this
court. 26.Stat. 828, § 6. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
however, was not invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship-at least, not on that alone. The case presented was one
arising under the laws of the United States. It-was a suit to
enforce a spe6ial right given .by those laws. Section 5220,
Rev. Stat., reads: "Any [national banking] association may
go into liquidation and be closed by the vote of its shareholders owning two-thirds of its stock."
By section 5151, Rev. Stat., stockholders in national banks
are made liable for "all contracts, debts and engagements .,f
such association, to the extent of the amount of their stock
therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount
invested in such shares." Section 2 of the act of June 30,
1876, 19 Stat. 63, is as follows:
"SEc. 2. That. when any national banking association shall
have gone into liquidation.under the provisions of section five
thousand two hundred and twenty of said statutes, the individual liability of the shareholders provided for by section
fifty-one hundred and fifty-one of. said statutes may be enforced by any creditor of such association, by bill in equity,
in the nature of a creditor's bill, brought by such creditor on
behalf of himself and of all other creditors of the association,
against the shareholders thereof, in. any court of the United
States having original jurisdiction in equity for th6 district.
in which such association may have been located "r established."
More than -two-thirds of the stock voted, on February 25,
1896, for a voluntary, liquidation, and on April 27, 1896, the
Comptroller of the Currency formally approved the liquidation
and notified the cashier of the American Bank to that effect.
in proceeding, therefore, by this suit to enforce in behalf
VOL. cc-16

. OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

of himself and all other creditors of the American Bank the
extra liability imposed by Rev. Stat. §5151, a case was presented arising under the laws of the United States, and of
which, independently of the matter of diverse citizenship, the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
The bill is not multifarious. "The two subjects of applying the assets of the bank and enforcing the liability of a stockholder, however otherwise distinct, are by the statute made
connected parts of the whole series of transactions which constitute the liquidation of the affairs of the bank." Richmond
v. Irons, 121 U, S. 27, 50.
It is suggested that no judgment had been obtained upon
the note prior to this suit in equity, but as one object of the suit
was to subject to the satisfaction of the debt certain property
conveyed to a trustee as security therefor, no judgment at
law was a prerequisite. Day v.: Washburn, 24 How. 352;
Case v. Beauregard, 101 U. S. 688, 691, in which the court said:
"Without pursuing this subject further, it may be said that
whenever a creditor has a trust in his favor, or a lien upon
property for the debt due him, he may go into equity without
exhausting legal processes or remedies. Tappan v. Evans,
11 N. H. 311; Holt v. Bancroft, 30 Alabama, 193."
We come then to the final question in the case, and that is
whether the notes executed by the American Bank were its
valid obligations. And in reference to this questioii these
are the significant facts: The demands against the American
Bank were pressing. It had not the money with which to
meet them. It arranged with the Union Bank to advance the
money for the payment of all its outstanding obligations.
When the Union Bank paid these obligations of the American
Bank it was the same as though it advanced money to that
bank to pay them. To reimburse and secure the former the
latter bank turned over, certain property, and executed these
notes for the balance, securing them by a pledge of -all its
other assets which were placed in the hands of its president
as trustee,

WYMAN v. WALLACE.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

All the stipulations and agreements made by the directors
of the two banks were carried out in good faith; and, with full
knowledge of what had been done, the stockholders voted for'
a voluntary liquidation. The borrowing of the money by the
American Bank did not necessarily put it into liquidation.
It had a large amount of assets, and if the real had equaled
the nominal value of these assets it would have been enabled
after discharging its obligation to the Union Bank to continue
business. But on an examination the stockholders felt that
it was wiser to stop at once. But that decision did not at all
impugn the wisdom or bona fides of the transaotion by which
the money was obtained to pay off the pressing demands of
the American Bank. The question, therefore, is, whether a
national bank,. finding itself embarrassed, with a large amount
of assets, much in excess of its obligations, yet without the
cash to make payment of those which are due and urgent, can
borrow to meet those pressing demands. A very natural answer is, why not? It is not borrowing money to engage in new
business. It simply exchanges one creditor for others. There
may be wisdom in consolidating all its debts into the hands
of one person. At least such a consolidation cannot be pronounced beyond its powers. When time is obtained by the
new indebtedness (in this case a year) it gives the borrowing
bank and its officers and stockholders time to consider and
determine the wisdom of attempting a further prosecution of
business. In the case of an individual it would be a legitimate
and often a wise transaction. It is not in terms prohibited
by the national banking act. Aldrich v. Chemical National
Bank, 176 U. S. 618, is very clearly in point. The opinion in
that case is quite lengthy and considers many authorities,
but the gist of the decision is expressed in these words (p. 635):
"Without further citation of cases we adjudge, both upon
principle and authority, that as the money of the- Chemical
Bank was obtained under a loan negotiated by the vice 'president of the Fidelity Bank who assumed to represent it in the
transaction, and as the latter used the money so obtained in

244

OCTOBDR TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

its banking business and for its own benefit, that bank having
enjoyed the-fruits of the transaction cannot avoid accountability to the Chemical Bank, even if it were true, as contended,
that the Fidelity Bank could 'not consistently with the law of
its creation have itself borrowed the money."
We are of the opinion that the notes given by the American
Bank for the money advanced by the Union Bank were its
valid obligations and can, therefore, be enforced against its
stockholders. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed..

FRENZER v. WALLACE.
MORSMAN v. SAME.
McCLELLAN v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 192, 193, 195. Submitted March 6, 1906 -Decided

April 2, 1906.

Decided on authority of Wyman v. Wallace, ante, p. 230.

Mr. W. W. Morsman aid Mr. Howard B. Smith for appellants in Nos. 192 and 193. Mr. Charles Battelle and Mr.
Richard S. Horton for appellants in No. 195.1
Mr. James M. Woolworth and Mr. R. S. Hall for appellees.1
Mr. JUSTICE BREWER: These are separate appeals by other
stockholders from the same decree, and present no questions
other than those considered in the former opinion, and the
same decrees of affirmance will be entered.
1 For abstracts of briefs see Wyman v,Wallace, ante, p. 230,

