CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

Ex parte COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY,
PE'TITION ER.

PETITION FOlt WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 393, Submitted; No. 15, Original, Argued,January 22, 1906.-Decided
March 12, 1906.

Subordinate judicial tribunals of the United States can exercise only such
jurisdiction as may be authorized'by acts of Congress and whatever the
nature of a civil suit, or criminal proceedinlg in a state court it cannot
he removed to the Federal court unless warrant therefor be found in
some act of Congress.
Under §§ 641, 642, Rev. Stat., there is no right of removal into the Circuit
Court of the trial of a person indicted under the state law where the
alleged discrimination against the accused in resl)ect to his equal rights,
is due merely to.illegal or corrupt acts of administrative officers unauthorized by the constitution or laws of the State as interpreted by
its highest court. The remedy for wrongs of- that character is in the
VO1. (,CI-1
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

state court, and ultimately in this court by writ of error to protect
any right secured or grantcd to the accused by the Constitution or laws of
the United States and which has been denied to him in the highest court
of the State in which the decision in respect to that right can be had.
The fact that the courts of the State have on previous trials refused to
recognize the validity of an alleged pardon given to the accused by the
actiig Governor of the State does not make a case under § 641, Rev.
Stat., for the removal of the prosecution from the state court into the
Circuit Court.
While the prior decisions of this court determining the scope of § 641,
Rev. Stat., had reference to discrimination against negroes because of
their race, the rules announced equally apply where it exists as to the
white race; § 6-11-aswell as the Fourteenth Amendment is for the benefit
of all of either race whose cases are embraced by its provisions and not
alone for the benefit of the African race.
Where the highest court of the State has declared that the action of the
trial court in refusing to quash the indictment or the panel of petit jurors
cannot under the laws of the State be reviewed by any appellate court,
although the motion to quash was based on Federal grounds, then after
the highest appellate court of the State has disposed of the matters of
which it may take cognizance, a writ of error will run from this court
to the highest court in the State in which the decision of the Federal
question may be had; and upon such writ of error this court can review
the judgment of the trial court, and will exercise such jurisdiction as may
be necessary to vindicate any Federal right, privilege or immunity specially set up and denied.
Where this court holds that a cage cannot be removed under § 641 from
the state court into the Circuit Court it will not pass upon the merits of
any Federal question which may arise in the case.

THESE cases arise out of a criminal prosecution begun in one
of the courts of Kentucky and, after several trials, removed on
the petition of the accused, Caleb Powers, into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Kentucky.
. The principal question to be determined is whether the prosecution was removable from the state court.
After referring to the indictment and to the transfer of the
prosecution into the Circuit Court of the United States, the petition for removal alleged that the accused was within the jurisdiction of the United States and of the Commonwealth of Kentucky; that he was and all of his life had been a citizen of the
United States, and of that Commonwealth, and as such citizen
was entitled to enforce in the judicial tribunals of Kentucky,

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

on the trial and fiial (isposition f sa:i
Idproset ution, all (Ij l
protection
of
laws
sectired to iiun Iby
civil rights and equal
the provision of the lourteenth Aiendiii(nt that "no State
shall make or enforce any law which
aridge
Z'h
3 tie l)rivileges
or immunities of citizens of the uiiit(d States;
,io'shall any
State deprive any )erson of life, liberty, or prolperty, without
due process of law; nor deny to any lperson within its j uris(liction the equal protection of the laws." 1Hfe also claitned the
rights secured by section 1977 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, providing, "all persons within thre jurisdiction
of the United States shall have the same right in every State
and Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties,
give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of all laws and
proceedings for the security of persons and property as is
enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be subject to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses, and exactions of every
kind, and. to no other;" as well as those secured by the act of
Congress of:March 1,1875, 18 Stat. 335, the preamble of which
declareS that.: W
-Vhe..as,it is essential to just government we
recognize the equality of all men before the law, and hold that
it is the duty of government in its dealings with the people to
mete out equal and exact justice to all, of whatever nativity,
race, color, or persuasion, religious or political; and it being
the appropriate object of legislation to enact great fundamental principles into law."
The petition then refers to the arrest of the accused on the
ninth of March, 1900, upon the charge of being an accessory before the fact to the willful murder of William Goebel, and alleges
that on the tenth of March, 1900, and, prior to the finding and
reporting of the indictment against tlue accused, "William S.
Taylor, who was then the duly and legally elected, qualified,
actual and acting Governor of the State of Kentuck, and had
in his actual possession and under his actual control the office
.and executive mansion prepared by said State for its Governor,
and all the books, papers, records, and archives belonging
thereto, in due form of law duly and legally granted and de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

livered to your petitioner, and your petitioner. accepted from
him, a full, complete, absolute and unconditional pardon, release, and acquittance of the identical charge against him in
said indictment, and the charge now pending in said prosecution against your petitioner in said Scott Circuit Court and under which your petitioner is now in custody; that said Taylor
at the time he granted said pardon had the right and authority,
under the constitution and laws of Kentucky, ,to grant same;
that your petitioner accepted said pardon, and from the time
same was granted he had claimed, and he now claims, the full
benefit and effect thereof and his liberty thereunder. That on
the day said pardon was granted him it was, by said Taylor as
Governor aforesaid, duly entered on the executive journal kept
in his office, and a certificate thereof was duly and in due form
of law and as required by law, issued and delivered to him, duly
edxecuted by said Governor and the Secretaiy of said State, and
placed in your petitioner's possession, and same was by your
petitioner accepted. Your petitioner further states that at the
time the said pardon was granted to him by his Excellency, the
said William S. Taylor and subsequent thereto, the said William
S. Taylor was, and prior thereto he had been, recognized, regarded, and treated as the duly elected, actual and acting Governor of the State of Kentucky by the Executive power and
Executive Departments of the United States Government, including the President, the Attorney General and the Postmaster
General, and by the postmaster at Frankfort, Kentucky;" that
"for said State to hold him in custody, or to try or to require
him to be tried in any one of its courts for the offense alleged
against him in and by said indictment, since the granting and
acceptance of said pardon and the issuance and acceptance of
the certificate thereof, is a denial to him of the equal protection
of the laws and the equal civil rights to which he is entitled under, and as provided for in and by the portions of said Amendment to the Constitution of the United States above copied,
and by said section of said Revised Statutes, and by said act
of Congress;" and, that" notwithstanding the granting and ac-

-

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ceptance of said pardon, the issuance and acceptance of said
certificate, the fact that the said William S. Taylor was the
Governor of Kentucky when said pardon was granted and when
said certificate was issued, and was then recognized as such
Governor by said executive officers of the United States, that
he cannot enforce in the said Scott Circuit Court in which said
prosecution is pending, or in that part of the State in which said
Scott County is located, or in any court, judicial tribunal or
place of the said State, the equal civil rights and the equal protection of the laws secured to him by each and all of the three
portions of said Amendment copied above, and by said section
of the Revised Statutes of the United States and by said act
of Congress for the reasons now set forth."
The accused here refers to the three trials to which he was
subjected, and after stating that he was confined in the county
jail, without bail, and awaiting trial, proceeds in his petition:
"That at each of said trials your petitioner presented to said
Scott Circuit Court said certificate of pardon ,and pleaded and
offered in evidence said pardon and said certificate as a bar and
complete defense to said prosecution and the trial and conviction of your petitioner under said indictment, but at each of
said trials the said trial court overruled said pleas and refused
to admit said pardon and certificate as evidence, and held and
adjudged that said pardon and certificate were null and void
and of no effect whatever, and in each of said trials the said
holding of the trial court in reference to said pardon and certificate was duly excepted to and made one of the grounds
which was presented and on which a reversal was asked by said
Court of Appeals on the trial of each one of said appeals heretofore mentioned, and on each one of said appeals your petitioner contended that said pardon and certificate entitled him
to an acquittal of the charge contained in said indictment, but
the said Court of Appeals on the trial and final disposition of
each one of said appeals failed and refused to hold that said
pardon and certificate authorized your petitioner's acquittance
of said charge; instead, that court, as the said" trial court had

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

done, he]l( that said pardon an(d certificate were and are null
and void and of no effect whatever. The holding of said Court
of Appeals on the trial of each of said appeals was reduced to
writing, and each holding as prepared and ordered by said
Court of Appeals has been, by the official reporter of that court,

under the court's direction, caused to be printed in, and is now
a part of, the official printed reports of said court, and all of
said holdings are now in full force and effect as, and they in fact
arc, the laws of said State in this case, and are binding upon
and will have to control this honorable court. That the instances named are the only instances in which said Court of
Appeals or any trial court of said State ever held any pardon
and certificate thereof, granted, entered and issued by any Governor of Kentucky, to be void and of no effect. That in consequence of the action and holdings of said trial court and said
Court of Appeals above stated, this honorable court cannot,
and, should this case be retried in this honorable court, could not
allow your petitioner to plead or introduce said pardon- and certificate as evidence as a defense to the said charges contained
in said indictment against him, and. could not allow your peti-

tioner his liberty and acquittal under and by virtue of said
pardon and certificate, or allow said pardon and certificate to
-have any effect whatever in your petitioner's behalf, but instead is and will be bound in consequence of said laws to hold
said pardon and certificate null and void and of no effect what-

ever."
In the second paragraph of his petition for removal the accused states that he is a citizen of the United States and of
Kentucky, and as such is entitled to enforce in the judicial tribunals of the State the equal civil rights and the equal protection of the law secured to him by the above constitutional provisions and statutes.
His petition then alleges: "But your petitioner states that
he is denied and cannot enforce in the judicial tribunals of this
State and in the part of the State where this action is pending,
the rights secured to him by said laws and each of said laws,

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

because the said State of Kentucky has enacted a law which
has not been repealed nor abrogate(d, and which is now in full
force, and effect, to wit, section 281 of the Criminal Code of
Practice of said State, which section reads as follows: 'The decisions of the court upon challenges to the panel and for cause,
upon motions to set aside an indictment, and Upon motions for
a new trial, shall not be subject to exception ;' and because of
the decisions of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, the highest
judicial tribunal in this State, rendered in this action
upholding the validity of said law, notwithstanding its plain
contravention of the said provisions of the Constitution of the
United States.
*

*

*

*,1

*,

*

*

*

"Your petitioner states that the death of said Goebel occurred during the existence of intense political excitement following the election of a Governor and other state officers in
November, 1899; that said Goebel had been the Democratic
candidate for the office of Governor, and was at the time of his
death contesting the right of said William S. Taylor to the office
of Governor, said Taylor who was a Republican candidate for
that office, having been actually elected Governor and declared
elected Governor by the duly and legally constituted authorities, and inducted 'into said office; that this petitioner was at
said election the Republican candidate for the office of Secretary of State, and had been actually elected and declared elected
to said office, and had been inducted into said office; and there
was pending at the time of said Goebel's death a contest for
the said office of Secretary of State, against this defendant,
inaugurated by one C. B. Hill,,who had been a Democratic candidate for said office; that the public mind was, by said election
and said contest for the office of Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, and the other state offices greatly
inflamed, and bitter and intense political animosities were excited and fostered by reason thereof, and that such feelings existed at all of the trials of this petitioner hereinafter referred
to, .and such feelings still exist against him on the part of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

adherents of said Goebel throughout the State of Kentucky,
and particularly in Scott County.
"Your petitioner further states that lie was first put on trial
under said charge on the 9th clay of July, 1900, at a special
term of the Scott Circuit Court, begun and holden on said date:
that said trial resulted in a verdict of conviction, and he was
sentenced to confinement in the state penitentiary during his
natural life; that the jury in said trial was selected from a
large number of the citizens of said county, and that with three or
-four exceptions all of the veniremen were purposely summoned
because of their known party affiliations, which were different
from the known party affiliations of your petitioner; that by
the laws of Kentucky in such cases made and provided the prosecution has a right to five, and the defense to fifteen, peremptory challenges, and that with the exception of three or four
Republicans and Independent Democrats all of those summoned were known to be partisan Goebel Democrats while
your petitioner was and is a Republican and was known to belong to the Republican Party; that from veniremen so summoned a trial jury was selected that was corrposed almost if
not entirely, of Goebel Democrats, and no Republicans, although there were then i'esiding in said county many hundreds
of citizens qualified for jury service who were Republicans and
Independent Democrats and not supporters of said Goebel in
his candidacy or contest for the office of Governor of Kentucky,
nor in sympathy with him; but your petitioner avers and
charges that all of such citizens, with the exceptions named,
were intentionally passed by in summoning said iVeniremen, in
order that your petitioner shouhl not have a fair trial by a jury
of his peers impartially selected, but to the end that such jury
might be selected to convict him.
"Your petitioner further respectfully represents that the
sheriff of Scott County to whom is assigned the duty of selecting all jurors whose names are not drawn from the jury wheel
is a Goebel Democrat, as are also the deputy sheriffs of said
county.

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"Your petitioner further states that at said first trial hereinbefore mentiQned the judge of the Scott Circuit Court, when the
original list of names drawn from the jury wheel for jury service
had been exhausted, although requested by counsel for this petitioner, and while there remained in said jury wheel about one
hundred names, to draw the names remaining in said jury wheel
therefrom, refused to do so, but directed the sheriff to summon
one hundred men for jury service and explicitly directed him
to summon no men for jury service from the city of Georgetown, but to go out into county for that purpose. Your petitioner states that the said one hundred names that remained
at said time in said jury wheel had been placed there by impartial and unbiased jury commissioners prior to the election
in November, 1899, and prior to the killing of said Goebel.
Your petitioner states that on the morning following, the order
of the court to the sheriff to summon the one hundred men for
jury service from the county and when said one hundred men
so summoned had .appeared in court they were seated on one
side of the court room separate and apart from the spectators
and other persons; that the judge of said court, without notice
to your petitioner or any of his counsel, and without making
any request of any of his counsel or of this petitioner to .accompany him, left the bench and went to the side of the court room
wherein said parties summoned for jury service were assembled,
and without swearing said parties, so far as this petitioner saw,
heard or has information, as to their excuses for not serving as
jurors if any they had, called them up to him one at a time,
not in the hearing of this petitioner, or his counsel, and excused
such of them from jury service as he saw fit, without any knowledge on the part of this petitioner or his counsel as to why such
parties were thus excused, and on the following day the same
proceeding was had as to forty additional men that had been
summoned for jury service in this case.
"Your petitioner further states that an appeal was taklen
from the judgment of said court to the Kentucky Court of Appeals, and that at the January term, 1901. of said court the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

judgment of the trial court was reversed; that your petitioner
was again tried in the Scott Circuit Court at its October, 1901,
term, and a verdict of guilty returned again, fixing the punishment of your petitioner at confinement in the state penitentiary
for life; that in summoning the veniremen from whom the jury
was selected at the second trial the same unjust and unlawful
discrimination was practised, and that of one hundred and
twenty-five veniremen summoned in Scott County, all were partisan Goebel Democrats except three, and of one hundred and
sixty-eight veniremen summoned in the adjoining county of
Bourbon, all' were partisan Democrats except three, so that of
the aggregate of two hundred and ninety summoned, two hundred and eighty-four were Goebel Democrats and six were Republicans, notwithstanding the fact that there were many huldreds of citizens in each of said counties qualified for jury service
who were Republicans or Independent Democrats, and not
Goebel partisans.
"Your petitioner states that at said second trial he objected
to the formation of a jury from the veniremen summoned as
hereinabove stated, and mbved to discharge the entire venire
on the ground that he tould not obtain a fair trial before a jury
selected therefrom and filed in support of said objection an
affidavit."
The affidavit referred to is given in full in the margin.1
.1The affiant states tlat he ought not to bed.required to go to trial before
a jury drawn as a panel for service at the present term of this court or already
summoned from the county of Bourbon for the following reasons, namely:
that the political canvass in this State in 1899, in which the late William
Go~bel was candidate for the office of Governor, was a heated and angry
,one, and tended to create great antagonism in the minds of his political
adherents against those who opposed; that this canvass was followed by
a contest before the state legislature for said office, in which the deepest
and fiercest passions were stirred in the minds of his followers in this county,
as well as in other counties of the State, including the county of Bourbon;
that during that contest the said Goebel was killed, which killing tended
still. further to deepen and intensify the political passions of his friends and
admirers in this county and in the county of Bourbon and throughout the
State, against this. affiant, who was a candidate for a state office on the
Republican ticket in the said year of 1900. The passions thus created have

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The petition then proceeds: "Your petitioner states that
although the statements in said affidavit were true and known
to be true by the court he was forced to submit to trial before
a jury composed entirely of Goebel Democrats, your petitioner
since that time been stimulated and fed by the political contests which have
since followed, and are still in existence, in this county and Bourbon County.
Affiant says that, at a special term of this court in July, 1900, he was put
on trial in this county, charged with being an accessory before the fact to
the killing of said William Goebel, afid was by the jury found guilty. From
the judgment of the court at that term, the affiant appealed to the Appellate
Court, the appeal being taken in the early part of September in said year;
that at the subsequent October term of said court, jury commissioners for
this county were selected whose duty it was to select a large number of.
names and place them in the jury wheel for service during the year 1901.
The three commissioners appointed were John Bradford, Ben Mallory
and H. H. Haggard, all three of whom were partisan supporters and allies,
in the contest referred to, of the said William Goebel, deceased. The said
jury commissioners discharged the work assigned to them by placing in
said jury wheel the names of two hundred citizens of Scott County for purposes of said jury service; that at the February term, 1901, of the Circuit
Court of this county and at the May term of the said year, seventy-five or
more names were drawn from the jury wheel for said service; that at the'
present term there were drawn from the said jury wheel for the purpose of
securing a jury in this case about one hundred and twenty-five names, that
,being the entire number of names placed in. the wheel. Affiant further
states that at the regular state election of 1900, in the county of Scott,
there were cast for the Democratic candidate, in round numbers, 2,500 votes,
and for the Republican candidate 2,100 votes; that of these 2,100 votes
not less than 1,300 were white voters of equal character, standing and
intelligence with the white voters who cast their votes for the Democratic
party
at said election.
Affiant
says that, despite these'conditions, which were shown to
exist in
this county, that of the 200 names placed in the jury wheel by the aforesaid commissioners and drawn out as herein described, only five were supporters of the Republican party, and the other 195 being active partisan
friends and supporters of the party with which William Goebel was identified as its leader and whose minds and passions had been inflamed against
this affiant by continued political agitation.
-The affiant further says that of the five Republicans whose names were
placed in the jury wheel for jury service by said commissioners, as before
stated, one man was drawn for service at the February term.of this court, 1901,
and another at the May term; of the remaining three, two of them at the
present term disqualified themselves herein by previously formed opinions,
and the fifth and last, after qualification and acceptance on.thevoir dire,
was peremptorily challenged by the Commonwealth. The affiant says that

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

always having been a Republican in politics as hereinabove
stated; and as hereinabove stated your petitioner was at said
trial found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment for life by the
judgment of said Scott Circuit Court; that your petitioner took
an appeal from the judgment so rendered, which judgment was
it will be impossible under these circumstances for him to avoid being tried
at this term of this court except by a jury composed entirely of his political
opponents and exclusively made up of those who were the adherents and
admirers of said Goebel, and it will be impossible for him to obtain a fair
and impartial trial before any jury so constituted and formed.
The affiant further states that the officers of this county who went to
Bourbon County to summon the men for jury service sent directly to the
sheriff of Bourbon County, who, together with his deputies, were earnest
and ardent adherents, supporters and friends of the said William Goebel
and opposed politically to this affiant; that the officers of this county consulted and advised with the said officers of Bourbon County as to the selection of the men summoned, and that Wallace Mitchell, deputy sheriff of
said county; James Burke, another deputy sheriff of said county; Joseph
Williams; a constable of Bourbon County, and James A. Gibson, a guard
for county prisoners in Bourbon County, all of whom are the political adherents of said Goebel and politically opposed to this affiant, acted with
them in making the selection and summoning said men.
He says that the political complexion of Bourbon is almost equally
Democratic and Republican, there being a slight majority in favor of the
Democratic party; that of the Republicans, about three-fifths are colored,
but there are many conscientious, fair-minded and respectable citizens of
Bourbon County, qualified for jury service, of the same political faith of
this affiant, a great many of whom could have been as readily and conveniently summoned and who would give to both sides herein a fair and
impartial trial; but that none of such persons were summoned with the
exception of two men, and with these exceptions 91 of the 93 names appearing upon the list furnished this affiant as a correct list of the men summoned from Bourbon County are the names of the supporters and adherents
of said Goebel, and opposed politically to this affiant, and were summoned
for jury service herein by reason of such fact, as this affiant believes.
Affiant further states that said Wallace Mitchell, the deputy sheriff of
Bourbon County is now a candidate for sheriff of said county, seeking an
election at the hands of the supporters and adherents of said William Goebel,
and is their nominee for said office. Said Mitchell, in the fall of 1900, acted
in summoning for jury service in this court in the case of the CommonweaUh
v. Youte'y, indicted for the same offense of this affiant, and in making the
selection of men to serve as jurors therein, made the statement that he would
not summons a single Brown Democrat or Republican for such service, and
he did not summons any such.

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

reversed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky at the September, 1902, term; that your petitioner was again and for the
third time tried at a special term of the Scott Circuit Court
under the charge hereinabove mentioned, which trial was begun
and holden on the third day of August, 1903, and that of the
number of one hundred and seventy-six veniremen summoned
from Bourbon County, from which the jury was selected, three
only, or possibly four, were Republicans, and the remaining one
hundred and seventy-three (two) were Goebel Democrats and
were summoned for that reason, and because they differed politically from your petitioner, whereas there were many hundreds of Republicans and Independent Democrats in said
county qualified for jury service, but your petitioner states
they were purposely avoided and passed by in summoning said
veniremen, and that said trial jury was not selected impartially
as required by law; that in the year 1896 there were over
twenty-six hundred votes in said county for William McKinley,
Republican candidate for President of the United States, and
about twenty-two hundred votes cast for William J. Bryan, his
Democratic opponent; that in the year 1899 William S. Taylor,
Republican candidate for Governor of Kentucky, received
twenty-seven more votes in said county than were cast for said
William Goebel, his Democratic opponent, and that a jury impartially selected could not have been and would not have been,
as it was,. composed entirely of Goebel Democrats--on his said
third trial one juror,'a Goebel supporter, but of doubtful politics, excep ted.
"Yourpetitioner further represents that at the third and last
trial of this petitioner in said Scott Circuit Court, the judge
thereof entered an order ,directing the sheriff of said Scott
County to summon two hundre4 men from Bourbon County
for jury service; that, this petitioner's. att6meys asked the
court to admonish the' sheriff to summon an equal number of
men of each political party; that this request was refused and
thereupon counsel for this petitioner asked the court to instruct
the sheriff to summon the talesmen as he came to them,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

regardless of political affiliation. This the court also refused
to do.
"Your petitioner further states that said trial resulted in- a
verdict of guilty, affixing the death sentence, and a judgment
was thereupon entered, from which judgment an appeal was
taken to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and on December 6,
1904, the judgment of conviction was for the third time reversed
by.said court, and that. it is the purpose and intention of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky to subject this petitioner to a
fourth trial under said charge, within a short time, in said Scott
Circuit Court.
"Your petitioner .further respectfully, states that at each of
said three trials the facts in relation to the jurors. given or hereinbefore recited were embraced in affidavits filed in support of
challenges to the panel and the venire and, objections to the
formation of the jury from the men-summoned as hereinabove
mentioned, and were also embraced. in the motions and grounds
for new trial prepared and filed on behalf of this petitioner at
each of said.trials, but that they were disregarded by the court
and your .petitioner's challenge to the panels, to the venire and
the'motions for new trials in each instance, overruled; that by
reason of section 281 of the Criminal Code of the State hereinbefore quoted, this petitioner was and is denied the right of any
exception on said grounds, and the Court of Appeals of Kentucky on each of the three appeals hereinbefore set forth have
decided that no irregularity in the summoning or impanelling
of the jury is a reversible error, and they are powerless to reverse any judgment of said court by reason of such facts and
have'held 'said law to be valid and such law is now the law of
.this case, and said Court of Appeals of Kentucky are powerless
upon any future appeal to reverse any judgment of said court
by reason of a repetition of the acts hereinbefore set forth, or
for any other irregularity or improper conduct in the formation
of the jury, no matter how prejudicial to the substantial rights
of your petitioner they may be, and must be followed and cannot be disregarded by'this honorable -court.

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Argument for Commonwealth.

"Your petitioner therefore prays this -honorable court that
the said indictment and the prosecution pending thereunder in
this, honorable court against your petitioner be removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
for trial at the next ensuing term of said Circuit Court, and your
'petitioner will ever pray."
Mr. Napoleon B. Hays, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., with
whom Mr. Robert B. Franklin and Mr. C. J. Bronston were on
the brief, for petitioner in No. 15, original, and for appellant
in No. 393:
The decision of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky that Taylor was not Governor of the State on March 10, 1900, presents
no Federal question, and, if erroneous, denies no right secured to
him by the Constitution or laws of the United States. It would
not justify a writ of error from this court, much less a removal
of the criminal prosecution, in advance of trial, into the Circuit
Court of the United States. Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548.
•The office of Governor of Kentucky is created by the 'constitution and laws of the State, and not by those of the United
States. It is the laws of the State which provide forthe contest of elections and declare the effect of the decision of the
legislature. In re Converse, 137 U. S. 624, 631; Lambert v.
Barrett, 157 U. S. 697, 699.
Under the decision of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in
Powers v. Commonwealth, 110 Kentucky, 386, and by the judgment of this court in Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548, the decision of the legislature of Kentucky, in the contest between
-Beckham and Taylor for Governor, was final, and not subject
to review by any court, state or Federal.
The statutes of Kentucky for the selection of jurors, and the
trial of criminal prosecutions, are not repugnant, in any respect,
to the Constitution of the United States. Section 2241 Kentucky Statutes; Crim. Code, §§ 191-194, 199, 203, 207-209,
271, 340.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Commonwealth.

201 U. S.

The possibility that officers of the state court will disregard
state statutes and unlawfully discriminate in summoning jurors
at the next trial, is net ground for removal, under § 641, Rev.
Stat.
Unless officers of the state court, charged with the duty of
selecting jurors, are guilty of unlawful conduct, there will be no
occasion for the parties to challenge the panel on that account,
or for the court to pass upon any question. in that connection.
If the contingency arises, and-rights of the defendant under
the Constitution of the United States are denied, his remedy
is by writ of error from this court, if need be, as in Carter v.
Texas, 177 U. S. 442, and Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226,
or: by-writ of habeas corpus from a Federal court. under §753,
Rev. Stat.; Ex parte Wells, 3 Woods, 128; Virginia v. Rives,
100 U. S. 313; Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303; Neal
v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S.
565; Murray v. Louisiana, 163 U. S. 101; In re Wood, 140 U. S.
278; Andrew§ v.. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272.
The petition for removal does not allege that the officers of
the state court will practice unlawful discrimination in selecting jurors.at the next trial.
TlHe possibility that the judge who presides at the next trial
in-the state-court will commit error of law in overruling challenges to the panel is not ground for removing the prosecution
into a Federal court.
See Cartr v. Texas, 177, U. S. 442, and Rogers v. Alabama,
192 U. S. 226, as to state court's refusal to consider evidence
in support of objections to the panel; unlawful discrimination
in summoning jurors'may be ground for a writ of error but is
not ground for removal' It is not uncommon for inferior state.
courts to err in construing the Constitution and laws of the
United States, but a method is provided for the decent and orderly revision .of their, judgments. They do not forfeit their
jurisdiction, because they have committed error of law.
While the guaranty of equal protectiun of the laws under the
Fourteenth Amendment applies to action of a State through its

KENTUCKY v,. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Argument for Commonwealth.

courts, as well as through its legislature, the claim, on account
of action by a state court, cannot be made, in advance of the
trial, on the allegation that the circumstances requiring protection arise during the trial, and that when they arise the
court will'deny the protection.
Protection against action by a State, through its courts, has
never been accorded except on writ of error after the state
court has acted.
If there is no writ of error from this court to the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, or to the Circuit Court of Scott County,
to review the rulings of that court in connection with the impaneling of tle jury, that might furnish a ground for 'writ of
-habeas corpus after conviction, but it (toes not justify the re-'moval of the prosecution into the Federal court in advance of
trial.
The statute will not be enlarged by construction.- Virginia
v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107, 114; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S.257;
Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 31'3};.Davis v. South Carolina, 107
U. S. 597; In re Neagle, 135 U.. S. i,--Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U. S. 657:
The right to trial by an impartial jury in a state court is not.
guaranteed by'the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Brooks v. ilissoouri, 124 U. S. 394; Central Land Co. -.- Laidley,
159 U. S. 103; Morrow v. Brinkley, 129 U. S. 178; Howard v.
Fleming, 191 U. S. 126; inre Converse, 137 U. S. 624.
Section 281 of the Criminal Code of Kentucky, providing that
decisions upon challenges shall not be subject to exception, is
not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and does
not authorize a removal, in advance of trial.
The right of appeal in a criminal case is left entirely to the
discretion of the State, and is not guaranteed by the Federal
Constitution. Kohl v. Lehlback, 160 U. S.293; Mallett v. NortA
Carolina, 181 U. S. 589; Missouri v. Lewis, 101'U. S. 2
Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S.272.
If any right of a defendant in a criminal case, under the Con-sti6tfiion or laws of the United States, in connection with a
voi.. ccr-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Powers.

201 U. S.

challenge to a panel, or upon motion to set aside an indictment,
or upon motion for a new trial, is denied by a state court, the
remedy is by writ of error from this court, as in Carterv. Texas,
177 U. S. 442, and Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226, or by writ
of habeas corpus from a Federal court, after conviction, under
section .753 of the Revised Statutes.
Due process of law and equal protection of the laws do
not'require that there shall be right of appeal from a criminal
prosecution in the state court. Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S.
272.
The State of Kentucky, without violating the Federal Constitution, might provide that there should be no appeal in any
criminal case. For nearly a century there, was no appeal in
criminal cases in the Federal courts.
Mr. Frank S. Black and Mr. E. L. Worthington, with whom
Mr. Richard Yates, Mr. H. Clay Howard, Mr. James C. Sims
and Mr. R. C. Kinkead were on the brief, for. defendant in No.
15 and for appellee in No. 393:
The uncontroverted allegations of the first paragraph of the
petition for removal are that an absolute, unconditional, valid
pardon was issued, delivered to, and accepted by, appellee for
the identical offense herein charged; that said pardon has been*
thrice denied by the highest court in Kentucky; that, therefore,
he is denied or cannot enforce, in the judicial tribunals of said
State, the equal civil rights secured to him,.as acitizen, of the'
United States, by the laws thereof.
Unless there is a record contradiction, the sworn allegations
of a petition for removal, which are not traversed, must be
taken as true. Dishon v. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. iCo., 133 Fed.
Rep. 471; Toledo Traction Co. v. Cameron, 137 Fed. Rep. 48;
18 Ency. P1. and Pr.. 372. Section 641.is constitutional. Ex
parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Strauder v. West Virginia, 100
U. S. 303; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Bush v. Kentucky,
107 U. S. 110; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565; Smith v.
Mississippi, 162 U. S. 592; Murray v. Louisiana, 163 U.S. 101;

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Argument for Powers.

Williams v. Mississippi, 170 I S. 213; Virginia v. Rives, 100
U. S. 313; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257 .
The view was taken for some years after the Fourteenth
Amendment was promulgated, that its restrictions applied exclusively to prevent discrimination by the States against the

negro on account of his race or color, and the Slaughter House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303;
Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, were erroneously construed

by many of the state courts, as actually holding that the
Amendment was so restricted.
And indeed, Congress, too, for many years, must have be-

lieved that the application of the Amendment would be limited
as stated in the opinion in' the Slaughter House Cases. See sec.
16, act of May'31, 1870, 16 Stat. 144;, act of March 1, 1875, 18
Stat. 335, and last clause of act of June, 1879, 21 Stat. 43,
and' sec. 17 of the act of May 31, 1870 now sec. 5510, Rev.
Stat.
This court has long since discarded that view, and has held,
without qualification,' that its provisions apply to every form
of state action, legislative, political or judicial, regardless of
race or color, and to the official acts of every state officer, as
well, and to the benefit of all persons within the jurisdiction of
any State.
For defiAtion of equal civil rights and equal-protection of the
laws as guaranteed by the 'Amendment,- see Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 155 U. S. 321; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366.'
A State, by its judicial tribunals, cannot deny to a citizen of
the United States a'right secured to him by any law providing
for the' equal civil rights of citizens of the United States."
Bowman v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; Pace v7 Alabama, 106 U. S.
583; Moore v. Missouri, 159 U. S. 673; Guthrie, Fourteenth
Amendment, pp. 107, 108.
The petition for removal under § 641, Rev. Stat., nay be
filed at any time before final hearing, though there have been
previous trials and reversals. Bush v. Kentucky, 107 U. S. 1110;

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Powers.

201 U. S.

Parkerv. Vanderbilt, 136 Fed. Rep. 246; Detroit v. Detroit City
Ry., 54 Fed. Rep. 10.
The cases of Strauder v. West Virginia, Virginia v. Rives,
Ex parte Virginia, Neal v. Delaware and Gibson v. Mississippi,
hold that the Amendment is much broader than § 641; that
many rights are protected by the Amendment, a denial of which
by the State during the trial cannot constitute grounds for
removal., These cases seem to hold that, as the cause for removal must under the act exist before the trial or final hearing
of the cause, that that cause must necessarily be a denial of
'equal civil rights by either a law or a constitutional provision
of the State. The first paragraph of the petition for removal
fully meets, as we believe, all the requirements of these decisions, even though they do require a law or constitutional
amendment to justify the removal. It alleges that certain laws
of Kentucky stand between appellee and the courts of the
State, and force the latter to deny the former the equal protection of the laws secured by this Amendment.
The seveial decisions of the highest court of Kentucky have
become the law of the case and have become binding upon all
the courts of the Commonwealth. Rowland v. Craig, Sneed,
330; Morgan v. Dickerson, 1 T. B..Monroe, 20; Sims v. Reed,
12 B. Mon. 51; Gray v. Dickerson, 11 Ky. Law Rep. 890; L. &
N. R. R. Co. v. Survant, 19 Ky. Law Rep. 1576; Commonwealth
v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 20 Ky. Law Rep. 351; L. & N. R. R. Co.
v. Ricketts, 21 Ky. Law Rep. 662; Breashearsv. Letcher County,
21 Ky. Law Rep. 1250; Wilson's Assignees v. Louisville Nat.
Bk., 25 Ky. Law Rep. 1065; Booth & Co. v. Bethel, 25 Ky. Law
Rep. 747; Brown v. Crow, Hardin, 451; Bryan v. Bekley, Litt.
Sel. Cas. 91; Lewis v. Lewis, 11 Ky. Law Rep. 413.
Equal civil rights are denied by state decisions no less than
by state statutes. Neal v. Delaware, Bush v. Kentucky, supra.
When the common law of England was adopted as a part of
our jurisprudence, the pardoning power, as exercised by the
British Crown and Parliament, was well understood. Before
the Revolution it was exercised in those parts of this country

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Argument for Powers.

which were British colonies. The same power in its essential
elements, has been conferred upon the Executive of our States
and Nation. United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128.
When the validity and effect of a pardon are to be determined
the established principles of the common law will control in
state and Federal courts, in the absence of enactment to the
contrary. United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150.
When a citizen of the United States is arrested and tried for
a state offense notwithstanding he holds a valid pardon which
is denied recognition in the highest state court, in legal contemplation, an innocent man is thrown in prison, and the Federal
courts can restore his liberty, either by habeas corpus or removal proceedings. In the latter, a trial can be had upon the
merits of the charge, and the pardon, heard upon, its merits,
can be offered in arrest of judgment, if need be, from any cause.
Ex parte Wells, 18 How. 310. See also Ex parte Slauson, 73
Fed. Rep. 666; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231; Iasigi v.
Van de Carr, 166 U. S. 391.
Taylor having lawfully been inducted into office, and holding
actual possession thereof, claiming title by virtue of a certificate of election, his authorized official acts until legally and
actually ousted are binding upon the State and third persons
regardless of the alleged determination of a contest. His powers continue, as originally invested, pending any litigation that
may properly ensue, and it is his duty to hold said office uintil
title thereto is finally adjusted. United States v. Mitchell, 136
Fed. Rep. 896; Brady v. Levitt, 17 Kansas, 471; Kansas v.
Durkee, 12 Kansas, 308; Ex parte Powers, 129 Fed. Rep. 985;
Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S.. 548.
Title to an office cannot be determined by an ordinary civil
suit between private individuals. It must be by quo warranto.
People v. Olds, 58 Ain. Dec. 398; Marke v. Wright, 13 Indiana,
548; Cochran v. McCleary, 22 Iowa, 75; Updegrafl v. Crane,
47 Pa. St. 103. The decision of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky that Taylor was not Governor is therefore of no effect.
If appellee was pardoned, no court had jurisdiction to arrest

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the-Court.

201 U. S.

or try him. No questions involve more general principles of
law than those of pardon and jurisdiction, questions and principles common to all courts, local and peculiar to none. See
United States v. Wilson, 7 Pel. 150 cited supra. Because the
highest state court has passed upon and denied a pardon, it
is not therefore a local question, peculiar to that State, and
this court is not bound to follow that decision.. The established principles of the common law control in determining the
validity of a pardon. Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678;
Mohr v. Manierre, 7 Biss. 419.
Federal courts do not follow state decisions upon the construction or enforcement of state laws, if they violate the Federal Constitution, or the rights it guarantees.. Rowan v. Runnels, 5 How. 134; Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 How. 369; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1. Black, 436.
The decisions rejecting Powers' pardon cannot be here followed, not onlybecause general principles of law, common to
all courts, are involved, but because they deny to Powers the
equal protection of the law in such a discrimination.
The Federal Government recognized Taylor as Governor of
Kentucky and. such recognition binds all dourts. Black's Constitutional Law, pp. 83, 241-244; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1;
Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202; Hamilton v. McClaughry,
136 Fed. Rep. 445; Sutton v. Tiller, 98 Am. Dec. 471; The
Hornet, Fed. Cas. No. 6,705.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

delivered the opinion of the court.

Powers, the accused, was indicted in the Circuit Court of
Franklin County, Kentucky, for the crime of having been an
accessory before the fact to the murder of William Goebel, who
was assassinated in that county on the thirtieth day of January, 1900. Thp prosecution was removed by. change of venue
to the Circuit Court of Scott County. In the latter court the
accused was found guilty and his punishment fixed by the jury
at confinement in the state peniteritiary for life. Upon appeal

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky the judgment was reversed
and a new trial ordered. Powers v. Commonwealth, 110 Kentucky, 386. At the second trial the verdict was guilty, and the
punishment was again fixed at confinement-in the penitentiary
for life. Upon appeal, that judgment was reversed and a new trial ordered. Powers v. Commonwealth, 114 Kentucky, 239.
A third trial occurred, which resulted in a verdict of guilty, with
the punishment fixed at death. This judgment was also reversed and the case sent back for a new trial. Powers v. Commonwealth, 83 S.W. Rep. 146.
When the case came on for trial the fourth time the acoused
tendered and offered to file in the state court his petition praying, upon grounds therein stated (and which appear in the
above statement) that the prosecution be removed for trial into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Kentucky. 'But the state court would not allow the petition
to be filed. Subsequently, a partial transcript of the record
was filed in the Federal court, and the case was docketed in that
court. The Commonwealth objected to the filing of the transcript from the state court and to the docketing of the case i
the Federal court, and moved to vacate the order of filing and
docketing, That motion was overruled.
Thereupon the accused, by his counsel, presented to the Federal court an application for a writ of habeas corpus, 'inorder
that he might be discharged from the custody of the state authorities. For the reasons set forth in the opinion of that court
the application was granted and a writ ordered to issue commanding the jailer of Scott County, who held the accused in
custody for the State, to deliver him into the custody of the
marshal of the Federal court, which was done, that officer being
directed to keep the accused confined in the county jail of Campbell County, Kentucky, until the further order of the Federal
court.

Commonwcalth v. Powers, 139 Fed. Rep. 452.. From.

that order the Commbnwealth of Kentucky has prosecuted the:
above appeal (No. 393), the sole ground of such appeal being
that the Federal court was without jurisdiction to make the

OCTOBER TERT)i, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

order allowing the writ of habeas corpus and taking the accused
from the custody of the state authorities. The accused has
moved to dismiss the appeal because the remedy of the Commonwealth was by a writ of mandamus.
The Commonwealth also asked leave to file a petition for
mandamus to compel the Federal court to remand the case to
the state court and to restore the custody of the accused to the
state authorities. Leave to file was granted and the Federal
judge, having made his return, submitted the rule upon the
record of the case, including the opinion filed by the court below
when the writ of habeas corpus was awarded to take the accused
from the custody of the state authorities. This is case No. 15,
Original.
The fundamental question to be determined is whether the
removal of this criminal prosecution from the state court
into the Federal court was authorized by any statute of the
United States. We say, by any statute, because the subordinate judicial tribunals of the United States can exercise only
such jurisdiction, civil and criminal, as may be authorized by
acts of Congress. Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for this
court, has said that" courts which originate in the common law
possess a jurisdiction which must be regulated by their common
law, until some statute shalt change their established principles; but courts which are created by written law, and whose
jurisdiction is defined by written law, cannot transcend that
jurisdiction." E parte Bollman &c., 4 Cr. 75, 93; United
States v. Hudson, 7 Cr. 32, 33; Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, 245;
McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cr. 504, 506; United States v. Eckford, 6
Wall. 484, 488; Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How. 441, 449; Jones v.
United States, 137 U. S. 202, 211; The Sewing Machine Companies, 18 Wall. 553, 571; Holmes v. Goldsmith, 147 U S.
150, 158.

--

The adjudged cases make it clear that whatever the nature
of a civil suit or criminal proceeding in a state court, it cannot
be removed into a Federal court unless warrant therefor be
found in some act of Congress.

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We are now to inquire whether the case was removable from
the state court, in virtue of any act of Congress.
The removal of this prosecution into the Federal court was
rested on §§ 641, 642 Revised Statutes, which are as follows:
'"
SEC. 641. When any civil suit or criminal prosecution is commenced in any state court, for any cause whatsoever, against
any person who is denied or cannot enforce in the judicial tribunals of the State, or in the part of the State where such suit or prosecution is pendinf,, any right secured to him by any law providing
for the equal civil rights of citizens of the United States, or of all
persons within the" jurisdiction of the United States,
such suit or prosecution may upon the petition of such defendant, filed in said state court at any time before the trial or final
hearing of the cause, stating the facts and verified by oath, be
removed, for trial, into the next Circuit Court to be held in the
district where it is pending. Upon the filing of such petition
all further proceedings in the state courts shall cease, and shall'
not be resumed except as hereinafter provided. But all bail
and other security given in such suit or prosecution shall continue in like fo.rce and effect as if the same had proceeded to
final judgment and execution in the state court.
"SEc. 642. When all the acts necessary for the removal of any
suit of prosecution, as provided in the preceding section, have
been performed, and the defendant petitioning for such removal
is in actual custody on process issued by said state court, it
shall be the duty of the clerk of. said Circuit Court to issue a
writ of habeas corpus cum causa, and of the marshal, by virtue
of said writ, to take the body of the defendant into his custody,
to be dealt with in said Circuit Court according to law and the
orders of said court, or, in vacation, of any judge thereof; and
the marshal shall file with or deliver to the clerk of said state
court a duplicate copy of said writ."
The contention of the Commonwealth is that the decisions of
this court wholly preclude the suggestion that section 641 authorized the removal of this case iito the Federal court. In view
of this contention we must see wh at has been heretofore decided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Among the cases to which our attention has been called, the
first one, in point of time, involving the construction of section
641, is Ex parte Wetls, 3 Woods, 128, 132, determined in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana,
Mr. Justice Bradley presiding. The accused there sought to
remove the prosecution from the state court, upon the ground,
among others, that such vindictive prejudice existed against
them on the part of the law-making and law-administering authorities of the State that they would be denied their rights as
citizens in the state court, as well as before any jury that might
be impanelled therein under the then existing jury law of the
State; consequently, they would not be able to enforce their
rights in said court. It was also alleged that the state court
and its officers had so manipulated the local law as to deprive
the accused of an impartial jury, and that they would be deprived of the full and equal benefitof the laws and proceedings
for the security of their persons. The court, having found that
there was nothing in the constitution or laws of the State that
was hostile to the equal rights of the accused, in any particular,.
said: "The allegations with regard-to the manipulation of the
law in. such manner as to secure a jury inimical to-the petitioners, and with regard to the existence of a general prejudice
against them in the minds of the court, the jurors, the officials
and the people, are not within the purview of the statute authorizing a removal. The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which guarantees the equal benefit of the laws on
which the present application is based, only prohibits state legislation violative of said right; it is not directed against individual infringements thereof. The civil rights bill of 1866 was
broader in its scope, undertaking to vindicate those rights
against individual aggression; but, still, only when committed
under color of some 'law, statute, ordinance, regulation or cistorn.' And when that provision in this law, which is transferred to section 641 of the Revised: Statutes, gave the right to
remove to the United States courts a cause commenced in a
state court against a person who is denied or cannot enforce any

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the rights secured by the act, it had reference to a denial of
those rights or impediments to their enforcement, arising from
some state law, statute, regulation or custom. It is only when
some such hostile state legislation can be shown to existi interfering with the party's right of defense, that he can have his
cause removed to the Federal court."
In Strauder v. West-Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 309, 312, which
was an indictment in a court of West Virginia against a person
of the African race for the crime of murder, the accused, before
the trial commenced, presented his petition for the removal of
the case into the Uhited. States court upon the ground that the
laws of the State, in relation to both grand and petit juries,
discriminated against colored citizens, because of their race, in
violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The petition for removal was denied, and the accused was
forced to a trial in the state court, found guilty, and sentenced.
That judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Appeals
of the State, and the case was brought here upon writ of error.
This court held the state statute to be unconstitutional, as making an illegal discrimination against negroes, because of their
race. After referring to what was said in United States v.
Reese, 92, U. S. 214, to the effect that rights and immunities
created by or dependent upon the Constitution of the United
States can be protected by Congress, and that the -form and
manner of the protection may be such as Congress in the legitimate exercise of its legislative discretion shall provide, the court
said: "There is express authority to protect the rights and immunities referred to in the Fourteenth Amendment, and to
enforce observance of them by appropriate Congressional legislation. And one very efficient and appropriate mode of extending such protection and securing to a party the enjoyment
of the right or immunity, is a law providing for the removal of
his case from a state court, in which the right is denied by the
state law, into a Federal court, where it will be upheld. This
is an ordinary mode of protecting rights and immunities conferred by the Federal Constitution and laws: Section 641 is

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U .s.

such a provision." Adverting to the act from which sections
1977 and 1978 of the Revised Statutes were taken the court
further said: "This act puts in the form of a statute what had
been substantially ordained by the constitutional amendment.
It was a step towards enforcing the constitutional provisions.
Section 641 was an advanced step, -fully warranted, we think,
by the fifth section of the Fourteenth Amendment." Observe
that this was the case of a state statute held to prevent the enforcement in the judicial tribunals of the State of rights secured
to the accused by the Constitution of the United States. Upon
that point this court said: "That the petition of the plaintiff
in error, filed by him in the state court before the trial of his
case, made a case for removal into the Federal Circuit Court,
under section 641, is very plain, if, by the constitutional amendment and section 1977 of theRevisedStatutes, he was entitled
to immunity from discrimination against him in the selection
of jurors, because of their color, as we have endeavored to show
that he was. It set forth sufficient facts to exhibit a denial
of that immunity, and a denial by the statute law of the
State. There was error, therefore, in proceeding to the trial of
the indictment against him after his petition was filed, as also
in overruling his challenge to the array of the jury, and in refusing to quash the panel."
In Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 321, which was an indictment in a court of Virginia against colored persons charged with
the crime of murder, the accused moved that the venire, which
was composed entirely of white men, should be modified so as
to allow one-third of the jury to be composed of colored men.
That motion was overruled. Thereupon the defendants, before
the trial, sought by petition to have the prosecution removed
into the Federal court, upon the ground that the right secured

to them by the act of Congress providing for the equal civil
rights of all citizens of the United States was denied to them in
the judicial tribunals of the county in which the prosecution was
pending; also, upon the ground that the grand jury finding the

indictment had been organized in discrimination against the

KEN I UCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

colored race because of their race. The application to remove
the case was denied, and the defendants were tried in the state
court and convicted. The case at that stage of the trial was
docketed, at the motion of the accused, in the Federal court,
and upon writ of habeas corpus sued out from that court they
were taken from the custody of the State and placed in the custody of the United States marshal. The Commonwealth of
Virginia obtained from this court a rule against the judge of
the Federal court to show cause why the accused should not
be redelivered to the authorities of the State to be dealt with
according to the laws of that Commonwealth. The judge
made his return to the rule, averring that the indictments were
removed into the Federal court by virtue of section 641 of the
Revised Statutes. It is important to notice that there was no
claim in that case that either the Constitution or laws of Virginia denied the civil rights of colored people or stood in the
way of their enforcing the equal protection of the laws. The
law, this court said, made no discrimination against them because of their color, nor any discrimination at all. And further,
referring to the officer charged with the duty of selecting jurors,
this court said: "He made himself liable to punishment at the
instance of the State and under the laws of the United States.
In'one sense, indeed, his act was the act of the State, and was
prohibited by the constitutional amendment. But, inasmuch
as it was a criminal misuse of the state law, it cannot be said to
have been such a 'denial or disability to enforce in the judicial
tribunals of the State' the rights of colored men, as is contemplated by the removal act. Section 641. It is to be observed that
act gives the right of removal only to a person'who is denied, or
cannot enforce, in the judicial tribunals of the State his equal
civil rights.' And this is to appear before trial. When a statute of the State denies his fight, or interposes a bar to his enforcing it, in the judicial tribunals, the presumption is fair that they
will be controlled by it in their decisions; and in such a case a
defendant may affirm on oath what is necessary for a removal.
Such a case is clearly within the provisions of section 641. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

when a subordinate officer of the State, in violation of state law,
undertakes to deprive an accused party of a right which the
statute law accords to him, as in the case at bar, it can hardly
be said that he isdenied, or cannot enforce, 'in the judicial tribunals of the State' the rights Which belong to him. In such
a case it ought to be presumed the court will redress the wrong.
If the accused is deprived of the right, the final and practical
denial will be in the judicial tribunal which tries the case, after
the trial has commenced. If, as in this case, the subordinate
officer, whose duty it is to select jurors, fails to discharge that
duty in the true spirit of the law; if he excludes all colored men
solely U5eause they are colored; or if the sheriff to whom a
Igiven, composed
vemre .is
of both white and colored citizens,
neglects to summon:the colored jurors only because they are
colored; or if a clerk whose duty it is to take the twelve names
from the box rejects all the colored jurors for the same reasonit can with no propriety be said the defendant's right is denied
by the State and cannot be enforced in the judicial tribunals.
The court will correct the wrong, will quash the indictment or
the panel, or, if not, the error will be corrected in a superior
court. We cannot think such cases are within the provisions of
section 641. Denials ofequal rights in the action of the judicial
tribunals of the State' are left to the revisory powers of this
court."
The question as to the scope of section 641 of the Revised
Statutes again arose in the stibsequent cases of Neal v.,Delaware,
103 U. S. 370, 386; Biish V. Kentucky, 107 U. S.110, 116; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565, 581, 584, and Charley Smith
v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 592, 600. In each of these cases it
was distinctly adjudged, in harmony with previous cases, that
the words in section 641-" who is denied or cannot enforce in
the judicial tribunals of the State, or in the part of the State
where such suit or prosecution is pending, any right secured to
him by any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens
of the United States, or of all persons within the jurisdiction
of the United States "-did not give the right of removal, unless

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinionobf the Court.

the constitution or the laws of the State in which the criminal
prosecution was pending denied or pfevented the enforcement
in the judicial tribunals of such State of the equal rights of the
accused as secured by any law of the United States. Those
cases, as did the prior ones, expressly held that there was no
right of removal under section 641, where the alleged discrimination against the accused, in respect of his equal rights, was
due to the illegal or. corrupt acts of administrative officers, unauthorized by the constitution or laws of- the State, as interpreted by its highest court. For wrongs of that character the
remedy, it was held, is in the state court, and ultimately in the
power of this court, upon writ of error, to protect any right secured or granted to an accused by the Constitution or laws of
the United States. and which has been denied to him in the
highest court of the State in which the decision, in respect of
that right, could be had.;
In Gibson Y. Mississippi, 1.62 U. S. 565, 581, 584, the words
of. this court as to the scope- of, section 641 were very emphatic.
In that case there was A conviction in, a state court of a negro
for the crime of murder, and in which one, of the questions, upon
writ of error to the highest court of that State, was as to the
action of the trial court in denying a petition for the removal
of the prosecution to the Federal court. This court, said:
'When the constitution and laws of a S tate, as interpreted by
its highest judicial tribunal; do not stand in the way of the enforcement of rights secured equally to all citizens of the United
States, the possibility that during the trial of a particular case
the. state court may not respect and enforce the right to the
equal protection of, the laws, constitutes no ground, under the
statute, for removing the prosecution into the Circuit Court of
the United States in advance of a trial. We may repeat here
what was said in Neal v. Delaware,namely, that in thus construing the statute 'we do not withhold from a party claiming

that he' is denied, or cannot enforce in the judicial tribunals of
the State, his constitutional.equality of civil rights, all opportunity of appealing to the courts of the United States for the re-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

dress of his wrongs. For if not entitled, under the statute, to
the removal of the suit or prosecution, he may, when denied, in
the subsequent proceedings of the state court, or in the execution of its judgment, any right, privilege or immunity given or
secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States,
bring the case here for review.' We therefore held in Neal
v. Delaware that Congress had not authorized a removal of the
prosecution from the state court; where jury commissioners or
other subordinate officers had, without authority derived from
the constitution and laws of the State, excluded colored citizens
•from juries because of their race." Again: "The application
was to remove the prosecution from the state court, and a removal, as we have seen,could not be ordered upon the ground
simply that citizens of African descent had been improperly excluded, because of their race, and without the sanction of the
constitution and laws of the State, from service on previous
grand juries, or from service on the particular grand jury that
returned the indictment against the accused. We do not overlook in this connection the fact that the petition for the removal
of the cause into the Federal court alleged that the accused, by
reason of the great prejudice against him on account of his color,
could not secure a fair and impartial trial in the county, and that
he prayed an opportunity to subpoena witnesses to prove that
fact. Such evidence, if it had been introduced, and however
cogent, could not, as already showl.n, have entitled the accused
to the removal sought; for the alleged existence of rae prejudice interfering with a fair trial was not to be attributed to the
constitution and laws of the State. It was incumbent u )I11I
L the
state court to see to it that the accused had a fair and impartial
trial, and to set aside any verdict of guilty based on prejudice
of race."
The cases to which we have adverted had reference, it is true,
to alleged discriminations against negroes because of their race.
But the rules announced in them equally apply where the accused is of the white race. Section. 6 11, as well. as the Four-.
teenth Amendment of the Constitutiou. i4 lor the benefit of all,

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of every race whose cases are embraced by its provisions and
not alone for the benefit of the African race.
We have not overlooked the suggestion, earnestly pressed
upon our attention, that it is impossible for the accused to obtain a fair trial in the locality where the prosecution is pending.
Indeed, the suggestion is, in effect, that there was a deliberate
purpose on the part of those charged with the administration
of justice in that locality to take his life, under the forms of law,
even if the facts did not establish his guilt of the crime charged.
It is true that looking alone at the petition for removal, the
trials of the accused disclose such misconduct on the part of
administrative officers connected with those trials as may well
shock all who love justice and recognize the right of every human being, accused of crime, to be tried according to law. The
case as made by the record, it must be conceded, tends to show,
if it does not justify the belief, that administrative officers, having connection with the trial of the accused, had it in mind, at
each trial, to exclude from the jury, so far as it was possible to
do so, every person, however competent, .who belonged to the
same political party as the accused. In his separate opinion
in Powers v. Commonwealth, 83 S. W. Rep. 146, 149, Judge Barker, of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, referring to the third
trial of the accused, said: "It is clear that the trial judge was
of opinion that it was not an offense against the Fourteenth
Amendment or a denial of the equal. protection of the laws to
the defendant to exclude Republicans [the accused being a Republican in politics], from the jury, solely because they were
Republicans, provided the selected Democrats [the deceased
Goebel being a Democrat in politics] were possessed of the statutory qualifications required ,for jury service."
It is appropriate here to recall that the Circuit Court, referring to the petition for removal, said: "The Commonwealth of
Kentucky has not filed a reply to said petition for removal, or
in any way taken issue with the defendant as to any of the allegations thereof. Said allegations must, therefore, be accepted
as true, save in so far as 'they may, be contradicted by the tranvo. cci-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

script on file herein. In the case of Dishonv. C., N. 0. & T. P.
Ry. Co., 133 Fed. Rep. 471, 66 C. C. A. 345, Judge Richards, in
discussing the affirmative allegations of a petition for removal
in a civil suit under the jurisdictional acts of 1887-88, said: 'if
these averments were not true, the plaintiff should have denied
them, and an issue would then have been made for the court
below to try and determine. No answer was filed; no issue in
any other way was taken. The plaintiff contented himself with
making a motion to remand, and which only raised a legal question, namely, whether, upon the facts stated in the petition for
removal, taken in connection with the record, a case for removal was made out.? In the case of Whitten v. Tomlinson,
160 U. S. 231, Justice Gray, in referring to a petition for a writ
of habeas corpus under sections 751-755, Rev. Stat. U. S., said:
'In a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, verified by oath of the
petitioner, as required by Rev. Stat. U. S. § 754, facts duly alleged may be taken to be true, unless denied by the return or
controlled by other evidence. But no allegation of fact in the
petition can be assumed to be admitted, unless distinct and unambiguous.' The allegations of the petition for removal are
not borne out by the transcript in all their detail. They are,
however, borne out to a substantial degree, and are not contradicted in any substantial particular. It establishes the discrimination complained of in the selection of the jurors by the
subordinate officers having to do therewith on the second and
third trials, and that on both trials the Scott Circuit Court held
that such discrimination was not illegal and the defendant had
no right to complain thereof, it not being claimed that the
jurors selected did not possess the statutory qualifications. As
to the first trial, all that the transcript shows is that it was'one,
of the grounds of defendant's motion for new trial that the Circuit judge, after the regular panel was exhausted, had refused
to draw from the wheel the names of jurors placed there in the
fall of 1899, before any motive for discrimination had arisen,
concerning which Judge Du Relle had this to say in the opinion
delivered by him on behalf of the majority of the Court of Ap-

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

peals on the first appeal: 'In the grounds relied on in the motion for new trial it is stated that the court overruled the motion
of appellant, after the regular panel was exhausted, to draw the
remaining names necessary to complete the jury from the jury
wheel. It is to be regretted that, in a case concerning which
so much feeling existed, the simple and easy mode was not
adopted, which would have put beyond cavil the question of
the accused having a trial by jury impartially selected. This
will doubtless be done upon the succeeding trial.' "
Taking then the facts to be as represented in the petition for
removal, still the remedy of the accused was not to have the
prosecution removed into the Federal court- that court not
being authorized to take cognizance of the case upon removal
from the state court. It is not contended, as it could not be,
that the constitution and laws of Kentucky deny to the accused
any rights secured to him by the Constitution of the United
States or by any act of Congress. Such being the case, it is impossible, in view of prior adjudications, to hold that this prosecution was removable into the Circuit Court of the United
States by virtue of section 641 of the Revised Statutes. Such
a case as the one before us has not been provided for by any act
of Congress; that is,
A Circuit Court of the United States has
not been authorized to take cognizance of a criminal prosecution commenced in a state court for an alleged crime against the
State, 'where the constitution and laws of such State do not permit discrimination against the accused in respect of such rights.
as are specified in the first clause of section 641. This court,
while sustaining the subordinate courts of the United States in
the exercise of such jurisdiction as has been lawfully conferred
upon them, must see to it that they do not usurp authority not
affirmatively given to them by acts of Congress., In M. C. &
L. M. Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S.379, 382, we said that
"the rule,' springing from the nature and limits of the judicial
power of the United States, is inflexible and without exception,
which requires of this court, of its own motion, to deny its own
jurisdiction, and, in the exercise of its appellate power, that of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

all other courts of the United States, in all cases where such
jurisdiction does not affirmatively appear in the record on which,
in the exercise of that power, it is called to act. On every writ
of error or appeal the first and fundamental question is that of
jurisdiction, first, of this court, and then of the court from which
the record comes. This question the court is bound to ask and
answer for itself, even when not otherwise suggested, and without respect to the relation of the parties to it." This principle has been again and again reaffirmed. Great Southern
Fire Proof Hotel Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S. 449, 453, and authorities there cited.
Now, it affirmatively appears of record that the Circuit Court
has taken jurisdiction of this case on removal from the state
court, when, as we hold, no act of Congress authorized it to do
so. We cannot, in fidelity to the law, as declared in former
cases, overlook this defect of jurisdiction in the court below or
fail to express our inability to concur in the views of the learned
court below upon this point.
The Circuit Court said: "I, therefore, conclude that the prior
action of the Scott Circuit Court denying the defendant the
equal protection of the laws is a real hindrance and obstacle to
his asserting his right thereto in a future trial therein-just as
real as an unconstitutional statute would be-and that the defendant is denied the equal protection of the laws in said court,
within the meaning of said section, and entitled to a removal on
account thereof. He is denied in said court the equal protection of the laws because he has been denied, and such denial has
never been set aside, but remains in full force and effect. ...
By an 'inability to enforce in the judicial tribunals of the State'
is meant, as I construe the statute, any judicial tribunal of the
State that may have jurisdiction of the prosecution." This
view is met by what has been said in former cases, namely, that
the words in section 641-"who is denied or cannot enforce in
the judicial tribunals of the State "-have no application to any
case where the rights secured to an accused "by any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of the United States,

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or of all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States,"
are recognized or are not denied by the constitution or laws of
the State in which the prosecution is pending.
Under this holding, the accused is not deprived of opportunity to have his rights, of whatever nature, which are secured
or guaranteed to him by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, fully protected by a Federal court. But it is said that
the .action of the trial court in refusing to quash the indictment
or -the 'panel of petit jurors, although the motion to quash was
based on Federal grounds, cannot, under the laws of Kentucky,
be reviewed by the Court of Appeals. 0,- highest court of that
Commonwealth. If such be the law
K.,entucky, as declared
by the statutes and by the Court of Appeals of that Commonwealth, then, after the case is (lisposcl of in that court by final
judgment, in respect of the matters of which, under the local
law, it may take cognizance, a writ of error can run from this
court to the trial court as ihe highest court of Kentucky in which
a decision of the Federalquestion coud ; be had; and this court in
that event, upon writ of error, reviewing the final judgment of
the trial court, can exercise such jurisdiction in the case as may
be necessary to vindicate any right, privilege or immunity specially set up or claimed under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, and in respect of which the decision of the trial
court is made final by the local law; that is, it may re~xamine
the final judgment of the trial court so far as it involved and
denied the Federal right, privilege or immunity asserted. This
must be so, else it will be in the power of a State to so regulate
the jurisdiction of its courts as to prevent this court from protecting rights secured by the Constitution, and improperly denied in a subordinate state court, although specially set up and
claimed. What we have said is clear from section 709 of the
Revised Statutes, which declares that "A final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of a State, in which a decision in the suit could be had,

.

.

.

where any title, right,

privilege or immunity is claimed under the Constitution, . .
and the decision is against the title, right, privilege or immunity

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

specially set up or claimed, by either party, under such Constition, .
- . may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed
in the Supreme Court upon a writ of error. " Looking at the
object of that section it must be held that this court has jurisdiction, upon writ of error to reexamine, the final judgment of
a subordinate state court denying a Federal right, specially set
up or claimed, if, under the local law, that court is the highest
court of the State entitled to pass upon such claim of Federal
right. The great case of Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264,
which was a criminal prosecution for a misdemeanor, was
brought to this court, upon writ of error, from the Quarterly
Session Court for the Borough of Norfolk, Virginia, and our jurisdiction was sustained upon the ground that such court was
the highest court of the State in which, under the laws of Virginia, that case was cognizable. In Downham v. Alexandria,
9 Wall. 659, which was a suit for taxes against a dealer in liquors,
the court said: "The legislature, then, having thought fit to
make the judgment of the District Court in this case final and
without appeal, that court is, for this case, the highest court in
which the decision could be made; and the writ of error is,
therefore, warranted by the act of Congress, and regular." In
Gregory v. McVeigh, 23 Wall. 294, 306, which was a writ of error
to the Corporation Court of Alexandria, Virginia, and in which
there was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, this court
said: "The Court of Appeals is the highest court in the State
of Virginia.. If a decision of a suit could be had in that court,
we must wait for such a decision before we can take jurisdiction,
and then can only examine the judgment of. that court. If,
however, the suit is one of which that court cannot take jurisdiction, we may reexamine the judgment of the highest court
which, under laws of the State, could decide it. . . . We
think,. therefore, that the judgment of the Corporation Court
of the city of Alexandria is the judgment of the highest court
of the State in which a decision of the suit could -be had, and
that we nMay reexamine it upon error." In Bergemann v.
Backer, 157 U. S. 655, 659, a criminal prosecution for murder

KENTUCKY v. POWERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in a subordinate court of New Jersey, this court said: "If the
proceedings in the Court of Oyer and Terminer could not., under the laws of New Jersey, be reviewed in a higher court of
that State, except upon the allowance of a writ of error by such
court or by some judge, and if such allowance was refused, then
the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction was, within
the meaning of the acts of Congress, the judgment of the highest court of the State in which a determination of the case could
be had, and such judgment could have been, upon writ of error,
reexamined here, if it had denied any right, privilege, or
immunity specially set up and claimed under the Constitution of
the United States." So, in Missouri, Kansas &c. Ry. Co. v.
Elliott, 184 U. S. 530, 539, in.which the defendant made a claim
of immunity in virtue of an authority exercised under the
United States, it was held that our writ of error ran, not to the
Supreme Court of Missouri,, but to the Kansas City Court of
Appeals, the highest court in which, under -the law of that State,
the question as to that immunity could be decided.
It is necessary to notice one other point made in behalf of the
accused. At each of the trials he pleaded in bar of the prosecution a pardon granted to him on the tenth day of March, 1900,
by William S. Taylor, who was alleged to have been, at the
time, the duly elected, qualified, actual and acting Governor of
Kentucky, haying in his possession and under his control all the
books, papers, records and archives, as well as the Executive
Mansion, belonging to the office of Governor. That pardon,
it is alleged, was accepted by the accused. It is further alleged
that at the, time said pardon was-issued Taylor had been recognized, regarded and treated as the lawful Governor of Kentucky
by the Executive power and Executive Department of the Government of the United States, including the President, the Attorney General, and the Postmaster General, and by the postmaster at Frankfort, the capital of Kentucky. The petition
for removal alleged that the court in which the accused was
tried, as well as the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, had refused
to recognize said pardon as having any legal effect, and had

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

thereby denied to him the equal civil rights and the equal protection of the laws secured to him by the above provisions of
the Constitution and laws of the United States ; consequently, it
was contended, he was denied and could not enforce in any judicial tribunal of Kentucky the rights which said pardon gave him.
Manifestly, in view of what has already been said, this question as to the pardon of the accused, does not make a case of
removal on the ground of the denial or inability to enforce in
the judicial tribunals of Kentucky of a right secured to the accused "by any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens
of the United States or of all persons within the jurisdiction of
the United States." Whether the non-recognition by the
courts of the State of the V.alidity of the alleged
pardon involved
a denial of any right secured to the accused by any other law
or by the Constitution of the United States, we need not now
consider. As the Circuit Court could not, in virtue of section
641, take cognizance of this prosecution or removal, we cannot
properly pass upon the merits of any question of Federal right
which might arise in the case. It is sufficient to say that if the
accused, by reason of the Taylor pardon, acquired any right
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, and if at
the next trial of his case that right, having been specially set
up and claimed, should be denied by the highest court of the
State in which a decision of that question could be had, such
action of that court, in respect of that pardon, can be reviewed
here upon writ of error. We do not perceive that any question
arising out of the pardon could make a case under section 641
for the removal of the prosecution from the state court.
We .are all of opinion that the order awarding the writ of
habeas corpus cum causa must be reversed., with directions to
set aside that order as well as the order docketing the case in the
Circuit Court of the United States; also, that the rule in relation to mandamus must be made absolute, the prosecution remanded to the state court, and the custody of the accused surrendered to the state authorities.
It is so ordered.

