OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

brought. The objection to the act on the ground of want of
notice does not impress us except in its bearing upon the point
just mentioned. The right- of the lower owner only becomes
complete when tfie land is flowed, and, as, even then, it is
not a right to maintain the water. upon the plaintiff's land,
but merely a right to maintain the dam subject to paying for
the harm actually done, we see nothing to complain of in that
.regard.
De&ee modified and affirmed.

Ex parte NATIONAL ENAMELING AND STAMPING
COMPANY, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 17, Original.

Argued February 19, 1906-Decided March 19, 1906.

Plaintiffs brought suit upon a single Oatent, in which there were twelve
claims. The Circuit Court found that three of the claims were invalid
and nine valid, of which five had been infringed, and referred it to a
master to report the amount of damages and dismissed the bill as to the
claims found invalid and not infringed. Defendants appealed from the
decree and plaintiffs also filed cross appeal assigning as errors the rulings
adverse to them. The Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the cross appeal. Petition for mandamus to compel that court to take jurisdiction
of the cross appeal denied and held, that:
The decree was interlocutory and not final and in the Federal courts no
appeal can as a general rule be taken except from a final decree.
The appeal authorized by J 7 of the act of March 3, 1891, does not bring
up the cause as a wh6le; and, unless otherwise specially ordered, the
case, except for hearing of the appeal from the interlocutory order,
proceeds in the lower court as though no appeal had been taken until
final judgment.
Cases in which a bill has been dismissed as to some of the defendants and
a separable controversy as to others referred to a master for an accounting, and in which the dismissal has been treated as a final decree, have
no application to a case of joint liability, or in which there is only a single
defendant.

IN March, 1903, the petitioners filed their bill in the Circuit

Ex parte NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
201 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York against the New England Enamefing Company, .to restrain the further infringement. by that company of letters
patent of the United States, No, 527,361, for improvements
in enameling metal ware, and to recover damages for past
infringement. After answer and proofs the case came on for
hearing, and on July 8, 1905, a decree was entered, reciting
that nine of the twelve claims in the patent were good and
valid, that three were invalid and void by reason of the fact
that the patentee 'was not the original. or first inventor or discoverer, that five of the nine valid claims had been infringed
by the defendant, but the remaining four had not been. As
to the claims held invalid and those'found to have been not
infringed, it was ordered that the bill of complaint be dismissed. As to the remaining five claims, those held to be
infringed, it was ordered that the plaintiffs recover the gains,
profits, savings and advantages which the defendant had derived by reason of the infringement, and that ,the.case be referred to a master to report the amount thereof, and also that
an injunction issue against further infringement. On August 1,
1905, the defendant appealed from said decree to the Court of
Appeals and filed its assignment of errors..-. On August 8 the
plaintiffs also appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals and
assigned as errors the rulings in the decree adverse to' them.
On January 3, 1906, this cross appeal of the plaintiffs was
dismissed by the Court of Appeals, on the ground that it had
no jurisdiction thereof. Thereupon thel plaintiffs filed in this
court this petition for a writ of mandamus commanding the
judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals to take jurisdiction of
said cross appeal, and to dispose of it simultaneously with
the appeal of the defendant.
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. Arthur v. Briesen
and Mr. Walter D. Evans were. on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Philip Mauro, with whom Mr. Harold Binney and Mr,

OCTOBER TlERA,

1905.

Argument for Respondent.

201 U. S.

C. A. L. Massie were on the brief, for petitioner in No. 18,
original, argue(] simultaneously herewith.'
Mandamus is the proper remedy where, as here, a court
refuses to act in a matter properly before it, or to take jurisdiction in a proper case, and from such refusal no writ of error
or appeal will lie. Insurance Co. v. Comstock, 16 Wall. 258,
271; Matter of Christensen Engineering Co., 194 U. S. 458;
Ex parte Hollon Parker, 131 U. S. 221; Re Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 129 U. S. 206; Re Hohorst, 150 U. S. 653,
Jurisdiction to entertain petitioners' cross appeal logically
and reasonably follows from the principles laid down in Smith
v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518; Chicago Wooden Ware
Co. v. Miller Co., 133 Fed. Rep. 541; Scriven v.. North, 1:34
Fed. Rep. 366. A situation is presented by reason of. the
conflict in the decision of this case and the two cases last cited
calling for certiorari in order that this court may make the
practice uniform.
The decree was in effect a final decision within the meaning
of the act of 1891. Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How. 201; Hill v.
Chicago & Evanston R. R. Co., 140 U. S. 52; Scriven v. North,
supra; United Nickel Co. v. California Works, 25 Fed. Rep.
475; Borturek -,,. Brinckerho7, 106 U. S. 3. The history of
the amendment of 1900 and the plain meaning show that
either party aggrieved by the granting of an injunction may
appeal.
Mr. Robert N. Kenyon, with whom Mr. Walter F. Rogers
and Mr. Jacob Steinhardt were, on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. W. Clyde Jones, with whom Mr. John Ridont was on
the brief, for respondent in No. 18, original, argued simultaneously herewith.1
Section 7 of the Judiciary Act of 1891, as amended in 1900,
is not ambiguous but clearly means that an appeal will lie only
1 Ex parte Automatic Switch Co., post, p. 166.

Ex parte NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
201 U_ S.

Argument for Respondent.

by the defendant'who has been enjoined by an interlocutory
order or decree, and for the purpose of determining whether
the injunction was properly granted. The amendments of
1895 and 1960 have not changed its provisions in this respect.
The original act has been uniformly held to confer no jurisdiction to, entertain an appeal from such portions of an interlocutory decree as dismissed the bill. Marden v. Campbell
Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 809; Kilmer Co. v. Griswold, 67 Fed. Rep.
1017; Eagle!Lock Co. v. Corbin, 64 Fed. Rep. 789.
Under the act as amended in 1900, the following decisions
were rendered on exactly the same question and to the same
effect. National Co. v. Automatic Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 670;
Thomson-Houston v. Nassau Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 676; Western
FMec. Ca. v. Abbott, 108 Fed. Rep. 953; Dowagiac v. Superior
Co., 115 Fed. Rep. 886, 890.
Cases construing the statute in the same way, but relating
specifically to appeals from interlocutory orders rather than
decrees are Westinghouse v. Christensen, 104 Fed. Rep. 622;
Wire Co. v. Boyce, 104 Fed. Rep. 172; Frye & Bruhn v. Carstens,
130 Fed. Rep. 766. See also Metallic ExtractionCo. v. Brown
104 Fed. Rep. 345, 354.
In Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works the present question did not
arise. That case is not in conflict with the decisions of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals denying the right of complainant
to a cross appeal. It considered only the extent of the relief
that could be given to a defendant improperly enjoined, not
the extent of the jurisdiction. See Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover
Mfg. Co., 177 U. S. 485; In re Tampa Suburban Railroad Co.,
168 U. S. 583.
The history of this legislation and of the times shows that
it was the intention of Congress to give the right of appeal to
the defendant but to deny it to the complainant. Cong. Rec.
51st Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 3,298, 10,193, 10,199, 10,217, 10,222,
10,278, 10,302, 10,335, 10,363; 2d Sess., pp. 2,198, 3,087,
3,535, 3,583.
This court will dot allow a mandamus to be used in place

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

of an appeal. Ex parte Schwab, 98 U. S. 240; Ex parte Perry,
159 U. S. 186.
The decree was interlocutory, not final, within the meaning of the Judiciary Act. Barnard v. Gibson, '7 How. 650;
McGourkey v. Toledo R. R. Co., 146 U.' S. 536; Hohorst v.
Hamburg-Amer. Packet Co., 148 U. S. 262; Estey v. Burdett, 109
U. S. 633; Hill v. Chicago R. R. Co., 140 U. S. 52; Dainese v. Kendall, 119 U. S. 53; Winthrop Iron Co. v. Meeker, 109 U. S.
180; Keystone Iron Co. v. Martin, 132 U. S.91. In patent
cases there cannot be two final decrees. Morden v. Campbell Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 809.
MR: JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree entered by the Circuit Court was interlocutory
and not final. Barnard v. Gibson, 7 How. 650; Humiston v.
Stainthorp, 2 Wall. 106, and cases cited in note; Estey v. Burdett, 109 U. S.633, 637; McGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Railway
Company, 146 U. S. 536 (in this case is a full discussion of the
differences between an interlocutory and a final decree);
Hohorst v. Hamburg-American Packet Company, 148 U. S.
262;'Smith v. Vulcan IronWorks, 165 U. S. 518.
Plaintiffs brought one suit upon a single patent. The findings of the Circuit Court that three of the twelve claims were
invalid'and that the remaining nine were valid, but that four
of them had not been infringed by the defendant, did not break
this one suit intb twelve'. They were a guide to the master
in his ascertainment of the damages and indicated the scope
of the final decree.
In the Federal courts no appeal can, as a general rule, be
taken, except from a final decree. As said 'by Mr. Chief Justice Taney in Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How. 201, 205:
"In this respect the practice of the United States chancery
courts differs from the English practice. For appeals to the
House of Lords may be taken from an interlocutory order of

Ex parte NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

the Chancellor, which decides a right of property in dispute.
. . . But the case is otherwise in the courts of the United
States, where the right of appeal is by. law limited to final
decrees." See also,McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661, 665.
In the latter case this was held persuasive against extending
the right of review given by section 5 of the Circuit Court of
Appeals act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, to other cases
than those in which there was a final judgment or decree, although the word "final" is omitted in some of the clauses of
the section.
By section 7 of that act, however, an appeal was provided
from certain interlocutory orders or decrees. That section
has been twice amended. 28 Stat. 666; 31 Stat. 160. As
it now stands it reads:
",SEC. 7. That where, upon a hearing in equity in, a District
Court or in a Circuit Court, or by a judge thereof in vacation,
an injunction shall be granted or continued or a receiver appointed, by an interlocutory order or decree, in a cause in
which an appeal from a final decree may be taken under the
provisions of this act to the Circuit Court of Appeals, an appeal
may be taken from such interlocutory order or decree granting. or continuing such injunction or appointing such receiver
to the Circuit Court of Appeals: Provided, That the appeal
must be taken within thirty days from the entry -of such order
or decree, and it shall take precedence in the appellate court;
and the proceedings in other respects in the court below shall
not be stayed, unless otherwise ordered by that court, or by
the appellate court or a judge thereof, during the pendency
of such appeal: Provided, further, That the court below may
in its discretion require as a condition of the appeal an additional bon. '
it will be noticed that the appeal is allowed from an interlocutory-order or decree granting or continuing an injunction,
that it must be taken within thirty days, that it is given
precedefice in the appellate court, that the other proceedings
in the lower court are not to be stayed, and that the lower
VOL.

ci-il

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

court may require an additional bond. Obviously that which
is contemplated is a review of the interlocutory order, and of
that only. It was not intended that the cause as a whole
should be transferred to the appellate court prior to the final
decree. The case, except for the hearing on the appeal from
the interlocutory order, is to proceed in the lower court as
though no such appeal had been. taken, unless otherwise
specially ordered. It may be true, as alleged by petitioners,
that "it is of the utmost importance to all of. the parties in
said cause that there shall be the speediest possible adjudication
by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals as to the validity
of all of the claims of the aforesaid letters patent which are
the subject matter thereof." But it was not intended by this
section to give to patent or other cases in which interlocutory
decrees or orders were made any precedence. It is generally
true that it is of importance to litigants that their cases be
disposed of promptly, but other cases have the same right to
early hearing. And the purpose of Congress in this legislation
was that there be an immediate review of the interlocutory
proceedings and not an advancement generally over other
litigation.
Petitioners rely mainly on Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165
U. S. 518. In that case it was held that when an appeal is
taken from an interlocutory order granting or continuing an
injunction, the whole of the order is taken up, and the appellate court may (if upon an examination of the record as thus
presented it is satisfied that the bill is entirely destitute of
equity) direct a dismissal, and is not limited to a mere reversal
of the order granting or continuing the injunction. Take an
ordinary patent case. If an injunction is granted by an interlocutory order and the order is taken on appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and that court is of opinion that the patent
is on its face absolutely void, it would be a waste of time and
an unnecessary continuance of litigation to simply enter an
order setting aside the injunction and remanding the case for
further proceedings. The direct and obvious way is- to order

Ex parte NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
201 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

a dismissal of the case, and thus end the litigation. And such
is the scope of the opinion in that case. After noticing the
general rule that appeals will not lie until after final decree,
and that an order or decree in a patent case granting an injunction and sending the cause to a master for accounting is
interlocutory only, and therefore not reviewable on appeal
before the final decree in the case, it referred to the provision
of section 7, and said (p. 525):
"The manifest intent of this provision, read in the light of
the previous practice in the courts of the United States, contrasted with the practice in courts of equity of the highestauthority elsewhere, appears to this court to have been, not
only to permit the defendant to obtain immediate relief from
an injunction, the continuance of which throughout the progress of the cause might seriously affect his interests; but also
to save both parties from the expense of further litigation,
should the appellate court be of opinion that the plaintiff was
not- entitled to an injunction because his bill had no equity to
support it."

But nowhere in the opinion is it intimated that the plaintiff
was entitled to take any cross appeal or to obtain a final decree
in the appellate court. This view of the scope of section 7 was
reaffirmed in Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Manufacturing Company, 177 U. S. 485, 494, 495.
It is suggested that, as to the claims held to be invalid and
those held to be valid but not infrigned, the bill was dismissed;
that thus, in fact, a final decree was entered which entitled the
plaintiff to an appeal. Forgay v. Conrad, supra, and Hill v.
Chicago & Evanston Railroad Company, 140 U. S. 52, are cited
as authorities. In both.these cases there were several defendants and the decrees were adjudged final only in respect to
certain of the defendants. In the first the Circuit Court passed
a decree declaring sundry deeds to be fraudulent and void and
directing the lands and slaves therein mentioned to be delivered
up to the complainant, and also directing one of the defendants
named in the decree. to pay him $11,000, and "that the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

plainant do have execution for the several matters aforesaid
in conformity with law and the practice described by the
Supreme Court of the United States." The court refused to
dismiss the appeal, holding that, while the decree was not final
in the strict technical sense of the term, yet in view of the
effect of the orders entered and the fact that unless review
was granted at once there might be irreparable injury, the decree must be regarded as final to that extent. At the same
time it criticised the terms of the decree, said that the final
orders should have been delayed until, the master's report was
received, and added, after its comments upon the procedure
below (6 How. 206):
"These remarks are not made for the purpose of censuring
the learned judge by whom this decree was "pronounced, but'
in order to call the attention of the Circuit Courts to an inconvenient practice into which some of them have sometimes
fallen, and which is regarded by this court as altogether inconsistent with the object -and policy of the acts of Congress in
relation to appeals, and at the same time needlessly burdensome and expensive to the parties concerned, and calculated,
by successive appeals, to produce great and unreasonable delays
in suits in chancery. For it may well happen that, when. the
accounts are taken and reported by the master, this case may
again come here upon exceptions to his report, allowed or
disallowed by the Circuit Court, and thus two appeals made
necessary, when the matters in dispute could more conveniently
and speedily, and with less expense, have been decided in one."
In the subsequent case of Beebe v. Russell, 19 How. 283, in
which the rule in reference to the finality of decrees was further
considered, it was said, in explanation of the decision in the
Forgay case (p. 287):
'InForgay's case, it [the question] was made upon the
decree given by the court below, and it Was adjudged by this
court to be final to give this court jurisdiction of it. But it
was so, upon the ground that the whole merits of the controversy between the parties had been determined, that execution

Ex parte NATIONAL ENAMELING CO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had been awarded, and that the case had been referred to the
master merely for the purpose of adjusting the accounts.
The fact is, the order of the court in that case for referring it to
a master was peculiar, making it dQubtful, if it could in any
way control or qualify the antecedent decree of the court upon
the whole merits of the controversy,, or modify it in any way,
except upon a petition for a rehearing."
In Hill v. Chicago & Evanston Railroad Company, supra,
there had been an order of dismissal in favor of some of defendants, together with a reference to-a master of a separable
controversy between the plaintiff and other parties, and the
court observed (p. 54):
"But there was no adjudication as to the payment of the
amount to be ascertained by the master; that remained unsettled. It was, however, a severable matter from the other
subjects of controversy and did not affect their determination.
The fact that it was not disposed of did not change the finality
of the decree as to the defendants against whom the bill was
dismissed; that amount, or to whom made payable, did not
concern them. They were no longer parties to the suit for any
purpose. The appeal from the subsequent decree did not reinstate them. All the merits of the controversy pending between them and the complainant were disposed of, and could
not be again reopened, except on appeal from that decree.
As to the other parties, it-remained to ascertain the amount
of one item and to determine as to its payment."
But as held in Hohorst v. Hamburg-American Packet Company, supra, that rule does not apply to cases where the liability of the defendants is alleged to be joint; and, therefore,
cannot to a case in which there is but a single defendant.
The rule is discharged, and the application for a writ of
mandamus is denied.

