NEW MEXICO v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE. 41
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

TERRITORY OF NEW MEXICO v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA
AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 182. Argued January 26, 1906.-Decided March 12, 1906.

Plaintiff sued in the District Court of a Territory for several items and
recovered judgment for less than amount sued for but over $5,000 with
interest at six per cent. Defendant alone sued out writ of error from
the Supreme Court of the Territory which disallowed $4,880 of the judgment including interest at six per cent. Plaintiff then appealed to this
court and prayed for reinstatement of the District Court judgment and,
when the case was reached for hearing here, assigned as additional error
that the District Court had not allowed twenty-five per cent instead of
six per cent interest which would have made the amount disallowed exceed $5,000. Held, that as plaintiff had not complained of the District
Court judgment the only matter in dispute was that part of the District
Court judgment which was disallowed by the territorial Supreme Court
and as that was less than $5,000 the appeal to this court could not
under the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat: 443, be maintained.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank W. Clancy, with whom Mr. A. H. Harlee was on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Robert Dunlap, with whom Mr. H. L. Waldo, Mr. R. E.
Twitchell and Mr. GardinerLathrop were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

The Territory of New Mexico commenced three separate- actions against appellees, respectively, in the District Court of
Grant County, New Mexico, to recover taxes alleged to be due
on a levy to pay certain judgments against the county, including

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

a particular item of $276.21, arising from the increase of the
valuation of the property of the railroad companies. The aggregate amount claimed Wm $8,646.49 with interest at the rate

of twenty-five per cent pet! annum.

The cases were consoli-

dated and subniitted to the District Court on an agreed statement of facts with exhibits attached, a jury being waived, and
resulted in a judgnient, October 9, 1902, for $5,156.71, with interest at six pt r cent per annum. This included the $276.21
with interest1 Appellees sued out writs of error from the Supreme Court .of the Territory. No cross writ of error was
brought'-and no cross errors were assigned. In the Supreme
Court the item of $276.21 with interest was not contested.'
February 26, 1903, the Supreme Court announced its conclusion that the judgment be reversed, but as the item of $276.21
was*not contested, rendered judgment for that amount, thereby
.rejecting the sum of $4,880.50 of the judgment below, that sum
.with interest at six per cent amounting to less than. five thousand dollars on that date. 72 Pac. Rep. 14. Fromi the judgment so rendered the Territory prosecuted an appeal to this
court, under the act of Congress in that behalf, January 17,
1905, and prayed in its assigmnnt of errors that the judgment
of the Supreme Court be .reversed and set aside, and the cause
be "rpmanded to said Supreme Court, with directions to affirm
the judgment of the 'District Court of Grant County." The
appeal was heard in this court on January 26, 1906, and on that
day appellant filed an additional assignment of errors to the
-effect that the Supreme Court of New Mexico erred in failing
to hold that appellant was entitled to interest at the rate of
twenty-five per cent per annum from October 9, 1902. But the
judgment of the District Court gave interest at six per cent,
and, as before stated, the Territory did not contplain of that
judgment as rendered.
By the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, c. 355, no appeal
or writ of error could be allowed from any judgment or decree
of the Territorial Supreme Courts, with certain exceptions not
material here, "unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Syllabus.

shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars." The matter in
dispute here was that part of the judgment of the District Court
Which was disallowed by the Supreme Court and that was less
than five thousand dollars.
Appeal dismissed.

HALE v. HENKEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 340.

Argued January 4, 5, 1906.-Decided March 12, 1906.

Under the practice in this country the examination of witnesses by a Fedeml grand jury need not be preceded by a presentment or formal indictment, but the grand jury may proceed, either upon their own knowledge
or upon examination of witnesses, to inquire whether a crime cognizable

by the court has been committed, and if so they may indict upon such
evidence. In summoning witnesses it is sufficient to apprise them
of the names of the parties with respect to whom they will be called
to testify without indicating the nature of the charge against" them,
or laying a basis by a formal indictment.
The examination of a witness before a grand jury is a "proceeding" within
the meaning of the proviso to the general appropriation act of 1903, that
no person shall be prosecuted on account of anything which he may
testify in any proceeding under the Anti-trust Law. The word should
receive as wide a construction as is necessary to protect the witness in
his disclosures.
The interdiction of the Fifth Amendment operates only where a witness
is asked to incriminate himself, and does not apply if the criminality is
taken away. A witness is not excused from testifying before a grand
jury under a statute which provides for immunity, because he may not
be able, if subsequently indicted, to procure the evidence necessary to
maintain his plea. The law takes no account of the practical difficulty
which a party may have in procuring his testimony.
A witness cannot refuse to testify before a Federal grand jury in face of
a Federal statute granting immunity from prosecution as to matters
sworn to, because the immunity does not extend to prosecutions in a
state court. In granting. immunity the only danger to be guarded against
is one within the same jurisdiction and under the same sovereignty.
The benefits of the Fifth Amendment are exclusively for a witness compelled
to testify against himself in a criminal case, and he cannot set them up
on behalf of any other person or individual, or of a corpo ation of which
he is an officer or employ6.

