ALEXANDER v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

201 U. S.

ALEXANDER v. UNITED STATES.
WHITING v. SAME.
STUART v. SAME.
GENERAL PAPER COMPANY v. SAME.
HARMON AND GENERAL PAPER COMPANY v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Nos. 381, 382, 383, 384, 385.

Argued January 5, 8, 1906.-Decided March 12, 1906.

In a suit in a Circuit Court of the United States brought by the United
States against corporations for violations of the Anti Trust Law of July 2,
1890, a witness refused to answer questions or produce books before the
examiner on the ground of immateriality, also pleading the privileges of
the Fifth Amendment; the court overruled the objections and ordered
the witness to answer the questions and produce the books; an appeal
was taken to this court.. Held, that:
While such an order might leave the witness no alternative except to obey
or be punished for contempt it is interlocutory in the principal suit and
not a final order,, nor does it constitute a practically independent proceeding amounting to a final judgment, and an appeal will not lie therefrom to this court.
If the witness refuses to obey and the courtrgoes further and punishes him
for contempt there is a right of review, and this is adequate for his protection without unduly impeding the process of the case.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jam es G. Flhiiders, with whom Mr. Charles F. Fawsett
and Mr. William Brace were on the brief, for appellants. 1
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg and Mr. James M. Beck, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, for the United States.'
I For abstracts of arguments see abstracts in Nelson v. United States, ante,
p. 92, argued simultaneously herewith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

201 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

At the very beginning we'encounter a question of jurisdiction. Are the orders of which the appellants complain appealable? The orders direct the appellants respectively to appear
before Robert F. Taylor, special examiner in the case, at. the
time and place to be designated, and directs each of them to
"answer each and every question put to them respectively by
the counsel for the cohplainant, the United States of America,"
and to produce before such commissioner certain books, papers,
records, documents, reports and contracts, "for the purpose of
their respective examination in said cause, and for use in evidence of the complaint of the United States of America in said
examination." And it is ordered that the complainant's counsel shall have the right to inspect the said books, etc., and to
introduce them or any of them in evidence; but, except as necessary for such purposes, the books, etc., to remain in the custody of the appellants.
A brief statement of the proceedings is all that is necessary.
The United States by its proper officers brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
against the General Paper Company and twenty-three other corporations, defendants, under and pursuant to the provisions of
the act of Congress of July 2, 1890, entitled "An act to protect

trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies." It is alleged in the bill that the defendants, other than
the General Paper Company and the Manufacturers' Paper
Company, were engaged in the manufacture of manilla and fibre
papers in active competition with one another, and that they
entered into an agreement, combination and conspiracy to control, regulate and monopolize, not only the manufacture of news
print, manilla, fibre and other papers, but also the distribution
and shipment thereof among and throughout the Middle, Southern and Western States. The General Paper Company was the
means employed to execute the combination and conspiracy.
That company is a corporation organized, the bill alleges, by

ALEXANDER v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the other defendants, under the laws of the State of Wisconsin,
with a capital stock of $100,000, divided into one thousand
shares, which were distributed among and owned and held by
the other defendants, in proportions based upon the average
daily output of the mills of each defendant. It is authorized
to become at its principal place of -business the sales agent of
the products of the defendants' mills in the State of Wisconsin
and elsewhere. Absolute power is conferred upon it to control
and restrict the output of the mills, fix the price of their products, and determine to whom and the terms and conditions upon
which such products shall be sold, into what States and places
they shall be shipped, and what publishers and customers each
mill shall supply.
The Manufacturers' Paper Company, it is alleged, is a New
York corporation, with its principal place of business in Chicago, and from about the year 1897 to 1902, acted as the sales
agent of various manufacturers of paper for the sale of newsprint and other papers; that in. 1902 it became a party to the
combination and conspiracy alleged in the bill and agreed with
the General Paper Company not to compete with it in certain
territories.
It is admitted that, prior to the formation of the General Paper Company, the other defendants except the Manufacturers'
Paper Company, were in active competition. The formation of
the General Paper Company is also admitted and that it became, by contract with the defendants who manufacture paper,
their selling agent. The defendants deny, however, a purpose
to violate the act of July 2, 1890. The violation of that law is
the issue in the case, and the bill prays an injunction against
the defendants and their officers from doing the acts or executing the purpose charged against them.
In trial of the issue thus made the Circuit Court appointed
Robert S. Taylor special examiner, with authority to hear and
take testimony within and without the District of Minnesota,
and made an order fixing the time to take the testimony for the
United States the sixteenth day May, 1905, at the city of Mil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

waukee, State of Wisconsin. The order was duly served on the
counsel of the respective parties. Thereupon the United States
petitioned the Circuit Court for an order directing the clerk of
the Circuit Court to issue a subpoenaduces tecum. The subpoena
was duly issued and served on the appellants as individuals and
as officers of certain of the defendant companies. They appeared before the examiner in obedience to the subpcena, but,
under the advice of counsel, they refused to permit the use of
books or certain parts of them, and refused to answer certain
questions put to them, the ground of this action being the immateriality and irrelevancy of the evidence sought to be adduced. The United States then presented a petition to the
United States Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin, which
recited the issues in the case and the statement of the questions
asked and the parts of the books and documents sought to be
used. To this petition the appellants filed separate answers.
The answers may be regarded for our present purpose as identical. They allege the immateriality of the evidence and that
its materiality should be established as a condition precedent
to its production; that they are officers of the companies, and
as such officers, the custodians of the books, papers and documents, and that the same are of interest and value to the company in its business, and the company forbids their production;
that the United States seeks evidence to convict the company
and the individual appellants of violations of the act of July 2,
1890, to annul the contracts and agreements of the company,
and subject it and the other appellants to the penalties prescribed in that act, and to compel the company and the other
appellants to furnish evidence against themselves, contrary to
the provisions of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, which provides that no person shall be a witness against himself; also contrary to the Fourth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, which provides that
the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses,
papers and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures
shall not be violated. It is also said that the alleged acts of the

ALEXANDER v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

paper company complained of in the original petition of the
United States and which the United States is endeavoring to
establish would, if committed by the company, be violations
of the laws of Wisconsin, and would subject the company to
forfeiture of its charter and other penalties under said laws, and
to compel it through its officers to produce the books and documents sought would be to compel it to furnish evidence tending to establish that it has violated the law of the State, and
such purpose is contrary to the provisions of the Fourth and
Fifth Amendments of the Constitution of the United States.
As we have said, the court entered orders requiring the appellants to answer the questions put to them and to produce the
books, papers and documents requested. Appeals were allowed
to this court. To justify the appeals, appellants contend that
the orders of the Circuit Court constitute practically indepeindent proceedings and amount to final judgments. To sustain
the contention, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brim.son,
154 U. S. 447, and Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird,
194 U. S. 25, are cited.
Those cases rested on statutory provisions which do not apply to the proceedings at bar, and, while there may be resemblances to the latter, there are also differences. In a certain
sense finality can be asserted of the orders under review, so, in
a certain sense, finality can be asserted of any order of a court.
And such an order may coerce a witness, leaving to him no
alternative but to obey or be punished. It may have the effect
and the same characteristic of finality as the orders under review, but from such a ruling it will not be contended there is
an appeal. Let the court go further and punish the witness for
contempt of its order, then arrives a right of review, and this is
adequate for his protection without unduly impeding the progress of the case. Why should greater rights be given a witness
to justify his contumacy when summoned before an examiner

than when summoned before a court? Testimony, at times,
must be taken out of court. In instances like those in the case
at bar the officer who takes the testimony, having no power to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

issue process, is given the aid of the clerk of a court of the United States; having no power to enforc obedience to the process
or to command testimony, he is given the aid of the judge of
the court whose clerk issued the process, and if there be disobedience of the process, or refusal to testify or to produce documents, such judge may" proceed to- enforce obedience
or punish the disobedience in like manner'as any court of the
United States may proceed in case of disobedience to like process issued by such court." Sections 868, 869, Revised Statutes.
This power to punish being exercised the matter becomes personal to the witness and a judgment as to him. Prior to that
the proceedings are interlocutory in the original suit' This is
clearly pointed out by Circuit Judge Van Deventer, disallowing
an appeal from an order like those urder review, in the case of
Nelson v. United States (No. 490), in error to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Minnesota. The learned
judge said:
"II am of opinion that the mere direction of the court to the
witnesses to answer the questions put to them and to produce
the written evidence in their possession is not a final decision;
that it more appropriately is an interlocutory ruling or order
in the principal suit, and that if the witnesses refuse to comply
with it and the court then exercises its authority either to punish them or to coerce them into compliance that will give rise
to another case or cases to which the witnesses will be parties
on the one hand and the Government, as a sovereign vindicating
the dignity and authority of one of its courts, will be a party on
the other hand. I have no doubt that a Ju(gment adverse to
the witnesses in that proceeding or case will be a final decision
and will be subject to review by writ of error, but not by app~eal.
My opinion is also that the parties to the principal suit cannot
appeal or obtain a writ of error from that decision."
See also Logan v. Penn. R. R. Co., 132 Pa. St. 403, 4t0.
This court having no jurisdiction, the appeals imust be dismissed, and
It isso ordered.

