OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Petitioner.

201 U. S.

THE WILDCROFT.'
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 127. Argued December 12, 13, 1905.-Decided April 2, 1906.

The relief afforded by ยง 3 of the Harter act, 27 Stat. 445, to shipowners
is purely statutory and in order for a shipowner to avail of the exemptions from liability for errors of management or navigation the burden
is on him to prove affirmatively, in all cases, and not only in those where
there is conflicting testimony, that the vessel was seaworthy at the
beginning of the voyage or that due diligence had been used to make
her so. The discharge of the duty of the shipowner in this respect is
not left in the absence of proof to any presumption.
Findings of fact by both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals as to seaworthiness of a vessel at, and due diligence used prior to,
the commencement of the voyage will not ordinarily be disturbed by
this court and so held in this case.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Horace L. Cheyney, with whom Mr. John F. Lewis
was on the brief, for petitioner:
Prior to the passage of the Harter act the law was firmly,
established that the burden was upon the carrier to show
affirmatively that the damage was occasioned by one of the
perils from which he was validly exempted by the bill of lading. Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272; Hutchinson on Carriers,
2d ed., ยง 765.
The Harter act has made no change in this rule. The
claimant is exempted from liability for loss occurring by
"perils of the sea," both by the provisions of the Harter act,
and those of the bill of lading. Of course, the burden of proof
is the same as to such perils, ,hether he defends on the ground
of the exemption in the bill of lading or under the Hatter act.
The rule is likewise applicable to the other statutory exempI Docket Title W. J. McCahan Sugar Refining Company v. Steamship
Wildcrolt.

THE WILDCROFT.
201 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

tions in the Harter act. The purpose of that act was not to
change in any way the burden of proof, but to specifically
define what contractual exceptions might -be made lawfully
and to provide certain additional statutory ones.
The burden of proof as to the exercise of due diligence by
the shipowner to make the ship in all respects seaworthy
rests on the'owner claiming exemption and this. rule is unchanged by the Harter act. The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462; The
Southwark, 191 U. S. 1; The Manitou, 127 Fed. Rep. 554;
The Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U. S. 199; Farr & Bailey Mfg.
Co. v. International Navigation Co., 181 U. S. 218.
This court in Farr v. Int. Nay. Co., supra, and The Southwark, supra, did not find that the burden of proof on the
shipowner to show due diligence on his part to make the ship
seaworthy was met by this presumption of 'seaworthiness, but
held the ships liable in each case because their owners did not
meet the burden of 'proof by affirmative evidence showing
that they had used due diligence to make the vessels seaworfhy. The Chattahoochee, 173 U. S. 540, distinguished.
That was a collision case, in which the injury resulted solely
from faults or errors of navigation, and the question of the
seaworthiness of the vessel was not in issue and was in no wise
connected with the collision.
There was no 6vidence whatever proving that the valves
were open or that the accident was caused by an error or fault
of navigation. The claimants' witnesses were not asked directly as to their personal knowledge. Their evidence therefore is merely indirect and does. not fall in the class of circumstantial evidence and is entitled to no weight and raises
the presumption that the facts, if brought out, would have
been prejudicial. 2 Evans' Pothier, 149, quoted in Clifton
v. United States, 4 How. 240; Kirby v. Talimadge, 160 U. S.
379. As to the value of testimony as to inspections by ship's
officers, see The Manitou, 116 Fed. Rep. 160; The Aggi, 93
Fed. Rep. 484.
Section 3 of the Harter act should be liberally Construed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Respondent.

201 U. S.

in favor of the cargo owner. The Delaware, 161 U. S. 471;
The Southwark, 191 U. S.- 1; The Manitou, 127 Fed. Rep.
554.
Mr. J. Parker Kirlin, with whom Mr. Charles R. Hickox
was on the. brief, for respondent:
The damage to the cargo was due to perils of the sea and
river, and to an accident of navigation within the exception
contained in the bills of lading. The damage by salt water
to the bags of sugar at the top of No. 3 hold was concededly
caused by perils of the sea. The damage to the cargo at the
bottom of Nos. 3 and 4 holds was apparently caused by fresh
water. This damage was due to a 'peril of the river within
the meaning of the bills of lading.
The question of negligence in the operation of the valves
would be important only in determining whether or not the
benefit of the exception should be given to the shipowner.
Negligence would not be important in determining whether
the damage done by river water was in fact, due to a peril
of the sea. Blackburn v. Liverpool, Brazil & River Plate
Steam Navigation Co., 1902,.1 K. B. 290; The Xantho, 12
App. Cas. 503, 513; Hamilton v. Pandor, 12 App. Cas. 518,
522.

In fact there is no distinction in the meaning of the term
perils of the sea as used in a bill of lading and in a policy of
insurance. The G. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450, 459; Carruthers
v. Sydebotham, 4 Maule & S. 77.
The adventitious presence of an extraneous substance under
the non-return valve in the bilge distribution box, a condition
which must have existed, was not an independent intervening
cause to deprive the inroad of the water upon the cargo of
its character of a peril of the river.
The fact that the non-return valve was - wedged open was
not due to negligence. It could have occurred only by the
working of the pumps on the suction pipe to the hold. It was,
therefore, properly an accident from machinery or steam

THE WILDCROFT.
201 U. S.

-

Argument for Respondent.

navigation 'within the exception of the bill- of lading. The
Prussia, 88 Fed. Rep. 531, 536; The Curlew,' 55 Fed. Rep.
1003; Adams v. Morris, 18 Sess. Cas. (4th series) 153; The
Southgate (1893), Prob. 329.
If it has been demonstrated that the damage to the cargo
was caused by a peril of the river or navigation as' excepted
in the bills of lading, it is a settled principle of law that the
burden' -f showing that negligence of the carrier contributed
to the damage, rests on 'the libellant. Clark v. Barnwell,
12 How. 272, 280; Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 194.
U. S. 427, 432.The vessel is relieved from liability for the damage under
the provisions of the Harter act. The damage was due to a
fault in the management of the vessel. Apparently, it could
have been ascertained whether the cocks and valves on the
branch connection to the tank filling pipe were open or closed
before thesea-cock was opened.
Failure to exercise such care in order to protect the cargo
agaifist a known possible danger from water which was about
to be taken into the pipe line from the sea, would clearly be
negligence in management on the part of those charged with
the duty. The Silvia, 171 U. S. 426; The Mexican Prince,
82 Fed. Rep. 484; S. C., 91 Fed. Rep. 1003; S. C., 174 U. S. 801.
Equally clearly Would such negligence seem to constitute a
fault or error in navigation or in the management of the vessel
within the language and meaning of the third section of the
Harter act. The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462; The Southgate (1893),
Prob. 329; Good v. London &c. Association, L. R. 6 C. P. 563;
The Warkworth, 9 Prob. Div. 20, 145; Carmichael v. Liverpool
&c. Association, 19 Q. B. Div. 242; Canada Shipping Co. v.
British &c. Association, 23 Q. D. Div. 342.
It is not necessary to contend that this fault or error was
in the navigation of the vessel, although it is believed that the
term "navigation" might properly be construed as broad
enough to cover this state of facts. The Warkworth,. 9 Prob.
Div. 20, 145. See also The Glenochil (1896), Prob. 10; Tho

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Respondent.

201 U. S.

Carron Park (1890), 15 Prob. 203; The Rodney (1900), Prob.
112.
The act of negligence need not involve the safety of the
ship. The negligence is within the protection of the Harter
act if it concerns only the safe carriage of cargo. Rowson v.
Atlantic Transport Co. (1903), 2, K..B. 666. This view of the
act taken by the Court of Appeals in England is in accord with
the interpretation put on that section by this court. The
Southwark, 191 U. S. 1, 7.
The failure to make proper use of a vessel's pumping connections, between the engine-room and her holds, in order to
get water out, has been construed to be a fault in management, in The Mexican Prince, supra; The Sandfield, 79 Fed.
Rep. 371; S. C., 92 Fed. Rep. 663; The British King, 89 Fed.
Rep. 872; S. C., 92 Fed. Rep. 1018; and The Ontario, 106
Fed. Rep. 324; S. C., 115 Fed. Rep. 769. Failure to use them
properly so as to prevent water from going in must be viewed
as a fault of the same nature. The Cressington (1891), Prob'
152, 160; The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462.
The question remaining to be determined on this branch
of the case is whether or not the shipowner 'has satisfactorily
established the seaworthiness of the vessel on sailing, or. the
due diligence to accomplish that result. The Supreme Court
has determined that "in the absence of proof to the contrary, a vessel will be presumed to be seaworthy" for the purpose of this statute. "The Chattahoochee, 173 U. S. 540,
550.
This presumption of fact had been declared long before the
statute took effect. Pyman v. Von Singen, 3 Fed. Rep. 802;
Bullard v. Roger Williams Ins. Co., 1 Curtis, 148; Lunt v.
Boston Ins. Co., 6 Fed. Rep. 562, 566, 567; Pickup v. Thames
& Mersey Mar. Ins. Co., 3 Q. B. Div. 594; Guy v. Citizens'
Mut. Ins. Co., 30 Fed. Rep. 695; Baltimore &c. Ry. v. Landrigan, 191 U. S. 461, 471, 472. See also The Joinville in the
Admiralty Division of the High Court of Justice in England,
reported in the Shipping Gazette of December 13, 1904. The

THE WILDCROFT.
201 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

statement of a presumption of seaworthiness in a vessel is not
in conflict with the previous holdings of this court. International Navigation Co. v. Farr & Bailey Mjg. Co., 181 U. S.
218, 226.
Where evidence has been produced tending to show that
the damage complained of was caused by unseaworthiness
the burden at the end of the case may very well be on the
shipowner who claims, as affirmative defense, the protection
of the act to establish that the circumstances exist that are
required by the act as a prerequisite .to the granting of the
exemption. Thayer, Preliminary Treatise on Evidence at the
Common Law, 355.
Notwithstanding, however, that the shipowner
may have
in a given case, the burden of establishing the exercise, on his
part, of due diligence to make the vessel seaworthy, yet he
may start with the presumption that the vessel was, in fact,
-seaworthy at the commencement of the voyage. Actual seaworthiness would necessarily assume that the diligence to
secute it that is required by the act had been exercised. If
any evidence has been given to the contrary, there will then
be cast on the libellant the duty of going forward and producing evidence to combat the effect of the presumption. Thayer,
Preliminary Treatise on Evidence, 365. The existence of the
presumption of seaworthiness does not shift the burden of
proof on that issue from the shipowner to the libellant but it
does shift the duty of going forward with evidence from the
shipowner who advances the proposition to the libellant who
opposes it. Thayer, Preliminary Treatise on Evidence, 336;
Kidder v. Stevens, 60 California, 414, 419; Keeley v. Moore
191 U. S. 38, 46, 47. The presumption is to be weighed like
any evidentiary circumstance. Hickory v. United States, 160
U. S. 408, 421.
Both courts below are clearly right in saying there was a
presumption of fact that the vessel was reasonably fit at the
outset of the voyage to carry the cargo she had undertaken
to transport. There is not any evidence in the case from

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

which it can reasonably be inferred that the vessel was unseaworthy at any time prior to the day when the damage
occurred. The findings of the ourts below did not lay down
a rule concerning the burden of proof inconsistent with that
announced in this court in The Southwark, 19i U. S. 1.
Practical tests of a similar nature to those employed in this
case have been held in other cases sufficient to establish the
point at issue. American Sugar Ref. Co. v. Rickinson Sons &
Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 188; The Ontario, 106 Fed. Rep, 324; S. C.,
afft'd, f 15 Fed. Rep. 769; The British King, 89 Fed. Rep. 872;
S. C., aff'd, 92 Fed. Rep. 1018; The Sandfield, 79 Fed. Rep.
371; S. C., aff'd, 92 Fed. Rep. 663; The Marechal Suchet, 12
Fed. Rep. 440, 441, and cases there cited.
The valve could and should have been closed before the sea
valve was opened. The situation would come withih the
reasoning of the Mexican Prince, 82 Fed. Rep. 484, 488; S. C.,
91 Fed. Rep. 1003; The Silvia, 64 Fed. Rep. 607; S. C., 68
Fed. Rep. 230; S. C., 171 U. S. 462.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The original action was begun by the -filing of a libel in the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District
.of Pennsylvania, to recover damages alleged to have been
sustained by the petitioner, with respect to a cargo of sugar
of which it was the consignee, shipped upon the steamship
"Wildcroft from ports in Cuba to Philadelphia. 'The evidence
showed that in the month of April, 1901, the " Wildcroft," having discharged a cargo of coal at the port of Havana, proceeded
to Cardenas and Matanzas, where she took on the load of
sugar, to be delivered to the petitioner in Philadelphia.' This
sugar was stored in bags in holds Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the ship.
On the voyage a severe storm was encountered and some damage was done by salt water finding its way into hold No. 3
because of the tearing away of the tarpaulins over the hatches
and the washing off of the starboard ventilator cover, At the

THE WILDCROFT.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hearing in the District Court the claim for damage, because
of injury alleged to have been caused to the sugar in holds
Nos. 1 and 2, was held to be waived by the libellant, who
disclaimed damage on that account. And, the district judge
added, we think correctly, as to the surface damage in hold
No. 3, "this damage was concededly caused by a peril of the
seas." There is.
nothing in the testimony to show that the
injury to the cargo of sugar in holds Nos. 3 and 4 of the vessel
by means of fresh water was occasioned until the ship arrived
at Philadelphia.
A more distinct understanding of the construction of the
vessel and the manner in which fresh water could be communicated to hold No. 3, and from thence into hold No. 4,
may be had by a perusal of the full finding of the facts made
in the case in the District Court, 124 Fed. Rep. 631; S. C.,
126 Fed. Rtp. 229, approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
130 Fed. Rep. 521, which findings fully explain the situation
and the method by which the injury was inflicted. It is
enough for us to say that both courts unite in the conclusion
that the, cargo was injured on Monday, April 29, after the ship
arrived at the dock in Philadelphia, when, because of 'the
letting in. of fresh water for the purpose of filling the engineroom tank, which was accomplished by opening a valve on.
the ship's side which admits water from the river, and because
of an open cock. to a valve in the connection from the tankfilling pipe to the service or feed donkey, connecting with the
distribution box, water was permitted to flow from the.tankfilling pipe through this open cock to the distribution chest
and down a pipe and through a valve, which must have also
been held open in some way so that water flowed into this
suction pipe leading into No. 3 hold, and flowing thence into
No. 4 hold, damaged the cargo of sugar therein contained.
It is evident frqm the testimony that if these cocks, and more
particularly the one marked ']D," had been properly closed,
the water could not have found its way into the holds and inflicted the damage. Of these findings the Circuit Court of
VOL. ccT-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Coirt.

201 U. S.

Appeals, adopting the conclusions of the court below, said:
"All of the testimony in this respect is uncontradicted, and
no facts are shown from which any other conclusion can be
drawn, than that the water which came into the bottom of
these holds, to the depth of several feet, doing the damage in
question, came in after the early morning of the twenty-ninth
of April, and before the close of that day, while the cargo was
being discharged, at the wharf in Philadelphia. It is not disputed that the water was fresh water, such as was the water
in the Delaware river, in which she was lying. In connection
with these facts, it was shown by the testimony that the seacock for filling the engine room tank was open at ten o'clock
that morning, and kept open for a period of three hours, and
that if two certain cocks, fully described in the evidence and
pointed out by the learned judge of the court below, were left
open by accident or. design, there would be a free flow of water
from the open sea-cock into the bilges of hold No. 3. Directly
after the filling of the tank and the closing of the sea-cock,
water to a considerable depth was reported in holds No. 3
and No. 4. This sea-cock had not been open from the time.
the cargo was put on board in Cuba until, as just 'stated, on
the morning of the twenty-ninth of April, at Philadelphia.
We think the court below was fully justified in its finding,
that the damage here in question was due to 'the water that
flowed into the hold through the pipe line on April twentyninth, in the manner just described,' and that 'it is im,
possible that the damage could have occurred in any other
way."
In order to have the benefit of the exemptions provided in
the Harter act, 27 Stat. 445, against errors of management
or navigation by reason of the third section, which was relied
upon in the case, it was incumbent upon the shipowner to
prove that the vessel was seaworthy at the time of beginning
the voyage, or that due diligence had been used to make her
so. International Navigation Company v. Farr & Bailey'
Manufacturing Company, 181 U. S. 218; The Southwark, 191

THE WILDCROFT.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 1. It, therefore, became incumbent upon the shipowner
to show that a due and proper inspection had been had and
the vessel ascertained to be in all respects seaworthy and fit
to carry the cargo which she had undertaken to transport, or
that due diligence to that end had been used. As we understand the findings of both the District Court and the Court
of Appeals, the testimony in this regard introduced by the
shipowner was sufficient, in the judgment of those courts, to
establish that the vessel was seaworthy in the respects involved, and that an inspection had been had, and the valves
and connections, the negligent use of which was productive
of this injury, found in d!',, order at the beginning of the
voyage. This finding of two courts will ordinarily not be
disturbed, and is usually accepted by this court as conclusive.
The Carib Printce, 170 U. S. 655, 658. The only testimony
directly upon the subject at the hearing was that of the master
and the engineer, taken upon deposition in England, upon
interrogatories filed. The charge in the libel was very broad
and general, and the interrogatories were not as specific as they
might have been, and no cross-interrogatories were filed.
While the testimony is not as specific as it might be, we still
think it was sufficient to show that an inspection was had,
and everything found in order at the beginning as well asduring the voyage, and from the record we reach the conclusion,
sustained by the findings of the cdurts below, that'the ship
was seaworthy in all respects at the beginning of the voyage;
and it was, a careless and recent opening of the valve or valves,
shortly before the fresh water was let it, which resulted in the
damage complained of. We are very clear that this is not a
case where the findings of the court below can be disturbed,
as was our conclusion in the case of The Southwark, supra,
relied upon. by the petitioner, where it was shown that the
damage inflicted was the-result of unseaworthiness in respect
to a condition which a proper inspection of the vessel at the
beginning of the voyage would have discovered and remedied.
We, therefore, reach the conclusion that the decree of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Circuit Court of.Appeals should be affirmed, and but for its
construction of the rule of evidence in cases of this kind this
opinion might well end here. But we.are,unable to agree with
the views expressed in the opinion of the learned Circuit Court
of Appeals to the effect that where a .shipowner seeks the protection of the immunity afforded by the Harter act under section 3, reliance may he had upon the presumption of law that
the vessel was seaworthy at the beginning of the voyage,
and that it is only in cases of conflicting proof that-the burden
is imposed upon the shipowner, of establishing by testimony
the seaworthiness of the vessel, or due diligence in that behalf,
inorder to have the benefit, of the act. We think this construction of the law is opposed to the terms and policy of the
act and contrary to the decisions of this court heretofore announced, from which we see no occasion to depart. The relief
afforded by the third section of the Harter act to the owner
of a vessel, transporting property, is purely statutory. In the
case at bar there could be -noquestion as to the liability of
the vessel owner from the established, facts, of the case, but
for the immunity afforded by that act. To permit a cargo
of sugar to be injured by the introduction of fresh water in
the manner shown, but for the provisions of this act, would
have made a case of clear -liability against the owner, and
where the statute has given immunity against such loss by
reason of error in navigation or management, it does so upon
the distinct condition that the owner shall show that the vessel
was in all respects seaworthy and properly manned, equipped
and supplied for the voyage; or, if this cannot be established,
that he has used due diligence to obtain this end. The discharge of this duty is not left to any presumption in the absence of proof.. It is the condition precedent, complianc'ewith
which is required of the vessel owner in order to:give him the
benefit of the immunity, afforded by the act.. The reason for
requiring this proof by the owner is apparent. He,is bound
to furnish .a seaworthy and properly equipped ship for. the
purpose of the voyage. Whether he has- .one so is a matter

THE WILDCROFT.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

peculiarly within his own knowledge. The inspection which
he 'can give, but which the shipper cannot give for lack of
opportunity, will establish whether this duty has been complied with. The whole matter is in the control of the owner.
The law says, in substance, that when the owner can show that
lie has discharged this duty he shall be relieved from errors
of navigation and management on the voyage, over which
he has not such direct control. It isnot a case where there
is either the necessity or propriety of resorting to presumptions. It is only when he has discharged the burden which
the law iniposes upon him, and shown that he has furnished
a vessel, fit and seaworthy, or has used due diligence to that
end, that the law relieves him of the liability which he would
otherwise incur. This construction of the statute has been
more than, once announced in the decisions of, this court;
recently in International Navigation Company v. Farr &
Bailey Mfg. Co.,.181 U. S. 218; 226, in which this court, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, said: "We repeat that
even if the loss occurred through fault or error in management,
the exemption cannot be availed of unless the vessel was seaworthy ihen 'she sailed, or due diligence to make her so had
been exercised, and it is for the owner to establish the existence of one or the other of these conditions." This case was
quoted and followed in the still later case of The Southwark,
191 U. S. 1, in which it was reiterated that the burden was upon
the vessel owner to show by reasonable and proper tests that
the vessel was seaworthy and in a fit condition t6 receive and
transport the cargo undertaken to be carried, and that, if,
by failure to adopt such tests and furnish the required proof,
the question of the ship's seaworthiness was left in doubt,
that doubt must be resolved in favor of the shipper, because
the vessel owner had not sustained the burden cast upon him
by the law to establish that he had used due diligence to furnish
a seaworthy vessel.
While we, therefore, accept the decision of the learned
Circuit Court of Appeals as to the facts in this case, we do not

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

201 U. S.

wish to be regarded as sanctioning any relaxation of the rule
above stated, already laid down in the prior decisions of this
court.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN concurs

in the result.

UNITED STATES v. WICKERSHAM.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 185.

Submitted February 28, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

The provisions of the Civil Service Act of January 16, 1883, are broad and
comprehensive; under it, the Executive order of May 16, 1896, Rule III,
and the order and list of the Secretary of the Interior of June 9 and
September 26, 1896, based thereon, stenographers receiving the specified
salaries employed in offices of surveyors-general were brought within
the protection of the law and can only be removed-at least by a subordinate officer of the Department-for just cause and upon written
charges on notice with opportunity to defend; and until removed in
accordance with the law and rules thereunder, and so long as he remains
ready and willing to discharge the duties of his place, he cannot be deprived of the compensation legally belonging to one entitled to hold
the position notwithstanding the surveyor-general in whose office he
is employed attempts to discharge him and excludes him from the office.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Louis A. Pradt, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr.
Felix Brannigan, Assistant Attorney, for the United States:
It is unnecessary to present any argument as to whether or

not Wickersham was or was not in the classified civil service

