VALENTINA v. MERCER.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

VALENTINA v. MERCER, SHERIFF.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 404.

Argued February 27, 1906.-Decided March 12, 1906.

Felts v. Murphy, ante,. p. 123, followed, to effect that the writ of habeas
corpus cannot perform the functions of a writ of error and that the power
of Federal courts to review the judgments of state courts is limited entirely to the question of jurisdiction.
On a trial for murder the accused admitted the killing, and after all the
facts were presented the court charged the jury to consider all the evidence and that if the killing was premeditated to find a verdict of guilty
in the first degree, if not, then on the admitted facts it was murder in
the second degree. The jury found in the first degree. The highest
court of the State held the charge was without error. Held, that on the
record there was a valid trial by a court having jurisdiction of the subject matter and the person and there was no loss of jurisdiction over
either at any time during the trial and the judgment of the state court'
could not be reviewed on habeas corpus proceedings in the Federal courts.

THE appellant has appealed from an order of the United
States Circuit Court for the District of New Jersey, refusing her
application for a writ of habeas corpus.
In her application for the writ, appellant stated that she had
been indicted in the Bergen County Court of Oyer and Terminer,
in the State of New Jersey, in April, 1904, for the murder of
one Rosa Salza, and that she had been convicted on the trial
of such indictment by a jury, and sentenced to be hanged on
the nineteenth day of May, 1904. She averred that she had
been convicted Without authority of law, and that her conviction was null and void, because the question of her guilt or innocence of murder was not entertained by the court or submitted to the jury, as the law of New Jersey expressly requires
in all cases where parties are indicted for murder, but, on the
contrary, she averred that evidence was'taken in said court-in
said proceedings on her trial merely to determine the degree of
her guilt; that her counsel, assigned by the court to represent

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

her in said proceedings, had so stated in a petition in her behalf
made to the Court of Pardons of the State of New Jersey. She
further said that it was stated by her counsel, in that same petition, that she had pleaded guilty when she was arraigned, but
that, under the direction of the court, a plea of not guilty was
entered so that evidence might be taken for the purpose of determining the degree of guilt. This averment she denied. The
petitioner claimed that the proceedings were wholly unwarranted by the law of New Jersey; and that the court and her
counsel proceeded under the impression that section 68 of the
act for the punishment of crimes, approved March 27, 1874
(Revision), which provided that "if a person indicted for mur'der should be convicted by confession in open court, the court
should proceed by examining witnesses to determine the degree
of the crime," was then in existence, whereas the said act
had been repealed in 1893, and the present law passed, which
provides, "if, upon arraignment, such plea of guilty should be
offered, it shall be disregarded, and a plea of not guilty entered,
and a jury, duly impanelled, shall try the case in manner aforesaid.'" The petitioner urged in her petition that by the proceedings adopted upon her trial she was deprived of all benefit
of the presumption of innocence and of reasonable doubt to
which she was entitled by law, and that the questions of selfdefense and manslaughter, fairly raised by her testimony, were
excluded from the consideration of the jury, and the question
submitted to them was limited by the court simply as to
whether she was guilty of murder in the first degree or not,
and the benefit of reasonable doubt was confined to that point.
A writ of error was sued out by the petitioner and her case
was brought before the Court of Errors and Appeals, the highest court of the State of New Jersey, for the purpose of review,
and, after a hearing, that court refused a new trial. The case
is reported in 71 N. J. Law, 552.
It appears from the record herein that upon the trial proof
was given that the petitioner stabbed the deceased with a knife
a great many times in the neck and breast, killing her instantly.

VALENTINA v. MERCER.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Counsel who had been assigned to defend the petitioner called
her as a witness, and she admitted that she stabbed the deceased and killed her. She said that the deceased had a child
in her arms at the time and that the petitioner said to her that
she did not want to raise any trouble, and told her to put the
child away, but that the deceased had the knife in her hand,
right behind her dress, and that when petitioner saw that she
had the knife and that the deceased was going to stab her, petitioner took the knife and grabbed the deceased by the hair,
and before deceased stabbed her she took the knife away from
her and stabbed the deceased.
Upon opening for the defense her counsel said as follows:
"This defendant, when arraigned in open court, made confession of the commission of this crime, and you, gentlemen of
the jury, from the evidence that has been produced on the part
of the State, and that which shall be offered on the part of the
defense, will simply have to determine what the degree of guilt
shall be; your verdict will be either that she is guilty of the
taking of the life of this woman, Mrs. Salza, with malice aforethought, premeditated, which would mean a verdict of murder
in the first degree, or your verdict will be murder in the second
degree; so that I find myself in a very peculiar position. It is
one of those cases around which-the circumstances being such
-that we stand, as it were, with only the defendant to testify.
After you have heard her testimony, and possibly one or two
witnesses in connection thorewith, the case will then be given
to you for you to determine whether this woman shall forfeit
her life for the act which she committed on March 10th, last,
or whether she shall suffer the penalty which the law will inflict
by reason of a verdict of murder in the second degree."
After that the evidence was given on the part of the defense,
and the defendant was called as a witness, and admitted the
killing.
Mr. James M. Trimble for appellant:
The proceedings which resulted in appellant's sentence to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

201 U.S.

death was not a trial at common law or a proceeding authorized by statute. It was a mere inquiry to determine the degree
of murder of which defendant was guilty; it being assumed,
certainly by counsel, and apparently by the court, that at her
arraignment Anna Valentina "had confessed to the commission
of this crime" (of which there was no proof before the court
and jury) and that all that remained for the jury was to determine what degree of murder she was guilty of. This is evident
from the opening of counsel for the defense, the certificate
of the presiding justice, and the charge of the court.
It is unquestionable that counsel for the defense understood
and conceived of the proceedings as a mere inquiry; he so told
the jury in his opening. A mere inquiry to determine the degree of a crime is not a trial. People v. Noll, 20 California,
164.
Section 68 of the Criminal Procedure Act, 1874, which was
considered by this court in the case of Hallenger v. Davis, 146
U. S. 314, and wvhich formerly authorized the court to accept
a plea of guilty of murder and then to proceed by the examination of witnesses to determine the degree of the crime, was
abolished by the amendment to the Criminal Procedure
Act, March, 1893, and does not form any part of the present
act. Rev. Stat., 1898, P. L., 1898, p. 825. That amendment
was: "If, upon arraignment, such plea of guilty shall be offered,
it shall be disregarded, and a plea of not guilty entered, and
a jury impanelled shall try the case in manner aforesaid."
The peremptory direction to the jury that they must find
the defendant guilty of murder in one degree or the other,
was a plain violation of the specific terms of the present statute,
because that statute says that the jury shall designate by their
verdict' whether it shall be murder in the first or second degree, "if they find such person guilty." Revised Statutes,
p. 1100, ยง271; Revision 1898, P. L. 1898, pp. 824, 825. By
this amendment it has been held that the common-law right
of confession in open court of a crime of murder was abolished,
nd the statute substituted for the advice of the judge the

VALENTINA v. MERCER.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

mandate of the law that the citizen shall not be adjudged to
death upon his own confession, but that inavorem vitce the
State shall prove to the satisfaction of a jury the crime laid
in the indictment. State v. Genz, 28 Vr. 463.
In this case counsel for defense withheld, and the court excluded all of the possibilities except conviction of murder in
one or the other degree. If this is possible in this case it is possible in any case of murder when the judge sees fit, and it is
therefore tantamount to the absolute abolition of trial by jury.
There is no such power in the judge at common law. The
plea of not guilty traversed every material fact alleged in the
indictment. 3 Greenleaf, Evidence, part 5, ยง 12.
Under the indictment there could have been a conviction of
any grade of manslaughter established by the evidence, and
defendant could only be convicted of that degree which the evidence established beyond reasonable doubt. Charge of Judge
Magie in Wilson v. State, 31 Vr. 172. This is merely declaratory of the common law. Roscoe's Criminal Evidence, 82.
Appellant was entitled to the presumption of innocence
and reasonable doubt on the whole case, and not on a part
thereof. 3 Greenleaf, Evidence, part 5, ยง 29. In this case the
application of reasonable doubt was limited by the court to the
question whether appellant was guilty of murder in the first
degree.
The constitution of New Jersey provides that the accused
shall be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation
and shall be confronted with the witnesses against him. Art. 1,
subd. 8. "Confronted" does not mean merely bodily presence;
the barrier of language is quite as great as the barrier of distance; and in cases like the present one, where a foreigner,
not speaking English, is on trial, this constitutional provision
is not satisfied, unless the testimony and proceedings are translated to the accused. An examination of the record will show
that nothing was translated to this defendant, except specific
questions. Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed., 457; Dougherty v.
Commonwealth, 69 Pa. St. 286.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

201 U. S.

The State has full control over the procedure in its
courts subject only to the qualifications that such procedure
must not work a denial of fundamental rights, or conflict with
specific and applicable provisions of the Federal Constitution.
Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172. But here is denial of
fundamental rightA. Here is conflict with the specific and
applicable provision of the Federal Constitution.
It is not alone the question of jurisdiction which may be
inquired into in proceedings on habeas corpus. Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 138.
Mr. Robert H. McCarter, Attorney General of the State of
New Jersey, for appellee:
The permission accorded by ยง 753 of the United States Revised Statutes to Federal judges to issue writs of habeas corpus
in all cases of this kind, does not justify the Circuit Court, or
this court, on review of its action, to consider questions as on
writ of error or appeal. The writ of habeas corpus thus authorized cannot be made to perform the functions of a writ
of error or appeal. See 15 Am. and Eng. Ency. of Law,
pp. 174 et seq., and cases cited.
This proceeding is exactly like that condemned by this
court in Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S.i38, 141. See also
In re Wood, 140 U. S.278; In re Tyler, 149 U. S.164; Anderson
v. Treat, 172 U. S.24.
In In -re Eckart, 166 U. S.481, the prisoner was held not entitled to a discharge on habeas corpus because the degree of the
crime when divided into degrees, with punishment varying
according to the degree, was not specified in the indictment;
that the indictment was found on improper evidence-Harkrader v. Wodley, 172 U. S. 148; the arbitrary exclusion from
the panel of persons of the race of the accused-Andrews v.
Schwarts, 156 U. S. 272; the refusal of the appellate tribunal
of the State to grant the accused a writ of error. Bergemann
v. Backer, 157 U. S. 655.
The supposed unconstitutional feature of this trihl is the

VALENTINA v. MERCER.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

fact that the court, acting upon the concession of the learned
counsel for the defendant, that the evidence made the case
either one of murder in the first or second degree, directed the
jurors' attention solely to the legal difference between these
two degrees of crime. This action of the trial judge was the
subject of severe criticism in the Court of Errors and Appeals,
and was directly sustained by that court upon the ground that
the circumstances conclusively established the crime of murder.
The bare fact that the record fails to disclose, in the proceedings at the trial or in the Court of Errors and Appeals,
a single suggestion that the petitioner was deprived of her
rights under the Constitution; treaties and laws of the United
Stat , or that the same were in any way involved, is enough
to defeat this application. To permit this court to review
cases of this character, the alleged deprivation of the fights
secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States must
have been set up in the state court Clark v. Pennsylvania,
128 U. S. 397; Calduell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692; McNulty v.
California, 149 U. S.645.
There is no dispute in this case that the petitioner was
amenable to the jurisdiction of the state court; that she was
legally indicted; that she pleaded! not guilty; had counsel
assigned to her; that she was tried and- convicted under a
statute of the State in no way repugnant to the Constitution
or laws of the United States, and this conviction was,-duly
affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals. Under .such
circumstances the Federal courts have 'no"authorityto interfere, by habeas corpus, with the executiof of the sentence by the state court. Bergemann v. Backer, 157 U. S.
655.
With the disposition of state questions by the appropriate
state authorities, it is not the province of this court to interfere. Lambert v. Barrett, 157 U. S. 697.
Almost every question heie involved has been directly
passed upon by this court in previous, cases. See Kohl v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Lehlbach, 160 U. S. 193; In re Jugiro, 140 U. S. 291; Lambert
v. Barrett, 159 U. S. 660; Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692;
Hallinger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314.

I

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of- the court.
In this case, as in that of Felts v. Murphy, decided this day,
the question arises on an appeal from an order of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey,
refusing appellant's petition for a writ of habeas corpus. Our
power to interfere in cases of this nature is limited entirely
to the question of jurisdiction. If the state court'had jurisdiction to try the case, and had jurisdiction over the person
of the accused, and never lost such jurisdiction, the Federal
Circuit Court was right in denying the application of petitioner
for a writ, and its order must be affirmed. A writ of this
nature cannot perform the function of a writ of error. We
again cite the authorities referred to in -the Felts case: Ex parte
Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328; In re Lennon, 166 U. S. 548, 552;
In re Eckart, 166 U. S.481.
The contention of the counsel for the petitioner is that the
proceedings upon the trial, which resulted in appellant's sentence to death, did not amount to a trial at common law, or a
proceeding authorized by any statute. That it was a mere
inquiry to determine the degree of murder of which defendant
was guilty, and hence she has never had a trial by due process
of law, and the action of the state court was without jurisdiction. A perusal of the charge of the court to the'jury shows
that the whole case was presented to the jury upon the evidence that was produced in court. Upon all the evidence given
the court stated to the jury that there was no evidence to show
that the defendant killed the deceased in her necessa7y selfdefense, and the court instructed the jury that it would not
be justified in acquitting the defendant on, the ground of selfdefense. The; court further said that there was no question

VALENTINA v. MERCER.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of manslaughter in the case, and that, not only as a necessary
conclusion from the evidence, but upon the admitted facts in
the case, the defendant was guilty of the crime of murder,
and the only question left for the consideration of the jury was
whether it was murder in the first degree or second degree.
The court gave an extended explanation as to what constituted murder in the first degree and what constituted murder
in the second degree, and stated that the defendant was guilty
of murder in the second degree, unless the evidence satisfied
the jury beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant intended to take the life of deceased, and that the intent was
carried into execution deliberately, willfully and with premeditation. Finally, the court submitted to the jury the case
and instructed it to consider all the evidence according to the
recollection of the jury, and giving to the evidence such weight
as it possessed on the mind of the jury. The court stated it
was the duty of the jury to determine whether the defendant
intended to kill the deceased, and carried out that purpose
willfully, deliberately and with premeditation. If she did,
she was guilty of murder in the first degree, and it was the
duty of the jury to say so. If not, then on the admitted
facts she was guilty of murder in the second degree, and it
was the duty of the jury to say that by its verdict. The
jury.found the petitioner guilty of murder in the first degree.
The charge of the court was the subject of review by the'
court of last resort of the State of New Jersey, and it was held
by that court to be without error. Upon the record in this
case there can, in our judgment, be no possible doubt that the*
petitioner has had'a valid trial by a court having jurisdiction
of the subject matter and of the person of the accused, and
that there was no loss of jurisdiction over either at any time
during the trial.' What effect was to be given by the court
to the admission of counsel (above set forth) was a question
of law for the court to decide, and the charge of the court did
not oust it of jurisdiction to proceed in the trial of the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

This is to us so plain a proposition that it is unnecessary to
enlirge upon it.
Having no power to review on this writ any other question
than that of the jurisdiction of the court in the trial and sentence pronounced upon the verdict of guilty, and concluding
that there was the necessary jurisdiction, the order of the
Circuit Court refusing the writ of habeas corpus is
Affirmed.

OTIS ,COMPANY v. LUDLOW MANUFACTURING COMPANY.:
ERROR

TO THE

SUPERIOR

COURT OF

THE STATE

OF

MASSA-

CHUSETTS.
No. 73.

Argued March 1, 2, 1906.-Decided March i2, 1906.

Where the Federal question is distinctly set up in the bill, and insisted on
at every. stage,'and the state court could not have decided as it did without overruling the claim, this court has jurisdiction to review. the judgment on writ of error.
In determining whether a statute of a State is constitutional, this court
cannot wholly neglect the long-settled law and common understand;.
ing of that State, and will not, under the Fourteenth Amendment, upset
what has long been established and accepted. Even the incidents . of
ownership may be cut down by the peculiar laws and usages of a State.
Under the Massachusetts Mill Act the right of the lower owner only becomes complete when the land is flowed, and then it is only a right to
maintain a dam'subject to paying the upper owners for harm actually
done, in pursuance of the terms of the act. In a suit at equity brought
by the upper owner to restrain the lower owner from building a dam,
* the state court having declared generally that the Mill Act ,is valid, but
not having definitely expressed itself as to its constitutionality, and as the
opinion of this court may depend upon the interpretation of the act by
the .state court, held, that the bill should be dismissed without prejudice,
or retained until plaintiff's rights have been determined in an action for
damages under the statute pending in the state court.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

