OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

201 U. S.

erty of the corporation and not, a tax upon the shares of stock
held by the shareholders. There was, however, a contract
between the State and the corporation which prevented the
subjection. of the property of the corporation to any other
than the tax prescribed in the statute.
The decree of the Circuit Court is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

HADDOCK 'v. HADDOCK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
N6. 119. Argued December 11 1905.-Decided April 12. 196.
The husband and wife being domiciled in New York, the husband left the
wife, acquired, in good faith, after a lapse of years, a domicil in Connecticut, and obtained in-that State, and in accordance with its laws, a judgment of divorce based on constructive, and not actual,, service of process,
on the wife, who meanwhile remained domiciled in New York and never
appeared in the action. The' wife subsequently sued for divorce in
New York and obtained personal service in that State on the, husband
*who pleaded the Connecticut jddgment. Held,
Without questioning.the power of the State of Connecticut to enforce the
decree within its own borders, and w'ithout ntimating any doubt that the
State of Ne.r York might give it such degree of efficacy that' it might be
entitled 'to in view of the public policy of. the State, that the Connecticut
:decree, rendered as it was without being based on personal gervice of the
process on, and therefore without personal jurisdiction of' the court over,'
the wife, 'was not entitled to obligatory enforcement in the: State of
New 'York b" virtue' of the full faith-and credit clause of the Federal'
' '
11
., ,
Constitution.
A suit for divorce brought in-a State other than that of domicil of matrimony against a wife' who is still domiciled therein is not'a proceeding
in rem justifying the court to enter a ,decree as to the res, or marriage
relation, entitled -to .be enforced. outside of the teritorial jurisdiction
.of the court.
,.
Questions concerning alleged fraud in contracting a marriage and laches
"bn"'the part of' one'of the parties in 'bringing 'an action for divorce are
matters solelyof state cognizance and may' not even be allowed to in-

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Syllabus.

directly influence this court in determining the Federal question which
is involved.
The States at the time of the adoption of the Constitution poss full
power over the subject of marriage and divorce and the Constitution
delegated no authority to the Central Government in regard thereto,
and the destruction of. the power of the States over the dissolution of
marriage as to their own citizens cannot 'be brought about by the operation of the full faith and'credit clause of the Constitution of the United
States.
Prev*ious decisions of this court hold in regard to the full faith and credit
to be given by States to the judicial decrees of other States that:
The requirement is not that some, but that full, faith and credit, equal
to that to which it is entitled in the State where rendered, shall
'be given toa judicial decree of an6ther'State. Harding v. Hard':'
'ing, 198 U. S.'317.
A personal judgment against 'a non-resident-not a proceeding in rembased merely upoi constructive service and therefore jurisdiction
not being acquired over the defendant's person may not be enforced
'inanother State- under the fullfaith, and credit'clause. Pennoyer
.v. Neff, 95-U. S.714.
All governments possess inherent power over the marriage relation, its
formation and dissolution, as regards their own citigens, and
where a court or legislature of a State has acted conforrnably with
its own laws concerning the marriage tie as to a citizen of that
'State, its actioh is binding in that State as to that citizen, and
is validity under the due process clause of..the Constitution may
not 'therein be questioned. Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S.190.
As a corollary to the power of the State, irrespective of any extraterritorial' effect, any' other sovereign may,'under the principles-of
comity give to such a decree the efficacy which its own conception of duty and public policy may Juitify.
Where ,husband 'and wife' are domiciled 'in a State jurisdiction exists in
that Statt, for good cause to enter a decree of divorce, 'entitled
to enforcement in.'another State under the full faith and..credit
clause;. and where a bona. ide domicil has been acquired: in a
State by -either husband or wife, a decree of divorce obtained by
either in a cdut havi.ng personal, jurisdictioi of the other is likewise entitled to be so enforced in other States. Cheever v. Wilson,
9 Wall. 108.
Where the domicil of a 'matrimony 'is in a particular' State, and the husband abandoniing the' wife, wrongfully goes into another State'
in order 'to avoid his marital obligation,' such other State does
not become.a new domicil of matrimony, nor the actual or constructive domicil of the wife. That continues Jn- the original
State until she actually acquires a new one. Barber v. Barier,
'
21 How. 582.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the'Court.

201 U. S.

Where the domicil of the husband is in a particular State, which is also
the domicil of matrimony, the courts of that State may, in virtue
of the wife's duty to "be at 'the matrimonial domicil, disregard
her unjustifiable absence therefrom and treat her as having her
domicil therein for the purpose of dissolving the marriage and
render .a judgment to that effect entitled to recognition in' all
.other States under the_ full faith and. credit clause of the Constitution. Atherton v. AMton, 181 U. S. 155.

THE facts, which involved the full faith and credit to- be
given by the courts of the State of 'New York to a decree' of
divorce, obtained in Connecticut by the husband, formerly a
resident of New York, from his wife still residing in New York,
based.on substituted service of the summons, are stated in the
opinion.'
Mr. Abram J. Rose, with whom Mr. William H. Willits and
Mr. Alfred C. Pett were on the brief, for, plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry Willis Smith, with whom 'Mr. William T. Tomlionso and. Mr. William W. Smith were on the brief, for defendant in error..
MR. JUSTICE WIHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error will be called the husband and the defendant in error the wife.
The wife, a resident of the State of New York, sued the husband'in that State in 1899, and-there obtained personal service
upon him., The complaint charged that the parties had been
married in 'New York in 1868, where they both resided and
where the wife continued to reside, and it was averred that the
husband, immediately following the marriage, abandoned the
wife, and thereafter failed to support her, and that he was the
owner of property. A decree of separation 'from bed and board
and for alimony was prayed.. The answer admitted the marriage, but averred 'that its celebration was -prooured by the

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the'Court.

fraud of the wife, and that immediately after the marriage the
parties had separated by mutual consent. - It was' also alleged
'that, during the long' period between the celebration and the
bringing of this action the wife had in no manner asserted her
rights and was barred by her laches from doing so. Besides,
the nswer alleged that the husband had, in 1881, obtained
in a court of the State of Connecticut a divorce which was
conclusive. At the trial before a 'referee the judgment roll in
the suit for divorce in Connecticut was offered by the husband
and was objected to, first, because the Connecticut court' had
not obtained jurisdiction over the person of the defendant 'wife,
as the notice of the pendency of the petition was by publication and she had not appeared in the action; and, second,, because the ground upon which the divorce was granted, viz.,
desertion 'by the wife, vas false. The referee sustained the
objections and an exception was noted. The judgment roll
in' question was then marked for identification and forms a
part of the record-before us.
Having thus excluded the proceedings in the Connecticut
court, the referee found that the parties were married in New
York in 1868, that the wife was a resident -of the State of
New- York, that after the marriage the parties never lived together, and shortly thereafter that the husband without justifiable cause abandoned the wifd, and, h§ 'since neglected to
provide for her. The legal conclusion was that the wife was
entitled to a separation from bed and board and alimony in
the sum of $780 a year from the date of the judgment. The.
action of the referee was sustained by the Supreme.Court of
the State of New York, and a judgment for separation and
alimony was entered in favor of the wife. This judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals. As by the law of the State
of New York, after the affirmance by the Court of Appeals, the
record W'vas remitted to the Supreme Court, this writ of error
to that court was prosecuted.
The Federal question is, Did the court below violate the
Constitution of the United States by refusing to give to the
'

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

decree, of divorce rendered in the State of Connecticut the faith
and credit to which it was entitled?
As the averments concerning the alleged fraud in contracting
the marriage and the subsequent laches of. the wife are solely
matters of -state cognizance, we may not allow them to even
indirectly influence our judgment upon the Federal question
to which we are confined, and we, therefore, 1ut these subjects
entirely out of view. Moreover, as, for the purpose of the Federal issue, we are concerned not with the mere form of proceeding, by which the Federal right, if any, was denied, but alone
ha epower to decide whether such right was denied, we do not
inquire. whether the New York court should preferably have
admitted the record of the Connecticut divorce suit, and, after
so admitting it, determine what effect it would 'give to it instead of excluding the record and thus refusing to give effect
to the judgment. In. order to decide whether the refusal of
the court to admit in evidence the Connecticut decree denied
to that decree the efficacy to which it was entitled under the
full faith and credit clause, we must first examine the judgment
roll of the Connecticut cause in order to fix the precise circumstances under which the decree in that cause was rendered.
Without going into detail, it suffices to say that on the face
of the Connecticut record'it appeared that the husband, alleging that he had acquired a domicil in Connecticut, sued the
wife in that State as a person whose residence was unknown,
but whose last known place of residence was in the State of
New York, at a place stated, and charged desertion by the wife
and fraud on her part in procuring the marriage; and, further,
it is shown that no service was made upon the wife except by
publication and by mailing a copy of the petition to her
at her last known place of residence in the State of -New
York.
.With the object-of confining our attention to the real question arising from this condition of the Connecticut record, we
state at the outset certain legal propositions irrevocably concluded by previous decisions of this court, and which are re-

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

quired to be borne in mind in analyzing the ultimate issue to
be decided.
First. The requirement of the Constitution is not that some,
but that full, faith and credit shall be given by States to the
judicial decrees of otherrStates. That is to say, where a decree
rendered in one State is embraced by the full faith and credit
clause that constitutional provision commands that the other
States shall give to the decree the force and effect to which it
was entitled in the State where rendered. Harding v. Harding,. 198 U. S.317.
Second. Where a personal judgment has been rendered in,
the courts of a State against a non-resident merely upon constructive service and, therefore, without acquiring jurisdiction
Qver the person of the defendant, such judgment may not be
enforced in another State in virtue of the full faith and credit
clause. Indeed, a personal judgment so rendered is by operation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth' Amendment
void as against the non-resident, even in the State where rendered, and,..therefore, such non-resident in virtue of rights
granted by the Constitution of the United States may successfully resist even in the State where rendered, the enforcemen .tofsuch a judgment. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714.
The facts in that case were these: Neff, who was a resident of
a State other than Oregon, owned a tract of land in Oregon.
Mitchell, a resident of Oregon, brought a suit in a court of that
$tate upon a money demand against Neff. The-Oregon statutes -required, in the case of personal action against a nonresident, a publication of notice, calling upon the defendant to.,
appear and defend, and -also.required the mailing to such defendant at his last known place of residence of a copy of the
summons and complaint. Upon affidavit of the absence of
Neff, and that he resided in the State of California, the exact
place being unknown, the publication required by the statute
was ordered and made, and judgment by default was entered
against Neff. Upon this judgment execution was issued and
real estate of Neff was sold and was ultimately acquired by

OCTOBER TERM,, 190.
Opinion of the Court,

201 U. S.

Pennoyer. Neff sued in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Oregon to recover the property, and the
question presented was the validity in Oregon of the judgment
there rendered against Neff. After the most elaborate consideration it was expressly decided that. the judgment rendered
in Oregon under the circumstances stated was void for -want
of jurisdiction and was repugnant to the due process clause of
the Constitution of the .United States. The ruling was based
on the, proposition that a court of..one State could not acquire
jurisdiction to render a personal judgment. against a non-resident who did not appear by the nmere publication of a summons,
and that the want of power to 4cquire such .jurisdiction by pubthe statutes'
lication could not be aided. by the fact that under
of the State in which the suit. Against the -non-resident was
brought the sending. of .a,copy. of'the summons and complaint
to the post office address in another State. of the defendant was
required and complied with. The. court said (p. 727):
"Process from the tribunals of one State cannot run into
another State, and summonparties there domiciled to leave
its territory and respond to proceedings against them. Publication of process or notice within the State where the tribunal
sits1cannot create any greater obligation upon the non-resident
to appear.. Process sent to him out of the State, and process
published within it, are equally unavailing in proceedings to
establish his. personal liability..,"
And the doctrine thus stated but expressed a general principle
expounded in previous decisions. Bischoff v. Wethe'ed,. 9 Wall.
812. 'In that case, speaking of a money judgment recovered
in the Common Pleas of Westminster Hall, England, upon personal notice served in the city of Baltimore, Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for the court, said (p. 814):
"It is enough to say [of this proceeding] that it was wholly
without jurisdiction of the person, and whatever validity it
may have in England, by virtue of statute law against property of the defendant there situate, it can have no validity here,
even of a prima facie character. It is simply null."

HADDOCK
201 U. S.

'v.

HADDOCK.

Opinion of the Court.

Third. The principles; however, stated in the previous
proposition are controlling only as to judgments in personam
and do nrotrelate to proceedings in rem. That is to say, in
consequence of the authority which government possesses over
things within its, borders there is jurisdiction in a court of a
State by'a proceeding..in rem, after .the giving of reasonable
opportunity, to, the 6wner to defend, to affect things within the
jurisdiction of the court, even although jurisdiction is not
directly acquired overi'the person of the owner of the thing.
Pennoyer v. Neff, supra..
. Fourth. The getieril rule stated in the. second proposition
is, moreover, limited by the inherent power which all governments must possess-'over the marriage relation, its formation
and dissolution,. as regards their own citizens. From this.
exception it results that where a court, of- one: State, conformably to the laws of such State, or the State through its
legislative department, 'has acted concerning the dissolution
of the marriage tie, as to a citizen of that State, such action
is binding in that State as to such citizen, and the' validity of
the judgment maynot therein be questioned on the ground
that the action of the State in dealing with its own citizen
concerning the marriage relation was repugnant 'to the due
process clause of 'the .Constitution. 'Maynard v. Hill, -125
U. S. 190. In that case the facts were these: Maynard was
married in Vermont, and the husband and wife removed to
Ohio,' from whence Maynard left his wife and family and went
to California. Subsequently he, acquired -a domicil in the'
Territory of Washington. Being there so domiciled, an act
of the legislature'of the Territory was passed ,granting a divorce to the husband. Maynard continued to reside in Washington, and there remarried and died. The children of the
former wife, claiming in right 'of their mother, sued in a court
of' the Territory of Washington to recover'real estate, situated
in the Territory, and one of the issues for decision was the
validity of the legislative divorce granted to the father. The
statute was assailed as invalid, on the ground that Mrs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S,

Maynard had no notice and that she was not a resident of
the Territory when the act was passed. From a decree of
the Supreme Court of the Territory adverse to their claim the
children brought the case to .this court. The power of the
territorial legislature, in the absence of restrictions in the
organic act, to grant a divorce to.a, citizen of the Territory
was, however, upheld, in view of the nature and extent of the
authority which government possessed over th marriage relation. It was therefore decided that the courts of the Territory
committed no error in giving effect within the Territory to the
divorce in question. And as a corollary of the recognized
power of a government thus to deal with its own citizen by a
decree which would be operative vithin its own borders, irrespective of any extraterritorial efficacy, it follows that the
right of another sovereignty exists, under principles of comity,
to give to a decree so rendered such efficacy as to that government may seem to be justified by its conceptions of duty
and public policy.
Fifth. It is no longer open to question that where husband
and wife are domiciled in a State there exists jurisdiction in
such State, for good cause, to enter a decree of diyorce which
will be entitled to enforcement in another State by virtue of
the full faith and credit 'clause. It has, moreover, been decided that where a bona fide domicil has been acquired in a
State by either of the parties to a marriage, and a suit is
brought by the domiciled party in such State for a divorce,.
the courts of that State, if they acquire personal jurisdiction
also of the other party, have authority to enter a decree of
divorce, entitled to be enforced in every State by the full
faith and credit clause. Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108.
Sixth. Where the domicil of matrimony was in a particular
State, and the husband abandons his wife and goes into another State in order to avoid his marital obligations, such other
State to which the husband has wrongfully fled does not, in
the. nature 6f things, become a new domicil of .matrimony,
and, therefore, is not to be treated as the actual or constructive

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
Opinion'of the Court.

201 U. S.

domicil of the wife; hence, the place where the wife was
domiciled when so abandoned constitutes her legal domidil
until a ,new actual domicil. be'by her elsewhere acquired.
This was clearly expressed in Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582,
where it *was said (p. 595)-:
"The general rule, is, that a voluntary separation will not
give to the wife a different 'domiciliation in law from that of
her husband. But if the husband, as is the fact in this case,
abandons their domicil and his wife, to get rid of all those
-conjugal obligations which the marriage relation imposes upon
him, neither givirfg to her the necessaries nor the comforts
suitable to their condition and, his fortune, and relinquishes
altogether-his marital control and protection, he yields up that
power and authority over her which alone makes his domicil
hers:

.

And theI same dOctrine was 'expressly upheld in Cheever v.
Wilson, supra, where the court said (9 Wall. 123):
"It is insisted that Cheever never resided in Indiana; that
the domicil of the husband is the wife's, and that she cannot
have a different one from his. .The converse of -the latter
proposition is so well settled that it would be idle to discuss
it. The rule is that she-may acquire a separate domicil whenever it is necessary or proper that she should do so. - The right
springs from the necessity of its exercise, and endures as long
:s the necessity continues."
Seventh: So also it is settled that where the domicil of a:
husband is in a particular State, and that State is also the
domicil of matrimony, the courts of such State, having
jurisdiction over the husband may, in virtue of the duty
of the wife to be at the matrimonial domicil, disregard'an
unjustifiable absence therefrom, and treat the,wife as having. her domicil in the State'of the matrimonial domicil for
the purpose of the dissolution Iof the marriage, and as a
result have power to render a judgment dissolving the marriage which will be binding upon both parties, and will be
entitled to recognition in all other States by virtue of the

57 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion*of the Court.

full faith and credit clause.

201 U. S.

Atherton v. Atherton, 181, U. S.

155.

Coming to apply these settled piopositions to the case before
us three things are beyond dispute: a. In view, of thee authority which government possesses over the marriage' relation, no question can arise on this recoid concerning 'the right
of the State of Connecticut withinits b6rders to give effect to
the decree of divorce rendered in favor of the husband,'by the
courts of Connecticut, he being at the time when the decree
was rendered domiciled in that State. b. As New York, wa
the domicil of the wife and the domicil of matrimony, from
which the husband fled in disregard of his .duty, it clearly results from the sixth proposition that the domicil of the wife
continued in New York. c. As then there can be no question
that the wife was not constructively present in Connecticut
by virtue of a matrimonial domicil in that State, and was not
there individually domiciled and did not appear in the' div6rce
cause, and'was only constructively served with notice of the
pendency of that action, it is apparent that the Connecticut
court did not acquire jurisdiction over the-wife within the
fifth and seventh propositions; that is, ,did not acquire such
jurisdiction by virtue of the domicil of the wife within the
State or as the result of 'personal service upon her within its
borders.
These subjects being thus eliminated, the case reduces itself
to this: Whether the Connecticut court, in virtue alone of the
domicil of the husband in that State, had jurisdiction to render a decree against the wife under the circumstances stated,
which was entitled to be ,enforced in other States in and by
virtue of the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution.
In other words, the final question Js whether to enforce in
another jurisdiction the Connecticut decree would not be to
enforce in one State, a personal judgment rendered in another
State against a defendant over Whom the court of the State
rendering the judgment had not acquired jurisdiction. Otherwise stated, the question is this: Is a proceeding for-divorce

-HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 T. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of -such an exceptional character as not to come within the
-rule .limiting the authority of a State to persons within its
-jurisdiction, but on the contrary,, because of the power which
government may exercise over the marriage relation; constitutes
an exception to that rule, and is therefore embraced either
within the letter. or spirit of the doctrines stated in the third
and, fourth propositions?
Before, reviewing the authorities relied On to establish that
a. divorce. proceeding. is of the exceptional
nature indicated,
we propose first to consider the reasons advanced to sustain
the' contention. In doing so, however, it'must always be
borne in mind that it is elementary that where the full faith
invoked to compel the
and credit clause of the Constitution is.
enforcement in one State of a decree'rendered in another, the
question of the jurisdiction of -the court by which the decree
was rendered is open to inquiry. And if there was no jurisdiction, either of the subject matter or of* the'person of the
defendant, the courts of anothe' State are not required, ,by
.virtue of the full faith and credit clause of the 'Constitution,
to' enforce such decree. National Exchange Bank v. Wiley,
195 U. S. 257, 269, and. cases cited.
I. The wide scope of the authority which government
possesses over the contract of -marriage and its dissolution
is the basis upon which it is argued that the domicil within
one State of. one party to the marriage- gives to such a State
jurisdiction to decree a dissolution of the marriage tie 'which
will be obligatory in all the other States by force of 'the' full
faith and credit clause' of the Constitution. But the deduction is destructive of the premise upon which it rests. This
becomes clear when it is perceived that if one government,
because of its authority over its own citizens has. the right to
dissolve the marriage tie as to the citizen of another jurisdic,tion, it must follow that no government possesses as to its
own citizens, power over the marriage relation and its' dissolution. • For if it be that one government in virtue of its authority
over marriage 'may dissolve the tiea as to citizens of another

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

government, other. governments would have a similar power,
'and hence the right of every government as to its own citizens
might be rendered nugatory by the exercise of the power which
every other government possessed. To concretely illustrate:
If the fact be that where persons are married in the State of
New York either of the,parties to the marriage may, in violation of the marital obligations, desert the other and go into
the State of Connecticut, there acquiring a domicil, and procure
a dissolution of the marriage which Would be binding in the
State of New York as to the party to the marriage there domiciled, it would follow that the power of the State of New York
as to the dissolution of the marriage as to its domiciled citizen
would be of no practical avail. And conversely the like re'suit would follow if the marriage had been celebrated in Connecticut and desertion had been from that State to- New'York,
and consequently the decree of divorce had been rendered in
New York: Even a superficial analysis will make this clear.
Under the rule. contended for it would follow that the States
whose laws were the most lax as to length of residence required
for domicil, as to causes for divorce and to speed of procedure
concerning divorce, would in effect dominate all the Other
States. In other, words, any person who was married in one
State and who wished to violate the marital obligations would
be able, by following the 'lines of least resistance, to go into the
State whose laws were the most lax,, and there avail of them
for the purpose of the severance of the marriage tie and the
destruction of the rights of the other party to the marriage
contract, to. the oV:erthfow of the laws and public policy of
the other States'*Thus the argument comes necessarily. to
this, that to preserve the lawful authority of all the States
over marriage it,is essential to decide that all the States. have
such authority Only at the sufferance of the other States.
And the Considerations just stated serve to dispose of the
argument that the contention relied on finds support in the
ruling made' in 'Maynard v. Hill, referred to in the fourth
proposition, which was at the outset stated. For in that case

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the sole question was the effect within the Territory of Washington of a legislative divorce granted in the Territory to a
citizen thereof. The upholding of the divorce within the
Territory was, therefore, but a recognition of the power of
the territorial government, in virtue of its authority over
marriage, to deal with a person domiciled within its jurisdiction. The case, therefore, did not concern the extraterritorial
efficacy of the legislative divorce. In other words, whilst the
ruling recognized the ample powers which government possesses
over marriage as to one within its jurisdiction, it did not
purport to hold that such ample powers might be exercised
and enforced by virtue of the Constitution of the United States
in another jurisdiction as to citizens of other States to whom
the jurisdiction of the Territory did not extend..
the anomalous result which it is therefore apparent would.
arise from maintaining the proposition contended for is made
more manifest by considerihg the instrument from which such
result would be produced, that is, the full faith and credit
clause of the Constitution. No one denies that the States, at
the time of the adoption .of the Constitution, possessed full
power over the subject of marriage and divorce. 'No one,
moreover, can deny that, prior to the adoption of the Constitution, the extent to which the States would recognize a
divorce obtained in a foreign jurisdiction depended upon their
conceptions of duty and comity. Besides, it must be conceded
that the Constitution, delegated no authority, to the Government of the United States on the subject of marriage and
divorce. Yet, if the,proposition be maintained, it would follow
that the destruction of the power of the States over the dissolution of marriage, as to their own citizens,, would be brought
about by the operation of the full faith and credit clause of
the Constitution. That is to say, it would come to pass that,
although the Constitution of the United Statep does not interfere with the authority of the States over marriage, nevertheless the full faith .and credit clause of that instrument
destroyed the authority of the -States over the marriage rela-

576

.. OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

tion.. And as the Government of the United States has no
delegated authorityi- on the subject, that Government Would
be powerless- to prevent the evil thus brought about by the
full faith and credit' clause. Thus neither the States nor'the
National Government, would be able to exert that authority
over the marriage tie possessed by every other civilized gov-.
ernment. Yet more remarkable would be such- result when
it is borne in mind that,- when the Constitution was adopted,
nowhere; either in the mother coiuntry or on the'continent' of
Europe, either in adjudged cases or in the treatises • of 'au-'
thoritative writers, had the theory ever beefi upheld or been
taught or even suggested that one government,, solely because
of the domicil- within its borders of one of the parties to a marriage, had authority, without the actual or constructive presence of the other, to'exert its authority by a dissolution of the
marriage -tie, which exertion of power it would be the duty
of other States to respect as to those subject to their jurisdiction.
II. It is urged that the suit for divorce was a proceeding
in rem, and, therefore, the' Connecticut court had complete
jurisdiction to enter a decree as to the res, entitled to be
enforced in the State of New York. But here again the argument is contradictory. It rests.upon the theory that jurisdiction in Connecticut depended upon the domicil of 'the
person there suing 'and yet attributes. to the decree resting
upon the domicil of one of the parties alone a force and effect
based upon the theory that A thing within the jurisdiction of
Connecticut was 'the, subject matter of the 'controversy. But
putting this contradiction aside, what, may We 'ask, was the
res in Connecticut? Certainly it cannot in reason be said that
it was the cause of action' or the mere presence of -the person
of the plaintiff within the jurisdiction. The only possible
theory then upon which the proposition proceeds must be
that the res in Connecticut, from which the -jurisdiction is
assumed to have arisen, was the marriage relation. But as
the marriage was celebrated in New York between citizens

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U S.

Opinion of the Court.

of that State, it, must be -admitted,' under the hypothesis
stated, that- before the husband deserted the wife in.New
York, the res was in New York .and not in Connecticut. As
the husband, after wrongfully abandoning the wife in New
York, never established a matrimonial domicil in Connecticut,
it cannot be said that, he took with him the marital relation
from.which he fled to.Connecticut. Conceding, however, that
he took with him to -Connecticut so much of the marital relation as concerned his individual status, :it cannot in reason
be said that he did not leave in New York so much of the
relation as pertained to the status of the wife. From any
point of view, then, under the proposition- referred to, if the
marriage relation be treated as the res, it follows that it was
divisible,. and therefore there wis z res in the State of New
York and one in the State .of Coi'necticut. Thus considered,
it is clear that the power of one Statedid not'extend to affecting the thing situated in another State. -As' illustrating this
conception, we notice. the case of Mississippi & Missouri
R. R. Co. v. Ward, 2 Black; 485. -The facts in that case:were
these,:, A bill was filed in a District Court of the 'United Stites
nuisance. alleged to have
for the District of Iowa to abate 'a.
been occasioned by a bridge across the: Mississippi river
dividing the States of Illinois and Iowa. Under the assumption that the nuisance was occasioned by the operation of th6
bridge 'on the Illinois side, the.court, after pointing out that
the. United States Circuit Court for -the District of Iowa exercised..the same jurisdiction that a state' court of Iowa could
exercise and no more, said (p..494):
"The. District Court had no power over the' local 'object
inflicting the injury; .nor any 'jurisdiction to inquire, of the
facts, whether damage.. had been sustained, or how much.
These facts, are beyond the court's. jurisdiction and powers
'
of inquiry, and- outside of the case."
•Nor has the conclusive force of the view which we have stated
been met, by the suggestion that the' res was, indivisible, and
therefore was wholly -in Connecticut and wholly. in New York,
vOL. cci-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

for this amounts but to saying that the same thing can be at
one and the same time in different places. Further, the reasoning above expressed disposes of the contention that, as
the suit in Connecticut involved the status of the husband,
therefore the courts of that State had the power to determine the status of the non-resident wife by a decree which
had obligatory force outside of the State of Connecticut.
Here, again, the argument comes to this, that, because the
State of Connecticut had jurisdiction to fix the status of one
domiciled within its borders,'that State alsQ had the authority
to oust the State of New York of the power to fix the status
of a person who was undeniably subject to the jurisdiction
of that State.
III. It is urged that whilst marriage is in one aspect a contract, it is nevertheless a contract- in which society is deeply
interested and, therefore, government must have the power
to determine whether a marriage exists or to dissolve it, and
hence the Connecticut court had jurisdiction of the relation
and the right to dissolve it, not only -as to its own citizen but
as to a citizen of New York who was not subject to the jurisdiction of the State of Connecticut. The proposition involves
in another form of statement the non sequitur which we have
previously pointed out; that is, that, because government
possesses power over marriage, therefore the existence of that
power must be rendered unavailing.
Nor is the contention aided by the proposition that because
it is impossible to conceive of the dissolution of the marriage
as to one of the parties in one jurisdiction without at the same
time saying that the marriage is dissolved as to both in every
other jurisdiction, therefore the Connecticut decree should
have obligatory effect in New York as to the citizen of that
State. For, again, by a change of form of statement, the
same contention which we have disposed of is reiterated. Besides, the proposition presupposes that, because in the exercise of its power over its own citizens, a State may determine
to dissolve the marriage tie by a decree which is efficacious

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

within its borders, therefore such decree is in all cases binding in.every other jurisdiction As we have pointed out at
the outset, it does not follow that a State may not exert its
power as to one within its jurisdiction simply because such
exercise of authority may not be extended beyond its borders
into the jurisdiction and authority of another State. Thedistinction was clearly pointed out in Blackinton v. Blackinton,
141 Massachusetts, 432. In that case the parties were married
and lived in Massachusetts. The. husband abandoned the wife
without cause and became domiciled in New York. The wife
remained at the matrimonial domicil in Massachusetts and instituted .a proceeding to prohibit her husband from imposing
any restraint upon her personal liberty and for separate maintenance. Service was made upon the husband in New York.
The court, recognizing fully that under the circumstances disclosed the domicil of the husband was not the domicil of the
wife, concluded that,. under the statutes of Massachusetts, -it
had authority to grant the relief prayed, and was then brought
to determine whether the decree ought to be made, in view
of the fact that such decree might not have extraterritorial
force. But this circumstance was held not to be controlling
and the decree was awarded. The same doctrine was clearly
expounded by the Privy Council, in an opinion delivered by
Lord Watson, in the divorce case of Le Mesurier v. Le Mesurier
(1895), A. C. 517, where it was said- (p. 527):
"When the jurisdiction of: the court is exercised according
to the rules of international law, as in the case where the parties
have their domicil within its forum, its decree dissolving their
marriage. ought to be respected by the tribunals of every
civilized country.

.

.

. On the other hand, a decree of

divorce a. vincu/o, pronounced by a court whose jurisdiction
is solely derived from some rule of municipal law peculiar to
its forum, cannot, when it trenches upon the interests of any
other country to whose tribunals the spouses were amenable,
claim extraterritorial authority."
IV. The contention that if th- power of one State to decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

a dissolution of a marriage. which would be compulsory upon
the other States be limited to cases where both parties are
subjec to the jurisdiction, the riglt to obtain a divorce could
be so hampered: and restricted as to be in effect impossible
of exercise, is but to insist .that in order to favor the dissolution of marriage, and to cause its permanency to depend
upon the mere caprice or wrong of the parties, there -should
not be applied to the right to obtain a divorce those fundamental principles which safeguard the exercise of the simplestrights. In other words, the argument but reproduces the
fallacy already exposed, which is, that one State must be endowed with the attribute of destroying the authority of all
the others concerning the dissolution of marriage in order to
render such dissolution easy of procurement. But even if the
true and controlling principles be for a moment put aside and
mere considerations of inconvenience be. looked at, it -would
follow that the preponderance of. inconvenience would be
against the contention that a State should have the power to
exert its authority concerning the dissolution of marriage as.
to those not amenable to its jurisdiction. By the application
of that rule each State is given the power of overshadowing
the authority of all the other States,. thus causing the marriage
tie to be. less protected than any other civil obligation, and:
this to be accomplished by destroying individual rights without a hearing and by tribunals having no jurisdiction. Further,
the admission that jurisdiction in the courts of one.State over
bne party alone was the test of the right to dissolve the marriage tie as to the other party although domiciled in another
State, would at once render such test impossible of general
application. In other words, the test, if admitted, would
destroy itself.. This follows, since if that test were the rule,
each party tothe marriage in one State would have a right to
acquire a domicil in a different State and there .institutetopro- :
ceedings for divorce. It would, hence necessarily -arise, that
domicil would be no longer the determinative criterion, but
the mere race of- diligence between the parties in seeking differ-

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court;

ent forums in other States or the celerity by which in, such
States judgments of divorce might be procured would have
to be considered in-order to decide which forum was controlling.
On the other hanid, the denial of the power to enforce in
another State a decree of, divorce. rendered against a person
who was not subject .to the' jurisdiction of the State ifnwhich
the decree was. rendered obviates all the contradictions and
inconveniences which are above indicated. It leaves uncurtailed the legitimate power of all the States over .a subject
peculiarly within their authority,, and thus not only enables
them to maintain their public policy but also to protect the
individual rights of their citizens. It does not deprive a State
of the power to render a decree of divorce susceptible of being
enforced within its borders as to the person-within the jurisdiction and does not debar other States from giving such effect
to ajudgment of that character as they may elect to,do under
mere principles of state comity. It causes the full faith and
credit clause of 'the Constitution to operate upon. decrees of
divorce in the respective States just as that clause operates
upon other rights, that is; it compels all the States to recognize and enforce a judgment of divorce rendered in other States
where both parties were subject to the jurisdiction of the
State in which the decree was rendered, and it enables the
States rendering such decrees to take into view f6i the purpose
of the exercise of their authority the existence of a matrimonial
domicil from which the presence of a -party not physically
present within the borders-of a State may be constructively
found to exist.
Having thus'disposed of the reasoning advanced to sustain
the assertion that the courts of the State of New York were
bound by the full faith and credit clause to give full effect to
the' Connecticut decree, we are brought to consider the authorities relied upon to support that proposition.
Whilst the continental and English authorities are. not
alluded to in the argument, it may be well, in the most summary way, to 'refer. to them as a means of illustrating the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

question for consideration. The extent of the power which
independent sovereignties exercised over the dissolution of the
marriage tie, as to their own citizens,. gave rise, in the nature
of things, to controversies concerning the extraterritorial effect
to be given to a dissolution Of such tie when made between
citizens of one country by judicial tribunals of another country
in which such citizens had become domiciled. We do not
deem it essential, however, to consider the conflicting theories
and divergent rules of public policy which were thus engendered. We are relieved of the necessity of entering upon such
an inquiry, since it cannot be doubted that neither the practice
nor the theories controlling in the countries on the continent
lend the slightest sanction to the contention that a government, sinfiply because one of the parties to a marriage was
domiciled within its borders, where no matrimonial domicil
ever existed, had power to render a decree dissolving a marriage which on principles of international law was entitled to
obligatory extraterritorial effect as to the other party to the,
marriage, a citizen of another country. Wharton, Conf. Laws,
3d ed., v. 1, p. 441, sec. 209 and notes.
It cannot be doubted, also, that the courts of England decline to treat a foreign decree of. divorce as having obligatory
extraterritorial force when both parties to the marriage were
not subject to the jurisdiction of the court which rendered the
decree. Shaw v. Gould, L. R. 3 H. L.55; Harvey v. Farnie,
8 App. Cas. 43. And, although it has been suggested in opinions of English judges treating of divorce questions that
exceptional cases might arise which perhaps would justify
a relaxation of the rigor of the presumption that the domicil
of the husband was the domicil of the wife, per Lords Eldon
and Redesdale, in Tovey v. Lindsay, 1 Dow, 133, 140; perLord Westbury, in Pittv. Pitt, 4 Macq. 627, 640; per Brett, L. J.
in Niboyet v. Niboyet, 4'P. D. 1, 14; Briggs v. Briggs, 5 P. D.
163, 165; and per James and Cotton, L. JJ., in Harvey v.
Farnie, 6 P. D. 47, 49, the courts of England, in cases where
the jurisdiction was dependent upon domicil, have enforced

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the presumption and treated the wife as being within the jurisdiction where the husband was legally domicled. But this
conception was not a departure from the principle uniformly
maintained, that, internationally considered, jurisdiction over
both parties to a marriage was essential to the exercise of
power to decree a divorce, but was simply a means of determining by a legal presumption whether both parties were
Within the jurisdiction. Of course the rigor of the English
rule as to the domicil of the husband being the domicil of the
wife-is not controlling in this court, in View of the decisions to
which we have previously referred, recognizing the right of the
wife, for the fault of the husband, to acquire a separate domicil. Barber, V. Barber, 21 How. 582; Cheever v. Wilson, 9
Wall. 108; Atherton V. Atherton, 181 U. S. 155.
And even in Scotland, where residence, as distinguished from
domicil, was deemed to authorize the exercise of jurisdiction
to grantdivorces, it was invariably recognized that the presence
within the jurisdiction of both. parties to the marriage was
essential to authorize a decree in favor of the complainant.
Wharton, Conf. Laws, sec. 215, v. 1, p. 447; per Lord Westbury, in Shaw v. Gould, L. R. 3 H.. L. 88.
As respects' the decisions of this court. We at once treat
as inapposite, and therefore unnecessary to be here specially
reviewed, those holding, a, that where the domicil of a plaintiff in a divorce cause is in the State where the suit.was brought,
and the defendant appears and defends, as both parties are
before the court, there is power to render a decree of divorce
which will be entitled in other States to recognition under the
full faith and credit clause (Cheever v. Wilson, supra); b, that,
as distinguished from legal domicil, mere residence within a
particular State of the plaintiff in a divorce cause brought in
a court of such State is not sufficient to confer jurisdiction upon
such court to dissolve the marriage relation existing between
the plaintiff and a non-resident defendant: Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14; Streitwolf v. Streitwol, 181 U. S. 179;
-Bell r..Bell, 181 U. S. i75. This brings us to again consider

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

a case heretofore referred to, principally relied upon'as sus-

taining the contention that the domicil of 'one party alone is
sufficient to confer jurisdiction upon a judicial tribunal to
render a decree of divorce having extraterritorial effect, viz.,
Atherton v. Atherton, 181 U. S. 155. The decision in that case,
however, as we have previously said, was expressly placed upon
the ground of matrimonial domicil. This is apparent from
the following passage, which we .excerpt from 'the opinion, at
page 171:
"This case does not involve the validity of a divorce granted,
on constructive service, by the 'court of a State in which only
one of the parties-ever had'a domicil; nor the question' to -what
extent the good faith of the domicil may be afterwards inquired into. In this case the, divorce in Kentucky was by
the court of the State which had always been the undoubted
domicil of the husband, and which was the only matrimonial
domicil of the husband and, wife. The single question to
be decided is the validity of that divorce, granted after such
notice, had been given as was required -by the statutes of
Kentucky."
The contention, therefore, that the reasoning of the opinion
demonstrates that the domicil of one of the parties'alone was
contemplated as being sufficient to found jurisdiction, but insists that the case decided a proposition which Was excluded
in unmistakable language. 'But, moreover, it is clear, when
the facts which were involved in the Atherton case are' taken
into view, that the case could not have been decided merely
upon the' ground of the domicil of one of the parties, because
that consideration alone would have afforded no solution of
the problem which the case presented. The salient facts were
these: The husband lived in Kentucky, married a citizen of
New York, and the married couple took up their domicil at
the home of the husband in Kentucky, Where they continued
to reside and where children were born to them. The wife
left the matrimonial domicil and went to New York. The
husband sued her in Kentucky for a divorce. Before the'

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky suit merged into a decree the wife, having a residence in New York sufficient, under ordinary circumstances,
to constitute a domicil in that State, sued the husband in the
courts of New York for a limited divorce. Thus the two suits,
one by the husband against the wife and the other by the wife
against the husband, were pending in the respective, States at
the same time. The husband obtained a decree in the Kentucky suit before the suit of the wife had been determined and
pleaded such decree in the suit brought by the *ife in New
York. The New York court, however, refused to recognize
the Kentucky decree and the case came here, and this court
decided that the courts of New York were bound to give effect
to the Kentucky decree by virtue of the full faith and credit
clause. Under these conditions it is clear that the case could
not have been disposed of on the mere ground of the individual
domicil of the parties, since upon that hypothesis, even if the
efficacy of the individual domicil had been admitted, no solution would have been thereby afforded of the problem which
would have aisen for decision, that problem being which of
the two courts wherein the conflicting proceedings were pending had the paramount right to enter a binding decree. Having disposed of the case upon the principle of matrimowz!
domicil, it cannot in reason be conceived that the court intended to express an opinion upon the soundness of the theory
of individual and separate domicil which, isolatedly considered, was inadequate to dispose of, and was, therefore, irrelevant to, the question for decision.
It is contended that an overwhelming preponderance of the
decisions of state courts enforce the doctrine that it is the
duty of the States, by virtue of the full faith and credit clause,
to give within their borders the full effect required by that
clause to decrees of divorce rendered in other States, where
there was jurisdiction alone by virtue of the domicil of one of
the parties. Whilst we may not avoid the duty of interpreting
for ourselves the Constitution of the United States, in view
of the persuasive force that would result if an overwhelming

OCTOBER TERM,, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

line of state decisions held the asserted doctrine, we come to
consider that subject. To examine in detail the .many decisions of state courts of last resort,- most of which are referred
to in the margin, 1 would expand this opinion to undue length.
To avoid so doing, if possible, we propose to more particularly
direct our attention to the cases in state courts which .are
specially relied on. In doing so we shall add cases in several
of the States not particularly counted on in the argument.
We shall do this for the purpose of evolving if possible, from
the state casest thus to be referred to, some classification typical
of all the state decisions, hence enabling all the cases to which
we do not specially refer to be brought within the appropriate
class t6 which they pertain, without the necessity of reviewing
them in detail. We shall not.confine ourselves to the partioular
state decisions relied on, but shall consider such decisions in the
light of the general rule obtaining in the particular State.
I Cases relating to the validity and extraterritorial effect of a decree of
divorce rendered upon constructive 'notice:
Turner v. Turner, 44 Alabama; 437; In re James Estate, 99 California,
374; Knowlton v. Knowlton, 155 Illinois, 158; Dunham v. Dunham, 162'
Illinois, 589; Field v. Field, 215 Illinois, 496; Hood v. State, 56 Indiana,
263, 270; Hilbish v. Hattle, 145 Indiana, 59; Kline v. Kline, 57 Iowa, 386;
Van Orsdal v. Van Orsdal, 67 Iowa, 35; Chapman v. Chapman, 48 Kansas,
636; Rodgers v. Rodgers, 56 Kansas, 483; Maguire v. Maguire, 7 Dana, 181;
Hawkins v. Ragsdale, 80 Kentucky, 353; Edwards v. Green,'9 La. Ann.
317; Smith v. Smith, 43 La. Ann. 1140; Butler v. Washington, 45 La. Ann.
279; Harding,v. Alden, 9 Maine, 140; Stilphen v. Stilphen, 58 Maine, 508;
•Stilphen v. Hondlette, 60 Maine, 447; Garner v. Garner, 56 Maryland, 127;
Lyon v. Lyon, 2 Gray, 367; Wright v. Wright, 24 Michigan, 180; Van Inwagen
v. Van Inwagen, 86 Michgan, 333i Thurston v. Thurston, 58 Minnesota,
279; Gould v. Crow, 57 Missouri, 200; Anthony v. Rice, 110 Missouri, 223;
Smith v. Smith, 19 Nebraska, 706; Leith v. Leith, 39 N. H. 20; Doughty
v. Doughty, 28 N. J. Eq. 581; Flower v. Flower, 42 N. J. Eq. 152; Felt v.
Felt, 59 N. J. Eq. 606; Wallacev. Wallace, 62 N. J. Eq. 509; Lynde v.
Lynde, 162 N. Y. 405;- Winston v. Winston, 165 N. Y. 553; Irby v. Wilson;
1 Dev. & Bat. Eq. (21 N. Car.) 568; Harris v. Harris, 115 N. Car. 587;
Bidwell v. Bidwell (N. Car.), 52 S. E. Rep. 55, 58; Cox v. Cox, 19 Ohio St.
502; Doerr v. Forsythe, 50 Ohio St. 726; Colvin v. Reed, 55 Pa. St. 375;
Reel v. Elder, 62 Pa. St.. 308; Ditson v. Ditson, 4 R. I. 87; McCreery v.
Davis, 44 S. Car. 195; Thoms v. King, 95 Tennessee, 60; Prosserv. Warner,
47 Vermont, 667, 673; Cook v. Cook, 56 Wisconsin, 195.

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The cases specially relied on are Thompson v. State, 28 Alabama, 12; Harding v. Alden, 9 Maine, 140; Ditson v. Ditson,
4 R. I. 87; Burlen v. Shannon, 115 Massachusetts, 438; and
Felt v. Felt, 59 N. J. Eq. 606, to which we shall add for the
purposes above stated cases on the same subject decided in
New York, Ohio, Wisconsin, Indiana and Missouri.
NEw YORK.-It is not questioned that the courts of New
York are vested by statute with authority to render decrees
of divorce where the plaintiff is domiciled within the State,
which shall be operative in that State, even although the defendant is a non-resident and is proceeded against by constructive service.
Borden v. Fitch, 15 Johns. 121, and Bradshaw v. Heath, 13
Wend. 407, were decided, respectively, in the years 1818 and
1835. These cases, as declared by the Court of Appeals of
New York in People v. Baker, 76 N. Y. 78, 82, upheld the principle that a court of another State'could not dissolve the
matrimonial relation of a citizen of New York, domiciled in
New York, uhless he was actually served with notice within
the other State or voluntarily appeared in the cause. The
doctrine that an action of divorce is one inter partes was tl~us
clearly reiterated by Andrews, J., in Jones v. Jones, 108 N. Y.
415, 424:
"The contract of marriage cannot be annulled by judicial
sanction any more than any other contract inter partes, without jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. The marriage
relation is not a res within the State of the party invoking the
jurisdiction of a court to dissolve it, so as. to authorize the
court to bind the absent party, a citizen of another jurisdiction, by substituted service or actual'notice of the proceeding
given without the jurisdiction of the court where the proceeding is pending."

That the principle referred to is still enforced by the New
York court is shown by recent cases, viz., Lynde v. Lynde, 162

N. Y. 405; Winston v. Winston, 165 N. Y. 553, and the case
at bar. And it is indubitable that under this doctrine the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U.S.

courts of New York have invariably refused, as they have
done in the case at bar, to treat a divorce rendered in another
State, under the circumstances stated, as entitled to be enforced in New York by virtue of the full faith and credit clause
of the Constitution of the United States; and, indeed, have
refused generally to give effect to such decrees even by state
comity.
MASSACHUSETTS.-Barber v. Root, 10 Massachusetts, 260;

Hanover v. Turner, 14 Massachusetts, 227, and Harteau v.
Harteau, 14 Pick. 181, were decided, respectively, in 1813,
1817 and 1833. In 1835 the legislature of Massachusetts, incorporated into the statutes of that State, following a section
forbidding the recognition of divorces obtained in another
jurisdiction in fraud of the laws of Massachusetts, a provision
reading as follows: "In all other cases, a divorce decreed in
another State or country, according to the law of the place, by
a court having jurisdiction of the cause and of both of the
parties, shall be valid and effectual in this State." And-it
may be observed that this section, when submitted to the
legislature by the commissioners for revising the Masiachusetts statutes, was accompanied by the following comment
(Rept. Comrs., pt. II, p. 123): "This is founded on the rule
established by the comity of all civilized nations; and is
proposed merely that no doubt should arise on a question so
interesting and important as this may sometimes be."
In Lyon v. Lyon (1854), 2 Gray, 367, the question was as
to the validity in Massachusetts of a divorce decreed in Rhode
Island in favor of one party to a marriage against the other
who Was domiciled in Massachusetts. The court refused to
give extraterritorial effect to the Rhode Island decree. In
the opinion by Chief Justice Shaw it was declared that the
three cases which we have previously referred to sustained the
doctrine, based upon general principles of law, that a decree
of divorce rendered in another State without jurisdiction of
both-of the parties possessed no extraterritorial force.
In Hood v. Hood (1865), 11 Allen, 196, the controversy was

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U.,S.

Opinion of the Court.

this: The parties were married in Massachusetts and, after a
residence in that State, moved together to Illinois. The wife
left the domicil of the husband in Illinois and returned to
Massachusetts. Thereafter, in Illinois, the husband sued the
wife for a divorce on the ground of her desertion, obtained a
decree, and married again. The case decided in Massachusetts was a suit brought in that State by the former wife against
the former husband for divorce on the ground of adultery
alleged to have been committed by him with the person whom
he had married after the decree of divorce in Illinois had been
rendered. The Illinois decree was pleaded in bar. The question whether the Illinois decree should be given extraterritorial
effect in Massachusetts depended, under the rule announced
in the previous cases, upon whether both the husband and
wife were parties to the Illinois decree. For the purpose of
the determination of this jurisdictional question it was held
that it'vas necessary to ascertain whether the wife was justified,
by the fault of the husband, in leaving him in Illinois and
going back tc Massachusetts. It was decided that if she was
justified in leaving the husband, her legal domicil was in
Massachusetts, and she was not a party to.the Illinois decree,
and that if she was not justified in living separate from the
husband, the ordinary rule being that the domidil of the husband was the domicil of the wife, she was domiciled in Illinois,
and must be considered as subject to the jurisdiction of the
Illinois court. Applying this legal principle to the facts in
the case before it, the court held that as there was no evidence
showing that the wife had justifiable cause for leaving her
husband, the legal presumption that the domicil of the hus-band Was the domicil of the wife prevailed, and that the Illinois
decree was entitled to extraterritorial effect in Massachusetts,
and bound the wife, because rendered by a court having jurisdiction over both parties.
In Shaw v.- Shaw (1867), 98 Massachusetts, 158, the facts
were these: The parties were married in Massachusetts, lived
there and left together for the purpose of settling in Colorado.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

On the journey, at Philadelphia, the wife was forced by the
extreme cruelty of the husband to leave him. She returned
to Massachusetts, while he went on to Colorado. Subsequently
the wife sued in Massachusetts for a divorce from bed and
board. The husband was brought in by substituted service
and defaulted. The court, in the most explicit terms, recog,nized that a decree of divorce to have extraterritorial effect
must be rendered with jurisdiction over both parties. It
said (p. 159): "For the purposes of divorce the general rule of
jurisprudence is that a divorce granted in the, place of the
domicil of both parties, and there .valid, is good everywhere."
The court came then to consider whether it could render' a
,deciee in Massachusetts in favor of the wife. This depended
upon a statute of Massachusetts, which authorized the granting of a divorce where the cause for divorce occurred while the
parties had lived together as husband and wife in Massachusetts, and where one of them lived in that State when the cause
for diVorce occurred. It vyas held that as at the time of the
commission of the cruelty in Philadelphia charged against the
husband the domicil of the parties in Massachusetts had not
been lost, and as by that cruelty the wife was justified in returning to: Massachusetts, and the subsequent acquisition of
a new domicil by the husband in Colorado did not make such
domicil that of the wife, there wab jurisdiction, and the -divorce was granted.
Hood v. Hood (1872), 110 Massachusetts, 463, was an attempt again to assail the validity of the Illinois decree of
divorce which had been adjudged valid in 11 Allen, 196, becauseit was found that both the husband and wife had been
parties to the decree. The Massachusetts decree so holding
was therefore held to be res judicata as to all,persons and to
foreclose further inquiry into the validity of the Illinois decree
of divorce.
In Burlen v. Shannon (1874), 115 Massachusetts, 438, the
facts leading up to the controversy and those involved therein
were as follows: Shannon and his wife lived together in Massa.

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

chusetts, where she left him. Without stopping to refer to
prior legal controversies which arose between Shannon 'and
his wife and between Shannon and Mrs. Burlen, which are
irrelevant to be considered, it suffices to say that Mrs. Burlen
sued Shannon in 1850 to hold him liable for necessary supplies
furnished to the wife. Shannon resisted on the ground that
the wife had been living apart from him without his fault'Vr
consent, and this defense was maintained. (3 Gray, 387.)
Shannon went to Indiana in 1855 and took up his domicil in
that State, where, in* 1856, he obtained a decree of divorce
upon constructive service. Subsequently, in Massachusetts,
Mrs. Burlen again sued Shannon for necessaries furnished to
the wife between February 22, 1860, and February 7, 1866.
He pleaded the Indiana divorce, and the validity of the divorce was assailed by Mrs. Burlen on the ground that the wife
had not been a party to the divorce cause, and therefore the
Indiana decree had not extraterritorial effect in Massachusetts. The court, in effect, after reiterating the previous rulings and referling to the statute concerning the necessity for
the presence of both parties within the jurisdiction where a
decree for divorce of another State was spught to be given
effect in Massachusetts, also reiterated the previous ruling
that the wife might acquire a separate domicil from the husband if she lived separate from him for justifiable cause. The
court was brought; therefore, to consider whether Mr. and
Mrs. Shannon were both parties to the Indiana decree on the
ground that the domicil of the husband was the domicil of the
wife. The solution of this question depended, as it had depended in Hood ,.Hood, 11 Allen, 196, upon whether the wife
was absent from the husband because of his fault. -On this
subject it was, decided that the previous judgment in favor
of Shannon and against Mrs. Burlen in the prior action between
the parties had Conclusively determined between them that
Mrs. Shannon was absent fro "her husband without his fault
or consent, and, therefore, J{der the legal presumption that
the domicil of the husband was the domicil of the wife, both

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S

the husband' and wife were parties to the Indiana decree and
it was not subject to attack in Massachusetts. To cite, as
has sometimes been done, the language of the opinion of the
court referring to the previous judgment in the earlier action
between Mrs. Burlen and Shannon as if that language referred
to the Indiana decree' of divorce, leading to the implication
that that decree was held to be conclusive, even if only one
of the parties was domiciled in the State' where the decree
was rendered, not only is a plain misconception, but is equivalent to asserting that the Massachusetts court had overruled
its previous decisions and disregarded the spirit, if not the
letter, of the state statute without the slightest intimation,
to that effect.
In Cummington v. Belchertoum, 149 Massachusetts, 223' the
facts were these: The parties to a marriage, celebrated in
Massachusetts, lived together in that State until the wife was,
taken to 'a Massachusetts asylum for the insane, when the
husband abandoned her, acquired a domicil in New York,
there brought suit on the ground of fraud for the annulment
of the marriage, and obtained a decree. The wife was only
constructively served, with process, did not appear, and was
not represented. The Massachusetts court held, upon the
authority of the Blackington case (141 Massachusetts, 432),
to which we have already referred, that if the decree was
to be recognized in Massachusetts, it could only be on
grounds of comity.' And in concluding its opinion the court
said:
"Upon the ground, then, that the decree of the New York
court attempts to annul a marriage in Massachusetts between
Massachusetts citizens, and thus affect the legal status of the
woman, who has remained domiciled in Massachusetts, and has
never been within the jurisdiction of the. New York court, and
deprive her of the rights acquired by her marriage, and especially because 'it declares the marriage void for a reason on
account of which by the Massachusetts law it cannot be avoided,
we are of opinion that it should not be enforced here, and that

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

no principle of interstate comity requires that we should give
it effect."
True it is the court reserved the question as to what effect
might be given to a divorce if granted by a New York court
under circumstances such as existed in that case. But, as a
suit for a declaration of nullity. and one for divorce are both
but modes for determining judicially the status of the parties,
it must in reason follow if jurisdiction over both is a prerequisite
in the one class, it is of necessity, also essential in the other.
MAINE.-In Hardingv. Alden (1832), 9 Maine, 140, the facts
were these: While living together in Maine a husband deserted
his wife. He -went to North. Carolina, where. he pretended to
marry, and lived there with another. woman- In the meantime the wife whom he had deserted took up her'residence in
Rhode Island, where she sued for. a divorce on the ground of
the adultery committed by the husband in North Carolina.
The husband, who was notified in North Carolina, did not appear in the Rhode Island divorce cause. A decree of divorce
was granted and the wife then remarried. The first husband,
during the coverture, owned and alienated real estate in Maine,
and a statute of that State provided that where a divorce was
decreed for adultery by the husband, dower might be assigned
to the divorced wife in the same mkmer as if the husband were
dead. The divorced wife brought an action of dower in a
court in Maine. The Rhode Island decree was held to 'ossess
validity, in Maine and the statute relating to dower was decided not to be limited to divorces decreed within the State
of Maine. Considering the opinion in its entirety, it is plain
that the Rhode Island divorce was given recognition from'
considerations of right and justice and upon the ground of
state comity. Thus, the court called attention to the' fact
that adultery was a cause for divorce in both States and that
divorces were granted in Maine Iagainst non-residents; and,
i was observed, that "there would be great inconvenience in
holding" that divorces ought not to be recognized in other
States when granted in the State where the injured party
VOL. cci-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

resided against one who had established his domicil in another
State and there committed adultery.
True it is in the course of the opinion reasoning was employed tendink to show that the Rhode Island court might be
considered to have had jurisdiction in the complete sense and
it was intimated that the full faith and credit clause might
have application, but the operation of the Rhode Island decree
in Maine was by the decree of the Maine court expressly limited
to the dissolution of 'the marriage (p. 151). How far removed
this was from giying to the Rhode Island decree the benefit of
the full faith and credit clause will, we think, be made clear by
what follows.
Harding v. Alden was decided at the July term, 1832. Less
than two years afterward, on March 5, 1834, Public Laws,
1834, c. 116, p. 119, the statute of .Maine regulating divorces,
was supplemented by various provisions, one such being the
following: "See. 2. Be it further enacted, That in all cases
where one party has been or shall be divorced from the bonds
of matrimony, the court granting the same may, upon application therefor, grant to the other party a like divorce, on such
terms and conditions as the said court in the exercise of. a
sound discretion may judge reasonable.", This' provision was
carried into the, Revised Statutes of 1840, c. 89, see. 2, and
although repealed in 1850, in a general revision of the divorce
laws, it was held that the legislature did not intend to deprive'
the courts of Maine of the power to entertain a suit for divorce
brought by a persop from whom the other party to a marriage
had 'already been divorced, and that the courts of Maine still
possessed power to exercise jurisdiction over such suits. Stilphen v. Stilphen, 58 Maine, 508. In the cited case, although
a husband had already obtained'an absolute divorce, a like
divorce was granted to the wife, and the court allowed to her
certain articles of personal property and the sum of $500.. In
overrulip exceptions -to the decree the appellate court adopted
the theory that the second decree in no wise impugned, the
first, and was important only,as enabling "the court to make

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such ancillary decrees concerning the property as justice and
humanity may require " (p. 517). In the course of the opinion the court said (p. 516):
"There is no class of cases in which the court is so liable to
be imposed upon, and a decision obtained contrary to the
truth, as ex parte divorce suits. The notice is often imperfect,
so that the confession of guilt implied in the default is deceptive. And it is well known that witnesses, testifying in
the presence, of one of the parties, and in the absence of the
other, will so alter and magnify the faults of the absent, and
suppress everything that makes against the party present,
that it is impossible to tell where the truth and real merits
of the controversy are. When both parties are present, each
is sure to put the other in the wrong; and a fortiori is this
true, when one of the parties is permitted to testify in the
absence of the other, as is now the case in divorce suits. We
repeat, therefore, that there is no class of cases in which the
court is so liable to be imposed upon; and it seems to us of
the utmost importance that the court should" be possessed of
the power in some form to revise their decisions in this class
of cases; otherwise, the grossest injustice is liable to be done."
In the light of this decision it cannot be assumed that the
courts of Maine would give to a citizen of that State against
whom a divorce had been obtained in a foreign jurisdiction,
upon constructive service, a less degree of relief than, they
afford as to a'decree rendered in Maine, both parties being
present and bound by the decree.
RHODE ISLAND.-Ditson v. Ditson (1856), 4 R. I. 87, was
a suit for divorce on the grounds of desertion, extreme cruelty,
and non-support, brought:by a wife domiciled in Rhode Island
against the husband, who had never resided in Rhode Island,
and whose whereabouts was, unknown. The question was
whether the Rhode Island court ought to exercise jurisdiction.
The opinion was mainly 'devoted to refuting the reasoning
employed by Chief Justice Shaw in his opinion in the ease of
Lyon v. Lyon, 2 Gray, 367, in which case, as we have previously

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

shown, the Massachusetts court refused 'to give effect to a
Rhode Island decree of divorce where both parties were not
within the jurisdiction. The Rhode Island court (in the
Ditson case) in effect declared that it would not exercise jurisdiction to grant a divorce if it considered that a decree rendered by it would not be entitled to extraterritorial effect because of a lack of actual jurisdiction over the defendant.
The court, however, proceeded to reason that a suit for divorce
was in effect a proceeding in remn, and that jurisdiction over
one of the parties to a suit for the dissolution of the marriage
tie drew to the court jurisdiction of the other party, and thereby
gave full and complete jurisdiction over the status of both
parties, and upon that hypothesis decided that it would exercise jurisdiction, and that its decree dissolving the marriage
would be entitled to the benefit of the full faith and credit
clause of the Constitution and have binding efficacy in every
other State.
NEW JERSEY.-Whilst the courts of New Jersey have exercised the power to grant a divorce from a non-resident defendant, upon constructive service, those courts have from the
beginning applied to, similar decrees of divorce granted in
other States, when sought to be enforced in New Jersey against
citizens of that State, a rule like the one prevailing in New
York, that is, they decline to enforce them even upon the
principles of comity. Doughty v. Doughty, 28 N. J. Eq. 581,
586; Flower v. Flower, 42 N. J. Eq. 152. Recently, however,
it has been decided, Felt v. Felt, 59 N. J. Eq. 606, that where
a decree of divorce was rendered in another State, and the complainant alone was subject to the jurisdiction of the court,
but it was shown that the defendant had been personally
served outside of the jurisdiction with notice of the pendency
of the divorce proceeding and was afforded reasonable opportunity to make defense and did not avail of the opportunity,
effect would be given to such decree in New Jersey, upon principles of comity, provided that the ground upon which the
decree rested was one which the public policy of New Jersey

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

recognized as a sufficient cause for divorce. In Wallace v.
Wallace, 62 N. J. Eq. 509, the subject is quite fully -reviewed.
OHI.-In Cooper v. Cooper (1836), 7 Ohio, 594, without

citation of authority, a diyorce granted in Indiana, from a
resident of Ohio, upon constructive service, was held to bar
an application for divorce and alimony in Ohio. In Mansfield
v. McIntyre (1840), 10 Ohio, 27, despite a divorce obtained
in Kentucky, by a husband, upon constructive service, the
divorced wife was regarded in Ohio as the widow of her former
husband after his decease, and as such widow entitled to
dower.
In Cox v. Cox, 19 Ohio St. 502, decided at the December
term, 1869, the facts were these: The husband deserted the
wife in Ohio, went to Indiana and there obtained a divorce,
upon constructive service. The wife remained in Ohio, and
three years after the granting of the Indiana divorce to the
husband she sued him for divorce and for alimony, alleging
abandonment and gross neglect of duty. The trial court
granted a divorce and alimony. The husband appealed, but
as such an appeal, under the'statutes of Ohio, did not affect
the decree as to the divorce, the District Court considered
only the question of alimony and rendered a new decree for
alimony against the defendant. The case was then taken to
the Supreme Court of the State. In that court attention was
called to the fact that under the statutes of Ohio and the:decisions of its courts jurisdiction might be exercised over nonresidents in divorce cases, and reference was made to various
authorities as tending to show that public policy required the
recognition of the validity of such decrees in other States as
to the dissolution of the marriage. After stating the facts,
and observing that the wife was entitled under the laws of
Ohio to either divorce or alimony, or both, at her election, and
alluding to the. Indiana decree, the court said (p. 512):
"The question, therefore, is, whether 'the ex parte decree
can be made available, not merely to effect a dissolution of the
marriage, but to defeat the right of the petitioner to the ali-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

mony which the statute, upon the facts as they exist in regard
to the husband's desertion, intended to provide for her.
"We think the decree ought not to have such effect.
"In arriving at this conclusion we make no distinction between a decree rendered, under the circumstances of this case,
in a foreign, and one rendered in a domestic forum.
"In either case, to give to a decree thus obtained the effect
claimed for it, would be to allow it to work a fraud upon the
pecuniary rights of the wife. Such a result, in our opinion,
is rendered necessary by no principle of comity or public policy
-the only grounds upon which ex parte decrees of divorce are
authorized and supported.
"It is not essential to the allowance of alimony that the
marriage relation should subsist up to the time it is allowed.
On appeal, alimony may be decreed by the District Court,
notwithstanding the subsisting divorce pronounced by the
Court of Common Pleas. It is true that the statute speaks
of the allowance as being made to the wife. But the term
'wife' may be regarded as used to designate the person, and
not the' actual existing relation; or the petitioner may still
be regarded as holding the relation of wife for the purpose of
enforcing her claim to alimony."
The following cases were cited by the court as sustaining
the right of the wife to maintain an independent proceeding
for alimony, even after the husband had obtained a divorce:
Richardson v. Wilson, 8 Yerger, 67; Crane v. Meginnis, 1 Gill
& J. 463, and Shotwell v. Shotwell, 1 Sm. & M. Ch. R. 51.
In Doerr v. Forsythe (1893); 50 Ohio St. 726, an Indiana
divorce granted to a husband, upon constructive service, was
held not to bar the right of the wife to dower in lands in Ohio
owned
during coverture by the husband.
ALABAMA.-In Thompson v, State
(1856), 28 Alabama, 12,
the facts were these: Thompson deserted his family in Mississippi, went to Arkansas and there obtained a divorce upon
constructive service. The wife returned to her father's home
in Alabama, and, after the divorce, the husband also went to

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Alabama, where he again married. He was prosecuted for
and convicted of bigamy. The conviction was set side, however, upon the ground that the guilt or innocence of the accused
depended upon the question as to whether he had a bona.fide
domicil in Arkansas during the pendency of the proceedings
for divorce. Harding v. Alden, 9 Maine, 140, was cited as
authority.
In a subsequent case, however, Turner v. Turner (1870),
44 Alabama, 437, the Supreme Court of Alabama strictly limited, as against a citizen of Alabama, the effect of'a divorce
rendered in another State upon constructive service. The
parties were married in Alabama, where the husband deserted
the wife, and located in Indiana, where he obtained a divorce
upon constructive service. The wife remained in Alabama,
and, after the granting of. the divorce to the husband, she sued
him in Alabama for a divorce and alimony. The husband
pleaded the Indiana decree in bar. The trial court, however,
held that the wife was entitled to maintain her suit and entered a decree for divorce and alimony. In affirming the decree the Supreme Court of Alabama, upon. the authority of
Thompson v. State, .supra, said that the decree of divorce obtained by the husband in. Indiana might protect him against
prosecution for bigamy should he marry again in Alabama.
Referring to that decree it further said (p. 450):
"But without stopping to inquire whether it was obtained
by him by fraud, and therefore is vicious on that adftnt or
not, it certainly cannot affect the rights of the complainant,
except her right in the husband as husband. If it is valid,
it unmarries him and sets him free from his marital vows to
her. He is no longer the complainant's husband.' But it
*does not settle her right to alimony; it does not settle her right
to dower in his jands, and her statutory right to distribution
of his property in this State, in. the event she should survive
him, nor any other interest of a pecuniary character she may
have against him.... . It is the duty of the State to
protect its own citizens, within its own borders. This is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. 8.

natural compensation for allegiance. This high duty extends to all the pecuniary rights of the citizens, as well as to
the rights of security of person. . . . No obligation of
comity is paramount to this duty. Without a constant and
effective exertion of it, citizenship would become a farce.
The wife is as much the citizen of the State as the
husband, and is entitled to the protection of its laws to the
same extent, so long as she remains within its jurisdiction.
It would be a scandal to justice to imperil her, and sacrifice
her most important and cherished rights upon a mere technicality; a technicality that often contradicts the truth.- When
her protection requires it, it would be cruelly unjust for the
State, of her actual residence and domicil, to repudiate its
own right of jurisdiction to give her aid. I therefore think
thatthe better opinion is, that she has the right to file her
bill here, and to all the relief that the court could give her,
notwithstanding her husband might not be domiciled in this
State at the commencement and during the whole pendency
of her litigation with him.
"Then, if the state courts have competent jurisdiction in
such a case, as undoubtedly they have, they may go on and
exercise that jurisdiction in the manner and to the extent
prescribed by their own laws.
"Under the laws of this State,. by the contract and consummation of a marriage, the wife, if she has no separate estate, becomes entitled to dower in the husband's lands, and
a certain distributive interest in his personal estate, if she
survives him, and to temporary and permanent alimony out
of his estate upon a separation by divorce in her favor. These
aw'e rightsthat she cannot legally be deprived of without her
consent or her fault. . . . If this were not so, then these
important statutory provisions in favor of the wife would be
repealed or rendered null by a foreign divorce, of which she
had no notice and no knowledge, during its whole progress
through the forms of a foreign court. To sue in her own domicil is necessary for the protection of the wife. It, therefore,

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

overrides the technical rule that the husband's domicil is also
the domicil of the wife.

.

.

.

Here the testimony shows

that. the wife has no separate estate.. The witnesses for the
defendants say when she was married she 'brought nothing
with her.' It also appears that during her connection with
the defendant Matthew Turner, as his wife, she was a-chaste,
industrious, economical, faithful, useful and obedient wife;
and that the husband's property is very considerable; worth
possibly not less than one hundred thousand .dollars. It is
also shown that his three children by a former 'marriage are
already sufficiently provided for.
"Under such a state of facts the sum of thirty thousand
dollars was not an unreasonable sum for permanent alimony,
to be allowed to the wife, nor the sum of eight hundred dollars
too large for temporary alimony.
INDIAN'A.-In Tolen v. Tolen (1831), 2 Blackf. 407, the facts

.were these: A wife, on being deserted in Kentucky, removed
to and became domiciled in Indiana, and after a residence
there of five years sued for a divorce from the non-resident
husband. In an opinion of great- length the court considered
the question of its power to grant a divorce which would be
ialid in Indiana, and decided it had such power, but expressly ieserved passing on the question whether the decree
would have extraterritorial force.
In Hood v. State (1877), 56 Indiana, 263, 271, it was declared
that as an ex parte divorce in favor of one domiciled, within
the jurisdiction of a State, and against a non-resident, although
founded upon constructive service, was valid as to the plaintiff, "public policy demands that it should be held valid as
to both parties."
In Hilbish v. Hattle (1896), 145 Indiana, 59, certain sections
of the Indiana Revised Statutes, wherein it was provided that
the divorce of one party to a marriage should dissolve the con.tract as to both, and that a divorce decreed in another State
by a court having jurisdiction of the cause should have full
effect in Indiana, were held to be applicable to a decree of

OCTOBER TERM, 190&.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

divorce granted in another State, in favor of a husband, upon
constructive service, and the same effect was given to the
decree, as to the rights of the wife in the property of the husband in Indiana, as if the divorce had been rendered in Indiana.
MISSOURI.-In Gould v. Crow, 57 Missouri, 200, a decree

of divorce regularly obtained by a husband in Indiana, on an
order of publication, without personal service, was held to
operate as a divorce in favor of the husband in Missouri, so
as to prevent the wife froim claiming her dower in lands in
Missouri owned by the husband. Harding v. Alden, 9 Maine,
140, was relied upon as authority., A statute of Missouri,
barring the claim of a wife for (lower after divorce granted by
reason of her fault, Was held to apply to all divorces, whether
obtained in Missouri or in other States, and whether obtained
on personal service or by order of publication. The doctrine
of Gould v. Crow was reaffirmed and -applied in Anthony v.
Rice, 110 Missouri, 223..
WISCONSIN.-In Shafer v. Bushnell (1869), 24 Wisconsin,
372, an ex parte divorce granted a wife in Minnesota upon constructive service of the defendant, a citizenof Minnesota, was
held upon the grounds of comity to be conclusive in Wisconsin
in respect to ,the status or domestic and social condition of
the wife. The decree was held to bar an action for criminal
intercourse against the person wlom the complainant in the
divorce suit married after the granting of the divorce.
In Cook v. Cook (1882), 56 Wisconsin, 195, however, in an
elaborate opinion, an ex parte divorce obtained in Michigan
upon constructive service merely, by a husband who had deserted his wife in Wisconsin, was held not to affect the status
of the-wife in Wisconsin nor ' to bar her from-suing in Wisconsin for divorce, alimony, allowance and a'division of the property of such husband situated'within Wisconsin.
Deducing the law of the several States from the rulings of
their courts of last resort which we have just reviewed and
ignoring mere minor differences, the law of such States is embraced within one or the other of the following headings:

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a. States where the power to decree a divorce is recognized,
based upon the mere domicil of the plaintiff, although the
decree when rendered will be but operative within the borders
of the State, wholly irrespective of any force which may be
given such decree in other States. Under this heading all
of the States are embraced with the possible exception of
Rhode Island.
b. States which decline, even upon principles of comity, to
recognize and enforce as to their own citizens, within their own
borders, decrees of divorce rendered in other States, when the
court rendering the same had jurisdiction over only one of the
parties. Under this heading is embraced Massachusetts, New
Jersey .(with the qualification made by the decision in 59
N. J. Eq. 606) and New York.
c. States which, whilst giving some effect to decrees of divorce rendered against its citizens, in other States where the
court had jurisdiction of the plaintiff alone, either place the
effect given to such decrees upon the principle of state comity
alQne, or make such limitations upon the effect given to such
decree as iFldubitably establishes that the recognition given
is a result merely of state comity. As the greater includes
the less, this class of course embraces the cases under the
previous heading. It also includes the States of Alabama,
Maine, Ohio and Wisconsin.
d. Cases which, although not actually so deciding, yet lend
themselves to the view that ex parte decrees of divorce rendered
in other States would receive recognition by virtue of the due
faith and credit clause. And. this class embraces Missouri and
Rhode Island.
Coming to consider, for the purpose of classification, the
decided cases in other States than those previously reviewed,
which have been called to our attention, the law of such States
may be said to come under one or the other of the foregoing
headings, as follows:
Proposition a embraces the law of all the States, since in
the
decision of no State is there an intimation expressing the ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

ception found in the Rhode Island case which -caused us to
exclude that State from this classification.
Under proposition b comes the law of the States of Pennsylvania, Vermont and South Carolina. A line of decisions of
the State of North Carolina would also cause us to embrace
the law of that State within this classification, but for a doubt
engendered in our minds as to the effect of the law of North
Carolina on the subject, resulting from suggestions made by
the North Carolina court in the opinion in the Bidwell case,
52 S.E. Rep. 55.
Proposition c embraces the law of Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska and New Hampshire.
And it is pertinent here to remark that in Michigan, 3 Comp.
Laws Michigan (1897), par. 8621, c. 232, sec. 6, the obtaining
of a divorce in another State from a citizen of Michigan is
made cause for the granting of a divorce in Michigan to its
citizens. A like provision is also in the statutes of Florida.
Rev. Stat. Florida (1902),'see. 1480.
Under proposition d we embrace the remaining States,
although as to several the classification may admit of doubt,
viz., California, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky and Tennessee.
It indubitably, therefore, follows from- the special review we
have made of cases in certain States, and the classification
just made of the remaining state cases which were called to
our attention and which we have previously cited rn the margin, that the contention is without foundation, that such cases
establish by an overwhelming preponderance that, by the law
of the several States, decrees of divorce obtained in a State
with jurisdiction alone of the plaintiff are, in virtue of the full
faith and, credit clause of the Constitution, entitled to be
enforced in another State as against citizens of such State.
Indeed the analysis and classification which we have made
serves conclusively to demonstrate that the limited recognition which is given in most of the States to such ex parte
decrees of divorce rendered in other States is wholly inconsistent with the theory that such limited recognition is based

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of theCourt.

upon the operation of the full faith and credit clause of the
Constitution of the United States, and on the contrary is consistent only With the conception that such limited recognition
as is given is based upon state comity. No clearer demonstration can be made of .the accuracy of this statement than
the obvious 'consequence that if the full faith and credit clause
were now to be held applicable to the enforcement in the States
generally of decrees of divorce of the character of the one here
involved it would follow that the law of nearly all of the States
would be overthrown, and thus it would come to pass that the
decisions which were relied upon as establishing that the due
faith and credit clause applies to such decrees would be overruled by the adoption of the proposition which it'is insisted
those decisions maintain. The only escape from this conclusion would be to say that the law of the States as shown by
the decisions in question would remain unaffected by the
ruling of the full faith and credit clause because not repugnant
to that clause. This would be, however, but to assert that
the full faith and credit clause required not that full faith and
credit be given in one State to the decrees of another State,
but that only a limited and restricted enforcement of a decree
of one State in another would fulfill the requirements of that
provision of the Constitution. To so decide would be to destroy the true import of.the full faith and credit clause as pointed
out in the outset of this opinion. Thus, in its ultimate aspect
the proposition relied upon reduces itself to this, either that
the settled law of most of the States of the Union as to divorce decrees rendered in one State, where the court rendering the decree had jurisdiction only of the plaintiff, must be
held to be invalid, or that an important provision of the Constitution of the United States must be' shorn of its rightful
meaning.
Without questioning the power of the State of Connecticut
to enforce within its own borders the decree of divorce which
is here in issue, and without intimating a doubt as to the power
of the State of New York to give to a decree of that character

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER and HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting. 201 U. S.

rendered in Connecticut, within the borders of the State of
New York and as to its own citizens, such efficacy as it may
be entitled to in view of the public policy of that State, we
hold that the decree of the court of Connecticut'rendered under
the circumstances stated was not entitled to obligatory enforcement in the State of New York by virtue of the full faith
and credit clause. It therefore follows that the court below
did not violate the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution in refusing to admit the Connecticut decree in evidence;
and its judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, with whom were MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, dissenting.

Marriage between these parties was solemnized June 4, 1868.
They separated the same day, without a consummation, and
have never lived together since. No matrimonial domicil was
ever established in New York or elsewhere. Defendant left
New York soon after the wedding, drifted about the country
for several years, and finally settled in Connecticut in 1877;
remained there twelve years, during which time, and in 1881,
he obtained a divorce in the Superior Court of Litchfield County,
which he now sets up in defense of this action.
Plaintiff took no steps for twenty-six years to obtain a legal
separation or maintenance, when, in July, 1894, she applied to
the Superior Court of the State of New York for a summons by
publication. The defendant did not appear) and a decree was
rendered against him by default, separating the jiarties and
granting alimony of $1,5 00 a year. This decree -appears to
have been abortive, so. far as respects alimony at least, probably for lack of personal service on the defendant. Meantime,
and in 1891, defendant had inherited a considerable property
from his father.
This action was begun by a summons dated June 3, 1899,
thirty-one years after the marriage; was served upon .the de-

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S. BRoWN, HARLI,

BREWER and HoLmEs, JJ., dissenting.

fendant, who answered December 18, 1899, setting up, amongst
other things, the decree of the Superior Court of Litchfield
County, dissolving the marriage, the validity of which presents
the only Federal question in this case.
1. This decree is attacked upon the ground that the Connecticut court acted without jurisdiction of the parties lawfully
obtained., The record in that case shows that notice of the,
pendency of the petition was ordered to be published in a
Litchfield paper, and also that a copy of the petition be sent
to the respondent by mail, postage paid; at Tarrytown, New
York. While thefe is no affidavit of the publication of the
notice, there is a recital in the decree "that said complaint and
writ have been duly served upon the defendant pursuant to.,
an order of notice made thereon by the clerk of this court."
This is sufficient prima facie evidence of the publication to
entitle the record to be received. Applegate v. Lexington &c.
Mining Co., 117 U. S. .255, 269, wherein it was said by the
court that "while it must be conceded that, in order to give
the court jurisdiction over the persons of the defendants, all
the steps pointed out by the statute to effect constructive service on non-residents were necessary, yet it does not follow that
the evidence that the steps were taken must appear in the
record, unless indeed the statute, expressly or by implication,
requires it. . .
. Therefore every -presumption not inconsistent with the record is to be indulged in, in favor of its
jurisdiction.
.
. It is to be presumed that the court before making its decree took care' to see that its order for
constructive service, on which its right to make the decree depended, had been obeyed."
As the record was rejected for reasons appearing only upon
its face, it is unnecessary to decide whether the recitals in the
decree can be, contradicted. Possibly the New York court
might.have assailed its validity by showing that, notwithstanding the recitals in the record, the court acquired no jurisdiction of the defendant by failure to comply with the order of
the court with.reference to the publication of notice in a news-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER

and

HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 201 U. S.

paper, or in sending a copy of the petition and complaint to
the defendant by mail at Tarrytown, New York, the last known
place of residence. The fact that the referee refused to admit
.the record, even as prima facie evidence, foreclosed any defense
founded upon the actual failure to obtain jurisdiction over the
defendant.
There is no doubt of the proposition that a decree of divorce
may be lawfully obtained at the matrimonial domicil, notwithstanding that the defendant may have taken up his or her residence separate from the other party in another State, providing that the law of the domicil with respect to the personal
service or, publication be scrupulously observed. Atherton v.
Atherton, 181 U. S. 155.
Doubtless the jurisdiction of the court granting the divorce
may be inquired into, and if it appear that the plaintiff had not
acquired a bona fide domicil in that State at the time of instituting proceedings, the decree is open to a collateral attack,
Bell v. Bell, 181 U. S. 175, and a recital in the proceedings of a
fact necessary to show jurisdiction may be contradicted.
Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Streitwoll v. Streitwol,
181 U. S. 179; Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14.
.Subject to these conditions, each State has the right to regulate the marital status of its citizens, at least so far as to
determine in what manner and by whom marriages may be solemnized, what shall be deemed the age of consent, what
obligations are assumed, what property rights are created, for
what causes divorces shall be granted, for what length of
time the domicil of plaintiff shall have been acquired prior to
the institution of the 'proceedings,, and in what manner notice
shall be given .to the defendant. Nor is the power of the, legislature in this connection ousted by the facet that the other
party to the contract resides in another State, provided that
in case of proceedings adverse to such party he or she shall
be given such notice as due process of law requires. '-If such
proceedings be in rein or quasi in rem, notice by publication
is ordinarily deemed sufficient. But in case of actions in per-

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S. BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

sonam for the recovery of damages, personal service within
the jurisdiction is vital to the proceedings. Pennoyer v. Neff,
95 U. S. 7-14; Huling v. Kaw Valley Railway and Improvement Co., 130 U. S. 559.
By the laws of Connecticut of 1878, c. 71, p. 305, exclusive
jurisdiction is given to the Superior Courts to grant divorces
for several causes, among which are "willful desertion for three
years with total neglect of duty," with a further provision
(Gen. Stats. 4555), "that plaintiff shall have continuously resided in the State three years next before the date of the complaint,." with certain exceptions not material to be noticed. A
further provision, sec. 4553, that, "where the adverse party
resides out of; or is absent from the State, or the whereabouts
of the adverse party is unknown .to the plaintiff, any judge or
clerk of the Supreme Court of Errors, or the Superior Court,
or any county commissioner, may make such order of notice
as he may deem reasonable, and, such notice having been given
and duly proved to the court; it may hear such complaint
if it find that the defendant has actually received notice that
the cqmplaint is pending, und if it shall not appear that' the
defendant has had such notice, the court may hear such case,
or, if it see cause, order such further notice to be given as it
may deem reasonable, and continue the complaint until the
order is complied with."
The complaint alleged a willful desertion of the plaintiff for
more than three years, and the court found this to be the fact.
2. The case turns upon the question whether the Superior
Court"of Litchfield County gained jurisdiction by a residence
of the plaintiff within the State for more than three years. The
testimony also showed that the defendant had acquired a separate domicil in New York, and had been living there for about
thirteen years.
In discussing this question two propositions may be admitted
at once, and discarded as having no relevancy to the case:
1. That a judgment for damages in an action in personam
is valid only when personal service has been made upon the
VOL. cci-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HAwnxAN, BREWER and HOLMES, JJ.,

dissenting.

201

U.

S.

defendant within the jurisdiction of the court rendering the
judgment. This disposes at once of the cases of Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S. 714; of Mississippi &c. R. R. Co. v. Ward, 2
Black, 485, where an Iowa court had undertaken to abate a
nuisance on the Illinois side of the Mississippi river; and of
Delaware &c. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 342, where
a State had attempted to tax property- having a permanent
situs in another State.
2. That the courts of one State may not grant a divorce
against an absefit defendant to any person who has not acquired a bona fide domicil in that State. The same rule applies
if he has removed'ihither solely for the purpose of acquiring
a domicil and obtaining a divorce for a cause, which would have
been insufficient in the State from which he removed. Andrews
v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14.
The jurisdiction of the Connecticut court in this case is
shown, not by the facts'as they appear in this case, but from
the record in that ease, and primarily from the petition, which
under the practice in that State is incorporated with the summons. The allegations are:
"On the first day of January, 1869, the defendant willfully
deserted the plaintiff, and has continued- said desertion, with
total neglect of all the duties of the marriage.on her part to be
performed to the date of this writ, being for more than three
years, and during the plaintiff's, residence in this State."
It is conceded that such desertion is good ground for. a divorce in Connecticut, which may be granted to a plaintiff who
has continuously resided in the State three years next before
the date of the complaint. The complaint obviously made a
case for divorce under the statute. The court found that the
complaint and writ had been duly served on the defendant,
pursuant to an order of notice made thereon by the clerk; that
the allegations of the complaint had been sustained and a divorce was granted.
The case then resolves itself into the single question whether
A.divorce granted to a plaintiff lawfully domiciled within a

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S. BROWN,

IARLAN, BREWER

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

State as against a defendant domiciled in another State, who
has been served by publication or letter only, is a valid defense
to a suit by the latter for a separation and alimony.
Certain cases in this court tend strongly to support the proceedings in Connecticut. Strader v. Graham, 10 How. 82, was
an action to recover the value of certain slaves carried into
Ohio, a free State. The case was dismissed, as involving a
question of the local law of Kentucky, the court remarking:
"Every State has an undoubted right to determine the status,
or domestic and social condition, of the persons domiciled within
its territory,

.

.

, and that it was exclusively in the power

of Kentucky," (wherein the suit was brought) "to determine
for itself whether their employment in another State should or
should not make them free on their return."
In Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582,- a New York court decreed
a %ep, -lion and alimony to the wife. The husband removed
to Wisco,:,-' for the purpose of placing himself beyond the
jurisdiction of the court which could enforce it, and there obtained a divorce a vinculo upon the ground of abandonmn'.t.
The sole question raised by the record was: "Whether a wife
divorced a mensa et thoro can acquire another domicilation in
a State of this Union different from that of her husband, to
entitle her, by her next friend, to sue him in a court of the
United States, having equity jurisdiction, to recover from him
alimony due, and which he refuses to make arrangement to.
pay; and whether a court of equity is not a proper tribunal for
a 'remedy in such a case.
It was a suit to recover upon a judgment obtained in New
York before proceedings instituted in Wisconsin, and was sustained. Obviously, the Wisconsin divorce was no defense, but
its validity was not impugned.
Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108, turned upon certain rights
of property, and incidentally upon a divorce obtained in Indiana, in a suit in which the defendant appeared. The case;
however, is valuable for two questions decided: First, that a
decree of divorce, valid and effectual by the laws of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER

and HoLMEs, JJ., dissenting. 201 U. S.

in which it was obtained, is valid and effectual in all other
States; second, that a wife may acquire a domicil different
from her husband's whenever it is necessary or proper that she
should have such a domicil; and on such a domicil,-if the' case
otherwise allow it, may institute proceedings for divorce, though
it be neither her husband's domicil nor have been the domicil
of the parties at the time of the marriage, or of the offense.
Of course, it follows that if the wife may obtain a new domicil her husband may do likewise, as was done in this case, after
the separation or abandonment had taken place. In delivering the opinion, Mr. Justice Swayne observed: "The decree
(of divorce) was valid and effectual, according to the law and
adjudications, in Indiana."
The Constitution and laws of the United States give the decree the same effect elsewhere which it had in Indiana. " 'If
a judgment is conclusive in the State where it is rendered, it
is equally conclusive everywhere' in the courts of the United
States."
In Cheely v. Clayton, 110 U. S. 701, a divorce obtained in a
territorial court, upon notice by publication insufficient under
the laws of the Territory, was held to be of no effect. The
court, however, observing: "If a Wife is living apart from her
husband without sufficient cause, his domicil is in law her domicil; and, in the absence of any proof of fraud or misconduct
on his part, a divorce obtained by him in the State of his domicil, after reasonable notice to her, either by personal service
or by publication, in accordance with its laws, is valid, although
she never in fact resided in that State," citing Burlen v. Shannon, 115 Massachusetts, 438, and Hunt v. Hunt, 72 N. Y. 218.
In Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S.190, a legislative divorce was
upheld, and it was said that the fact that no cause existed for
the divorce, and that it was obtained without the knowledge
of the wife, cannot affect the validity of the act. It was further said that though the conduct of the husband merited the
strongest ieprobation, his abandonment of his wife, his loose

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S. BROWN,

HARLAN, BREWER)

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

morals and shameless conduct could have no bearing upon the
power of the -assembly to pass the act.
Four recent decisions in this court are too important to pass
unnoticed. In Bell v. Bell, 181 U. S. 175, and in Streitwol! v.
Streitwolf (p. 179), it vwas held that a divorce obtained in a
State in which neither party was domiciled, upon service by
publication and in another State, was entitled to no faith and
credit. These decisions were unanimous. And in Andrews v.
Andrews, 188 U. S. 14,that a divorce obtained by.one who had
gone into another State to procure a divorce in fraud of the
law of the domicil, was also invalid.
There remains the case of Atherton v. Atherton, 181 U. S. 155,
a divorce obtained by a husband in Kentucky which had been
the matrimonial domicil, though the wife had been absent from
the State-for several months, and apparently had attempted
to acquire a new domicil in New York. The court took care to
confine the case to the one point decided, namely, the validity
of a divorce obtained at the matrimonial domicil. The court
out of abundant caution expressly disclaimed that the case
involved the validity o'a divorce granted, on constructive
service, by the court of a State in'which only one of the parties
ever had a domicil; nor the question to what extent the good
faith of the domicil may be afterwards, inquired into. "In this
case, the divorce in Kentucky was by the court of the State,
which had always been the undoubted domicil of the husband,
and which was the only matrimonial domicil of the husband
and wife. The single question to be decided is the validity of
that divorce, granted after such notice had been given as was'
required by the statutes of Kentucky."
While .the Atherton case, as already stated, was confined to
a divorce obtainpd at the matrimonial domicil, the cases cited
by Mr. Justice Gray in his opinion relate to divorces obtained
in a State which was the domicil only of the complaining party,
and are practically the same as those cited by him in his opinion
as Chief Justice of Massachusetts in Burlen v. Shannon, 115
Massachusetts, 438. In reading the two cases tQgether one is

OCTOBIR TERM, 1905.
Buoww,

HARLAN, BREWER

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting. 201 U.S.

strongly impressed with the idea that in the Atherton case he
had the former case in mind, and gave it such approval as the
facts in the latter case would warrant. Not only had the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky decided that a wife residing in that
State was entitled to obtain a decree of divorce against her
husband who had left the State, Rhyms v. Rhyms, 7 Bush, 316;
Perzel v. Perzel, 91 Kentucky, 634, but a numbercof cases from
other States were cited holding to the same principle.
The opinion of the court in the present case admits that
where the domicil of the husband is also the domicil of matrimony, the courts of that domicil may disregard an unjustifiable absence of the wife therefrom, and. treat her as having
her domicil there for the purpose of dissolving the marriage as
to both parties, and that such dissolution would be recognized
in all other States by virtue of the full faith and credit clause,
citing to this effect Atherton v. Atherton, 181 U. S. 155, and, as
a corollary therefrom, it is admitted that no question can arise
concerning the right of the State of Connecticut to give effect
to a decree of divorce rendered in favor of the husband while
domiciled in that State. The question is, undoubtedly, as
stated, whether the Connecticut court, in virtue of the domicil
of the husband in that State, had jurisdiction to render a decree
against the wife which was entitled to be enforced in other
States, under the full faith and credit clause.
I deny, however, that the final question is whether this would
be enforcing a personal judgment rendered in another State
against the defendant, over whom the court rendering the judgment had not acquired jurisdiction. A proceeding for divorce
is not in personam nor of an exceptional character, except so
far as all proceedings in rem are governed by a different rule
from that applicable to proceedings in personam. The validity
of the latter class depends upon personal service of the defendant being obtained within the jurisdiction. The validity of
the former depends upon the jurisdiction of' the court over the
res-in this case the marriage relation, the domicil of the plaintiff, and such. jurisdiction over the defendant as is consonant

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

with the general principles of the constitution with regard to
due process of law.
The propositions of the opinion, as we understand it, may be
summarized as follows:
That, if one government by virtue of its authority over marriage, may dissolve the tie as to citizens of another government,
that other-government would have a similar power, and hence
the right of every government over its own citizens might be
rendered nugatory by the exercise of the power which every
other government possesses. To illustrate by the present case:
That, if the husband may desert his original domicil in New
York, go to the State of Connecticut, acquire a domicil there
and procure: a divorce which would be binding in New York as
to the party there domiciled, it would follow that the power
of the State of New York as to the dissolution of the marriage,
as to its domiciled citizen, would be of no practical avail. The
opinion, -however, fails to state the logical result of this proposition, viz., that no divorce would be possible in either State
without a personal service upon the other within the State. If
the husband, having his domicil in Connecticut, could not obtain a divorce against his wife domiciled in New York without
a personal service, it follows that the wife domiciled in New
York could not obtain a divorce against her husband in that
State without a personal service there.
Undoubtedly the. laws of some States are more liberal upon
the subject of divorce than those of other States, but that does
not affect the question. If the complaining party has acquired
a domicil in the State in which he institutes proceedings, he is
entitled to-the benefit of the laws of that State with respect to
the causes of divorce.
It is argued that, as the Constitution delegated no authority
to the G~vernment of the United States on the subject of marriage and divorce, yet, if the validity of the Connecticut divorce
in this case be sustained, it follows that the destruction of the
power of the States over the dissolution of marriage of its own
citizens would be brought about by the full faith and credit

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER

clause of the Constitution.

and

HOLMES,

JJ.,

dissenting. 201 U. S.

But this was the very point de-

cided in the Atherton case, where a divorce obtained in Kentucky by publication was held good in New York, as against
a proceeding by the wife for a divorce in that State. It is true
that the matrimonial domicil was in Kentucky. But this
does not affect the proposition asserted in the opinion, that the
decree did work a dissolution of the marriage, as to her, by the
operation of the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution,
and to that extent it did work a destruction of the power of
the State of New York over the dissolution of the marriage.
But the argument to that effect was not considered by this
court to be sound. It does undoubtedly follow that the res,
that is, the marriage relation, was as much in the State of New
York as it was in the State of Connecticut, but it does not follow that the action of the Connecticut court with respect to
that res is not as much obligatory in New York as in Connecticut, It is of the very essence of proceedings in rem- that the
decree of a court with respect to the res, whether it be a vessel;
a tract of land or the marriage relation, is entitled to be respected in every other State or country. The status fixed by
the adjudication in the State of the former is operative everywhere. Indeed, the proposition is so elementary as not to need
the citation of an authority.
The conclusion of the argument is that, the courts of New
York having the same power to decree a dissolution of the
marriage at the suit of the wife, that the courts of Connecticut
would have to make a similar decree at the suit of the husband,
it would become a mere race of diligence between the parties
in seeking different forums in other States; or the celerity by
which in such States judgments of divorce might be procured,
would have to be considered in order to decide which forum
was controlling. Granting this to lbe the case, does not every
plea of res adjudicata presuppose a prior judgment, and is it a
defense to such plea that such judgment was obtained by superiority in a race of diligence? The whole doctrine is founded,.
if not upon the doctrine of superior diligence, at least upon the

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

theory of a prior judgment, which fixes irrevocably the rights
of the parties, whenever and wherever these rights may come in
question. Nor is the rule less operative where suits are in
different States and the laws applicable to the questions therein
arising are different. To illustrate: Suppose a note and mortgage were given for usurious interest, and the mortgage was
sought to be foreclosed in a State where, by statute, usury
would invalidate both principal and interest, and a decree were
obtained dismissing the bill, can it be doubted that if the note
were sued upon in another State where usury did not invalidate
the security the plea of res adjudicata would be sustained upon
the ground that the rights of the parties had been definitely
fixed in the suit for the foreclosure of the mortgage? It seems
to me the same rule applies in this case. So long as no proceedings are taken, the marriage would remain valid both by the
laws of Connecticut and of New York. But if a suit be instituted. by either party,, by the husband for a divorce or by the
wife for a maintenance, and the quevtion of marriage or no
marriage be M'iade an issue, and decided in the case first brought,
that decree is forever binding upon both parties. Had the wife
in this case brought suit to dissolve the marriage, or for a maintenance in affirmation of the marriage, the decree of the court
in New York would have been as binding upon the court in
Connecticut as the decree obtained in Connecticut ought to be
upon the wife in New York.
The cases in the state courts, with a few exceptions, hereinafter noted, overwhelmingly preponderate in holding that where
the plaintiff has acquired a bona fide domicil in a particular
State he may lawfully appeal t6 the courts of that State for
a dissolution of the marriage tie, for the causes permitted by
its statutes, and may call in the non-resident defendant by
publication. To abstract all these cases would unduly prolong this opinion.
In many of them the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution does not seem to have been' called to the attention of
the court, and the case was disposed of upon principles of corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER and HOLsfg, JJ., dissenting. 201

U. S.

ity, 'which give to the court, a certain latitude of discretion,
whereas, under the full faith and credit clause, the consideration given to a decree in the State where it is rendered is obligatory in every other State.
. One of the earliest of these cases is that of Harding v..Alden,
9,Maine, 140, in which the parties separated, the husband going
to North Carolina and the Wife to Rhode Island. She began
proceedings there, which culminated in a divorce for adultery
committed in North Carolina, the husband having been personally cited to appear, but refusing to do so. The-divorce was
held to be valid, the court observing that "the protection of
innocent parties and the purity of public morals require that
divorces lawfully pronounced in one jurisdiction, and the new
relations thereupon formed, should be recognized as operative
and binding everywhere," in the absence of fraud or collusion.
The ruling was that the wile was entitled to dower in lands of
which the husband was seized during coverture, the statute
expressly giving the right where divorce was decreed for the
cause of adultery, as if the husband were dead.
In Barber v. Root, 10 Massachusetts, 260, the parties originally domiciled in Massachusetts removed to Vermont, and established a permanent domicil there. The court, while repu-

diating the idea that a divorce could be granted to a person
who was not domiciled in Vermont, held the divorce to be
good.
In Hood v. Hood, 11 Allen, 196, a divorce obtained in Illinois
by the husband for desertion, upon notice by publication in a
newspaper, was held to be valid as against the wife, although
she was then living in Massachusetts under an agreement on
his part to pay her a certain sum per week; and although she
had no actual notice of the proceedings, and was not in Illinois
during the pendency thereof. It was further held that she
could not, in a libel for divorce brought by her in Massachusetts,
offer evidence that the Illinois decree was obtained by fraud,
and upon facts which would not entitle her to a divorce in
Massachusetts. In a subsequent case between the same par-

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S. BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

ties, 110 Massachusetts, 463, the court again decided that the
Illinois decree could not be impeached, and that she was not
entitled to dower in any lands of which the husband was seized
during the coverture.
The whole subject was very carefully considered in Burlenv. Shannon, 115 Massachusetts, 438, which was an action
against the husband for board furnished the wife. The husband, whose wife was living apart from him without justifiable
cause, removed to Indiana, acquired a domicil there and obtained a decree of divorce by publication, and by leaving a
summons at her abode in Massachusetts. The divorce was held
to be valid in Massachusetts as to all persons, although the wife
had never been inIndiana, never appeared in the suit there,
had no knowledge that her husband contemplated going to that
State, or had left Massachusetts, until after he had filed his
libel for divorce. The authorities are reviewed by Mr. Justice
Gray, and the conclusion reached that the divorce in Indiana
was valid.
Cummington v. Belchertown, 149 Massachusetts, .223, was an
action to recover expenses incurred by the plaintiff for the
support of an insane pauper. The husband had removed to
another State and procured a decree annulling the marriage
on the ground of fraud in concealing from .him the fact of insanity before their marriage. Notice of the proceedings was
served upon her, but she was not represented, and it was held
that the decree Was insufficient tbannul her marriage in Massachusetts. It was held, under the familiar rule that the jurisdiction of the foreign court may be inquired into, that the
wife, when the proceedings were commenced and concluded
was utterly insane, and that the record of the New York courts
showed her to have been so, and that no guardian was appointed. The case was disposed of as one over which the New
York court had-acquired no jurisdiction. It does not qualify
in any way the. previous case of Burlen v. Shannon.
The case of Ditson v. Ditson, 4 R. I. 87, is directly in point,
and I understand it to be so admitted. It was held that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER

and HOLMES JJ., dissenting. 201 U. S.

divorce in Rhode Island on the ground of desertion was valid,
though the husband had never been within the jurisdiction of.
Rhode Island, and only constructie notice of the pendency
of the petition had been given him.
The rule in Kentvcky is settled in Rhyms v. Rhyms, 7 Bush.
316, in which a wife proceeded against her husband as a nonresident by a warning order, and it was held that the court had
jurisdiction to grant her a divorce, Chief Justice Robertson
remarking: "It would be a reproach to our legislation if a
faithless husband in Kentucky could by leaving, the State deprive his abandoned wife of the power to obtain a divorce at
home." In Hawkins v. Ragsdale, 80,Kentucjiy, 353, it was
held that a divorce obtained by the husband in Indiana by
constructive service determined the status of the party in Kentucky, and that under the statutes of that State it barred all
claim to curtesy or dower in Kentucky lands. To the same
1.
effect is Perzel v. Perzel, 91-Kentucky, 634.
The law of California is settled in In re Newinan, 75 California, 213, to the effect that a s'iit for divorce, so far as it affects
the status of the parties and the custody of their children, is
a proceeding in rem, and service by publication, on a- nonresident defendant is good. This ruling was repeated in In re
James, 99 California, 374, where it is declared that such decree
is equally valid in other States.
Nowhere is the rule more strongly asserted than in Tennessee,
where a decree obtained inIllinois by publication was sustained
in Thoms v. King, 95 Tennessee, 60, and where it seems to
have been held that the decree could not be impeached, even
by showing the absence of necessary residence.
In Cooper v. Cooper, 7 Ohio St. 594, it was held that a divorce granted in Indiana precluded an application for a divorce
and alimony in Ohio. In Cox v. Cox, 19 Ohio St. 502, the. validity of a foreign decree of divorce obtained by constructive
service, except sofar as regarded the question of alimony, was
sustained. The same ruling was made in Doerr v. Forsythe, 50
Ohio St. 726, holding that while the Indiana divorce was good,

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S. BROWN,

HARLAN, I3EWER

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

it did not affect the property rights of the wife in the State of
Ohio.
The rule in Missouri is stated in Gould v. Crow, 57 Missouri,
200, that a divorce regularly obtained by the husband in Indiana on an order of publication operates as a divorce in his
favor in Missouri, so as to prevent his wife from claiming dower
in lands owned by him in that State. The decree so pronounced is a judgment in rem and is valid everywhere under
the Constitution and laws of the United States. A like ruling
was made in Anthony v. Rice, 110 Missouri, 223.
The law in Kansas is settled in Rodgers v. Rodgers, 56 Kansas, 483, to the effect that the courts of a sister State may dissolve a marriage relation between a husband domiciled there
and a wife domiciled in Kansas, by publication, although unknown to hcr; but that such courts have no power to settle
the title of lands in ,Kansas or control the custody of children
residing there. But it was also decided in Chapman v. Chapman, 48 Kansas, 636, that a wife having obtained a divorce in
Ohio upon service by publication, was not entitled to dower in
lands in Kansas fraudulently conveyed by her husband in
fraud of her or others.
In Smith v. Smith, 43 La. Ann. 1140, it is. held that a wife
may acquire a separate domicil from that of her husband where
his conduct has been such as to furnish ground for divorce, and
her' marriage status becomes subject to the jurisdiction of that
domicil, and that the courts thereof may grant a divorce upon
actual or constructive notice. The rights of the Louisiana
courts to. decree a divorce against an absentee by means of
substituted service is again affirmed in Butler v. Washington,
45 La. Ann. 279.
The law of Wisconsin is the same. Shafer v. Bushnell, 24
Wisconsin, 372; Cook v. Cook, 56 Wisconsin, 195, though in
the latter case the right of the wife to an interest in her husband's lands in Wisconsin was preserved.
In Thompson v. State, 28 Alabama, 12, the right of the husband to emigrate and acquire a new domicil and procure a

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARLAN, BtRWEt and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting. 201 U. S.

divorce upon publication in the State of his domicil, was also
affirmed. See also Turner v. Turner, 44 Alabama, 437. In
.the latter case it is indicated that a foreign divorce did not
settle the rights of the wife to dower in his lands, or any other
interests of a pecuniary character.
In Kline v. Kline, 57 Iowa, 386, a decree rendered in another
State on service by publication was recognized; except so far
is it attempted to fix the custody of the minor children. In
Van Orsdal v. Van Orsdal, 67 Iowa, 35, the property rights of
the wife were recognized' but this right was limited to property within the State, and which the husband owned at the
time of the divorce, and not to what he subsequently acquired.
In this case it was said: "The divorce was granted .
in
May, 1880. In November, 1881, the defendant's father died
in this State, possessed of certain property which the defendant inherited. Now, while it may be that t-he plaintiff might
be entitled to alimony if the*defendant had owned property in
the State at the time the divorce was procured in Nebraska,
she cannot be so entitled because he has subsequently acquired
property. The plaintiff, if entitled to alimony, was so entitled
at the time the divorce was granted. The relation of husband
and wife. then ceased, and neither party is entitled to any share
or interest in property which may be subsequently acquired."
In Indiana the right of a wife domiciled there to a divorce
against the husband who never resided in that State, and upon
whom service was only obtained by publication, is recognized
in Tolen v. Tolen, 2 Blackford, 407; Hood. v. State, 56 Indiana,
263, and in Hilbish v. Hattle, 145 Indiana, 59, it was held that
the wife had no rights in his property by virtue of her marriage relations with the husband, though the court did not in
the divorce proceedings adjudicate the property rights of the
parties.
In Garnerv. Garner, 56 Maryland, 127, the power to grant a
divorce against a non-resident, upon whom process had not
been served, was recognized, but the right to a decree that the
non-resident should not marry again was denied.

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S.

BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

In Thurston v. Thurston, 58 Minnesota, 279, the divorce was
recognized, though process was served outside of the State.
But it was held that the question of alimony was not res adjudicata by reason of the judgment. The wife was allowed
alimony out of property in Minnesota.
The validity of foreign divorces obtained without personal
service is recognized in Illinois, in Knowlton v. Knowlton, 155
Illinois, 158, and in Dunham v. Dunham, 162 Illinois, 589.
The law in New Jersey appeared at one time to favor the
contention of the wife in this case. The gist of the decisions
seemed 'o be that a foreign decree is enforceable in another State
only on the ground of comity, This was indicated in Doughty
v. Doughty, 28 N. J. Eq. 581, though the decree in that case
was held to have been obtained by fraud. It was admitted
that the decree obtained by the husband in Illinois was lawful
and binding there, but it was held that it did not change the
status of the wife in New Jersey, her citizenship there being admitted. The case was properly decided on the ground that the
husband went to Illinois to obtain a divorce, and acquired no
bona fide domicil there. The same rule was recognized in
Flower v. Flower, 42 N. J. Eq. 152. These cases, however,
seem to have been overruled in Felt v. Felt, 59 N. J. Eq. 606,
where it was held that the domicil of the complainant in a foreign State was sufficient to give jurisdiction, notwithstanding
the defendant had not been served with process there. The
court remarked in this case: "A condition of the law which
makes the intercourse of a man and woman either legitimate
or adulterous as they happen to 'be within, the limits of one
State or another is not to be tolerated any further than is
plainly required by public policy." This case evidently puts
New Jersey in line with the vast majority of other States.
The cases of New York upon this subject are numerous and
perhaps not wholly reconcilable, but we think that the law, as
summarized in the last case of Winston v. Winston, 165 N.'Y.
553, is adverse to the Validity of a divorce obtained in another
State without service of process within the jurisdiction. Of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting. 201 U. S.

the same tenor are the cases in Pennsylvania: Colvin v. Reed,
55 Pa. St. 375; Reel v. Elder, 62 Pa. St. 308. North Carolina:
Irby v. Wilson, 1 Dev. & Bat. Eq. 568; Harris v. Harris, 115
N. Car. 587. South Carolina: McCreery v. Davis, 44-S. Car.
195.
The law in this country then may be summarized as follows:
In Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Kentucky, California,
Tennessee, Ohio, Missouri, Kansas, Louisiana, Wisconsin, Alabama, Iowa, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Illinois and New
Jersey, the validity of a divorce obtained in another State by
a party there domiciled in a proceeding where constructive
service upon the defendant only is obtained, is fully recognized.:,
In Ohio, Iowa and Minnesota, and perhaps also Louisiana and
Alabama, her right to alimony and to dower is preserved. But
the very cases which limit the effect of the divorce, so far as
property rights are concerned, restrict such rights to dower in
lands of which the husband was seized during coverture, and
inferentially at least to alimony from such property.. It is also
limited to property within the State where suit is brought.
That, her rights in her husband's property should extend to
property acquired by him lng after the divorce is nowhere
indicated.
The only States in which it is held that a party domiciled in
another State may not obtain a divorce there by constructive
service are New York, Pennsylvania, North and South Carolina.
A proceeding for divorce is a suit in rem, with which is often
incorporated a suit in personam. The res is aptly stated in
Ellis v. Martin, 53 Missouri, 575, as "the status of the plaintiff
in retation to the. defendant to be acted on by the court. This
relation being before the court in the person of the plaintiff, the
court acts on it, and dissolves it by a judgment of divorce."
The fact subsequently ascertained, that it may have been procured by fraud or false testimony, is wholly beside the question, as we shall hereafter show. The fact that the husband
ehanged his domicil to another State, after the cause of action

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK,
201 U. S. BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER and HoLrsEs, JJ., dissenting.

arose, is also immaterial. The status of the husband in this case
.was irrevocably fixed by the decree. It is unnecessary
to consider how far it affected the status of the wife in New York,
which, in respect to other questions, may be subject to the
local law; but her relations as against her husband are controlled by the decree which fixed his status. Indeed, it would
be a reproach to our jurisprudence if an injured party residing
,in one State could not obtain a decree from the other party,
without pursuing the offending party into another and distenf
State, where he or she may have chosen to establish a domicil.
In his case the referee reported that the defendant abandoned the plaintiff without cause or justification. An exception was taken to this report, and the testimony was sent up,
which shows that the paities separated on the day of their
.marriage and have never lived together since. The testimony
leaves it doubtful whether it was a case of abandonment or
of separation by mutual consent.. It does, however, show that
plaintiff took no steps to assert her marital rights for twentysix years aftei her marriage. Her husband having in the meantime inherited a large amount of property from his fathershe
began suit for divorce a mensa et thoro and an allowance of
alimony. This suit, however, was ineffectual .so far as respects
*the alimony, as no personal service was obtained. She waited
again for five years and began this proceeding both for a separation, which she had already obtained, and for alimony.
We think the defendant may lawfully reply thus: "You are
pursuing me as your husband for a separation de jure which has
existed for thirty-one years de jacto, and. since 1894 de jure,
and for an alimony which is obviously the sole object of your
proceeding. Your qnly claim against me is as your husband.
I am not your husband. Twenty-three years ago the Superior
Court of Litchfield County, Connecticut, in which State I had
an actual and bona

fide

domicil, and which had had sole juris-

diction over my marital status for twelve years, liberated me
from the bonds of matrimony and pronounced me a free man.
In the meantime I have married another woman, and if your
VOL. cci-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN, HARIL.N, BREWER and HOLMES, JJ.,

dissenting. 201 U. S.

position be a sound one, I am, at least in the State of New York,
a bigamist, and my wife an adulteress." It is difficult to conceive of a case calling more loudly for the application of the
general doctrine.
As no question is made as to the validity of the Connecticut
decree and its legal effect in that State, and as this court has
repeatedly decided that, under the full faith and credit clause
of the Constitution, a judgment conclusive in the State where
it is rendered is equally conclusive everywhere in the courts of
the United States, Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108; Mills v.
Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481; D'Arcy v..Ketchum, 11 How. 165, I do
not understand how this decree can be denied the same effect
in New York that it has in Connecticut without disregarding
the constitutional provision in question. The result is that
the husband, freed from-the bonds of matrimony in Connecticut, -was at liberty to contract another marriage there, while
the wife cannot even at this late day contract another marriage
in New York without being guilty of adultery.
3. It is insisted, however, that the decree of the Connecticut
court was obtained by the fraud of Haddock, in stating in his
complaint that his wife had deserted him, when, in the present
case, it appears from his-own testimony that he, in fact, abandoned and refused to live with her, or that they separated by
mutual consent.
The evidence upon which the Connecticut decree was granted
does not appear in the record, and it is possible that the case
was made out by the testimony of other witnesses. But, however that may be, this decree cannot be impeached by evidence that it was obtained by false testimony, even though it
be testimony of the plaintiff in that proceeding and the defendant ifi this. Hood v. Hood, 11 Allen, -196, in which it was
held that "both parties had their domicil in that State [Illinois],
and. were subject to the jurisdiction of the court in which the
libel was filed.

.

.

.

But the fact of desertion [by the wife]

was. conclusively settled between the parties by the judgment
in Illinois; and it isnot now competent" for the libellant to

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK..
201 U. S. BROWN, HARLAN, BREWER, and HOLMES,

contradict that judgment."

JJ., dissenting.

See same case, 110 Massachusetts,

463.

The rule is well settled that while a judgment or decree may
sometimes be impeached for fraud, it can only be for a fraud
extrinsic to the cause-as, that the judgment was collusively obtained to defraud some other person, and that it cannot be
impeached by either of the parties thereto by reason of false
testimony given at the time, or which must have been given
to establish the plaintiff's case, or even by perjury of one of the
parties thereto. Granting that the testimony shows the absence of good faith, and even perjury, on the part of the husband in the Connecticut suit, the decree cannot be opened for
'that reason, or for any reason, which would not logically involve
a reexamination of the entire facts upon which the decree is
obtained. Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290; United States v.
Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Sims v. Slocum, 3 Cranch, 300;
Ammidon v. Smith, 1 Wheat. 447; Smith v. Lewis, 3 Johns. 157;
Marriott v. Hampton, 7 T. R. 269; Demerit v. Lyford, 7 Foster, 541, 546;' Peck v. Woodbridge, 3 Day, 30; Dilling v. Murray, -6 Indiana, 324; Homer v. Fish, 1 Pick. 435; Lewis v.
Rogers, 16 Pa. St. 18; Sidensparker v. Sidensparker, 52 Maine,
481; B. & W. R. R. Company v. Sparhawk, 1Allen, 448; Damport v. Sympson, Croke, Eliz'bth, 520; Eyres v. Sedgwicke,
Croke, James, 601; Mason v. Messenger, 17 Iowa, 261, 272;
White v. Merritt, 7 N. Y. 352.
When it is considered that: the status of the defendant was
fixed by the decree of the Connecticut court in 1881, in a pro-ceeding of which his wife had due notice, that upon the faith
of this decree he remarried the following year, and that the
plaintiff made no move to-establish her conjugal rights for thirteen years thereafter, and for twenty-six years after her marriage, the injustice of holding all these proceedings to be null
and void, even Upon the assumption of perjury committed by
the defendant, becomes the more manifest. We think that
at least the record should have been received.
I regret that the court in this case has taken what seems to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HOLMES, HARLAN, BREWER and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

201 U. S.

me a step backward in American jurisprudence, and has virtually returned to the old doctrine of comity, which it was the
very object of the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution'to supersede.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE BROWN, dis-

HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWER

senting.
I do not suppose that civilization will come to an end whichever way this case is decided. But as the reasoning which prevails in the mind of the majority does not convince me, and as
I think that the decision not only reverses a previous wellconsidered decision of this court but is likely to cause considerable disaster to innocent persons and to bastardize children
hitherto supposed to be the offspring of lawful marriage, I
think it proper to express my views. Generally stated, the
issue is whether, when a husband sues in the court of his domicil for divorce from an absent wife on the ground of her desertion, the jurisdiction of the court, if there is no personal service, depends upon the merits of the case. If the wife did desert
her husband in fact' or if she was served with process, I understand it not to be disputed that a decree of divorce in the case
supposed would be conclusive, and so I understand it to, be
admitted that if the court of another State on a retrial of the
merits finds them to have been decided rightly its duty will be
to declare the decree a bar to its inquiry. The first form of the
question is whether it has a right to inquire into the merits at
all. But I think that it will appear directly that the issue is
narrower even than that.
In Atherton v. Atherton, 181 U. S. 155, a divorce was granted,
on the ground of desertion, to a husband in Kentucky against
a wife who had established herself in New York; 'She did not
appear in the suit and the only notice to her was by mail.
Before the decree was made she sued in New York for a divorce
from bed and board, but pending the latter proceedings the
Kentucky suit was brought to its end. The husband appeared

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S. HOLMES,

HARLAN, BREWER, and BROWN,

JJ., dissenting.

in New York and set up the Kentucky decree. The New York
court found that the wife left her husband because of his cruel
and abusive treatment, without fault on her part, held that the
Kentucky decree was no bar and granted the wife her divorce
from bed and board. . The New York decree, after being affirmed by the Court of Appeals, was reversed by this court on
the ground that it did not give to the Kentucky decree the faith
and credit which it had by law in Kentucky. Of course, if the
wife left her husband because of his cruelty and without fault'
on her part, as found by the New York court, she was not
guilty of desertion. Yet this court held that the question of
her desertion was not open but was conclusively settled by the
Kentucky decree.
There is no difference, so far as I can see, between Atherton
v. Atherton and the present case, except that in Atherton v.
Atherton the forum of the first decree was that of the matrimqnial domicil, whereas in this the court was that of a domicil
afterwards acquired. After that decision any general objection to the elfect of -the-Connecticut decree on the ground of
the wife's absence from the State comes too late. So does any
general objection on the ground that to give it effect invites a
race of diligence. I therefore pass such arguments without
discussion, although they seem to me easy to answer. Moreover, Atherton v. Atherton decides that the jurisdiction of the
matrimonial domicil, at least, to grant a divorce for the wife's
desertion without personal service, does not depend upon the
fact of her desertion, but continues even if her husband's
cruelty has driven her out of the State and she has acquired a
separate domicil elsewhere upon the principles which we all
agree are recognized by* this court.
I can see no ground for giving a less effect to the decree when
the husband changes his domicil after the separation has taken
place. The question whether. such a decree should have a less
effect-is the only question open, and the issue is-narrowed to
that. No one denies that the husband may sue for divorce in
his new domicil, or, as I have said, that if he gets a decree when

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HoLxms,

HARLAN,

BREWER and BROWN, JJ., dissenting. 201 U. S.

he really has been deserted, it will be binding everywhere.
Hawkins v. Ragsdale, 80 Kentucky, 353, cited 181 U. S. 162.
Cheely v. Clayton, 110 U. S. 701, 705. It is unnecessary to add
more cases. The only reason which I have heard suggested
for holding the decree not binding as to the fact that he was
deserted, is that if he is deserted his power over the matrimonial domicil remains so that the domicil of the wife accompanies
him wherever he goes, whereas if he is the deserter he has no
such power. Of course this is a pure fiction, and fiction always
is a poor ground for changing substantial rights. It seems to me
also an inadequate fiction, since by the same principle, if he
deserts her in the matrimonial domicil, he is equally powerless
to keep her domicil there, if she moves into another State. The
truth~is that jurisdiction no more depends upon both parties
having, their. domicil within the State, than it does upon the
presence of the defendant there, as is shown not only by Atherton v. Atherton, but by the rights of the wife in the matrimonial domicil when the husband deserts.
There is no question that a husband may establish a new
domicil for himself, even if he has deserted his wife. Yet in
these days of equality I do not suppose that it would be doubted
that the jurisdiction of the court of the matrimonial domicil to
grant a divorce for the desertion remained for her, as it would
for him in the converse'ease. See Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108.
Indeed in Ditson v. Ditson, 4 R. I. 87, which, after a quotation
of Judge Cooley's praise of it, is stated and relied upon as one
of the pillars for the decision of Atherton v. Atherton,. a wife
was granted a divorce, without personal service, in the State of
a domicil acquired by her after separation, 6n the sole ground
that in the opinion of the court' its decree would be binding
everywhere. If that Iis the law it disposes of the case of a
husband under similar circumstances, that is to say of the
present ease, a fortiori; for I suppose that the notion that a
wife can have a separate domicil from her husband is a modern
idea. At least Ditson v. Ditson, confirms the assumption that
jurisdiction is not dependent on the wife's actually residing in

HADDOCK v. HADDOCK.
201 U. S. HOLMES,

HARLAN, BREWER and BROWN,

JJ., dissenting.

the same State as her husband, which has been established by
this court. Atherton v. Atherton, 181 U. S. 155; Maynard v.
Hill, 125 U. S. 190; Cheever. v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108. When
that assumption is out of the way, I repeat that I cannot see
any ground for distinguishing between the extent of jurisdiction in the matrimonial domicil and that, admitted to exist to
some extent, in a domicil later acquired. I also repeat and
emphasize that if the finding of a second court, contrary to the
decree, that the husband was the deserter, destroys the jurisdiction in the later acquired domicil because the domicil of the
wife does not follow his, the same fact ought to destroy the
jurisdiction in the matrimonial domicil if in consequence of her
husband's conduct the wife has left the State. But Atherton
v. Atherton decides that it does not.
It is important to bear in mind that the present decision pur.ports to respect and not to overrule Atherton v. Atherton. For
that reason, among others, I spend no time in justifying that
case. And yet it appears to me that the whole argument which
prevails with the majority of the court is simply an argument
that Atherton v. Atherton is wrong. I have tried in vain to
discover anything tending to show a distinction between that
case and this. It is true that in Atherton v. Atherton, Mr. Justice' Gray confined the decision t6 the case before the court.
Evidently, I should say, from internal evidence, in deference
to scruples which he did not share. But a court by announcing
that its decision is confined to the facts before it does not decide in advance that logic, will not drive it furtherwhen new
facts arise. New -facts have arisen. I state what logic seems
to me to require if that case is to stand, and I think it reasonable to ask for an articulate indication of how it is to be distinguished.
I have heard it suggested that the difference is one of degree.
I am the last man in the world to quarrel with a distinction
simply because it is one of degree. Most distinctions, in my
opinion, are 'of that sort, and are none the worse for it. But
the line which is drawn must be justified by the fact that it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HOLMES, HARLAN, BREWER and BROWN,

JJ., dissenting. 201 U. S.

a little nearer than the nearest opposing case to one pole of
an admitted antithesis. When a crime is made burglary by.
the fact that it was committed thirty seconds after one hour
after sunset, ascertained according to mean time in the place
of the act, to take an example from Massachusetts (R. L. c. 219,
§ 10), the act is a little nearer to midnight than if it had been
committed one minute earlier, and no one denies that there is
a difference between night and day. The fixing of a point when
day ends is made inevitable by the admission of that difference.
But I can find no basis for giving a greater jurisdiction to the
courts of the husband's domicil when the, married pair happens
to have resided there for a month, even if with intent to make
it a permanent abode, than if they had not lived there at all.
I may add, as a consideration distinct from those which I
have urged, that I am unable to reconcile with the requirements
of the Constitution, Article 4, section 1, the notion of a judgment being valid and binding in the'State where it is rendered,
and yet depending for recognition to the same extent in other
States of the Union upon the comity of those States. No doubt
some color for such a notion may be found in" state decisions.
State courts do not always have the Constitution of the United
States vividly present to their minds. I am responsible for
language treating what seems to me the fallacy as open, in
Blackinton v. Blackinton, 141 Massachusetts; 432, 436. But
there is no exception in the words of the Constitution. "If
the judgment is conclusive in the State where it was pronounced
it is equally conclusive everywhere." Christmas v. Russell, 5
Wall. 290, 302;, Marshall, C. J., in Hampton v. McConnel, 3
Wheat. 234; Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481, 485; Story, Const.
§ 1313. See also Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S,.
640, 644, 645. 1 find no qualification of the rule in Wisconsin
v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265. That merely decided, with
regard to a case not within the words of the Constitution, that
a state judgment could not be sued upon when the facts which
it established were not a cause of action outside the State. It
did not decide or even remotely suggest that the judgment

. ST. JOHN v. NEW YORK.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would not be conclusive as to the facts if in any way those facts
came in question. It is decided as well as admitted that a
decree like that rendered in Connecticut in favor of a deserting
husband is binding in the State where it is rendered. Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S. 190. I think it enough to read that case
in order to be convinced that at that time the court had no
thought of the divorce being confined in its effects to the Territory where it was granted, and enough to read Atherton v.
Atherton to see that its whole drift and tendency now are reversed and its necessary consequences denied.

ST. JOHN v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 210. Argued March 14, 1906.-Decided April 16, 1906.

A State may classify persons and objects for the purpose of legislation, provided the classification is based on proper and justifiable distinctions; and so held that chap. 338 of the laws oft New York of 1893,
prohibiting the sale of adulterated milk, is not in conflict with the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because in certain respects, it provides different prohibitions and penalties as to producing
and non-producing vendors of milk.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Brennan, Jr., for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Horace McGuire, with whom Mr. Julius M. Mayer,
Attorney General of the State of New York, was on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff iA error is a non-producing wholesale and retail milk
dealer in the city of Buffalo, New York. In February, 1903,

