GREENE vi. TAYLOR.
Syllabus.

by it, the character of the fraud, so far as the claimant is concerned, is not changed by the fact that such action was the
result of the negligence or mistake of the government's agents,
untainted by moral turpitude on their part.
The claimant by his replication insists that the price of
sixty cents per pound for shucks "was the price at which he
intended to bid, and that there was no mistake on his part in
making out the bid." This is an admission, when taken with
the findings of fact, that he designed to commit the agents of
the government to a contract "such as no man in his senses
and not under delusion would make on the one hand, and as
no honest and fair man would accept on the other," and is
fatal to his recovery according to the letter of the contract.
Nor is its effect in that regard weakened in any degree by the
suggestion that, under bids on each item separately, the
claimant made but little profit, or none at all, on some of the
articles.
The Court of Claims did not err in the admission of the evidence upon which the fifth finding of fact is based, nor in its
refusal to permit the claimant to recover more than the market value of the shucks, its allowance of which we will not
disturb.
Affirmed.
The judgment is

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERIN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Wo. 128. Argued November 20, 21, 1889.-Decided December 16,1889.

The right of action of a plaintiff under a title derived from an assignee in
bankruptcy, to redeem from a sale under a deed of trust, was held in
this case to be barred by the two years' limitation contained m ยง 5057
of the Revised Statutes.
That section does not apply only to a suit to which the assignee in bankruptcy is a party; but it applies to a case where nearly a year of the
two years had run against the right while the assignee owned it, after
his appointment, and the rest of the two years ran against it in the hands

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
of the plaintiff, his transferee, so that more than two years elapsed between such appointment and the bringing of the suit to redeem, and the
property covered by the trust deed was held adversely by the defendant,
under a sale under the trust deed, for more than two years before the
bringing of that suit.
On the facts of this case there was no fraudulent concealment by the defendants from the assignee in bankruptcy or the plaintiff.
Sufficient information as to the trust deed, and its contents, was given in
the bankruptcy schedule, filed more than eleven months before the assignee was appointed, and more than one month before the sale under
the trust deed, to put the assignee in bankruptcy and the plaintiff on inquiry.
Moreover it appeared that, two days before the sale under the deed of trust,
the plaintiff knew of the contents of the schedule in bankruptcy and who
held the debt secured by the deed of trust.
The plaintiff having, by a petition to the bankruptcy court, procured the
sale of the property by the assignee in bankruptcy, and the application
of its proceeds on the debt on which his suit to redeem was founded,
waived any right to redeem arising under a judgment before recovered
by hn for his debt.

THE court, in its opinion, stated the case as follows

On the 1st of April, 1871, Nathan S. Grow, of Chicago,
Illnois, executed a trust deed to Benjamin E. Gallup, of the
same place, to secure the payment of a promissory note for
$35,000, payable in five years from that date, with interest at

the rate of 9 per cent per annum, payable half-yearly on October 1 and April 1, as evidenced by 10 interest coupons, bearing
the same date, for $1575 each. The note was payable to the
order of Grow, and was endorsed by him payable to David R.
Greene or order. The trust deed stated that the $35,000 was
a loan to Grow made by the legal holder of the note. Greene
was the person who loaned the money He resided in New
Bedford, Massachusetts. The real estate covered by that trust
deed was at the northeast corner of West Madison and Sheldon
streets, in Chicago, being 73 feet on West Madison Street, in
front, 116 feet deep, on Sheldon Street, 73 feet in the rear, on
a line parallel with West Madison Street and on a 16-feet alley,
running east and west, and 116 feet on the east line, parallel
with Sheldon Street. It was described as having on it three
four-story brick stores with stone fronts, fronting on West

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

Madison Street, and it was stated that a block of two-story
and basement brick dwelling-houses was about to be erected
on the property The front piece was 60 feet deep, then came
a 12-feet court, and the rear part was 44 feet deep. The
entire property came afterwards to be known as "the JefferThis trust deed was recorded
son-Park Hotel property"
April 1, 1871.
Grow on the 9th of February, 1876, conveyed the entire
property to William Scott Robertson, subject to an incumbrance of $35,000, by a warranty deed, which was recorded
February 18, 1876. The loan to Grow matured on the 1st of
April, 1876, and in the spring of 1877 negotiations were had
between Robertson and Greene for a renewal of the loan.
These negotiations were successful, and Robertson executed a
trust deed dated April 2, 1877, (the 1st of April, 1877, being
Sunday,) covering the same property, to Francis B. Peabody,
of Chicago, to secure the payment of a promissory note for
$35,000, which, the trust deed stated, was for a loan of that
sum, made on the day of the date of the trust deed, by the
legal holder of the note, to Robertson, the note being payable
three years after date, with interest at the rate of 7 per cent
per annum, payable half-yearly on the 2d of October and 2d
of April, with six interest coupons for $1312.50 each. The
name of David R. Greene was not mentioned in the trust deed
or m the promissory note. The six interest coupons were each
of them signed by Robertson, and made payable to his order,
and each was endorsed by him payable to the order of David
R. Greene. The note was payable to the order of Robertson
and was endorsed by him payable to David R. Greene or order.
It stated that it was expressly agreed that if default should
be made in the payment of any instalment of interest when it
should become due, and such default should continue for 30
days thereafter, the principal sum should, at the election of
the legal holder of the note, at once become due and payable,
such election to be made at any time after the expiration of
said 30 days, without notice, and this provision of the note
was recited in the trust deed. It was provided in the trust
deed, that if default should be made in the payment of the
VOL. cx=xI-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

principal sum secured by the note, whether it should have become due by election or by the regular maturity of the note,
or if Robertson should fail to perform its agreements, it should
be lawful for the trustee, on application of the legal holder of
the note, with or without a previous entry on the premises, to
sell and dispose of them and all right, title, benefit, and equity
of redemption of Robertson, his heirs and assigns, therein, at
public auction, to the highest bidder, for cash, having first
given notice of the time and place of such sale, (such sale to
be made at some place in Cook County, Illinois,) by publication once in each week for four successive weeks, the first publication to be at least 30 days before the day of sale, in some
newspaper published in Cook County, authorized by law to
publish legal notices, personal notice to Robertson, his heirs
or assigns, or any person claiming by, through, or jinder him,
of such sale, being expressly waived, and in the name of the
trustee to execute and deliver to the purchaser at the sale a
deed of conveyance of the premises in fee simple, and that all
the recitals that might be contained in such deed, setting forth
the fact of such default, due notice, advertisement and sale,
and any and all such other facts and statements as might be
proper to evidence the legality of such sale and conveyance,
should be considered and taken, on all occasions and as between all persons, to be _prmc face evidence of the truth of
all the facts and matters set forth in such recitals, and such
deed should be effectual to pass the title, and all the right and
equity of redemption of Robertson, his heirs and assigns, in
and to the premises sold. This trust deed was acknowledged
by Robertson on the 23d of July, 1877, and was recorded on
the same day
On the 30th of July, 1877, James Taylor and John Bruce
recovered a judgment against Robertson in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, for
$21,666.66 damages and $120.05 costs. Robertson took steps
toward bringing a writ of error to review that-judgment, and
for that purpose procured one Hugh Templeton to sign a bond
as surety, and, to indemnify Templeton therefor, executed to
him a bond and a mortgage covering the real estate aforesaid,

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

subject to the encumbrance of the trust deed to Peabody This
mortgage was acknowledged August 17, 1877, and recorded
August 22, 1877. As the writ of error was never perfected,
Templeton did not become liable, and the mortgage to him
was no encumbrance on the premises.
Robertson, on the 1st of September, 1877, leased to John
McAllister the second, third and fourth stories of the three
stores fronting on West Madison Street, and known as the Jefferson-Park Hotel, for two years, at a rent of $300 a month.
This rent was afterwards reduced to $30 a month from January 1, 1878.
On the 15th of October, 1877, Taylor and Bruce issued to
the marshal an execution on their judgment. This was returned
wholly unsatisfied on the 12th of January, 1878, and, on the
24th of January, 1878, they, being aliens, filed a bill in equity,
in the form of a creditors' bill, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, against
Robertson, Templeton, McAllister, Gallup and Peabody The
bill was founded on their judgment and the issuing of their
execution and its return unsatisfied. It set forth that Robertson was interested in a large quantity of real estate, including
the before-mentioued property, 73 feet by 116 feet, at the corner of West Madison Street and Sheldon Street, which, it
stated, brought in a large rental monthly It contained the
allegations usual in creditors' bills, and alleged that Robertson
had property which ought to be applied to the payment of the
plaintiffs' judgment, and prayed that he might discover on oath
what assignments or transfers he had made of his property
It averred that the defendants other than Robertson held the
title to real estate belonging to Robertson, for the purpose of
defrauding the plaintiffs, and prayed for a discovery on oatb)
by such defendants of all such real estate. It did not mention
the trust deed to Gallup, or the trust deed to Peabody, or the
mortgage to Templeton, or the lease to McAllister.
The plaintiffs, on the 29th of January, 1878, issued to the
marshal a second execution on their judgment, which, on the
15th of February, 1878, was levied on real estate of Robertson,
not including the premises at the corner of West Madison and
Sheldon streets.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

On the 2d of March, 1878, the five defendants to the bill
filed a general demurrer to it, for want of equity On the
25th of March, 1878, the court entered an order sustaining the
demurrer.
Robertson failed to pay to Greene any of his interest due
October 2, 1877, and April 2, 1878, being two instalments,
amounting to $2625, and was pressed for payment by Greene,
through Peabody, in April and May, 1878. This pressure continued through the summer of 1878, and Greene complained
directly to Robertson that the latter was receiving the rents of
the property and paying him no interest. This pressure took
the shape of a request by Greene to Robertson that the latter
should turn over to the former the rents of the property, and
a statement that otherwise the trust deed would be foreclosed.
Greene, on the 27th of August, 1878, notified Peabody in
writing that, by reason of the default, continued for more than
30 days, in the payment of the instalments of interest due
October 2, 1877, and April 2, 1878, on the note secured by
the trust deed of April 2, 1877, Greene had elected to make the
principal note at once due and payable, and that, default
having been made in its payment, he requested Peabody to
proceed at once, under the powers contained in the trust deed,
to advertise and sell the premises.
Robertson, on the 29th of August, 1878, notified Peabody
and Greene that he intended to file a petition in bankruptcy,
and that he proposed to go to Scotland (which was his native
country) to see what arrangement could be made of his affairs,
and to turn over to Greene, from the 1st of September, 1878,
the rents of the property monthly
On the 30th of August, 1878, Robertson signed a paper, addressed and delivered to Peabody as trustee, which stated that
the note secured by the deed of trust was held by Greene,
that Peabody had that day demanded of Robertson the possession of the premises covered by the deed of trust, on account of
a breach of the covenants contained therein, that Robertson
consented to Peabody's taking possession of the premises, that
he thereby delivered such possession th Peabody, and requested
the tenants of the premises severally to attorn to Peabody, and

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

that it was understood that Peabody should respect the leases
granted by Robertson and his reservation of certain rooms
mentioned in the lease to McAllister. On this paper Peabody,
as trustee, wrote an order addressed to Edmund A. Cummings,
directing him, for Peabody and as his agent, to receive from
Robertson possession of the premises and the attornment of
the tenants. Six of the tenants, including McAllister, on the
same day signed a paper by which they recognized the transfer
of the possession of the premises from Robertson to Peabody
as trustee, and respectively attorned to Peabody as to the
premises occupied by them.
Robertson, on the 31st of August, 1878, filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois his voluntary petition in bankruptcy, with schedules. In
the schedule of "Bankrupt creditors holding securities," there
appeared, under the heading "names of creditors," "David R.
Greene, " under the heading "residence and occupation," "New
Bedford, Mass. ," under the heading "when and where contracted," "April 2, 1817, at Chicago, Illinois ," under the heading, "value of securities," "unknown," under the heading,
"amount of debt," "$35,000 and interest at 7 per cent since
April 2, 1877;" and under the heading, "particulars," "note
for money borrowed to take up old mortgage upon property
when bought, and secured by trust deed to F B. Peabody
upon lot 26 (except the east two feet thereof) and lots 27 &
28, all in block 6, in McNeill's subdivision, in Wright's addition
to Chicago, with improvements and appurtenances, property
known as 487 & 489 and 491 West Madison Street, Chicago,
and 52 and 54 Sheldon Street," being the premises in question.
Peabody, on the 2d of September, 1878, notified Greene
that he would forthwith proceed to advertise the foreclosure
sale. On the same day, Peabody, as successor in trust to Gallup under the trust deed of April 1, 1811, made to Gallup by
Grow, executed and acknowledged a paper releasing to Grow
all the interest acquired under the trust deed, the paper stating
that the indebtedness secured by that deed had been cancelled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

On the 3d of September, 1878, Peabody, as trustee, prepared a notice of sale, dated that day, setting forth the facts
of the date and record of the trust deed of April 2, 1877, the
contents of the note secured by it, the fact that its legal
holder, as thereby authorized, had elected to make the principal
sum therein mentioned, and the same had thereby become, at
once due and payable, by reason of the default, continued for
more than 30 days, in the payment of the instalments of interest due thereon October 2, 1877, and April 2, 1878, respectively, that there was due on the note the principal sum of
$35,000, with interest thereon at the rate of 7 per cent per
annum, from April 2, 1878, and the two defaulted instalments
of interest, of $1312.50 each, with interest on each at the rate
of 10 per cent per annum, from the dates when they respectively became due, that default had been made in the payment thereof; that, on the demand of the legal holder of the
note, the trustee, on October 7, 1878, at 11 o'clock m the forenoon, at the southwest corner of Dearborn and Monroe streets,
in Chicago, at the door of No. 174 Dearborn Street, would sell at
public auction to the highest bidder for eash, for the uses and
purposes specified in the trust deed, the premises described
therein, (repeating the description contained in the trust
deed,) together with all the right, title, benefit and equity of
redemption of Robertson, his heirs and assigns, therein, and
that the records of the recorder's office showed that Templeton
had acquired some title or interest in the premises, as assignee
of Robertson, subject to the trust deed. This notice was published in the "Chicago Journal," a newspaper of general circulation, printed and published in Chicago, four times, being
one time a week for four successive weeks, the date of the first
paper containing the same being September 4, 1878, having
been published and issued on that day, and the date of the
last paper containing the same being September 23, 1878, haying been published and issued on that day
Robertson, on the 7th of September, 1878, left Chicago for
Scotland, and on the same day he was adjudicated a bankrupt. He has never since been in Chicago.
On the 5th of October, 1878, Taylor and Bruce, as creditors

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

of Robertson, filed a petition in the District Court, in bankruptcy, sworn to by Charles B. McCoy, their agent at Chiago,
setting forth their judgment, and stating that no assignee of
the estate of Robertson had yet been chosen, that Robertson, in his inventory of assets, had scheduled a large amount
of property, which required the immediate personal attention
of some person properly authorized to care therefor and preserve the same for the benefit of the estate, and prevent waste,
injury and loss thereof, that among the assets so scheduled,
with other real estate, was "the property known as the Jefferson-Park Hotel, on West Madison Street, Chicago." The
petition prayed that a provisional assignee be appointed for
the estate of Robertson, with the usual powers in such cases,
to act in the premises until the regular assignee should be
chosen. On the same day, Bradford Hancock was appointed
by the District Court provisional assignee of the estate of Robertson, "with full power and authority to take possession of,
manage, and control the same. and to collect the rents due said
estate."
The sale under the trust deed took place on the 7th oi October, 1878, at the hour and place named in the published notice.
Greene became the purchaser, and Peabody, as trustee, on the
same day executed and acknowledged a deed to him, which
was recorded October 10, 1878. That deed recited the making
of the note and its contents, including the provision for election by the legal holder of the note as to the becoming due of
the entire principal, the making and recording of the trust
deed, the power of sale given by it to the trustee, and the
provisions in it for notice and for giving a deed to the purchaser. It also recited the default in the payment of the two
instalments of interest, the election by the legal holder of the
note that the principal sum should at once become due and
payable, the amount that was due for principal and interest,
that the legal holder had applied to the trustee to advertise and
sell the premises, that he bad advertised them, and all right,
title, benefit and equity of redemption of Robertson, his heirs
and assigns, therein, for sale at public auction to the highest
bidder for cash, on the day and at the place before mentioned,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the notice he had given, that the contents of the notice were
in conformity with the provisions of the trust deed and of
the statute, that, m pursuance of said notice, and at the time
and place of sale therein mentioned, he had offered the
premises described in the trust deed, and all right, title and
equity of redemption of :Robertson, his heirs and assigns,
therein, for sale at public auction to the highest bidder for
cash, that Greene was such highest bidder, and bid therefor
$30,000, which was the highest bid, and that the same were
accordingly struck off and sold to Greene at that price. The
deed then conveyed to Greene, his heirs and assigns forever,
the premises described in the trust deed, by the description
therein contained, together with all the right, title, benefit
and equity of redemption of Robertson, his heirs and assigns,
therein, to have and to hold the same, with the appurtenances,
to Greene, his heirs and assigns forever. It further stated
that Peabody covenanted to the extent, and no more, that he
had fulfilled all the powers and trusts in said deed contained,
in respect to the sale, in accordance with the terms of the trust
deed.
The $30,000 for which Greene purchased the property was
applied to pay the first and second interest coupons, with interest thereon to October 17, 1878, and interest on the note to that
date from April 2, 1878, the expense of advertising, the fees
of the trustee, and sundry back taxes, and the balance of the
amount, $24,107.43, was endorsed by the trustee as paid on the
principal of the note for $35,000, on the 17th of October,
1878.
On the 23d of October, 1878, the release by Peabody, as
successor in trust, of the trust deed from Grow to Gallup, was
recorded.
Greene died at New Bedford on the 19th of May, 1879.
On the 7th of July, 1879, a warrant in bankruptcy was issued
against the estate of Robertson.
Bradford Hancock was, on the 24th of July, 1879, appointed
assignee in bankruptcy of Robertson, and on the same day the
register assigned to him all the estate real and personal, of
Robertson, including all the property, of whatever kind, of

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

which he was possessed, or in which he was interested, or entitled to have, on the 31st of August, 1878, except property
exempt by ยง 5045 of the Revised Statutes.
Taylor & Bruce, on the 23d of March, 1880, filed in the
bankruptcy court a proof of debt against Robertson, founded
on their judgment and on the levy made February 15, 1878,
under the execution issued January 29, 1878. They claimed
therein a lien, by virtue of the judgment, on all the real estate
of Robertson, and, by virtue of such levy, on the portion
thereof on which it was levied, and a first preference on all
the proceeds of the property covered by the lien of the judgment and the levy
On the 25th of March, 1880, Taylor and Bruce filed a petition in the bankruptcy court, setting forth the recovery of
their judgment, the issuing and return unsatisfied of their
execution of October 15, 1877, the filing of their creditors'
bill in the Circuit Court on the 24th of January, 1878, the
fact that they had proved their debt in the bankruptcy court,
that on the 30th of July, 1877, the date of the recovery of
their judgment, Robertson owned real estate, all of which was
encumbered with sales for taxes, and the greater part with
mortgages or deeds of trust to about or near the full value
thereof, so that of the latter class he was, at the time of the
filing of the petition in bankruptcy, at best only invested with
an equity of redemption, that at the time their judgment was
rendered, and at the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, he owned sundry real estate which was unencumbered
except by tax sales and judgments (describing it), that, at
those tunes, he owned or had interest in real estate encumbered
by mortgages and trust deeds, and also by tax liens, describing it, and as part of it describing the property 73 feet by 116
feet, on the corner of West Madison Street and Sheldon Street,
"incumbrance, $35,000, besides interest and taxes;" that on
the 29th of January, 1878, they issued a second execution on
their judgment, that on the 15th of February, 1878, it was
levied on all the real estate described in the petition, except a
small portion m Cook County, Illinois, which was heavily encumbered, that before any sale was made by the marshal,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Robertson went into bankruptcy, and no sale had ever been
made under the execution, but the levy was in force as a first
lien of any judgment, that they were entitled to have the
amount of their judgment paid out of the proceeds of the sale
of the property, to the exclusion of all the other creditors of
Robertson, except those who held mortgages or liens prior to
their judgment, and that they were willing and desirous to
have the administration and enforcement of the lien of their
judgment transferred to the bankruptcy court, and established
by that court, and enforced against the property of the bankrupt estate. They prayed that their lien might be established
against the described real estate, that Hancock, the assignee,
might be ordered to sell said real estate and apply the proceeds to pay their judgment, and that they might be permitted
to purchase at the sale and credit their bids on the judgment.
iHancock, the assignee, on the 2d of April, 1880, presented a
petition to the bankruptcy court, in answer to a rule for him
to show cause, issued on the filing of the petition of Taylor
and Bruce of March 25, 1880, setting forth that he believed
the allegations of that petition to be substantially correct, and
that he believed it was for the best interest of the bankrupt's
estate that said real estate should be sold without further delay He prayed for an order directing him to sell it; that it
be sold subject to all taxes, liens and incumbrances thereon,
except the judgment of Taylor and Bruce and judgments rendered subsequently thereto, and that he be ordered to bring
the proceeds of sale into court or make such other disposition
of them as the court should direct. On this petition, and on the
same day, an order was made by the bankruptcy court, on the
consent of the assignee, of Taylor and Bruce, of the bankrupt,
and of two creditors by a judgment subsequent to that of
Taylor and Bruce, directing the assignee to sell all the real
estate of the bankrupt, free and clear of the lien of the judgments mentioned, " but subject to all other liens and incumbrances thereon, and all taxes and assessments thereon," and
to bring the proceeds of the sale into court, to be paid to such
judgment creditors according to the priority of their liens on
the property sold to the amount of their respective judgments.

GREFNE v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

On the 26th of April, 1880, the assignee made a report to
the bankruptcy court, setting forth that, on the 24:th of April,
1880, he had sold to the highest bidder for cash all the right,
title and interest of the bankrupt, and of himself as assignee,
to real estate which he described, free and clear of the lien of
the judgment and execution-levy of the creditors mentioned in
the order of sale, "but subject to all other liens and incumbrances thereon, and taxes and assessments thereon." The description included the premises at the corner of West Madison
Street and Sheldon Street, with the buildings thereon, at
the sum of $250, to L. G. Pratt, trustee. The gross proceeds
of sale were $6122, and the net proceeds $5107.42, which
the assignee reported to the register on the 27th of May,
1880.
The register, on the 14th of June, 1880, made an order directing the assignee to pay to Taylor and Bruce $5053 out of
the proceeds of the sale.
On the 17th of June, 1880, the assignee, by a deed recorded
on the 30th of August, 1880, conveyed to Lorin G. Pratt,
trustee, certain real estate purchased by him at said sale, including the premises at the corner of West -Madison and Sheldon streets. The deed recited the prior proceedings in bankruptcy, the order of sale and its confirmation, and the order
for a deed, and conveyed all the right, title and interest of
the bankrupt, which he had on the 31st of August, 1878, and
of the assignee, subject to all unpaid taxes and to all liens and
incumbrances, unless by the terms of sale expressly excepted,
to the real estate described in the deed.
Robertson, on the 4th of December, 1880, filed his petition
for a discharge in bankruptcy
Taylor and Bruce, on the 22d of December, 1880, directed
the marshal to release the levy made February 15, 1878, and
to return the execution of January 29, 1878, unsatisfied. This
was done.
On the 5th of January, 1881, under an execution issued to
the marshal on the previous day, on the judgment of Taylor
and Bruce, he levied on certain real estate of Robertson, including the premises ai the corner of West Madison and Sheldon

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

streets, with all the buildings and improvements thereon, and
on the 27th of January, 1881, sold the premises at the corner
of West Madison and Sheldon streets, to Lorin G. Pratt, trustee, for the sum of $5000. No deed appears to have been
made under this sale.
No proceedings having been taken in this suit since the demurrer to the original bill was sustained, an order was made,
on the 6th of July, 1881, after an interval of more than three
years and three months, giving leave to the plaintiffs to amend
their bill and also to file a supplemental bill.
On the 17th of September, 1881, they filed an amended and
supplemental bill, dismissing the original bill as to all the real
estate except that situated at the corner of West Madison and
Sheldon streets, 73 feet by 116 feet, with the buildings thereon erected. This new bill recited the contents of the original
bill, and stated that, on a demurrer thereto, the court held that
all the property and estate of Robertson, so far as it could be
discovered, must first be exhausted, before the court could interfere in equity to compel the discovery and relief sought,
and required the plaintiffs to wait until all such visible property
and estate was so sold and exhausted. It set forth the contents of the trust deed from Grow to Gallup, that Peabody
was the successor in trust of Gallup, that the deed was made
to secure the payment of an indebtedness of $35,000 to Greene;
that Peabody had been in possession of the premises, and receiving the rents and profits, amounting to more than sufficient to pay all the interest on the debt, and the taxes, insurance and expenses of carrying the property, that, in pursuance of a fraudulent scheme to place the property beyond the
reach of the plaintiffs, Robertson, on the 23d of July, 1877,
which was two days after the verdict was returned in their
suit against Robertson and seven days prior to the rendering
of their judgment, executed a second deed of trust to Peabody,
to secure an alleged additional indebtedness of Robertson of
$35,000, that, for the purpose of making it appear that the
trust deed had been made before the verdict was rendered, it
and the note were dated back to April 2, 1877, that, for the
purpose of preventing the plaintiffs from learning who was

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

the real holder of the note and the interest coupons, or whether
the deed was a bonafide lien in addition to the first lien, the
note was made payable to the order of Robertson and endorsed by him in blank, that said trust deed was only a renewal of the former trust deed from Grow to Gallup, and was
made to secure to Greene said debt to him, and was not an
additional incumbrance on the property; that said first mortgage should have been released of record so that the plaintiffs
might ascertain from the record the true amount of the encumbrance, but it was withheld, making it appear that the
property was subject to $70,000 incumbrance, instead of only
$35,000, and that Robertson prayed an appeal from said judgment to the Supreme Court of the United States, which appeal
was not perfected, but on account of its pendency the plaintiffs were unable to issue an execution on theur judgment until
October 15, 1877. The new bill then recited the mortgage to
Templeton, and averred that it ought to be cancelled of record.
It then set forth the making of the lease to McAllister for
two years from September 1, 1877, at a rent of $300 a month,
and the reduction of the rent to $30 a month from January 1,
1878, and averred that this was done for the purpose of lessening
the income from the property, so that it would be insufficient
to pay the taxes, insurance and expenses, and the interest on
the loan, and that the plaintiffs used due diligence to reach
the estate of Robertson, but were unable to realize anything
therefrom by execution. It then set forth the turning over
by Robertson to Peabody, as agent and trustee for Greene, of
all the leases, rents and profits of the premses, and alleged
that this was done in pursuance of the fraudulent scheme
aforesaid, and under an arrangement substantially as follows
Robertson was to go through bankruptcy and obtain a discharge, Greene and Peabody were to carry the property and
collect the income from it, but by reason of such reduction of
the rent the income would be insufficient to carry it, Peabody
was thereupon to declare a forfeiture for non-payment of
interest, and sell the property under the deed of trust, and thus
cut out the lien of the plaintiffs' judgment, and also prevent
the property from coming to the hands of the assignee in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

bankruptcy, but :Robertson, or his agent, said McAllister, was
to be allowed to redeem from such sale, after Robertson had
procured his discharge, upon paying the amount actually due
according to the terms of the loan, and the expenses incurred
in carrying the property, less the amount received from the
rents and profits thereof, the same as if no sale had been made,
the release of the trust deed to Gallup was to be withheld from
record, so as to prevent any outside bidder and the plaintiffs
from bidding at the sale, such arrangement was made with
Robertson and McAllister, his agent, and Peabody, as agent for
Greene, began to collect the rents of the premises under
the leases, and they were, if judiciously and honestly applied,
more than sufficient to carry the property and pay the interest
on the loan, but they were not applied to that purpose. The
new bill further set forth that, immediately on the making of
such arrangement, Robertson filed his petition in bankruptcy,
and very soon afterwards left the United States and had since
remained continuously absent therefrom, so that he could not
be examined; that Peabody proceeded to declare a forfeiture
of the trust deed for non-payment of interest on the loan, and,
on October 7, 178, pretended to sell the premises, and executed
a deed thereof to Greene for a pretended bid at the sale
of $30,000, that after the sale an agreement was made by
Robertson, either in person or by his agent McAllister, with
Greene, and Peabody, as the agent of Greene, whereby Greene
was to hold the property and collect the rents and apply them
to carrying the property, and to allow Robertson or McAllister
to redeem on payment of the amount of the incumbrance and
interest, and the cost of carrying the property,Jess the amount
of rents received, the same as if no sale had been made, that
the notice of sale was insufficient and defective, that the release of the trust deed to Gallup was purposely withheld from
record, that the plaintiffs had no actual notice of the sale, but
it was concealed from them and they did not learn of it until
long afterwards, and that the deed of June 1'7, 1880, by the
assignee in bankruptcy, on his sale, was made to Lorin Grant
Pratt as trustee for the plaintiffs. It then set forth the purchase of the property by the plaintiffs for $5000, at the

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

marshal's sale, that Greene died after the pretended purchase
by him of the premises at the sale by Peabody, that on his
death whatever right, title, or interest he had in and to the
premises passed to and became vested in :Mehitable B. Greene,
his widow, William W Crapo and Charles W Clifford, as trustees of Robert B. Greene, Susan G. Page, Horatio N. Greene,
and Francis B. Greene, and said Robert B. Greene, Susan G.
Page, Horatio N. Greene, and Francis B. Greene, as the heirs
at law or devisees of said David R. Greene, and was still so held
by and vested in them, that such heirs at law or devisees are
citizens of Massachusetts and of full age, and that E. A.Cummings, a citizen of Illinois, is the agent for the property, and
collecting the rents for the heirs or devisees of Greene.
The new bill made as defendants the five persons who were
defendants to the original bill, and also the widow, and the
heirs or devisees above named of Greene, and their trustees, and
Cummings, their agent. Its prayer was that the mortgage to
Templeton might be declared void, that the deed from Peabody
to Greene might be set aside as against the rights of the plaintiffs, that Greene, during his lifetime, and his heirs or devisees,
and Cummings as their agent, might be decreed to be mortgagees in possession, that they and Peabody make full answer in
the premises, that an account be taken, and that the plaintiffs
be allowed to redeem on paying the amount found to be due.
All the defendants, except Robertson and Templeton, entered
an appearance in the suit on the 21st of November, 1881.
The plaintiffs, on the 15th of December, 1881, consented to
the discharge of Robertson in bankruptcy
On the 31st of December, 1881, all of the defendants who
so appeared, except ]McAllister, put in an answer to the original bill and the amended and supplemental bill, denying all
the allegations imputing fraud to the said defendants or to
Greene in his lifetime, and claiming that the foreclosure proceedings by Greene and Peabody were had in good faith.
On the 6th of February, 1882, a replication to this answer
was filed, and on the 6th of June, 1882, the cause was referred
to a master, to take prQofs and report them.
After some proofs had been taken on the part of the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

tiffs, and on the 4th of January, 1883, the plaintiffs filed an
amendment to their amended and supplemental bill, which
averred that Peabody, in order to conceal the time of the sale
from the plaintiffs, caused the notice of sale to be published in
"The Chicago Weekly Journal," a newspaper which was not
read in the city of Chicago and had no circulation in said city
or in Cook County, that the premises sold were composed of
three separate lots, that the north 44 feet of the property
was separafed from the south portion, fronting on West
Madison Street, by an alley or court 12 feet wide, that such
north 44 feet were divided into two lots of 22 feet each, on
each of which stood a brick dwelling-house 22 feet wide and
fronting on Sheldon Street, which were used for private
dwelling-houses, and were entirely distinct from the hotel part
of the premises, that Peabody sold the property in bulk to
Greene, at half its value, when it was his duty to have sold it
in separate lots, and that, if he had so offered it, the part of
it used for a hotel, and fronting on Madison Street, south of
the alley or court, would have brought more than sufficient to
pay off the debt, interest and costs.
On the 6th of January, 1883, the defendants answered this
amendment, denying its allegations, and, on the 29th of January, 1883, they amended their answer by averring that, as to
so much of the bill, amended bill, and supplement, as alleged
any agreement between Greene and Robertson for the redemption or repurchase of the premises by Robertson, such
supposed agreement was not in writing, signed by Greene
or by any person by him authorized in writing, according
to the statute of Illinois in such case made and provided.
On the 27th of October, 1883, the master reported the
proofs to the court, and the cause was heard before Judge
Blodgett, in November, 1883, and, on the 14th of April, 1884,
he filed an opinion, which is reported in 21 Fed. Rep. 209,
deciding the case in favor of the plaintiffs.
A motion for a rehearing was made and overruled on the 7th
of July, 1884, and on the 29th of July, 1884, an interlocutory
decree was entered, finding that the equities of the cause were
with the plaintiffs, that they were entitled to redeem the

GREENE v. T.AYLOR.
Statemient of the Case.

premises in question from the indebtedness secured thereon in
favor of the heirs and representatives of the estate of David R.
Greene, deceased, upon such terms as might be thereafter fixed
by the court, and that a reference be had to a master, who
was named, to take and report to the court an account of
what was due to such heirs and representatives, for principal
and interest, on the debt secured by the trust deed to Peabody, and of the amounts paid for taxes, assessments and
charges provided for in such trust deed, and an account of
what had been paid by said defendants for necessary repairs
and improvements, and an account of the rents and profits of
the premises, and to report such accounts with the evidence.
Those accounts were taken, and the master filed his report
on the 15th of July, 1885, finding due to the defendants on the
12th of June, 1885, on the principles stated in the interlocutory
decree, $45,641.66. Both parties filed exceptions to this report. Before they came on for hearing, and on the 4th of
January, 1886, the defendants moved for leave to amend their
answer, so as to set up the limitation of actions provided by
the bankruptcy statute. The consideration of the motion was
postponed until the final hearing of the cause.
The case came on to be heard on the 1st of April, 1886, and
on the 3d of April, 1886, the court made an order allowing
the defendants so to amend their answer, and also granting
leave to the plaintiffs to amend their bill, and ordering the
replication to the original answer to stand as a replication
to such amendment thereto, and giving leave to either party
to put in before the master further evidence on the subject
matter of such amendments, directing the master to continue
the account from June 12th, 1885, to April 1, 1886, and ordering
that such additional evidence and statement of account be
considered as if taken before the hearing, and that all exceptions to the former report of the master be considered as
exceptions to such supplemental matters.
In pursuance of such leave, the plaintiffs amended their
amended and supplemental bill, by averring that neither they
nor the assignee in bankruptcy had any knowledge that the
sale by Peabody had been made, until the 24th of April, 1880,
VOL. cxxx-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

that they did not have any knowledge of such collusive agreement between Robertson and his agents, and Peabody as
trustee for Greene, until on or about September 13, 1881, that
the details of such agreement did not come to their knowledge
until the taking of the evidence in the cause, that such sale
and agreement were purposely concealed by all parties thereto, notwithstanding all due diligence was used to discover
the same, that Peabody having been, prior to the making of
the sale, placed in possession of the property as agent and
trustee, and there being no apparent change in the possession
of the property thereafter, there was nothing to advise the
plaintiffs of the sale, unless they had accidentally discovered
the record of the deed from Peabody to Greene, and they made
no examination for that, for the reason that, by the conduct
of Robertson and his agents and of Peabody, they had been
lulled into the belief that no foreclosure or sale would be
made, at least prior to April 2, 1880, when the debt secured
by the trust deed to Peabody would mature, that the sale
made by Peabody, October 7, 1878, was made after the filing
of the petition of Robertson in bankruptcy, August 31, 1878,
and before the appointment of his assignee, July 24, 1879, and
while there was no representative of the estate of Robertson
and 6f his equity of redemption in the property, on whom the
notice of sale could operate, or who could protect the estate
and the creditors, that the sale was, therefore, void as against
the rights of the plaintiffs, and as against the assignee in bankruptcy and the plaintiffs as purchasers of the title and right of
such assignee, under the provisions of the bankruptcy statute,
that such sale, made under such circumstances, should not in
equity be allowed to cut off the plaintiffs from their right to
redeem from the trust deed-notwithstanding the sale and the
deed thereunder, and that the plaintiffs should be decreed to
have taken the title of Robertson in and to the property in the
same condition as it was on the 31st of August, 1878, unaffected by the sale by Peabody, and with full right to redeem
from the trust deed as if no sale had been made.
The defendants filed the proposed amendment to their
answer. As to the allegation that the sale by Peabody took

GREE-E v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case.

place, and his deed to Greene was made, pending the proceedings in bankruptcy, and before the election of an assignee, or
at a time when the power of sale under the trust deed was
suspended, and as to any other irregularity in the notice of
sale, or any right in the plaintiffs or in said Pratt, derived
from the assignee in bankruptcy, to set aside the deed from
Peabody to Greene for any matter alleged, it said that the
right to do so, if it ever existed, belonged to the assignee and
the provisional assignee, as representing the creditors in the
bankruptcy proceeding; that the assignees and the plaintiffs
waived such claims and equities and failed to assert them,
that at the time Peabody made the deed to Greene, on October
7, 1878, Hancock was provisional assignee in the bankruptcy
matter, and on the 24th of July, 1879, became assignee, that
the supposed equities and claims under which the plaintiffs pretended to have derived a right, under such assignee, to vacate
such foreclosure and redeem the premises, did not accrue
within two years next before the bringing of the amended
and supplemental bill of September 17, 1881, wherein the defendants, excepting Peabody, were for the first time impleadei
in this suit, and wherein, as to all of the defendants, said pretended rights were for the first time asserted, and that those
claims and equities, if they ever existed, were barred by such
laches and by the statute at the time when the supplemental
bill was filed. The amendment set up such laches as an equitable bar and defence to so much of the bill as rested upon such
pretended equities, and averred that, by the bankruptcy act, the
plaintiffs, by reason of such lapse of time and of the said facts,
were barred from claiming any relief by reason of such pretended equities, and set up said bar and limitation of two years.
The amendment to the answdr also denied the allegations
contained in the amendment so filed by the plaintiffs to the
amended and supplemental bill.
The master, on the 12th of April, 1886, filed a supplemental
report, bringing down the account to the 1st of April, 1886,
and finding to be due to the defendants on that day
$45,342.86.
The case was brought to a hearing before Judge Blodgett,

OCTOBER TERMW, 1889.
Citations for Appellants.

and he filed his opinion on the 24th of May, 1886 (27 Fed.
Rep. 537). He adhered to his former views.
On the 28th of May, 1886, Robertson, Templeton and McAllister filed an answer disclauning all interest in the property
in controversy, admitting that the plaintiffs were entitled to
the relief prayed by them, and consenting to the entry of such
decree as might seem proper to the court.
The court, on the 1st of July, 1886, made a final decree, adjudging that there was due to the defendants, the widow,
heirs and representatives of the estate of David R. Greene,
deceased, on their lien on the premises in question, $45,342.86,
with interest thereon from April 1, 1886, at six per cent per
annum, that the plaintiffs pay to them that sum, with the
interest, within 90 days, in redemption of all lien of the defendants on the premises, and that, on such payment being made,
the defendants convey the premises to the plaintiffs by a quitclaim deed.
The widow, heirs and representatives of the estate of David
R. Greene, deceased, with Peabody & Cummings, appealed
to this court from that decree.
Mr John Lowell and .Ar George 1. Paddock,for appellants,
cited. Anderson v Strauss, 98 Illinois, 485, Strother v Law,
54: llinois, 413, Bergen v Bennett, 1 ames' Gas. 1, S. C. 2
Am. Dec. 281, HUall v Bliss, 118 Mass. 554, Hunt v. Rousmanwre, 2 M ason, 244, Sargent v ffelton, 115 U. S. 348, Bank
v Sherman, 101 U. S. 403, Gifford v Helms, 98 U S. 248,
Jenkins v Internatonal Bank, 106 U. S. 571, Wisner v
Brown, 122 U. S. 214, 3liller's He.rs v .McIntyre, 6 Pet. 61,
Phelps v Illinois CentralRailroad, 94 Illinois, 548, Dunphy
v RtRddle, 86 Illinois, 22; Crowl v ]fagle, 86 Illinois, 437,
NYorton v. De la Villeheuve, 1 Woods, 163, MfeIver v Ragan,
2 Wheat. 25, Phelps v Elliott, 29 Fed. Rep. 53, NYugent v
Boyd, 3 How 426, Jerome v .McCarter,94: U. S. 734, Eyster
v- Gaf, 91 U. S. 521, In re Grinnell,9 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 137,
Sedgwzck v Grznnell, 9 Ben. 429, In re .Moller, 8 Ben. 526,
affirmed 14 Blatchford, 207, Bradley v Adams Fs. Co., 3
Fed. Rep. 895, Goddard v Weaver, 6 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 440;

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Argument for Appellees.

Washurn v Tisdale, 143 Mass. 376, Ewx parte Belcher, 2
Deac. & Oh. 587, .Ex parte Polfe, 3 Mont. & Ayr. 305, Ex
parte Geller, 2 Madd. 262, Mefenry v La Soczet4 JFrangeatse,
95 U. S. 58, Dudley v Baston, 104 U. S. 99, In P'e Iron
.Mountain Co., 9 Blatehford, 320, In re Dzuard, 9 Nat.
Bankr. Reg. 8, 12, EJxparte Cooper, L. R. 10 Ch. 510.
-Mr Charles B. .McCoy and HW,' Charles . Pope (with
whom was Akr Alexander .YCoy on the brief) for appellees.
I. The trustee's sale, having been made after the adjudication m bankruptcy, without leave of the bankrupt court, while
the equity of redemption was part of the bankrupt's estate,
and before the assignee was appointed and capacitated to exercise the right of redemption, was subject to the right of the
assignee, (which became vested in him, when he was appointed,
as of August 31st, 1878, the date of filing of the petition in bankruptcy,) to redeem and discharge the mortgage, and the sale
was void as against the assignee and his grantees, and redemption should be allowed on the application now made by the
grantees of the assignee holding a conveyance of this right of
redemption.
We submit that the following authorities fully sustain the
foregoing proposition of lawYeatrnan v Savngs 1'sttuton, 95 U. S. 764, Conner v
Long, 104 U S. 228, Banke v Sh7erman, 101 U S. 403, In -re
Grinnell,9 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 137 (Blatchford, J.), Foster v
Ames, 2 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 455 (Lowell, J), In 're Snedaker,
3 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 629, 636 (Hawley, J), Davis Ass'n v
Anderson, 6 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 145 (Treat, J), Smith Ass'n
v Kehr, 7 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 97 (Treat, J), In re B'r nman,
7 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 421 (Blatchford, J.), flutckings Ass'm v.
Muzzy Iron Wors, 8 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 458 (Fox, J), 1Vhtmen v Butler, 8 Nat. Bankr. :Reg. 487 (Knowles, J.), Barron
v Newberry, 1 Bissell, 149 (McLean, J., Drummond, J., concurring), Dooley v 'V. Fire Ins. Co., 2 Hughes, 482 (Hughes,
J.) , Ew parte Christy, 3 How 292, Houston v City Bank, 6
How 486.

OCTOBER TERM\, 1889.
Opinion of tbe-Court.

II. The appellees acquired the assignee's right to redeem.
It was undoubtedly the intention of Congress, in enacting the
bankrupt law, that the assignee's sale and deed to the purchaser - in a case of this kind - should transfer to him the
whole title of the assignee, including all objections to the trustee's voidable sale, together with the right of redemption from
the trust deed. The mere fact that he advertised to sell, subject to a prior lien, could no more waive any right which he
was selling to the purchaser, than an administrator would by
advertising the equity of redemption to land of his decedent,
subject to a prior lien or mortgage.
IIL Thins case was not within the terms of the statute of
limitations. The limitation clause of the bankrupt act, by its
terms, only applies to contests between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person claiming an interest adverse to such assignee. Bailey v Glover, 21 Wall. 342, Sargent v Helton,
115 U. S. 348, Bartles v Gibson, 17 Fed. Rep. 293, Giford
v Helms, 98 U S. 248, Jenkzns v International Bank, 106
U. S. 571, Wisner v Brown, 122 U. S. 214.
IV The Trustees' sale was improper while the original bill
was pending. Freedman'sSavng and Trust Co. v Earle, 110
U. S. 710, Minnesota Co. v St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609, Kermson v Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, Ryan v Newcomb, 125 Illinois,
91, f1iller's Hezrs v .tcIntyre, 6 Pet. 61, P/elps v iliinots
Central Railroad,94: Illinois, 548, Crowl v N agle, 86 Illinois,
437, Dunphy v Rzddle, 85 Illinois, 22.
V Where the interest adverse to that of the assignee has
been acquired through fraud and the fraud has been concealed,
the two years' statute of limitation does not commence to run
until the discovery of the fraud. Bailey v. Clover, supra,
Upton v _eLaugilin, 105 U. S. 64:0, Rosenthal v Walker,
111 U S. 185, Traer v Olews, 115 U. S. 528, Bartles v Gibson, 17 Fed. Rep. 293, Retzer v Wood, 109 U. S. 185, Kilbourn v. Sunderland,130 U. S. 505, De Bussche v. Alt, 8 Ch.
Div 286.
Mm. JUSTICE BLATcdFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

GREE1EE v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs claim a right to redeem from the sale to
Greene, made by Peabody as trustee, or from the trust deed
under which that sale was made, on payment of the mortgage
debt, (1) as owners of Robertson's equity of redemption by
virtue of their purchase from the assignee in bankruptcy, and
(2) as judgment creditors of Robertson, having a lien on the
property by virtue of their judgment, prior in time to the sale
by Peabody as trustee, and by their purchase of the property
at the sale under the execution issued on their judgment.
They rest their claim under their purchase from the assignee in bankruptcy, first, on the ground that the sale by
Peabody as trustee was made after the commencement of the
proceedings in bankruptcy, and after the adjudication thereon,
before an assignee was appointed, and without leave of the
bankruptcy court, and was void as against such assignee and
those claiming under him, that the property was still subject
to the right of redemption by the assignee, and that such right
has been conveyed by him to the plaintiffs, second, on the
ground that there was a collusiye agreement made with
Robertson, by Peabody as agent for Greene, giving to Robertson the right to redeem from the sale by Peabody, and that
such right of redemption passed from Robertson to his assignee
in bankruptcy, and from the latter to the plaintiffs.
The claim of the plaintiffs to redeem, as judgment creditors
of Robertson, is based on the allegation that they were led by
the wrongful conduct of the defendants to believe that the
property was subject to the deed of trust to Gallup, as well as
to that to Peabody; that they were not allowed an opportunity to pay off the incumbrance before the sale by Peabody,
although they were ready and willing to do so, that, by reason of the collusive afreement referred to, the sale by Peabody
was part of a scheme to hinder them in collecting their judgment, by cutting off their lien on Robertson's equity of redemption, and giving the property back to him, after he
should have been discharged in bankruptcy from the judgment, that the sale by Peabody was not properly advertised,
that the plaintiffs had no notice of such sale prior to its being
made, that such notice was intentionally withheld from

QOTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

them, that the sale by Peabody, with the prior incumbrance
of the trust deed to Gallup apparently standing against the
property, when such incumbrance had'been paid, was made
with a view to prevent competition in bidding at the sale,
that the property was sold in bulk, and not offered for sale in
parcels, and that it was sold for an inadequate price.
But we do not find it necessary to consider any of these
questions, because we are of opinion that the right of action
of the plaintiffs, under their title derived from the assignee in
bankruptcy, was barred by the two years' limitation enacted
by the bankruptcy statute.
Section 5057 of the Revised Statutes provides as follows:
"No suit, either at 'law or in equity, shall be maintainable in
any court between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person
claiming an adverse interest, touching any property or rights
of property transferable to or vested in such assignee, unless
brought within two years from the time when the cause of
action accrued for or against such assignee."
It is contended for the plaintiffs that the limitation provided
by section 5057 applies only to the case of a contest between
an assignee in bankruptcy and a person claiming an interest
adversely.to such assignee, touching property of the bankrupt,
in a suit to which the assignee is a party, that when the assignee transferred his rights to Pratt, who acted for the plaintiffs, on the 17th of June, 1880, under the sale to Pratt made
on the 24th of April, 1880, the statute ceased to run, and the
interest which thus passed from the assignee then ceased to be
within the terms of the bankruptcy statute of limitation, and
became subject to the ordinary statute of limitation, and that
the two years' limitation had not run on the 24th of April,
1880, or on the 17th of June, 1880, the Pegister's deed to the
assignee in bankruptcy having been made on the 24th of July,

1879.
But we are of opinion that the right which passed to the
assignee, to file a bill to redeem, began to exist on the 24th of
July, 1879, that, as the bankruptcy statute of limitation began
then to run against such right in the hands of the assignee, it
continued to run after such right passed to the plaintiffs, by

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

the assignee's deed to Pratt on their behalf, of June 17, 1880,
made in pursuance of the sale of April 24, 1880, that the two
years' statute of limitation bars the right asserted by the plaintiffs in their bill, in like manner as it would have barred the
right of the assignee to redeem, if he had never made any sale
or conveyance to Pratt, and if he were now the plaintiff in
this suit, that the suit cannot be regarded as having been
brought against the widow, heirs and representatives of David
R. Greene until the supplemental bill was filed, on the 17th of
September, 1881, when, for the first time, the sale by Peabody, as trustee, to Greene, was drawn in question in this
suit, and that, as more than two years elapsed between July
24, 1879, and September 17, 1881, the two years' bar of the
statute is complete.
That the two years' bar of the statute applies in favor of a,
purchaser from an assignee in bankruptcy has been decided by
this court.
In Gif'ord v felms, 98 *U. S. 248, the assignee in bankruptcy was appointed in Mlay, 1868, and sold all the assets of
the bankrupt to the plaintiff in May, 1871. Afterwards the
plaintiff brought suit to set aside an alleged fraudulent conveyance which had been made by the bankrupt in June, 1867.
It was held that, as the right of action on the part of the
assignee in bankruptcy was barred in May, 1871, it was barred
as against the plaintiff. This could not have been held if the
two years' statute of limitation had been regarded as one applying only in a suit brought by the assignee. It was said by
the court, that if th6 conveyance sought to be impeached was
made in fraud of creditors, the equities in controversy were
vested in the assignee in bankruptcy when he was appointed,
and his right of action commenced at the time the assignment
was made to him, and he might have pursued such right at
any tine thereafter; that, as the plaintiff claimed as purchaser
from the assignee, he did not acquire, under the sale made to
him by the assignee, any greater rights than those possessed
by the latter, that those rights were acquired by the-assignee
in May, 1868, that throughout the period intervening between
that date and May, 1871, the equities in controversy were held

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

by the defendant adversely to the supposed right of the assignee, and that the right, if any, of the assignee, was barred
by the two years' statute of limitation, before the purchase by
the plaintiff.
In Wisner v. B'own, 122 U. S. 214, it was held that an
assignee in bankruptcy cannot transfer to a purchaser the
bankrupt's adverse interest in real estate in the possession of
another claiming title to it, if two years have elapsed from the
time when the cause of action therefor accrued to the assignee,
and that the right of the purchaser in such case is as fully
barred by-the bankruptcy statute of limitation as is that of
the assignee. In that case, the suit was brought by a person
who -had purchased property of, the estate from the assignee
in bankruptcy, and received a conveyance thereof, more than
seven years after the title of the assignee accrued. The defendants pleaded the two years' bankruptcy statute of limitations. At the time of the appointment of the assignee the
property sued for was held adversely by the defendants. The
court held that the assignee could not, after two years from
the time of his appointment had expired, hinself bring an
action to recover the property, or, by selling the lands to a
third person after such time had expired, enable the latter to
maintain an action therefor, and it quotes with approval the
remark made in Crifordv HeZms, (supra, ) that the purchaser
from the assignee did not acquire by his purchase any greater
rijhts than those possessed by the latter.
These cases show that a conveyance by the assignee in bankruptcy cannot prevent the operation of the bar of the statute
against the grantee, when it has already run against the
assignee, or bring into action a new period of limitation,
dating from the time of the conveyance. Nor can it interrupt the running of the statute against .the claim or right,
when it has once commenced to run as against the assignee.
The purchaser takes the right cum cnere, subject to the continuance of the running of the statute, and subject to the fact
that a part of the two years has already run as against the
claim or right, while it was in the hands of the assignee, and
to the consequence that when sufficient additional time shall

GREENE v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

have run against it, in the hands of the purchaser, to make up
the entire two years, the clain or right will be wholly barred.
No initiation of a new period of limitation, under any statute,
begins to run in favor of the purchaser at the time of his purchase, whether the two years wholly elapsed, or only a part
thereof elapsed, while the claim was owned by the assignee.
But the plaintiffs seek to take the case out of the bar of the
statute, by alleging that they were ignorant of their rights,
and did not discover the facts relating to the sale by Peabody
as trustee, and the other matters set up in their supplemental
bill, until the 24th of April, 1880, which was within two years
of September 17, 1881, and that the sale by Peabody was
kept secret by the defendants, as far as possible, although the
plaintiffs used diligence to discover the facts.
Even if the allegations in the supplemental bill and in the
amendments thereto be regarded as sufficiently charging a
fraudulent concealment by the defendants of the facts of the
case, from the assignee in bankruptcy, or from Pratt, or from
the plaintiffs, we do not think the evidence establishes any
such fraudulent concealment.
With the petition in bankruptcy, filed August 31, 1878, there
was filed a schedule naming the creditors of Robertson holding
securities, giving the name of David R. Greene as one of such
creditors, his place of residence, the date of the contracting of
his debt, its amount, a statement that the security was a trust
deed on property in Chicago, a description of such property,
the street and number where it was situated, and the name of
Peabody as trustee. It also disclosed the fact that the only
incumbrance on the property was the trust deed to Peabody,
thus excluding the idea that the trust deed to Gallup was in
force.
Here was information, accessible to the assignee m bankruptcy when he was appointed, information which he was
bound to take notice of, information equally accessible to the
plaintiffs, being in a public record, which information referred
the assignee and the plaintiffs to David R. Greene for full particulars as to the property in question, and the transactions in
regard to the trust deed. The petition in bankruptcy was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

filed thirty-seven days before the sale of the property to Greene
by Peabody as trustee. Moreover, in the petition of the plaintiffs, filed in the bankruptcy court October 5, 1878, two days
before the sale by Peabody, and sworn to by the agents of the
plaintiffs, the contents of the schedules in bankruptcy of Robertson are referred to, and it is stated that among the assets
set forth m such schedules is the property in question, identifying it. This shows that information was actually had by such
agent, at that time, of the facts before set forth as contained
in one of such schedules, as to the particulars of the trust deed
to Peabody, and as to who was the holder of the note secured
by it and where he resided. That petition was filed more than
nune months before the assignee in bankruptcy was appointed.
The rights of the plaintiffs must depend wholly upon such
right of redemption as existed in Robertson, and passed to his
assignee in bankruptcy, and from the latter to the plaintiffs.
That being extinguished, no other right exists, and the plaintiffs have no right to redeem through any separate title
acquired under their judgment against Robertson. They did
not become, by the recovery of their judgment, or by anything
done under it, the successors of Robertson in respect of any
right of redemption, but they must follow and acquire their
only title to such right, through the assignee in bankruptcy
Moreover, whatever right to redeem they could have acquired
by virtue of their judgment was waived by them by their
petition of March 25, 1880, to the bankruptcy court, and by
their procuring the property in question to be sold by the
assignee in bankruptcy, and its proceeds to be applied on their
judgment. At their own suggestion the equity of redemption,
which was sold by the assignee, was thus put beyond their
reach.
Die result of these ')uews 'is that the decree of the Cire'it
Court must be reversed, and the case be remanded to that
court woth a directton, to enter a decree dismisssng the bill,
with costs.

