BRADLEY v. CLAFLIN.
Syllabus.

out of these notes and accounts, and that, as to any of them
remaining in their hands, they could not be held accountable
in this proceeding. If the transfer of these choses in action
to the garnishees had been a fair assignment by way of security out of which they were to pay their debt, if so much of
it could be collected, then the remainder of the choses in
action, whether valuable or not, could be returned by them,
without liability, but, as we have seen, the case goes upon
the idea of a fraudulent conversion by Frieberg, Klein & Co.
of assets of the insolvent debtors. By this fraud the control
of the assets passed to them, and we are of opinion that, if
liable at all, they were liable not only for the money collected
on such notes and accounts, but for the value of those which
remained in their hands to at least, as the court instructed, an
amount sufficient to pay the debt of Hoffheimer Brothers
against Strauss & Levy Whether there was, or not, such
amount was a question left to the jury, and the jury found
that there was. They must have found, under the instructions of the court, that enough of the assets collected remained
in their hands, either in the shape of money collected or of
notes and accounts yet uncollected but valuable, to pay the
debt of Hoffheimer Brothers against Strauss & Levy In this
we see no error to the prejudice of the plaintiffs in error, and
the judgment is therefore

BRADLEY v. OLAFLIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THi
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 110. Argued November 14, 1889.-Decided December 9, 1889.

In Louisiana, as in the States in which the English system of equitable jurisprudence prevails, a creditor who has received from ins debtor the legal
title to real estate, may institute other proceedings against the debtor in
relation to the same property, in order to strengthen his title or establish
his lien, if he deems it his interest to do so.
In Louisiana a married woman, who has received from her husband a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
veyanceof real estate as adationenpaernent of a debt againsthim arising
out of her paraphernal property wich came into his control, may cause
a mortgage of the same property to secure the same debt to be recorded
in the manner provided by law, and the mortgage may become valid if
the title under the conveyance fails.
In Louisiana a mortgage or lien on real estate of the husband in favor of
the wife is created by Art. 3319 [3287] of the code when the husband
receives her dotal or paraphernal property, which mortgage though not
registered, is not merged in a simulated and fraudulent title conveyed to
her by her husband as a dation en patement, and its registry by the wife
makes it valid against creditors of the husband asserting title under liens
subsequent thereto.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
.2fr B. B. Forman for appellants.
.

IF
V TV Howe for appellees.

Mm. JuSTrCE

ILLEiR delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
Julius Llsso and John H. Scheen constituted a mercantile partnership engaged in business in the town of Coushatta,
Louisiana. Horace B. Claflin, Edward E. Eames and others,
constituting the firm of H. B. Claflin & Co., of the city of
New York, were creditors of Lisso and Scheen, and on the 4th
day of December, 1878, they commenced, in the proper state
court of Loulsiana, a suit with an attachment against Lisso
and Scheen and their wives, Clara Forcheimer and Nancy A.
Bradley, and others, in accordance with the law and practice of
Louisiana. The attachment was levied upon property, real estate mainly, which is the subject of controversy in this case.
The suit was afterwards removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States. The record of the case in the Circuit Court
commences with a bill in chancery filed on the 13th day of
November, 1879, in that court, by H. B. Claflin et al. against
Julius Lisso et al. To this suit Lisso and Clara Forchelmer,
Ins wife, and John H. Soheen and INancy A. Bradley, his wife,
are made defendants. This bill, after giving the names of the

BRADLEY v. CLAFLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

persons composing the partnership of plaintiffs, who are citizens
of New York, and of the defendants, who are citizens of Louisiana, alleges that the defendants Lisso and Scheen are indebted
to the plaintiffs in the sum of $9580.14 on promissory notes,
which are described in the bill and on an open account.
It then sets out the commencement of the suit and attachment
of December 4, 1878, and that certain property was seized
under that attachment as the partnership and individual property of Lisso and Scheen, a schedule of which is said to be annexed to the bill. The plaintiffs further allege that by said
seizure they have acquired a just and valid lien upon the property seized under the laws of Louisiana. They allege that
said Lisso and Scheen obtained the goods sold by complainants
to them by false representations as to their solvency made to
plaintiffs in New York, and in contemplation of the fraud and
insolvency hereinafter set forth. "Anong other assets they
reported the real estate herein mentioned, which they declared
to be and which is justly worth upwards of $20,000."
"That thereafter, and on or about the 23d November, 18,78,
being entirely insolvent and largely indebted not only to your
orators but to others, the said Julius Lisso and John H. Scheen
did conspire and collude with their said wives and their said
wives with them, to cheat, hinder, delay and defraud your
orators, by making a pretended, simulated and fraudulent
transfer of all the real estate of the said Lisso and Scheen
unto their said wives, respectively, including alike the partnership and individual real property of said Lisso and Scheen
in the town of Coushatta and parish of Red River, and also the
interest in the telegraph line described in the deeds.
"That said pretended, simulated and fraudulent transfers
were made on the 23d day of November, 1878, and recorded
in the office of the parish recorder at Coushatta, and were by
acts before D. HI. Hayes, notary public, and for greater certainty your orators annex hereto and refer to said acts as a
part of this bill.
"Now your orators aver that said acts purported to be
dations enpaernent, but they allege and charge that they and
each of them was and is illegal, fraudulent, simulated and void,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

and worked and still work great injury to your orators, that
they were and each of them was made when the transferors
were insolvent , that after such transfers the transferors had not
property enough left to pay orators' claims, that the said transferees and each of them knew of the insolvency of the said lisso
and Scheen, and was a party to and colluded in said fraud. They
further show that the price named in said pretended datwn
en pazement or transfers was wholly inadequate and fraudulent,
and they show that even if the said acts or transfers had and
have any reality in law they gave and give an unjust and
unlawful preference and are null and void, but they expressly
aver and charge that the said Lasso and the said Scheen owed
their said wives nothing whatever at the time of said pretended
transfers, whether on paraphernal account or otherwise.
"And your orators exhibit this their bill as well in aid of
the proceedings in said suit No. 8883 as for such discovery and
relief as they may be entitled to in the premises."
The prayer of the bill is, that defendants may be required
to answer, "and that the said transfers, or datons en pazement, passed before D. HT. Hayes, notary public, on the 23d
November, 1878, may be declared to be simulated, fraudulent,
injurious, illegal, null and void, and all the property therein
described subjected to the just claims of and debts due your
orators as aforesaid, and sold to pay the same, and that the
debts due and owing to your orators may be duly liquidated
by proper decree as to the said defendants, lasso and Scheen,
as well as to the other defendants."
Other proceedings of a similar character were instituted
against the same defendants at about the same time by Henry
Bernheim et al. Simon August et al. and Charles F Claflin et
al. Bills identical in their language with those of Claffin &
Co. were fied against defendants. They were afterwards, by
an agreement of counsel and the order of the court, consolidated and tried together as one cause. In these cases thus
consolidated there was, by consent of all the parties in open
court, as shown by the record, entered a decree on January
22, 1883. This decree declared"That as to the act of conveyance, or dat'io en patement,

BRADLEY v. CLAFLIlN.
Opinion of the Court.

recited in the bills of complaint herein made by the defendant,
John H. Scheen, unto the defendant, Nancy A. Bradley, his
wife, by act passed before D. H. Hayes, notary, parish of
Red River, November 23d, 1878, and filed for record and recorded in said parish in conveyance and mortgage books the
same day, and whereof a certified copy has been filed as an
exhibit herein November 26th, 1879, and is now annexed
hereto as part hereof, be, and the same hereby is, in all things
revoked, annulled and set aside, and the property therein described and purporting thereby to be conveyed to said Mrs.
Nancy A. Bradley, wife of John H. Scheen, declared to have
been the property of said John H. Scheen at the time the
bills of complaint herein were filed, to wit, November 13th,
1879, and is hereby subjected to the just claims, demands and
judgments of the complainants herein, subject to provisions
hereinafter made, which judgments of complainants herein
against said Julius Lisso and John H. Scheen in solido are as
follows:
"H. B. Claftin & Co. v Iesso & Scheen, No. 8883 of the
docket of this court, $9580.14, with interest as therein set
forth.
IH. Bernhezm & August v Isso & Scheen, No. 8880,
$655.38, with interest as therein set forth.
" August, Bernheim & Bauer v. Iisso & Scheen, No. 8881,
$2326.36, with interest as therein set forth.
" Clgffin & Thayer v Lisso & Scheen, No. 8882, $2298.57,
with interest as therein set forth.
"And it is further ordered that any mortgage claims which
said Mrs. Scheen may have against said property described in
said deed of November 23, 1878, be, and the same are hereby,
reserved for further decision."
This reservation had reference to a claim by Mrs. Bradley,
the wife of Scheen, under a mortgage which she asserted
on the property in controversy, filed in the proper parishes
where the land in question lay, where they were duly recorded,
namely, in the proper office at Bienville, April 30, 1879, and
that of the parish of Red River, June 6, 1879. After the
consent-decree had been rendered,. Mrs. Bradley was permitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

to file an answer and cross-bill against complainants in the
original suit, setting up her claim under this mortgage, to
which there were a demurrer and answer, also replications.
On the 19th of December, 1885, the following agreement was
filed, by which the case came on to be heard on the bills, qnswers, and demurrers
"Clatin et al.
vs.
1
Lsso et al.

K os. 8896-'9.-

Four consolidated causes.

"To save time and expense to both sides, it is agreed that
the complainants may withdraw their replication to answer of
Mrs. Nancy A Bradley, wife, etc., filed April 26th, 1884, and
their answer to said Mrs. Bradley's cross-bill" filed, and the
said Mrs. Bradley may withdraw her replication to said answer
(with rights, however, reserved to both parties to renew said
pleadings and reinstate the issues as hereinafter reserved,) and
that complainants may file their annexed demurrers and the
cause may be set down on the bills, answers and demurrers.
"In case said demurrers are overruled, the answers and replications above mentioned may be renewed and stand restored
to the record, and cause proceed on traverse and issues thereby
made as if they had not been withdrawn, the object of this
agreement being to present in the simplest and least expensive
manner the questions raised by said demurrers.
"Dec. 19th, '85.
CCKENNrARD)

HOWE

& PES'r55

For ComiplanantM,
"W H.

RoGERs,

For Defendants."
The decree of the court, rendered on February 6, 1886,
declared
"That the demurrers of the complainants herein to the said
cross-bill of the said Mrs. Nancy A. Bradley, wife of John H.
Scheen, be, and the same hereby are, sustained, and the said
cross-bill dismissed.
"It is further ordered and decreed that the lien privilege

BRADLEY v. CLAFLIN.
Opnon of the Court.

and preference of the complainants herein on the property or
its proceeds described in the conveyance thereof, made November 3, 1878, from said John H. Scheen to said Nancy A.
Bradley, his wife, by act before D. H. Hayes, notary public
for the parish of Red River (which conveyance has been revoked as to the complainants by the decree herein of January
22, 1883, and which property has been subjected to the judgments of the complainants in said decree specially detailed),
be, and are hereby, recognized, declared, and made executory,
and are adjudged to be in all respects superior and paramount
to all and any mortgage, claim or other debt or demand of the
said Mrs. iNancy A. Bradley, wife of said John H. Scheen, set
up in this cause, and are declared to be a first lien, privilege,
and preference on the said property, its proceeds, fruits, revenues, rents, and profits."
It isfrom this decree that the present appeal by Mrs. Bradley, wife of Scheen, is taken, and all other questions are by the
original consent-decree and by the state of the record eliminated from the case, except that which concerns the validity
of the mortgage of Mrs. Bradley on account of the paraphernal
property which passed to her husband, for which this mortgage was inscribed. It is necessary to add that in the progress
of this case the attachments which had been issued and levied
on the property in controversy were dissolved, and that an
ordinary judgment was rendered personally against Lisso and
Scheen for their indebtedness to the parties plaintiff to this
suit. It is therefore clear that the plaintiffs derived no aid in
establishing their lien upon the property by reason of these attachments, and it seems to be conceded in the argument of
counsel that such lien as they may have, commenced with the
filing of their bills on the 13th of November, 1879. The object
of those bills, it will be observed, was to set aside the conveyance made by Lisso and Scheen to their wives of November 23,
1878, which is said to be a datton enpatement under the Louisiana law, that is, a proceeding by which the husband, in this
case, conveyed to his wife certain real estate, which she accepted as paymentyro tanto, to wit, at $10,000, on her debt
against him arising out of her paraphernal property that came
VOL. cxxx -25

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

into his control, and although the subsequent mortgage instituted by Mrs. Scheen, which it was supposed would cover the
property now in controversy, had been recorded in the proper
parishes April 30, 1879, and June 6, 1879, which was in one
instance seven months and the other nearly six months before
the bill of complaint was filed, no reference is made in that bill
to this mortgage and no attempt made to have it declared void
or set aside. but the plaintiffs were coiitent to take a decree
setting aside the first conveyance of November 23, 1878, and
it is only by reference to the reservation in the decree that
any notice is taken of the mortgage of Mrs. Bradley
As there is no answer to Mrs. Bradley's cross-bill, and as the
case'before us rests altogether upon the sufficiency of the allegations of that bill to establish her right under that mortgage,
we must look to that alone to determine the question. Mrs.
Bradley sets out in very distinct terms that her husband at
various times received from her father advancements made to
her and from her estate, which are specifically set out and
amount to the sum of $29,321.23, for which she claims interest
at the rate of five per cent per annum. By the law of Louisiana the assertion of this claim of a wife against a husband and
against his property is an ex parte proceeding, by which the
wife, with certain formalities, makes out an account of the
foundation of her claims against her husband, and has it recorded in the proper book of records of the parish or parishes
where the lands of her husband lie. Until this is done her
claim affects no other person, and this act of recording what is
called a mortgage is the initial proceeding by which the claim
against her husband's property is made effective. But after it
is so recorded all persons are bound to take notice of the existence of the claim as though the husband had himself executed
a mortgage to his wife to secure the payment of the debt.
What may be set up by creditors of the husband or by purchasers of his real estate to defeat the claim thus instituted, it
is not necessary to inquire in this case, because no attack is
made upon the justice of the claims of Mrs. Bradley against
her husband nor upon the regularity of the proceedings by
which this mortgage was instituted. No answer being filed to

BRADLEY v. CLAFLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

the cross-bill, the statements in it are to be taken as true so far
as they are pertinent to the question before the court. It is
thus admitted by the demurrer to the bill that Scheen had,
prior to the 30th day of April, 18T9, received of the paraphernal
and dotal property of Mrs. Bradley coming through her father
the sum alleged in her bill, $29,321.23, for which he was indebted to her, and that she followed the course pointed out by
the law in establishing what the statute of Louisiana calls a
mortgage on his real estate to secure the payment of that indebtedness. No fraud is alleged by appellees in regard to this
transaction. No denial of its truth is made in the record.
Some attempt is made an the way of argument to assert the
priority of the appellees because their attachment was levied
upon the property before a record was made of appellant's
mortgage, but with the dissolution of that attachment any lien
which could depend upon it fell. In the language of counsel
for the appellees in this case, the attachments having been dissolved on technical grounds only, judgment for the money demand was rendered in each case in June, 1880. As these
judgments were rendered long after the recording of Mrs.
Bradley's mortgage, they could not effect a lien prior to hers,
and by the dissolution of the attachments no lien acquired by
them could affect her interest at all.
The ground on which the invalidity of this mortgage is asserted by appellees is that at the time Mrs. Bradley had it incribed in the proper book the property was her own, and the
title to it was in her by reason of the conveyance made by
Scheen to her in payment of his debt to her, which was the subject of the controversy between the parties, and which was set
aside in the consent-decree rendered January 22, 1883. It is asserted in argument that, because the title and ownership of that
property was in her at the time she inscribed the mortgage
now in controversy, she could not in such a proceeding, create
a valid mortgage on her own property, that at that time
Scheen, her husband, against whom the mortgage lien was asserted, had no title or interest in the property, and that therefore the proceeding was of no effect. This proposition is
earnestly insisted upon by counsel, and seems to have been the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

one on which the Circuit Court rested its decision dismissing
Mrs. Bradley's bill. Claftin v gisso, 27 Fed. Rep. 420. We
are not referred to any clause of the Code of Louisiana which
asserts this principle, nor have we been able to find it in any
article or section of that code. It seems to be counsel's inference from the general state of the law concerning mortgages and the title to real estate. Reference is made in the
brief of counsel to the case of Townsend v MITiller, 7 La. Ann.
632, and to the cases of AMilley' v Slierry, 2 Wall. 249, and Lyon.
v. Robbzns, 46 Illinois, 279, which are also mentioned in the
opinion of the judge, who decided the case below, but these
cases only concern the effect to be given to a decree rendered
m favor of a judgment creditor setting aside a prior conveyance of the debtor as a fraudulent obstruction in the way of
the judgment creditor. None of them establish the doctrine
contended for in this case, that a person who has received a
conveyance of the legal title to real estate from his debtor
may not institute other proceedings against that debtor in relation to the same property to strengthen his title or establish
his lien, if it is his interest to do so. That this may be done
under the English system of equitable jurisprudence is well established, and no reason can be seen either in law or in equity
why a party who has received such conveyance, coming to see
that his title through it is not perfect, that the conveyance itself may be void or voidable, and that thereby he may lose
the debt or consideration of the conveyance, may not institute
any proceeding known to the law, and not unjust or inequitable,
by which his defective title may be strengthened or his original
lien made effectual and established in regard to the property
One of the most common instances of this character, very similar
in its nature to the transaction now under consideration, is that
of a mortgagee who, by the English common law, was treated
as holding the legal title with an equity of redemption in the
mortgagor, but who accepts a conveyance of that equity of redemption to himself by the mortgagor as payment of the debt
secured by the mortgage. In such case it may happen that
the mortgagor has created other liens or encumbrances upon
the property between the execution of the mortgage and that

BRADLEY v. OLAFLII.
Opinion of the Court.

of the deed conveying to the mortgagee the equity of redemption. If this conveyance of the equity of redemption is to be
treated as absolute payment of the debt secured by the mortgage, which, as between the mortgagor and mortgagee, it is
intended to be, then the mortgage being paid ff and discharged, and of no further effect, the parties who have obtained a lien subsequent to that mortgage, but prior to the
sale to the mortgagee, would find their lien to be a prior
encumbrance upon the property, and superior to the title
conveyed by the mortgagor to the mortgagee. To prevent
this injustice, equity has established the principle that by
holding the possession of his mortgage, and not making any
release or satisfaction, he may continue to have the benefit
of that mortgage as a; lien prior to that of the parties whose
rights have intervened, and thus he takes the title, which is
intended to be a discharge of that debt as between him and
his debtor, while he holds the mortgage itself to be so far alive
as to protect him against the subsequent encumbrances on his
own land. The analogy of that principle of equitable jurisprudence to the case before us is obvious. In both cases, because equity requires it, the common law doctrine of merger
of the two titles does not occur. In favor of the party whose
interest would otherwise suffer, they are both kept alive. In
this case the mortgage which the law gave Mrs. Bradley on
her husband's real estate for her money which came to his
hands, though not registered, was not merged in the simulated
and fraudulent title conveyed by her husband as datiom en
paement. Forbes v. .Moffatt, 18 Yes. 384, .Aulford v Peterson, 35 1N. J Law ( 6 Vroom), 127, fallory v. litohcock, 29
Conn. 127, ,&oaum v Catlin, 22 Vermont, 137, Wickersham
v 2eeves, 1 Iowa, 413.
By the Code of Louisiana, article 3319 [3287]
"The wife has a legal mortgage on the property of her husband in the following cases
"1. For the restitution of her dowry, and for the reinvestment of the dotal property sold by her husband, and which
she brought in marriage, reckoning from the celebration of the
marriage.

OCTOBER TERM , 1889.
Opmnon of the Court.

"2. For the ristituton or reinvestment of dotal- property
which came to her after the maxriage, either by succession or
donation, from the day the succession was opened or the donation perfected.
"3. For the restitution or reimbursement of her paraphernal property"
We understand this article as declaring the existence of such
mortgage or lien from the time when the dotal or paraphernal
property of the wife was received by the husband. Sclieen v.
Ckafe, 36 La. Ann. 217, 220. Certainly such is the meaning of
the article as between the husband and wife. But as to other
parties, it is declared by section 334i that "no mortgage or
privilege shall hereafter affect third parties, unless recorded in
the parish where the property to be affected is situated," and
by section 3319, that when the evidence of such legal mortgage existing in favor of a married woman shall not exist in
-writing,then "a written statement, under oath, made by the
married woman, her husband, or any other person having
knowledge of all the facts, setting forth the amount due to
the wife, and detailing all the facts and circumstances on
which her claim is based, shall be recorded."
The appellant in this case having this undisputed right of
mortgage for the $29,321.23 set out in her bill, and perceiving
that it might be lost either by the fraud of her husband in
,making the conveyance to her or by some other imperfection,
by which it did not transfer to her a clear title to the property
mentioned in the conveyance, resorted to her original right of
mortgage against the property, which she undertook to make
effectual by recording it, as the law required, in the parishes
where the real estate lay She thus, as in the case of the
mortgage mentioned in the English equity jurisprudence, reverted'to her original right, which was prior to all the conveyances and all the suits about this property set out in this
record, and as it was inscribed before any lien accrued to the
appellees on that property, or any right to appropriate it to
the payment of that debt, it is not perceived why her mortgage does not constitute a prior and superior claim to theirs.
There is found running through the whole of this record an

BRADLEY v. CLAFLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

attempt to control the action of the Circuit Court of the
United States m the case by the introduction of proceedings
had in the local court of Louisiana, which would have undoubted jurisdiction if it were not for the prior commencement of proceedings in the Circuit Court m the present case.
These state court proceedings originated in a surrender by
Lisso and Scheen of all their property of whatever description
for the benefit of all their creditors, after the proceedings in
this case had been commenced, and the appointment by the
tenth district court of the parish of Red River of a syndic,
namely, Christopher Chaffe, Jr., to take charge of all their
assets, convert them into money, and pay it out on the debar
of the firm of Lisso & Scheen. In that proceeding, which
of course could not oust the Circuit Court of the United States
of its jurisdiction to proceed in the present case already before
it, Mrs. Bradley filed her claim under the original dation en
pazement made by Scheen to her, and her mortgage, the same
that is in controversy here, asserting the superiority of her
claim on the real estate in controversy in this suit against the
syndic and the creditors whom he represented. That case, so
far as Mrs. Bradley was concerned, followed very much the
same course as the present case, and it came twice before the
Supreme Court of Louisiana. The first of these cases, that of
Chafe, Syndic v Scheen, is reported in volume 34 of the
Louisiana Annual Reports, at page 684:. The question there
had relation to the validity of the same conveyance by Scheen
to his wife as a dation en paement, in which the court declared
that conveyance to be void m the following language (page
690)
"For these reasons, and after a thorough and prolonged
study of the question, and of all the law and the facts bearing
on it, we are forced to conclude that this act of giving in payment was null and void and without effect as to the creditors
of J H. Scheen."
But the court in that case declared that whatever other
claims Mrs. Scheen may have against her husband, J H.
Scheen, are reserved to her with the right to prosecute them
in such mode and manner as the law may provide. Subse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

quently, Mrs. Scheen did prosecute in the District Court of the
parish of Red River her claim under the mortgage, which is
now the subject of controversy, and that case, which also went
to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and is reported in 36 La.
Ann. 21'[, was decided in her favor as to the validity of the
mortgage. The court says "The greater part of the indebtedness claimed grows out of the husband collecting and using
the moneys realized on promissory notes taken on the sales of
lands, and alleged, as stated, to have been donated to the
plaintiff." The court says further "The validity of these
donations is not questioned by the donor nor his heirs, nor his
creditors, and we cannot perceive any right in the creditors of
Scheen to raise such objection. It is sufficient that the husband received or collected the funds in question as agent of
his wife, and under color of the right -claimed by her and recognized by him." "The most serious contest," says the
court, "is in regard to the legal mortgage claimed. One of
the grounds was that it was not inscribed prior to the 1st of
January, 1870." To this the court replies "that the omission
to register at that time only deprived the mortgage of force
with respect to third persons, who at that date had mortgages
or pledges upon the property of the husband that are so far
superior to the claims of the wife. So far as relates to the
husband and his property, the mortgage in favor of the wife,
if there existed one, continued to exist without registry, and if
recorded subsequently took effect as to third persons from the
date of its registry The evidence of plaintiff's legal mortgage
against her husband was recorded in the parish of Red River
in 189, and its effect upon the immovables in that parish surrendered by the insolvent was properly recognized by the
judgment." There was then considered a question as to the
registry in the parish of Bienville, which seems not to have
been proved, and which was left open for further consideration. Although the direct question of the effect of the prior
conveyance of Scheen as a dation en_2atement is not referred to
in this last report, it is obvious that the whole case was a proceeding in the tenth district court of the parish of Red River
in regard to the rights of the syndic Chaffe in this property,

BRADLEY v. CLAFLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

and, in the one case, that part of it which related to the dation
en paiement, the court in the first of these reports declared
that conveyance void, but remitted Mrs. Bradley to her rights,
if she had any, under the mortgage inscribed April 30th, 1879,
and that, when the proceedings to enforce that right came before the same court, it declared the mortgage to be valid for
all property within the parish where it was recorded. It must
necessarily have considered the effect of the previous conveyance in payment which it had-set aside, upon the mortgage it
now declared to be valid. It can hardly be believed that if
that prior conveyance constituted any lawful obstruction to
the right of Mrs. Bradley to record and assert her mortgage,
which the court said had existed long prior to any of these
proceedings as between her and her husband, and which was
made effectual when it was recorded, it would not have been
considered and referred to. It is a fair, if not a necessary reference from these two cases, that the counsel engaged in them
and the court which decided them did not perceive in the conveyance of Scheen to his wife anything which defeated her
right to the mortgage for her dotal or paraphernal property
The question as to the validity of that mortgage after the
court had set aside the conveyance as dation,en, patement was
precisely the same as the one in the Circuit Court of the
United States, whose decree we are called to revise, and we
think we are safe in following the decision of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana on the same facts under Louisiana law
The result of these considerations is, that
The decree of the Cireut Court dismwss-ng Mre. Bradley's
bill ?s reversed, and the case remanded to that court for
furtherproceedings.

