OCTOBER TER,

1889.

Syllabus.

street were sufficiently indicated by signal lights or otherwise,
during the mght-time, and whether the plaintiff was himself
guilty of such negligence as contributed to his injury, were
questions fairly submitted to the jury, and are not open for
consideration in this court.
The objection that the petition did not state facts constituting a good cause of action, is not well taken. The allegations
were broad enough to admit proof of such knowledge or notice
upon the part of the city of the condition of Bank Street as
would fix its liability to the plaintiff. If the defendant desired
a fuller statement of the cause of action, the proper course was
to indicate its wishes by a motion to require the plaintiff to
make more specific his allegations as to negligence.
The motion to exclude all evidence upon the part of the
plaintiff and the motion for a verdict in behalf of the defendant were properly denied. The question of negligence, in all
of its aspects, was peculiarly for the jury
As no er'ror of law was conimitted at the trzal, the audgment

ss a{fir'med.
CONTINENTAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
OHA_ BERLAIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 100. Submitted November 13, 1889.- Decided November 25, 1889.

In Iowa it is provided by statute that " any person who shall hereafter
solicit insurance or procure applications therefor, shall be held to be the
soliciting agent of the insurance company or association issuing a policy
on such application, or on a renewal thereof, anything in the application
or policy to the contrary notwithstanding." Held,
(1) That a person procuring an application for life insurance in that
State became by the force of the statute the agent of the company
in that act, and could not be converted into the agent of the assured
by any provision in the application;
(2) That, if he filled up the application (which he was not bound to do)
or made representations or gave advice as to the character of the
answers to be given by the applicant, his acts in these respects
were the acts of the insurer;

CONTINLENTAL INS. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.

305

Opinion of the Court.
(3) That a "provision and requirement" (printed on the back of the
policy issued on the application), that none of its terms could be
modified or forfeitures waived except by an agreement in writing
signed by the president or secretary, "whose authority for this
purpose will not be delegated" did not change the relation established by the statute of Iowa between the solicitor and the insured.

THE case iS stated in the opinion.

.Mr J L. Carney, for plaintiff in error, cited Jef'res v
Li-e Ins. Co., 22 Wall. 47, Aetna L&ife Ins. Co. v France,91
U. S. 510; Price v Insurance Co., 17 Minnesota, 497, .Kelsey v Uiversal ]i2fe Ins. Co., 35 Connecticut, 225, .Miles v.
Conn. . ut. Zife Ins. Co., 3 Gray, 580, Campbell v -Y
.
f1ut. life Ins. Co., 98 Mass. 381, .Miller v .Mut. Beneflt Life
Ins. Co., 31 Iowa, 216, Insurance Co. v W-ilk-inson, 13 Wall.
222; Insurance Co. v. Mlahone, 21 Wall. 152, 1Y Y Zife
Ins. Co. v Fletcher, 117 U S. 519, Chase v 1amilton Ins.
Co., 20 N. Y 53, Shawmut Ins. Co. v Stevens, 9 Allen, 332,
Amertcaa Ins. Co. v. Nfeiberger, 74 Missouri, 167, Insurance
Co. v .Mowry, 96 U. S. 544, lVaynesboro .lAutual FireIns. Co.
v. Conover, 98 Penn. St. 384, Guernsey v Amercan Ins. Co.,
17 Minnesota, 104, Career v Am. Life Ins. & Trust Co., 4
Froom (33 N. J L.) 487, Wialsh v. Rart/ord Ins. Co., 73
N. Y 5, Van Allen v Farmers' Joint Stock In.
Co., 64
N. Y 469.
l r .D D Chase, for defendant in error, cited Insurance
Co. v Wilkznson, 13 Wall. 222, 3T Y .bLfe Ins. Co. v Fletcher,
117 U. S. 519, Boetcher v Hawkeye Ins. Co., 47 Iowa, 253,
-Millerv futual Beneft Ins. Co., 31 Iowa, 216, Williams v
Insurance Co., 50 Iowa, 568, TFalsh, v Aetna -ife Ins. Co.,
30 Iowa, 133, Insurance Co. v. Norton, 96 U S. 234, 240.
MR. JusniE

H&-LAw

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action is upon a policy of insurance on the life of
Richard Stevens, the intestate of the defendant in error.
There was a verdict and judgment against the insurance company
The policy recites that "it is issued and accepted upon the
voL. cxxxU-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

condition that the provisions and requirements printed or
written by the company upon the back of this policy are
accepted by the assured as part of this contract as fully as
if they were recited at length over the signatures hereto
affixed." The signatures here referred to are those of the
president and secretary of the company
The application for insurance was taken in Iowa by one
Boak, a district agent of the company in certain named counties of the State, fourteen in number, having written authority
"to prosecute the business of soliciting and procuring applications for life insurance policies within and throughout said
territory"
Among the numerous questions propounded in the application was the following" "IHas the said party [the applicant]
any other insurance on his life, if so, where and for what
amounts 2" The answer, as it appears in the application, is
"N o other." That answer, as were all the answers to questions propounded to the applicant, was written by the company's agent, Boak. In reference to the above question and
answer, the latter testified "I asked him [Stevens] the question if he had any other insurance, as printed in the application and as we ask every applicant, and he told me he had
certain certificates of membership with certain co6perative
societies, and he enumerated different ones, and said he did
not know whether I would consider that insurance or not. I
told him emphatically that I did not consider them insurance
and we had considerable conversation about it. He wanted
to know my authority for saying I did not consider them insurance. I gave him my authority - gave him my reasons and he agreed with me that these co6perative societies were
in no sense insurance companies, and in that light I answered
the question No.' Q. Did you tell him at the time that the
proper answer was 'No' after he had stated the facts 2 A. I
did. Q. Who wrote the answer in there 2 A. I did."
The application also contained these clauses "And it is
hereby covenanted and agreed that the statements and representations contained in this application and declaration shall
be the basis of and form part of the contract or policy of in-

CONTINENTAL INS. CO. v. CHfAMBEIRLAIN.

307

Opinion of the Court.

surance between the said party or parties signing this application and the said Continental Life Insurance Company, which
statements and representations are hereby warranted to be
true, and any policy which may be issued upon this application
by the Continental Life Insurance Company and accepted by
the applicant shall be so issued and accepted upon the express
condition that if any of the statements or representations in
this application are in any respect untrue, or if any violation
of any covenant, condition, or restriction of the said policy
shall occur on the part of the party or parties signing this
application, then the said policy shall be null and void, and all
moneys which may have been paid on account of said policy
shall be forfeited to the said company
"And it is hereby further covenanted and agreed that the
officers of the said company at the home office of the said company, in Hartford, Conn., alone shall have authority to determine whether or not the policy of insurance shall be issued on
this or any application, or whether or not any insurance shall
take effect under this or any application.
"And it is hereby further covenanted and agreed that no statements or representations made or given to the person soliciting
this application for a policy of insurance or to any other person
shall be binding on the said company, unless such statements
or representations be in writing in this application when the
said application is received by the officers of the said company
at the home office of the said company, in Hartford, Conn."
Among the "Provisions and Requirements" printed on the
back of the policy are the following
"11. The contract between the parties hereto is completely
set forth in this policy and the application therefor, taken together, and none of its terms can be modified nor any forfeiture under it waived except by an agreement in writing signed
by the president or secretary of the company, whose authority
for this purpose will not be delegated.
"12. If any statement made in the application for this policy
be in any respect untrue this policy shall be void, and all payments which shall have been made to the company on account
of this contract shall belong to and be retained by the company"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Proroded,however, That discovery of the same must be made
by the company and notice thereof given to the assured within
three years from the date hereof."
It was admitted on the trial that at the date of Stevens's
application he had insurance in coiperative companies to the
amount of $12,000.
The company contended in the court below that by the terms
of the policy it was discharged from liability by reason of the
answer, "No other," to the question as to other insurance on
the life of the applicant, its contention being that the certificates of membership in cobperative societies constituted insurance, which should have been disclosed in the written answer
to that question.
The court below charged the jury, in substance, that if at
the time the application was being prepared, Stevens fully
stated the facts to the agent, Boak, and the latter came to the
conclusion that certificates in coiperative companies did not
mean insurance within the view the defendant took of insurance, and in that view wrote the answer that there was no
other insurance, then it was the company, by its agent, that
made the mistake, and for such mistake the responsibility cannot be placed upon the assured. Again "If, therefore, you
find under the evidence that Stevens did state fully and fairly
the facts in regard to those different insurances in coi5perative
companies to the agent, and the agent, knowing all these facts,
wrote the answer in the application as it is contained therein,
the defendant is now estopped from making defence by reason
of the fact that Stevens did have insurance in these co~perative companies."
It must be assumed upon the record before us that Boak had
authority from the defendant to prosecute the business of soliciting and prosecuting applications for policies, that Stevens
acted in good faith, and made to the company's agent a full
disclosure of every fact involved in the question as to whether
he had other insurance upon his life , that he was informed by
the agent that insurance in coiperative societies was not
deemed such insurance as the company required to be stated,
and that Boak, upon his own responsibility, as agent of the de-

CONTINENTAL INS. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.

309

Opinion of the Court.

fendant, though -with the knowledge and assent of Stevens,
wrote the answer "INo other," assuring the applicant at the
time that such was the proper answer to be made.
Is the insurance company estopped, under these circumstances, to dispute its liability upon the policy 2 This question, the plaintiff insists, must receive an affirmative answer
upon the authority of .Insurance Co. v Wilkinson, 13 Wall.
222, insurance Co. v -lMlwne, 21 Wall. 152, and lYew Jersey
Mutual Ife Insurance Co. v Baker, 94 U. S. 610, while the
defendant contends that the case of Eew TYork -Life Insurance
Co. v. Fletcher, 117 U. S. 519, requires it to be answered in
the negative. An extended statement of those cases is not
necessary, and therefore will not serve any useful purpose,
for the present case can be determined upon its special facts
and upon grounds that did not exist in any of the others.
By the first section of an act of the legislature of Iowa, approved March 31, 1880, entitled "An act relating to Insurance
and Fire Insurance Companies," (Laws of Iowa, 1880, c. 211,
p. 209,) it is provided that "any person who shall hereafter
solicit insurance, or procure applications therefor, shall be held
to be the soliciting agent of the insurance company or association issuing a policy on such application, or on a renewal
thereof, anything in the application or policy to the contrary
notwithstanding."
The second section, among other things, requires all insurance companies or associations, upon the issue or renewal
of any policy, to attach to the policy, or endorse thereon, a
true copy of any application or representations of the assured,
which, by the terms of the policy, are made a part thereof, or
of ihe contract of insurance, or are referred to therein, or
which may in any manner affect the validity of the policy
The third section relates only to policies of fire insurance.
The last clause in the act is in these words "All the provisions of this chapter shall apply to and govern all contracts
and policies of insurance contemplated in this chapter, anything in the policy or contract to the contrary notwithstanding."
In Cook v Federal -Life Association, '74 Iowa, 746, 748,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

where the question arose as to the scope of the above statute,
the Supreme Court of Iowa said

"Considering the title of

the act and all of its provisions, it seems to us to be very clear
that it applies in its first and second sections to all kinds of insurance. There can be no doubt that section one applies to
any and all classes of insurance, whether life, fire, marine, insurance of live stock, or 'ny other kind of insurance, and
the same may be said of the second section. To hold otherwise would, it seems to us, be inconsistent with and repugnant
to the title of the act. If all insurance was not contemplated,
the title would have been, simply, ' An act relating to fire insurance companies.'
The object of this legislation is manifest. But if any doubt on the subject existed, it is removed
by the case of St. Paul Fire & Marmne Ins. Co. v Shaver, 76
Iowa, 282, 286, in which it was said. "The purpose of the
statute was to settle, as between the parties to the contract of
insurance, the relation of the agents through whom the negotiations were conducted. Many insurance companies provided in their applications and policies that the agent by
whom the application was procured should be regarded as the
agent of the assured. Under that provision they were able to
avail themselves, in many cases of loss, of defences which
would not have been available if the solicitor had been regarded as their agent, and many cases of apparent hardship
and injustice arose under its enforcement, and that is the evil
which was intended to be remedied by the statute, and it
ought to be so interpreted as to accomplish that result."
This statute was in force at the time the application for
the policy in suit was taken, and, therefore, governs the present case. It dispenses with any inquiry as to whether the application or the policy, either expressly or by necessary implication, made Boak the agent of the assured m taking such
application. By force of the statute, he was the agent of the
company in soliciting and procuring the application. He
could not, by any act of his, shake off the character of agent
for the company Nor could the company by any provision
in the application or policy convert him into an agent of the
assured. If it could, then the object of the statute would be

CONTINENTAL INS. CO. v. CHALBERLAIN.

311

Opinion of the Court.

defeated. In his capacity as agent of the insurance company
he filled up the application- something that he was not
bound to do, but which service, if he chose to render it, was
within the scope of his authority as agent. If it be said that,
by reason of his signing the application, after it had been prepared, Stevens is to be held as having stipulated that the company should not be bound by his verbal statements and representations to its agent, he did not agree that the writing of the
answers to questions contained in the application should be
deemed wholly his act, and not, in any sense, the act of the
company, by its authorized agent. His act in writing the
answer, which is alleged to be untrue, was, under the circumstances, the act of the company If he had applied in person,
to the home office, for insurance, stating in response to the
question as to other insurance the same facts communicated
by him to Boak, and the company, by its principal officer,
having authority in the premises, had then written the answer
"Nfo other," telling the applicant .that such was the proper
answer to be made, it could not be doubted that the company
would be estopped to say that insurance in coi5perative societies
was insurance of the kind to which the question referred, and
about which it desired information before consummating the
contract. The same result must follow where negotiations for
insurance are had, under like circumstances, between the assured and one who in fact, and b force of the law of the State
where such negotiations take place, is the agent of the company, and not, in any sense, an agent of the applicant.
It is true that among the "Provisions and Reqmrements,"
printed on the back of the policy, is one to the effect that the
contract between the parties is completely set forth in the
policy and in the application, and "none of its terms can be
modified nor any forfeiture under it waived except by an
agreement in writing signed by the president or secretary of
the company, whose authority for this purpose will not be'
delegated." But this condition permits -indeed, requires the court to determine the meaning of the terms embodied in
the contract between the parties. The purport of the word
"insurance" in the question, "Has the said party any other

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

insurance on his life 2" is not so absolutely certain as, in an
action upon the policy, to preclude proof as to what kind of
life insurance the contracting paxties had i nnnd when that
question was answered. Such proof does not necessarily contradict the written contract. Consequently, the above clause,
printed on the back of the policy, is to be interpreted in the
light of the statute and of the understanding reached between
the assured and the company by its agent when the application
was completed, namely, that the particular kind of insurance
inquired about did not include insurance in co~perative societies. In view of the statute and of that understanding, upon
the faith of which the assured made his application, paid the
first premium, and accepted the policy, the company is estopped, by every principle of justice, from saying that its
question embraced insurance in coi5perative associations. The
answer of "No other" having been written by its own agent,
invested with authority to solicit and procure applications, to
deliver policies, and, under certain limitations, to receive preniums, should be held as properly interpreting both the question and the answer as to other insurance.
The judgment is zffrmed.

