OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ROBERTSON v. GLENDENNING.
ERROR To THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 55. Argued November 4,1889.-Decided November 18,1889.

When an article is designated in a tariff act by a specific name, and a duty
imposed upon it by such name, general terms in a later part of the same
act, although sufficiently broad to comprehend such article, are not applicable to it.
Under the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 489, embroidered linen handkerchiefs are subject to a duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorem as "handkerclhefs;" and not to thirty per cent ad valorem as "embroideries."

THIS was an action to recover duties alleged to have been

illegally exacted. Judgment for plaintiff, to which defendant
sued out this writ of error.

The case is stated in the opinion.

-Hr Solicztor Genera for plaintiff in error.
.r

Stephen G Clarke for defendant in error.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought to recover an alleged excess of
duties exacted by the collector at the port of New York. Defendants in error had imported certain embroidered linen
handkerchiefs, upon which the collector, the plaintiff in error,
assessed a duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorem, under the
eighth paragraph of Schedule J of ยง 2502 of title 33 of the
:Revised Statutes, as enacted by ยง 6 of the act of March 3d,
1883, 22 Stat. 488, 507, which reads
"Brown and bleached linens, ducks, canvas, paddings, cot
bottoms, diapers, crash, huckabacks, handkerchiefs, lawns or
other manufactures of flax, jute or hemp, or of which flax, jute
or hemp shall be the component material of chief value, not
specially enumerated or provided'for in this act, thirty-five per
centum ad valorem."
The defendants in error paid this duty under protest, claim-

ROBERTSOIN v. GLENDENING.
Opmnion of the Court.

ing that the goods were only liable to thirty per cent ad
valorem, under the eleventh paragraph of the same schedule,
as follows
"Flax or linen laces and insertings' embroideries, or manufactures of linen, if embroidered or tamboured in the loom or
otherwise, by machinery or with the needle or other process,
and not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, thirty
per centum ad valorem."
Samples of the goods in question were produced in evidence
and it appeared that the body of the cloth was linen cambric,
that is, made of flax, that the articles were known in trade as,
and were in fact, embroidered handkerchiefs, and that the
embroidery was a substantial part of the handkerchief, and
was done with cotton.
All the requirements as to protest, appeal and time of bringing suit having been complied with, the court directed a verdict
for the importers for the difference claimed, upon which judgment was rendered, and the cause is brought here on writ of
error.
The articles in controversy were embroidered linen handkerchiefs, and it is contended in support of the judgment that
the provisions of the statute should be treated as if they read
"On linen handkerchiefs thirty-five per cent ad valorem, but,
if embroidered, thirty per cent ad valorem."
We cannot concur in this construction. The word "handkerchiefs" is denominative and not merely descriptive, and
when an article is designated by a specific name, and a duty
imposed upon it by such name, general terms in a later part of
the same act, although sufficiently broad to comprehend such
article, are not applicable to it. Ai'tur v Lahey, 96 U. S. 112,
113, and cases cited.
The eighth paragraph covers handkerchiefs and also "other
manufactures of flax, jute or hemp, or of which flax, jute or
hemp shall be the component material of chief value," and the
eleventh paragraph applies to flax or linen laces, insertings,
embroideries or manufactures of linen, if embroidered or tamboured, and not specially enumerated or provided for in the
act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

Where manufactures of linen, other than those enumerated
in the first provision, are embroidered or tamboured they are
subjected to the rate specified in the second provision. "The
test of the rate of duty is that of embroidery or not." Arthur
v -Homer,96 U. S. 137, 140. In that case, certain linen embroidered dress-patterns had been imported into the port of
New York, and were held dutiable at the rate nnposed on embroidered manufactures of linen. The acts of March 2, 1861,
of July 14, 1862, and of June 30, 1864, and the Revised Statutes of 1874, bearing upon the subject, were considered. By
none of these acts were such dress-patterns specifically enumerated as subject to a different duty But linen handkerchiefs
were, as by the act of 1883 they are, mentioned as among the
linen goods for which a certain rate was designated.
In Solomon v Arthur, 102 U S. 208, 211, 212, Mr. Justice
Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, makes the distinction between the use of a description applicable to many
kinds of goods having different names, and the use of the specific name itself, entirely clear, and upon that distinction the
disposition of the case turned.
We consider that distinction applicable here, and hold that
these handkerchiefs, although embroidered, did not fall within
the second provision.
The judgment must be
Reversed and the cause remanded, with instructions to grant
a new trzal, and t 2s so ordered.

