OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

or money, July 15, 1885, leaving $23,150, and to deduct that
from the $132,000 payable in 1886, leaving $108,850 due to
the plaintiffs, with interest from July 15, 1885, for which sum
judgment was had. On the facts found, showing that the
defendant was not prepared or able to deliver to the plaintiffs,
on the 15th of July, 1885, a deed for the 84: acres of land in
Cook County, Illinois, the $168,000 became on that day a cash
payment.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is

Affrmed.

ROBERTSON v. GERDAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 56. Argued December 4,1889.-Decided December 16, 189.

Pieces of ivory for the keys of pianos and organs, matched to certain octaves, sold to manufacturers, who scrape them to make them adhere to
wood, and then glue them to wood, were charged with duty as manufactures of ivory, under Schedule 'A of section 2504 of the Revised Statutes
of 1874, 2d ed. p. 474, and under Schedule N of section 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 511.
The importer claimed that they were liable to a less duty, as musical mstruments, under Schedule At of section 2504 of the Revised Statutes of
1874, 2d ed. p. 478, and under Schedule N of section 2502 of the Revised
Statutes as enacted by said act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 513. In a
suit by him against the collector to recover the alleged excess of duty
paid, the court charged the 3ury that if the articles were made on purpose to be used in pianos and organs, and were used exclusively n them,
they were dutiable as musical instruments and not as manufactures of
ivory- Held, that this was error; and that the articles, as imported, were
manufactures of ivory.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr Assastant Attorney General.faury for plaintiff in error.
.r

. B. Smith for defendant in error.

Clarke filed a brief for the same.

.A& Stepkhen G

ROBERTSON v. GERDAN.
Opinon of the Court.

Mm. JusTiF BLAToFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought in the Superior Court of the city
of New York, and removed by certiorari by the defendant
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, by Otto Gerdan against William H.
Robertson, collector of customs of the port of New York, to
recover duties paid under protest on certain ivory pieces for
the keys of pianos or organs, imported into the port of New
York, and entered there, some of them in September and October, 1882, and the rest of them in January, October and
November, 1884. Upon those imported in 1882, the collector
assessed a duty of 35 per cent ad valorem under the provision
of Schedule M of section 2504: of the Revised Statutes, 2d ed.
p. 4174, enacted June 22, 1874, which imposes that rate of duty
on "Manufactures of bones, horn, ivory, or vegetable ivory"
On the articles imported in 1884, the collector assessed a duty
of 30 per cent ad valorem, under that provision of Schedule N
of section 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by the act
of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 511, which imposes that rate of
duty on "bone, horn, ivory, or vegetable ivory, all manufactures of, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act."
The importer claimed in his protest that the goods imported
in 1882 were subject to a duty of 30 per cent ad valorem,
under that provision of Sched.ule M of section 2504 of the Revised Statutes of 1874, 2d ed. p. 478, which imposes that rate
of duty on "Musical instruments of all kinds;" and that the
goods imported in 1884 were liable to a duty of 25 per cent
ad valorem, under that provision of Schedule N of section
2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by the said act of
March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 513, which imposes that rate of duty
on "Musical instruments of all kinds."
On appeal, the decision of the collector was affirmed by the
Secretary of the Treasury, and suit was brought m due time.
The plaintiff had a verdict at the trial, and judgment was
entered for him, for $345.50, to review which the defendant
has brought a writ of error.
The bill of exceptions states as follows "Plaintiff called

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

as his only witness George W Clark, who, being duly sworn,
testified that he was in the employ of plaintiff, that he identified the samples produced as similar to the articles which
were imported, that they are pieces for the keys of pianos or
organs, that they come in packages and are matched to certain
octaves for certain instruments, to wit, organs and pianos, five
octaves for organs and seven octaves for pianos, and are glued
on the keys, that they are sawed and cut in a particular shape
for that purpose, and are tapered in thickness, so that the end
meets and the shaft comes in between. Q. They are used for
no other purpose than for pianos and organ keys 9 A. That is
it, sir. On cross-exannation this witness testified that he had
never put them on pianos or organs, that there axe different
grades and two sizes of the articles in question. Q. Do you
know how they are put on the piano 2 A. We don't do tbat,
we sell to the piano makers and key-board makers. I have
seen it done. They scrape them to make them hold to the
wood, then they are put on the key-board, and then sawed
out and stuck on in that way on a large board, and then
sawed out, and this, the ivory piece, is then glued on top of it,
and then it is polished. Q. Are the corners rounded off 2 A.
We don't do that, we sell to the makers. Q. As a matter of
fact, don't you know that the outside corners are rounded off 9
A. I have seen it so, yes, sir; on the pianos. We are not
piano makers, we sell to the piano and key-board makers."
No other evidence was offered on either side.
The defendant asked the court to direct a verdict in his
favor, because (1) the imported article was not a musical instrument, and (2) it was not a completed, indispensable part
of a musical instrument. This motion was denied, and the
defendant excepted. The defendant then asked the court to
charge the jury that, in order to find for the plaintiff, they
must find that the imported articles were completed, indispensable parts of a musical instrument. But the court charged
that if the articles were used exclusively for pianos and organs,
the jury should return a verdict for the plaintiff, if not, for
the defendant, to which instruction the defendant excepted.
The court also charged that if the articles were made on pur-

ROBERTSON v. GERDAlN.
Opinion of the Court.

pose for pianos and organs, as musical instruments, and no
other purpose, the jury nught return a verdict for the plaintiff.
To this instruction the defendant excepted.
We think there was error in the charge of the court. The
substance of the charge was that, if the articles were made on
purpose to be used in pianos and organs, and were used exclusively m pianos and organs, they were dutiable as musical
instruments, and not as manufactures of ivory
That the
articles were in themselves musical instruments, cannot be
gravely contended. They were ivory pieces for the keys of
pianos or organs. As imported, they were simply pieces of
ivory, which had, undergone a process of manufacture, were
of a shape and size to be used for certain octaves of pianos and
organs, and were sold to piano makers and key-board makers.
Those persons scraped the lower surface of the ivory, to make
it adhere to a piece of wood to which it was afterwards glued.
In the shape in which the articles were imported, they were
clearly manufactures of ivory
lNeither of the statutes in question imposes on parts of musical instruments the same rate of duty which it imposes on
musical instruments.
By Schedule E of section 11 of the act of July 30, 1846, 9
Stat. 47, a duty of 20 per cent ad valorem was imposed on
I"musical instruments of all kinds, and strings for musical instruments of whip-gut or catgut, and all other strings of the
same material," and, by the same act (p. 45) a duty of 30 per
cent ad valorem was imposed on "manufactures of bone, shell,
horn, pearl, ivory, or vegetable ivory"
1By section 20 of the act of March 2, 1861, 12 Stat. 190, a
duty of 20 per cent ad valorem was imposed on "Musical
instruments of all kinds, and strings for musical instruments of
whip-gut, or catgut, and all other strings of the same material," and by section 22 of the same act (p. 192) a duty of 30
per cent ad valorem was imposed on "Manufactures of bone,
shell, horn, ivory, or vegetable ivory"
By section 6 of the act of July 14, 1862, 12 Stat. 550, a
duty of 10 per cent ad valorem, in addition to then existing
duties, was imposed on "M usical instruments of all kinds, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

strings for musical instruments of whip-gut or catgut, and all
other strings of the same materiall;" and by section 13 of the
same act (p. 557) a duty of 5 per cent ad valorem, in addition
to then existing duties, was imposed on "Manufactures of bone,
shell, horn, ivory or vegetable ivory"
By Schedule M of section 2504 of the Revised Statutes of
1874, 2d ed. p. 481, a duty of 30 per cent ad valorem was
imposed on "Strings all strings of Whip-gut or catgut, other
than strings for musical instruments," and by section 2505 of
said Revised Statutes, 2d ed. p. 484, "Catgut strings, or gutcord, for musical instruments" were made free of duty
By section 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by the
act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 514, a duty of 25 per cent ad
valorem was imposed on "Strings
all strings of catgut, or
any other like material, other than strings for musical instruments;" and, by section 2503 of the same enactment, 22 Stat.
518, "Catgut strings, or gut-cord, for musical instruments,"
were made free of duty
It is thus seen that, by the act of 1846, by the act of 1861
and by the act of 1862, provision was made for imposing a
duty on parts of stringed musical istruments, by laying a
duty on "strings for musical instruments of whip-gut or catgut," leaving other parts of musical instruments, imported in
parts, to be dutiable under other provisions of law So, in the
Revised Statutes of 1874, and as enacted in 1883, while there
is no specific duty on parts of musical instruments, as such
parts, "catgut strings or gut-cord, for musical instruments,"
are made free of duty, leaving other parts of musical instruments to be dutiable under other provisions than that appli
cable to "musical instruments of all kinds."
This view of the legislation of Congress is fortified by the
fact that in the Revised Statutes of 1874, and in the same as
enacted in 1883, a duty is imposed on carriages and parts of
carriages, on chronometers and parts of chronometers, on
clocks and parts of clocks; and on watches and parts of
watches. If Congress had intended, in either enactment of the
Revised Statutes, to impose the same duty on parts of musical instruments which it imposed on musical instruments, it

ROBERTSON v. GERDA_.
Opinion of the Court.

would have been easy to impose that duty on "musical instruments of all kinds, and parts of the same."
It is very clear to us that the fact that the articles in question were to be used exclusively for a musical instrument, and
were made on purpose for such an instrument, does not make
them dutiable as musical instruments.
The contention of the plaintiff is thought to be supported by
the fact that, in the case of Foote v. Arthur, tried in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York early in the
year 1880, and unreported, it was held that a completed violinbow was a musical instrument, and subject to duty as such
under the statute, and by the fact that the Treasury Department acquiesced in that decision, under the advice of the Attorney General of the United States. It is sufficient to say
that the pieces of ivory in question were not violin-bows, and
that, whatever the true view' may be as to violin-bowg the
same considerations applicable to them do not apply to the
articles in question here.
Attention is called by the plaintiff to the fact that the provision in the Revised Statutes, as enacted in 1883, m regard to
manufactures of ivory, imposes the duty of 30 per cent ad
valorem on all manufactures of ivory "not specially enumerated or provided for in this act." But those words have no
bearing on the present case, because the pieces of ivory in
question are not specially enumerated or provided for in the
act of 1883.
They udgment is reversed, and the case remanded to the Citeuit Court witAh a directon to grant a new trzal.

