OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. DA-VIS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
No. 1033.

Submitted November 4, 189.-Decided December 9, 1889.

A regulation by the President to fix the length of service and compensation
of special deputy marshals, or supervisors of elections, appointed in pur-

suance of the provisions in Rev. Stat. §§ 2012, 2016 and 2021, if it has any
validity, cannot have a retroactive effect.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

J1lr Assistant Attorney General Cotton for appellants.
J1r Charles C. -Lancasterfor appellee.
M-R. JUSTICE

LtAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 2d day Qf December, 1887, the appellee, Tyler Davis,
brought suit against the United States in the District Court of
the United States for the District of Maryland, under the act
of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, giving to the District Courts
of the United States concurrent jurisdiction with the Court of
Claims in suits against the United States where the amount
in dispute does not exceed $1000, (with a few exceptions not
necessary to be considered in this case,) to recover the sum of
$25, alleged to be a balance due him for services performed as
a special deputy marshal at the Congressional election of 1886,
in the city of Baltimore, in'that State.
Issue having been joined upon a demurrer filed by the plaintiff to the answer of the United States, the court found the
facts and the law in favor of the plaintiff, and rendered judgment in his favor for the amount demanded. The United
States appealed.
At the last term of this court the case was before us on a
motion to disnuss the appeal upon the ground that the United
States were not entitled to appeal from a judgment of the
District Court against them where the amount in dispute was
less than $5000. The motion was denied, the court holding

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

that, under the act of March 3, 1887, suipra, appeals from the
District Court were governed by the same law as applied in
the case of appeals from the Court of Claims in like cases.
131 U. S. 37. The case is now here on its merits.
There is no dispute as to the facts. As found by the court
below, they are as follows
"(1) The plaintiff was duly appointed and commissioned
special deputy marshal of election for the 18th ward of Baltimore City, in the State of Maryland, by George H. Cairnes,
Esq., United States marshal for the district of Maryland, on
the 3d day of September, A.D. 1886, m pursuance of section
2021 of the United States Revised Statutes, and the supplements and amendments thereto, and he duly qualified and
entered upon his duties.
"(2) The laws of Maryland governing registration for Congressional and other elections in the city of Baltimore require
that the officers of registration,,efor the purpose of correcting
the lists of qualified voters, shall sit with open doors in the
several wards of the city, from 9 A.M. to 9 P.M., for fifteen
successive days, commencing on the first Monday of September, and afterwards, for the purpose of revising the lists, for
Monday of
three (3) successive days, commencing on the October.
"(3) The plantiff, in pursuance of his said appointment,
and of the provisions of section 2016 of the Revised Statutes,
which authorized and required the supervisors of elections to
attend at all times and places fixed for the registration of
voters, who, being registered, would be entitled to vote for a
representative or delegate in Congress, and to personally inspect and scrutinize such registration, and in pursuance of
section 2021, which made it his duty, when required thereto,
to aid and assist the supervisors of election in the verification
of any lists of persons who may have registered, did attend
to said registration in the said ward for which he was appointed for the purpose of aiding and assisting the supervisors
of election, for fifteen days in September, A.D. 1886, and for
three days in October, 1886, being October 4th, 5th and 6th
in said year.

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"(4) The United States marshal for this district, on the
10th of October, 1886, received from the Attorney General of
the United States a circular letter, in which he notified the
marshal that 'it is not expected that supervisors and deputy
marshals will receive compensation for more than five days'
services, and they should be so informed. Within this time
all can be done, it is thought, that ought to be done.'
"(5) The plaintiff was on duty and had performed eighteen
days of proper and necessary service as special marshal before
the circular letter of the Attorney General, relied upon in the
answer of the United States, had been received."
Section 2031 of the :Revised Statutes provides, among other
each
things, that "there shall be allowed and paid to
special deputy marshal, who is appointed and performs his
duty under the preceding provisions, compensation at the rate
of five dollars per day for each day he is actually on duty, not
exceeding ten days."
The defence relied upon by the United States is, that the
President had authority to regulate the length of service and
compensation of a special deputy marshal or a supervisor of
election, and that, having such authority, and having undertaken, through the Attorney General, to make such regulations, by the circular letter aforesaid, those regulations are
binding upon inferior officers. Upon the facts m this case, it
is to be observed that the question of the authority of the
President to make the regulations mentioned does not arise
here, for, as shown by the findings of fact, the services for
which compensation is demanded were performed prior to
the date when the circular letter was issued from the Attorney
General's office. They were performed under the statutes
mentioned, and compensation must be made accordingly
Whether the President had the power to make the regulations
4rescribed by the above-mentioned circular or not, they manifestly cannot have a retroactive effect, so as to invalidate a
claim for services performed before they were in existence.
The judgment of the court below is
.Afirmed.

