RIO GRANDE RAILROAD CO. v. VITET.
Syllabus.

This principle has since been repeatedly applied. In Jenkins v. Loewenthal, 110 'U. S. 222, where two defences were
made in the state court, either of which, if sustained, barred the
action, and one involved a Federal question and the other did
not, and the state court in its decree sustained them both, this
court said that, as the finding by the state court of the fact
which sustained the defence which did not involve a Federal
question was broad enough to maintain the decree, even
though the Federal question was wrongly decided, it would
affirm the decree, without considering the Federal question or
expressing any opinion upon it, and that such practice was
sustained by the case of .Murdoch v City of -Memphis, sura.
See, also, .ecManus v O'Sullivan, 91 U. S. 578, Brawn v.
Atwell, 92 _U. S. 327, Citizens' Bank v Board of -Liqudation,
7touteau v Gibson, 111 U S. 200, Adams
98 U. S. 140,
County v Burlington & .Aissour?, Railroad,112 U. S. 123,
Detroit City Railway v Guthard, 114 U S. 133, Iew O2leans Water Works Co. v Louisiana Sugar ReAng Co., 125
U[. S. 18, De Saussure v Gaillard,127 U. S. 216, 234.
It appears clearly from the opiion of the Supreme Court
that it was not necessary to the judgment it gave that the
words "taking the direction of the Arroyo Seco" should be
construed at all. It is, therefore, of no consequence whether
or not that court was wrong in its conclusions as to the meaning of the Ruichica grant.
The writ of error is
.Dzsmiseed.

RIO GRAINDE RAILROAD COMPALN
APilPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

v. VIIET.

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 114. Argued November 15, 1889.-Decided December 23, 1889.

The evidence in this case fails to establish any fraud in the making of the
notes and mortgage which are the subject of controversy, or in the use
afterwards made of the notes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

IN EQuITy.

.W

The case is stated in the opinion.

George 1. Brzght for appellant.

.Mr J -D Rouse for appellees.
with him on the brief.
MR.

JUSTICE MILLER

3r William Grant was

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, which was plaintiff below, obtained m the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana on January
5, 1885, a judgment against the partnership firm of Gomila &
Co. and against Anthony J Gomila and Larned Torrey, who
constituted the partnership, for the sum of $26,731.97.
It
caused an execution to be issued upon the judgment, and had
it levied upon a house, and the grounds belonging to it, in the
city of New Orleans, a description of which is set forth in the
bill filed in this case. It was discovered that there existed a
mortgage upon this property for the sum of $18,000, made by
A. J Gomila, and the railroad company brought the present
suit by way of a bill in chancery to remove this incumbrance,
as an obstruction to the successful exercise of its right to sell
the property for the payment of its debt. The action, commenced in the Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans,
was afterwards removed by Gomila into the Circuit Court of
the United States, and the plaintiff there filed a new bill in
equity substantially the same as the petition filed in the state
court.
This bill, after reciting the judgment in favor of the railroad company, already mentioned, and the levy of the execution under it on the property described, proceeds to state:
"That there isinscribed on the books of the recorder of mortgages for the Parish of Orleans, against the name of Anthony
J Gomila and against said property, an inscription of a mortgage made by said Anthony J Gomila in favor of the commercial firm of Gomila & Co., by act before Samuel Flower,
a notary public, dated the 8th of February, 1884, to secure the
sum of 818,000." According to the bill, this act recited an
indebtedness by A. J Gomila to the firm of Gomila & Co. for

RIO GRAINDE RAILROAD CO. v. VINET.
Opinion of the Court.

that much money loaned and advanced to him on that day,
and that for said $18,000 he had made his four promissory
notes to the order of and endorsed by himself. Three of these
notes were for $5000 each, and one for $3000. The $5000 notes
were payable in one, two and three years after date respectively, and the $3000 note was payable three years after date.
The bill then alleges that "said mortgage is fictitious, and
is a fraud committed by said A. J Gomila to cover his property and to prevent the seizure and sale thereof, that it is not
true, as stated in said act of mortgage, that on the 8th of February, 1884, the said firm of Gomila & Co. loaned and advanced to A. J Gomila the sum of $18,000, or any other sum
of money, and your petitioner alleges that by reason of said
fraud the aforesaid notes, amounting in all to $18,000, are null
and void, that after they were made and received by Lamed
Torrey, who accepted the act of mortgage, they were surrendered to A. J. Gomila, and thereby were cancelled, and
they have been ever since in his custody or under his control,
or m the custody and control of some confederate, whom,
when discovered, your petitioner prays leave to make a party
hereto " and the prayer of the bill is that these notes be cancelled and annulled, and that Gomila be required to surrender
them up, and for such further relief as the nature of the case
may require.
Supplemental and amended bills were filed making defendants to the suit J Ward Gurley, Jr., and 0. D. Barker, upon
the allegation that they claim to be the owners of the notes,
and assert the sufficiency and validity of the mortgage by
which they are pretended to be secured, and they are required
to answer the allegations of the original bill and to set forth
the nature of their claim. A. J Gomila answered the bill,
and to special interrogatories propounded to him in it he
answered under oath as follows
"To the first of said interrogatories, which reads as follows,
VIZ.
"To whom did you deliver the notes described in the original bill on file, and when did you do so9 Give his full
name and address.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"He answers, viz.
"Ans. The notes were all delivered to Lamed Torrey, the
other member of the firm of Gomila & Co., when they were
made or executed, Feb'y 8th, 1884.
"To the second of said interrogatories, which reads as follows, viz.

0

"In whose possession have said notes been at all and any
time up to the present time9
"He answers, viz.

"Ans. The said notes were immediately thereafter delivered
to J. Ward Gurley, Jr., of this city, from whom Gomila & Co.
received the following sums of cash, viz., on 6th Feb'y, 1884
($3496.50) three thousand four hundred and ninety-six and 50100 dollars, on Feb'y 11th, 1884 (81498.50) one thousand four
hundred and niety-eight and 50-100 dollars, on 20th Feb'y,
1884 ($1000) one thousand dollars, besides some city bonds at
various dates just before and subsequently, other small sums
of money for costs in different suits, etc., all of which is still
due said Gurley, with interest thereon, that $5000 of said
sums of money was obtained from said Gurley for the purpose,
and used to pay the balance of the purchase price of the property in question to the Hibernia Ins. Co.
"That some months after the said notes were so delivered to
said Gurley two of them -viz., the note for $5000, due in two
years after its date, and the note for $5000, due in three years
after date - were withdrawn from the said Gurley by Gomila
& Co. through the said Torrey, and pledged on the 21st Aug..
1884, with and to the Teutonia Ins. Co. of this city, to secure
a loan then made by said Ins. Co. to Gomila & Co. of $5000
in cash, that on the 3d Sept., 1884, the said loan was renewed
with said Ins. Co., and on the 10th Oct., 1884, the said loan of
$5000 was renewed in the State Nat'l Bank of this city, and
said two mortgage notes were withdrawn by Gomila & Co.,
through the said Torrey, from said Ins. Co. and pledged with
and to the State Nat'l Bank to secure said loan.
"Subsequently Gomila & Co., through said Torrey, withdrew said two notes from the State Nat'l Bank and placed
them with C. D. Barker of this city, on or about 3d 1ovember,

RIO GRANDE RAILROAD CO. v. VIlET.
Opmion of the Court.

1884, from whom said firm of Gomila & Co. received, through
said Torrey, the sum of two thousand dollars in cash November 3d, 1884, and the additional sum of one thousand dollars in
cash Nov 5th, 1884, and the additional sum of one thousand
dollars in cash Nov 7th, 1884.
"And, so far as deponent knows, the said last two mentioned notes are still held by said Barker, and the other two
notes, one for $5000, due in one year after its date, and one for
$3000, due in three years after its date, are now, and have
always been, held by said Gurley since they were first delivered to him as aforesaid.
"To the 3d of said interrogatories, which reads as follows,
VIZ.
"Who is now the holder of said notes 2 Give his name and
address.
"He answered, vz.
"Ans. This interrogatory is answered by the answer just
given above.
"A. J GomLA."
Gurley answered the bill, under oath, setting forth the matter pretty much as Gomila's answer does, and averring that
the notes and mortgage were true, real and ionajfe,and that
those which he owned are not now and have not at any time
since the issue thereof been under the control or in the possession of A. J Gomila, and that he took them for money advanced to the firm of Gomila & Co. before they were due,
and he sets forth the amount of his advance with precision
and particularity, showing that $5000 of the money which he
advanced went to pay the purchase price of the house and lot
mentioned in the mortgage, and he says that said notes were
acquired by him for a full and valuable consideration in due
course of business, and that they were issued in the interest
and for the benefit of Gomila & Co. and their creditors, to
enable them to continue business, and that the said notes and
the full amount of them are still justly and fully due to the
defendant.
Caleb D. Barker, the other defendant, in whose possession

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Opimon of the Court.

some of the notes were, files an answer also under oath, in
which he shows that Torrey, as a member of the firm of
Gomila & Co., sold him two of the notes for $5000 before they
were due, pledging them to secure a loan, in November, 1884,
and they have been in his actual possession ever since, except
for a short time when Torrey received possession of them to
see if he could not raise the money on them to pay the existing loan of Barker. Failing in this, Torrey returned the notes
to Barker, with an agreement that if the money was not paid
on the 8th of January, 1885, they should become the property
of Barker, that the loan was not repaid and never has been,
and the said notes are now the property of Barker, and he
avers that the notes were negotiable paper taken by him
before maturity in good faith, for valuable consideration in
due course of business, without any intention to defraud the
creditors of Gomila or Gomila & Co.
Replications were filed which made issue on these averments, and testimony was taken. Gomila died, and the suit
was revived against his wife and one Wiltz, who had been
made dative testamentary executor of Gomila after which it
was heard and decided by the court below rendering the decree from which this appeal is taken. That court finds that the
transaction by which these notes and the mortgage were made
and issued and came to the hands of Gurley and of Barker
was in every respect an honest transaction, that the mortgage
is a valid mortgage; and that the sums secured by it to the
defendants Gurley and Barker are valid liens upon the property prior to that of the complainant, and on these grounds
it dismissed the bill. Wiltz having died, the present appellee,
as his successor, has been substituted in this court.
We concur entirely with the view of the evidence taken by
the Circuit Court. There is nothing but the barest suspicion
of fraud or unfairness in the making of these notes and mortgage and in the use afterwards made of the notes. -Mr.
Gomila, in his efforts to save the credit of his firm, consented
that the house and grounds in which he lived might be mortgaged to raise money for that purpose. He accordingly made
the four notes and the mortgage to secure them, covering

