OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

which, with due attention to what we decided when the case
was here before, to wnch we still adhere, may not arise in
another trial.

Reversed.
HlUME v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. HUME.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
los. 102, 103. Submitted November 13, 1889. -Decided

December 16, 1889.

When a contract is so extortionate and unconscionable on its face as to
raise a presumption of fraud or to require but slight additional evidence
to justify such presumption, fraud may be set up as a defence in an
action at law with the same effect with which it could be set up in equity
as a ground for affirmative relief, and if articles delivered in performance of such an unconscionable contract have been accepted in ignorance, and under circumstances excusing their non-return, and they have
some value, the amount sued for will be reduced to that value m the
judgment.
Persons dealing with public officers are bound to inquire about their authority to bind the government, and are held to a recognition of the fact that
government agents are bound to fairness and good faith as between
themselves and their principals.
The plaintiff contracted in writing to sell to the government a quantity of
shucks at 60 cents a pound at a time when the market value of that article was 1, cents a pound. He delivered them and they were consumed
in the government service. He then claimed to be paid at the contract
price, which, being refused, he sued therefor in the Court of Claims
Held, that he could only recover the market value of the shucks.

THE court in its opinion stated the case as follows
Claimant filed his petition against the United States in the
Court of Claims, averring that on the 9th day of August, 1883,
he entered into a contract in writing with the Acting Secretary
of the Interior Department for the furnishing of certain articles, constituting items in his proposal numbered 2, 9, 19, 32,
41, 56, 71, 77, 78, 79, 89, 90, 91, 97, 102 and 103, to the Government Hospital for the Insane near Washington, at rates

HUME v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

specified therein, that he had furnished merchandise amounting to the sum of $5695.89, according to the prices established
by the terms of the contract, and had been paid only the sum
of $1663.89, and that there was still due and owing to him the
sum of $4032, which he was entitled to recover with interest
from the first day of July, 1884, and that the accounting officers of the Interior Department had refused and neglected to
pay such balance of $4032, because, as they alleged, the price
charged for item 97 in claimant's proposal was excessive;
"notwithstanding the charge therefor was based upon the
amount stated in said proposal, and accepted by said defendant's officers and agents, and by them incorporated in said
contract as aforesaid."
To this petition a special plea was filed February 12, 1886,
on behalf of the United States, to the effect that claimant had
agreed to furnish shucks to the government hospital at the
rate of sixty cents per hundred weight, and entered into a
written contract, to recover damages for the breach of which
this suit was instituted, whereby he agreed to furnish (inter
alia)shucks at the rate of sixty cents per pound, that this
was a clerical error, the real contract being that shucks were
to be furnished by claimant to said hospital at sixty cents per
hundred weight, that notwithstanding this "claimant attempts
to practise a fraud against the United States in attempting to
establish- an allowance of the claun as made by him, and by
his effort to obtain a judgment in this court upon such written
contract, as if such mistake and clerical error had not been
made, and for the amount due.for the shucks furnished, as expressed by nstake in said written contract."
To this special plea claimant replied, by his attorney, denying that he agreed to furnish shucks at the rate of sixty cents
per hundred weight, and averring that he bid for shucks "at
the rate of sixty cents per pound, in accordance with the
printed schedule furnished him by the United States upon
which to make out his bid, that the said price was the price
at which he intended to bid, and that there was no mistake on
that the said conhis part in making out the bid,
tract contained fifteen other items of goods, which were fur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

nished as ordered, and some items furnished in much larger
quantities than the estimated quantity contained on the printed
schedule, that upon some of the items the claimant lost
money, upon others there was a very small profit, and that
upon the whole contract, adjusted at contract rates, the claimant will not receive more than a fair and reasonable profit.
Claimant denies emphatically any attempt to practise a fraud
on the United States, and avers that the whole transaction
was in absolute good faith in the ordinary course of business,
that there was no inducement or promise made in regard to
the matter, except the written proposal of the claimant and
the written contract."
Evidence was adduced on behalf of the United States, tending to show that shucks at the time of the contract were worth
from three-fifths of a cent to one cent and three-quarters per
pound, that it was the custom of the government to buy
shucks by the hundred weight, and that the mistake in
question had occurred by reason of the word "pounds" in
the printed form not having been struck out and "hundred
weight" inserted, all of which evidence was objected to on
behalf of the claimant.
The Court of Claims filed its findings of fact and conclusion
of law on the 3d of May, 1886.
The first finding sets forth the advertisement of the Secretary of the Interior for proposals for furnishing supplies to
the Government Hospital for the Insane for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1884, stating, among other things, "Proposals must be made in duplicate on the forms furnished by
the Department." "Bids will be considered on each item separately Schedules containing blank forms for bidding, items
and approximate estimates of amounts will be furnished on
application." A description of what the quality of many of
the articles, not including shucks, must be, is given at length
in the advertisement.
The second finding contains the bids of the claimant on
forms furnished by the department, the schedule attached to
his proposal enumerating some one hundred and seven articles,
on all but twelve of which claimant made bids. This schedule,

HUME v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

under the head of estimated quantity, enumerates the articles
by pound, dozen, gross, bushel, box, ton, barrel, bale, gallon,
case, quart and sack, and the bids are carried out per pound,
per dozen, per gallon, etc.
The third finding gives the contract, by the terms of which
the claimant agrees to furnish the items in the proposa5 numbered as in the petition, and the Acting Secretary of the Interior agrees to pay or cause to be paid on behalf of the United
States the prices specified in the proposal and contract, "for all
the articles delivered and accepted," the right being reserved
to order a greater or less quantity of each.
The fourth and fifth findings and conclusion of law are as
follows
"IV He (claimant) furnished under said contract all the
articles included under items Nos. 2, 9, 19, 32, 42, 56, 71, 78,
79, 89, 90, 91, 102, 103, and has been paid therefor according
to the contract. He also furnished in two or three lots, in the
latter part of the year 1883, 6720 pounds shucks under item
No. 97, with memorandum-bills accompanying the delivery
thereof, with the price carried out, at 60 cents per pound, the
whole aggregating $4032. For the shucks he has not been
paid.
"V At the time said contract was made shucks were of the
market value of from $12 to $35 a ton, according to quality,
and whether they were hackled or unhackled, and those furnished by the claimant were of the market value of $35 a ton,
or 11 cents per pound, aggregating, for all that were delivered,
$117.60.
"Conclusion of law Upon the foregoing findings of fact
the court decides, as a conclusion of law, that the claimant is
entitled to recover $117.60 and no more."
The opinion of the court was delivered by Richardson, 0. J.,
21 Ct. 01. 328, who, after stating the facts and pointing out
that the claimant was the only bidder for shucks, says:
"At the time the contract was made shucks were worth
from $12 to 835 a ton, or from 6 mills to 11 cents a pound,
while the claimant was to receive nearly forty tunes as much
as the highest value.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

"That an agreement to pay $1200 a ton for shucks, actually
worth not more than $35 a ton, is a grossly unconscionable
bargain, defined m Bouvier's Law Dictionary to be 'a contradt which no man in his senses, not under delusion, would
make, on the one hand, and which no fair and honest man
would accept on the other,' nobody can doubt. Such a contract, whether founded on fraud, accident, mistake, folly, or
ignorance, is void at common law It is not necessary to invoke the aid of a court of equity to reform it. Courts of law
will always refuse to enforce such a bargain, as against the
public policy of honesty, fair dealing, and good morals."
After citing Story's Equity Jurisprudence, § 18S, James v.
Aforgan, 1 Levinz, 111, Bater v Wales, 12 Mass. 365, and
Leland v Stone, 10 Mass. 459, the opinion thus concludes
"These citations are sufficient to show that in suits upon unconscionable agreements the courts of law will take the matter in their own control, and will, without the intervention of
courts of equity, protect the parties against their enforcement.
"If it be so in suits on contracts between private parties
who act by and for themselves, how much more is it so in
suits on agreements by the United States, acting always
through public officers, who are mere agents, required to act
in good faith towards their principal according to the laws of
the land, as everybody dealing with them is bound to know
"There is no finding by the court of actual fraud by any of
the persons engaged in making the contract now under consideration. The unconscionable price inserted for shucks was
no doubt a mere accident, perhaps from an idea that it was
the price per hundred pounds instead of per pound, as printed
in the proposals and contract, and from neglect to change the
printed words accordingly, which, if it had been done, would
have fixed the price at $12 a ton, the very price which the
fiadings show to have been the lowest value of shucks of any
kind at that time. But, however it may have happened, we
hold, as was held in the case of Leland v Stone, from whlch
we have quoted the words of the court, that a contract may
be held unconscionable without proof of actualfraudat its in.
ception if its enforcement would be unconscionable.

HUME v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"It would be a fraud upon the United States to enforce
such a contract as the one now in suit, and it never can be
done through the Court of Claims."
Judgment was accordingly rendered in favor of the clagimant for $111.60, and both parties appealed.
.M

Robert Okrsty and _Mr Jono

. Fay for Hume.

XAr Assstant Attorney General -Maury for the United
States.
MR. C=iF JusTicE FuLLER delivered the opinion of the

court
In his celebrated judgment in Earl of Cesterf'eld v. Janssen,
2 Yes. Sen. 125, 155, Lord Hardwicke arranged all the forms
of fraud, recognized by equity, in four classes, the first two of
which he gives in these words
"1. Then fraud, which is dolus malus, may be actual, arising from facts and circumstances of imposition, which is
the plainest case. 2. It may be apparent from the intrinsic
nature and subject of the bargain itself, such as no man in
his senses and not under delusion would make on the one
hand, and as no honest and fair man would accept on the
other; which are unequitable and unconscientious bargains,
and of such even the common law has taken notice, for which,
if it would not look a little ludicrous, might be cited James v.
.Morgan, I Lev 111.'
The case referred to by the Lord Chancellor was ruled by
Sir Robert Hyde, then at the head of the King's Bench, and
is reported in I Levinz, 111, in these words:
"Assumpsit to .pay for a Horse a Barley-Corn a Nail, doubling it every Nail, and avers that there were thirty-two Nails in
the Shoes of the Horse, which, being doubled every -Nail, came
to five hundred Quarters of Barley And on .fon-Assumpsit pleaded, the Cause being tried before Hryde at Hereford,
he directed the Jury to give the Value of the Horse in Damages, being £8, and so they did. And it was afterwards moved

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in Arrest of Judgment for a small Fault in thu Declaration,
which was overruled, and Judgment given for the Plaintiff."
James v M1organ is cited by Lord Chief Justice Hlale, 1
Ventris, 261, Lord Bure and Turton, note, to the point that
"upon certain contracts the jury may give less damages than
the debt amounts to," and also in Bacon's Abridgment, Damages, D. 1, together with ThornborougA v. lMhiteacre, 6 Mod.
305, S. C. 2 Ld. Raym. 1164, sub nom. TAornborow v WMhtacre, to the same point, stated thus "Though in contracts the
very sum specified and agreed on is usually given, yet if there
are circumstances of hardship, fraud or deceit, though not sufficient to invalidate the contract, the jury may consider of them
and proportionate and mitigate the damages accordingly"
In Tkornborougk v TF'h-teacre, the plaintiff declared that
the defendant, in consideration of 2s. 6d. paid down, and £4:
17s. 6d. to be paid on the performance of the agreement, promised to give the plaintiff two grains of rye corn on a certain
Monday, and to double it successively on every Monday for a
year, and the defendant demurred to the declaration. Upon
calculation, it was found that, supposing the contract to have
been performed, the whole quantity of rye to be delivered would
be 524,288,000 quarters. The court recognized the case of Jmes
v. .Morgan as good law, and said that though the contract was
a foolish one, the defendant ought to pay something for his
folly "The counsel for the defendant, perceiving the opinion of the court to be against his client, offered the plaintiff
his half crown and his cost, which was accepted of, and so no
judgment was given in the case."
In Leland v Stone, 10 Mass. 459, James v .3.organ and
Thornboroug7&
v Wkateacre are referred to with approbation,
and the principle of mitigating the damages applied, as also in
Cutler v How, 8 Mass. 257, Cutler v Johnson, 8 Mass. 266,
and Baeter v. Wales, 12 Mass. 365. And see Greer v Tweed,
13 Abb. Pr. N. S. 427, and Russell v Roberts, 3 E. D. Smith,
318.
Mr. Justice Swayne remarks, in Scott v. United States, 12
Wall. 443, 445 "Where parties intend to contract by parol,
and there is a misunderstanding as to the terms, neither is

HUME v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

bound, because their minds have not met. Where there is a
written contract and a like misunderstanding is developed, a
court of equity will refuse to execute it. If a contract be unreasonable and unconscionable, but not void for fraud, a court
of law will give to the party who sues for its breach damages,
not according to its letter but only such as he is equitably entitled to. James v Morgan, 1 Lev 111, Tkornborow v WAitacre, 2 Ld. Raym. 1164, Baxter v Wales, 12 Mass. 365."
But James v Morgan and Thornborough v Tliteaore were
plainly cases in which one party took advantage of the other's
ignorance of-arithmetic to impose upon him, and the fraud was
apparent upon the face of the contracts. In the latter case the
defendant, by demurring, admitted that there was no fraud,
and consequently the only question was on the validity of the
contract in the absence of fraud, and it was sustained, but the
plaintiff was allowed to take nominal damages only And as
to many of the cases it may be objected that they are at variance with the rule that a party must recover according to his
contract if he sue upon it, or not at all, although, if the express contract were void, the defendant might nevertheless be
held in general assumpsit, upon the implied contract to pay for
property received from the plaintiff and retained.
The true prnciple deducible from the authorities, and most
consistent with the reason of the thing, seems to be this In
the instance of a special contract which has been wholly executed and the time of payment passed, if the plaintiff proceeds
in general assumpsit, the express contract is only evidence of
the value of the consideration, which is open to attack by the
defendant in reduction of damages. But, where the action is
in special assumpsit, the express promise of the defendant fixes
the measure of damages to which the plaintiff is entitled.
And while the general rule is that the performance of every
contract may be resisted on the ground of fraud, at law as
well as in equity, yet upon a contract of sale, the defendant
having accepted performance, cannot interpose this defence to
defeat the contract, unless he returns the article or proves it
to have been entirely worthless, though he may ordinarily recoup the damages which he can show he has sustained through

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the fraud. And there may be contracts so extortionate and unconscionable on their face as to raise the presumption of fraud
in their inception, or at least to require but slight additional
evidence to justify such presumption. In such cases the natural and irresistible inference of fraud is as efficacious to
maintain the defence at law as to sustain an application for
affirmative relief in equity When this is so, if performance
has been accepted in ignorance and under circumstances excusing the non-return of articles furnished, and these have
some value, the amount sued for may be reduced to that value.
In the case at bar the shucks had been appropriated by the
government before the discovery of the error in the schedule
and the position of the claimant in regard to it, and if the defendant successfully impeached the contract on the ground of
fraud, the judgment for the actual market value of the shucks
was correct, and sustainable under the pleadings.
In order to guard the public against losses and injuries aris7
ing from the fraud or mistake or rashness or indiscretion of
their agents, the rule requires of all persons dealing with public officers, the duty of inquiry as to their power and authority
to bind the government, and persons so dealing must necessarily be held to a recognition of the fact that government
agents are bound to fairness and good faith as between themW/itestde v United States, 93
.selves and their principal.
U. S. 247, 257, United States v Barlow, ante, 271.
If the claimant intended to induce the agents of the government to contract to pay for these shucks thirty-five times their
highest market value, and the agents of the government knowingly entered into such a contract, it will not be denied that
such conduct would be fraudulent and the agreement vitiated
accordingly If the claimant knew that a clerical error had
been committed, of which the agents of the government were
ignorant, and deliberately intended to take advantage of the
error to obtain the execution of a contract for the payment of
so grossly unconscionable a price, or if the facts were such
that he must be held to have known that their action, if understandingly taken, would be in palpable dereliction of their
duty to their principal, and, notwithstanding, sought to profit

