OCTOBER TERTM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

against national banking associations brought after the passage of that act. The present suit was commenced before
that date.
The objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficdent to constitute a cause of action, under the act of Congress,
is not well taken. It might have been more specific, but
enough was alleged to justify the court in overruling the
motion in arrest of judgment. The bank filed its answer, and
went to trial upon the merits; and, as the verdict embraces
only illegal interest taken within the two years next preceding
the commencement of the action, there is no ground to contend that the judgment exceeded the amount that Congress
authorized to be recovered.
XTudgment affirmed.
BOYLAN v. HOT SPRINGS RAILROAD COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 1140. Submitted October 31, 1889. -Decided November

ii, 1889.

The purchaser from a railroad company, at a reduced rate of fare, of a
ticket for a passage to a certain station and back, containing a contract
signed by him, by which he agrees that the ticket is not good for a return passage unless stamped by the agent of the company at that station,
and that no agent or employ6 of the company is authorized to alter,
modify or waive any condition of the contract, is bound by those conditions, whether he knew them or not; and if without having attempted to
have the ticket so stamped, but upon showing it to the baggage-master
and gateman at the station, he has his ticket punched and his baggage
checked, and is admitted to the train, and, upon being told by the conductor that his ticket is not good for want of the stamp, refuses either
to leave the train or to pay full fare, and is forcibly put off at the next
station, he cannot maintain an action sounding in contract against the
company or except to the exclusion, at the trial of such an action, of
evidence concerning the circumstances attending his expulsion and the
consequent injuries to him or ns business.

THIS was an action of assumpsit against a railroad corporation by a person who, after taking passage on one of its
trains, was forcibly expelled by the conductor.

BOYLAN v. HOT SPRI-GS RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

At the trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff testified that
on March 18, 1882, he purchased at the office of the Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company in Chicago a ticket
for a passage to Hot Springs and back, (which is copied in the
margin,' and which, as was alleged in the declaration and
appeared upon the face of the ticket, was then signed by him
as well as by the ticket agent, and witnessed by a third person,) and upon this ticket travelled on the defendant's railroad
to Hot Springs.
He was asked by his counsel when he first actually knew
that the ticket required him to have it stamped at Hot
Springs. The question was objected to by the defendant, and
ruled out by the court.
He further testified that on April 19, 1882, when leaving
Hot Springs on his return to hicago, he went to the baggageoffice and requested the baggage-master to check his baggage,
and, on his asking to see the ticket, showed it to him, and he
thereupon punched the ticket, checked the baggage, and gave
him the checks for it, and also that the gateman asked to see
the ticket, and he showed it to hun. and then passed through
the gate, and took his seat in the cars. This testimony was
objected to by the defendant, on the ground that no statement or action of the baggage-master, or of the gateman,
would constitute a waiver of any of the written conditions of
the contract, and it was admitted by the court, subject to the
objection.
'Issued by Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway. Tourist's special
contract. Good for one first-class passage to Hot Springs, Ark., and return, when officially stamped on the back hereof, and presented with
coupons attached.
In consideration of the reduced rate at which this ticket is sold, I, the
undersigned, agree to and with the several companies over whose lines this
ticket entitles me to be carried, as follows, to wit:
1st. That in selling this ticket the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company acts as agent, and is not responsible beyond its own line.
2d. That this ticket is not transferable, and no stop-over at any intermediate point will be allowed, unless specially provided for by the local
regulations of the lines over which it reads.
3d. That any alteration whatever of this ticket renders it void.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The plaintiff then testified that soon after leaving Hot
Springs the conductor, in taking the tickets of passengers,
came to him, and, upon being shown his ticket, said it was not
good, because he had failed to have it stamped at Hot Springs;
the plaintiff replied that the baggage-master, when checking his
baggage, had said nothing to him about it, and he -did not
know it was necessary, the conductor answered that he must
either go back to Hot Springs and have the ticket stamped, or
else pay full fare, but did not demand any specific sum of fare,
or tell him what the fare was, and upon his refusing to pay
another fare or to leave the train, forcibly put him off at the
next station, notwithstanding he resisted as much as he could,
'
and in so doing injured him in body and health.
4th. That it is good for going passage only five (5) days from date of
sale, as stamped on back and written below.
5th. That it is not good for return passage, unless the holder identifies
himself as the original purchaser, to the satisfaction of the authorized
agent of the Hot Springs Railroad, at Hot Springs, Ark., within fifty-five
(55) days from date of sale; and when officially signed and dated in ink, and
duly stamped by said agent, this ticket shall then be good only five (5) days
from such date.
6th. That I, the original purchaser, hereby agree to sign my name, and
otherwise identify myself as such, whenever called upon to do" so by any
conductor or agent of the line or lines over which this ticket reads.
7th. That baggage liability is limited to wearing apparel not exceeding
$100 in value.
8th. That the coupons belonging to this ticket will not be received for
passage if detached.
9th. That my signature shall be in manuscript and in ink.
10th. That unless all the conditions on this ticket are fully complied
with, it shall be void.
1lth. That I will not hold any of the lines named in this ticket liable for
damages on account of any statement not in accordance with this contract
made by any employ6 of said lines.
12th. And it is especially agreed and understood by me that no agent
or employ6 of any of the lines named in this ticket has any power to
alter, modify or waive in any manner any of the conditions named in this
coitract.
P C. BoYLx.
Signature:
H. C. KEMTR .
Witness.
Date of sale, March i8th, 1882.
GEO. H1.
DANIELS,
Gea'l Ticet Agent.

BOYLAN v. rOT SPRINGS RAILROAD CO.

149

Citations for Defendant in Error.

On motion of the defendant, upon the grounds, among
others, that this was an action of assumpsit for breach of contract, and that the plaintiff failed to produce to the conductor
a ticket or voucher which entitled him to be carried on the
train, and that until the plaintiff identified himself at the office
at Hot Springa and had the ticket stamped and signed by the
agent there, he had no subsisting contract between himself and
the defendant for a return passage to Chicago, the court
declined to permit the plaintiff to testify to the consequent
injury to his business and to his ability to earn money, excluded
all evidence offered as to the force used in removing him from
the train, and as to his expulsion from the train, (although
corresponding to allegations inserted in the declaration,) and
directed a verdict for the defendant.
The plaintiff excepted to the rulings of the court, and, after
verdict and judgment for the defendant, sued out this writ of
error.
2r C'karles CarrollBonney, for plaintiff in error, submitted
on his brief, citing State v Overton, 4 Zabr. (24 N. J Law)
435, iS. ( 61 Am. Dec. 671, Stokes v Saltonstall, 13 Pet. 181,
Jenntngs v GreatNorthern Railway, L. R. 1 Q. B. 7, Bass v.
Chicago & 3Torthwestern Railway, 36 Wisconsin, 450, Butler
v Manchester cc. Railway, 21 Q. B. D 207, Lamberton v Connecttcut Insurance Co., 39 Minnesota, 129; Hunter v Stewart,
47 Maine, 419, Goddard v Grand Trunk Railway, 57 Maine,
202, Brewster v. Tan-Liew, 119 Illinois, 551, Chcago & Alton
Railroadv Pillsbury, 123 Illinois, 9, Philadelphia,& Readsng Railroadv Derby, 14 How 468, Steamboat NT)ew World
v King, 16 How 469 , Fork Company v Railroad Co., 3
Wall. 107, Railroad Co.v Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357.
.r G TV Kretzinger, for defendant in error, submitted
on his brief, citing _Wosher v St. Louis &c. Railway, 127
U. S. 390, Petrie v. Pennsylvania Railroad, 42 N. J. Law
(13 Vroom), 449, Bradshaw v South Boston Railroad, 135
Mass. 407, Frederck v lMarquette &c. Railroad Co., 37
Michigan, 342, Forton v. Milwaukee, Lake Shore &c. Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

way, 54 Wisconsin, 234, helton v. Lake Shore &e. Railway,
29 Ohio St. 214, Pittsburg & St..Louts Railway v Nuzxam,
60 Indiana, 533, -Meoure v Philade phsa, Tilmsngton and
Baltimore Rail'oad,34 Maryland, 532.
MR. JusTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of th6 court.
This is an action of assumpsit, and cannot be maintained
without proof of a breach of contract by the defendant to
carry the plaintiff. The only contract between the pafties was
an express one, signed by the plaintiff himself as well as by the
defendant's agent at Chicago, and contained in a ticket for a
passage to Hot Springs and back. The plaintiff, having
assented to that contract by accepting and signing it, was
bound by the conditions expressed in it, whether he did or did
not read them or know what they were. The question, when
he first knew that the ticket required him to have it stamped
at Hot Springs, was therefore rightly excluded as immaterial.
By the express conditions of the plaintiff's contract, he had
no right to a return passage under his ticket, unless it bore the
signature and stamp of the defendant's agent at Hot Springs,
and no agent or employe of the defendant was authorized to
alter, modify or waive any condition of the contract.
Nheither the action of the baggage-master in punching the
ticket and checking the plaintiff's baggage, nor that of the
gateman in admitting him to the train, therefore, could bind
the defendant to carry him, or estop it to deny-his right to be
carried.
The plaintiff did not have his ticket stamped at Hot Springs,
or make any attempt to do so, but insisted on the right to
make the return trip under the unstamped ticket, and without
paying further fare. As he absolutely declined to pay any
such fare, the fact that the conductor did not inform him of its
amount is immaterial.
The unstamped ticket giving him no right to a return passage,
and he not having paid, but absolutely refusing to pay, the
usual fare, there was no contract in force between him and
the defendant to carry him back from Hot Springs.

BOYLAN v. HOT SPRINGS RAILROAD CO.

151

Opinion of the Court.

There being no such contract in force, there could be no
breach of it, and no breach of contract being shown, this
action of assumpsit, sounding in contract only, and not in tort,
cannot be maintained to recover any damages, direct or consequential, for the plaintiff's expulsion from the defendant's train.
The plaintiff, therefore, has not been prejudiced by the exclusion of the evidence concerning the circumstances attending his
expulsion and the consequent injuries to him or his business.
The case is substantially governed by the judgment of this
court in .Mfosher v St. -Louis, Iron .Mountain & Southern
Railway, 127 U S. 390, and our conclusion in the case at bar
is in accord with the general current of decision in the courts
of the several States. See, besides the cases cited at the end
of that judgment, the following Churchill v Chicago &
Alton Railroad, 67 Illinois, 390, Petrie v Pennsylvania
Railroad, 13 Vroom, 449, Pennington v _Philade4pza, Tilmzngton & Baltimore Railroad,62 Maryland, 95, Rawitzky
v Louisville & Nashville Railroad,40 La. Ann. 47.
Nor was anything inconsistent with this conclusion-decided
in either of the English cases relied on by the learned counsel for the plaintiff. Each of those cases turned upon the
validity and effect of a by-law made by the railway company,
not of a contract signed by the plaintiff, and otherwise essentially differed from the case at bar.
In Jennings v Great .Aorthern Railway, L. R. 1 Q .B. 7, the
by-law required every passenger to obtain a ticket before entering the train, and to show and deliver up his ticket whenever demanded. The plaintiff took a ticket for himself, as well
as tickets for three horses and three boys attending them,
oy a particular train, which was afterwards divided into two,
in the first of which the plaintiff travelled, taking all the
tickets with him, and when the second train was about to
start, the boys were asked to produce their tickets, and, being
unable to do so, were prevented by the company's servants
from proceeding with the horses. An action by the plaintiff
against the company for not carrying his servants was sustained, because the company contracted with him only, and
delivered all the tickets to him, and Lord Ohief Justice Cook-

