OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the law a part of his compensation, were, in fact, an appropriation of that amount by the State each month to the creation
of a fund for the benefit of the police officers named m that
law, and, until used for the purposes designed, could be transferred to other parties and applied to different purposes by the
legislature.
Judgment affirmed.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANTY v. ALABAMA STATE BOARD OF ASSESSMENT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALAlAiA.

No. 115. Submitted'November 15, 1889. -Decided December 16,1889.
No tax can be imposed by a State upon telegraphic messages sent by a
company which has accepted the provisions of Rev. Stat. §§ 5263-5268,
or upon the receipts derived therefrom, where the communication is
carried,, either into the State from without, or from within the State to
another State.
A. statute of Alabama imposed a tax "on the gross amount of the receipts
by any and every telegraph company derived from the business done by it
in this State." The Western Union Telegraph Company reported to the
board of assessors only its gross receipts received from business wholly
transacted within the State. The board requued of the company a further return of its gross receipts from messages carried partly within and
partly without the State. The company made such further return and
the taxwas imposed upon its gross receipts as shown bythe two returns;
Held, that the statute of Alabama thus construed was a regulation of
commerce, and that the tax imposed upon the messages comprised in the
second return was unconstitutional.

THE facts which raised the federal question are stated in the
opinion.
Hr Gaylord B. Olark and Mr Thomas G Jones for plaintiff m error.
_MP John T .Aforgan for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Alabama.

W U. TELEGRAPH CO. v. ALABAAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

The question on winch the jurisdiction of this court depends
has been decided in this court so frequently of late years, several of the decisions having been made since the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Alabama was delivered, that but little
remains to be said in the present case except to show that it
comes within the principles of the cases referred to.
That principle is.m regard to telegraph companies which
have accepted the provisions of the Act of Congress of July
24, 1866, sections 5263 to 5268 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, that they shall not be taxed by the authorities
of a State for any messages, or receipts arising from messages,
from points within the State to points without or from points
without the State to points within, but that such taxes may
be levied upon all messages carried and delivered exclusively
within the State. The foundation of this principle is that messages of the former class are elements of commerce between
the States and not subject to legislative control of the States,
while the latter class are elements of internal commerce solely
withm the limits and jurisdiction of the State, and therefore
subject to its taxing power. The following cases in this court
have fully developed and established this proposition. Pensacola Tel. Co. v Western Unson Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1, Telegraph
Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, Wfestern Unton Tel. Co. v Xlas,sachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Ratterman v Western Unton Tel.
Co., 127 U. S. 411, Ieloup v Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640,
Fargov. iickgan, 121 U. S. 230, PhiladelpkhaandSouthern
Steamslap Co. v. Pennsylvanta, 122 U. S. 326.
The plaintiff in error instituted its proceedings in the state
court by a writ of certiorari, directed to E. A. O'lNeal, governor, C. C. Langdon, secretary of state, M. C. Burke, auditor, and Frederick H. Smith, treasurer, composing the state
board of assessment, for the purpose of correcting the error
which they had made in an assessment for taxation of the
gross receipts of the company This board was invested by
the law of Alabama with authority to assess for taxation the
items of property of railroad companies returned to the auditor
of the state, (section 13 of the act approved February 17, 1885,
Laws of 1884-5, p. 1,) and by section 15 of the same act a sim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ilar authority is conferred upon it in reference to telegraph
companies whose lines, or any part thereof, are within the
State. By an act to levy taxes for the use of the State, and
the counties thereof, approved December 12, 1884, it is declared by subdivision 6, section 1, that a tax shall 'be levied
"on the gross amount of the receipts by any and every telegraph, telephone, electric light and express company, derived
from the business done by it in this State, at the rate of two
dollars on the hundred dollars." The telegraph company in
making its report of gross receipts to this board of assessment
included only those received from business transacted wholly
within the State of Alabama. The board were not willing to
accept this report, and required the company to make report
of its receipts from all messages, whether carried wholly within
or partly without the State, and, against the remonstrances
of the company, decided that this sum should be the amount
on which the tax of two per cent should be paid. It was to
correct the supposed error of this assessment that the writ of
certwrarz. was issued by the Circuit Court of Montgomery
County to the governor and others constituting that board of
assessment. That court held the assessment valid, and made
an order quashing the writ of certiorart and dismissing the
proceeding. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State
this decision was affirmed, (80 Alabama, 273,) and the case is
now before us, on a writ of error, to review that judgment of
affirmance. In the opinion of the Supreme Court of Alabama,
which is found in the record, the point mainly discussed is the
construction of the tax law, in regard to the meaning of the
words "gross receipts derived from business done in this State,"
and also whether, "if that means all the receipts of the company for business having connection with lines within the State,
it is consistent with the constitution of Alabama." Of these
questions this court has no jurisdiction, but, having decided
that the statute, by fair interpretation, included all receipts derived from business done in the State, and actually received
there, though the message may have been delivered at, or may
have been sent for delivery from, some office out of the jurisdiction of the State, the court proceeds: "Though thus con-

W U. TELEGRA1PH CO. v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

strued, the statute is not an unauthorized interference with
interstate commerce. This question is fully and ably considered
and discussed in the following cases: Western Urnsom, Tel. Co.
v. Richmond, 26 Grattan, 1, WVestern Unwn Tel. Co. v. State,
55 Texas, 314, Western, Unzon Tel. Co. v -Mayer,28 Ohio St.
521, and Port of .Mobile v Leloup, 76 Alabama, 401, and is
expressly decided in respect to a tax on the gross receipts of
railroad companies, they consisting in part of freights received
for transportation of merchandise from the state to another
state, or into the state from another, in State Tax on Railway
Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284, and in Osborne v AMobile, 16
Wall. 479." 80 Alabama, 281.
It will be observed that the authorities relied on by the Supreme Court of Alabama to sustain its judgment in this case
are mostly decisions of state courts. The case of The Western
Union Tel. Co. v State, 55 Texas, 314, and the case of Portof
-Mobilev Leloup, 76 Alabama, 401, have been reversed by the
decisions of this court in the same cases on writ of error to the
state courts. Of the cases already referred to as establishing
the proposition which we have stated in the early part of this
opinion, those of Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 96 U S. 1, Telegraph Co. v Texas, 105 U. S. 460, lgestern
Union Tel. Co. v. .Massachusetts,125 U. S. 530; Ratterman v
Vestern, Union Tel. Co., 127 U. S. 411, and Leloup v. Port of
.2lobile, 127 U. S. 640, are all cases in regard to taxes upon
telegraph compames by state authorities, and all of them hold
that no tax can be imposed upon messages, or upon the redepts derived from messages, where the communication is
carried either into the state from without, or from within the
state to another state.
In the earliest of these cases, Pensacola Tel. Co. v Western
Unton, Tel. Co., the statute of Florida had attempted to confer upon a corporation of its own state, the Pensacola Telegraph Company, an exclusive right of doing the telegraph
business within that state. This court held, affirming the
judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for that
district, that this statute was a regulation of commerce among
the States forbidden by the Constitution of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

to the State of Florida. In the next case, that of the Telegraph Co. v. Texas, in which that State had imposed a tax of
one cent for every full rate message sent, and one-half cent for
every message less than full rate, on the business of the Western Union Telegraph Company, many of the messages were
by the officers of the government on public business, and a
large portion of them were to places outside of the state.
The company contested the constitutionality of this law, and
the case came to this court, where it was said that a telegraph
company occupies the same relation to commerce as a carrier
of messages, that a railroad does as a carrier of goods: Both
companies are carriers, and their business is commerce itself.
The court then went on to consider the authorities, and said
further that it followed that the judgment under review, so
far as it included the messages sent out of the state or for the
government on public business, was erroneous. The rule that
the regulation of commerce, which is confined exclusively
within the jurisdiction and territory of the State, and does not
affect other nations or states, that is to say, the purely internal
commerce of the State, belongs exclusively to the State, was
said to be as well settled as that the regulation of commerce,
which does not affect other nations or states or Indian tribes,
belongs to Congress. The judgmentof the Supreme Court of
Texas was, therefore, reversed.
The case of Western Uzwon Tel. Co. v 31assc husetts was a
question growing out of the taxation of the telegraph company
by the State of Massachusetts, and the same principle we have
already considered was asserted in that case, after a general
review of the authorities upon the subject.
In Ratterman v TFestern Uwnzo Tel. Co., the same question
arose on a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Ohio, where, after a full review
of the whole siib.ject, this court said that there was really no
question, under the decisions of this court, in regard to the
proposition that so far as a tax was levied upon receipts properly appurtenant to interstate commerce it was void, and
that so far as it was only upon commerce wholly within the
State it was valid. The commerce here mentioned was tele-

W U. TELEGRATH CO. v. ALABAMA._
Opinion of the Court.

graph business, and the receipts were receipts for telegraph
messages. This case arose upon a certificate of division of the
judges who presided at the trial, and in remanding the case
the court said. "We answer the question in regard to which
the judges of the Circuit Court divided in opinion, by saying
that a single tax, assessed under the Revised Statutes of Ohio,
upon the receipts of a telegraph company which were derived
partly from interstate commerce and partly from commerce
within the State, but which were returned and assessed in gross,
and without separation or apportionment, is not wholly invalid,
but is invalid only in proportion to the extent that such receipts
were derived from interstate commerce ," and, concurring
with the circuit judge in his action, enjoining the collection of
the taxes on that portion of the receipts derived from interstate commerce, and permitting the treasurer to collect the
other tax upon property of the company and upon receipts
derived from commerce entirely within the limits of the state,
the decree was affirmed.
In the subsequent case, Leloup v Port of -Mobile, found in
the same volume, the question arose upon a conviction under
the statute of Alabama on an indictment for failing to take
out a license tax by the telegraph company, imposed by the
city of Mobile on all telegraph companies. Edward Leloup,
the agent of the company, was convicted under this proceeding, his conviction affirmed by the Supreme Court of Alabama,
and its judgment brought to this court on writ of error. This
court held that, his company having complied with the act of
Congress of July 24. 1866, the State could not require it to
take out a license for the transaction of business in the city,
and that a general license tax on the telegraph company affected its entire business, interstate as well as domestic and
internal, and was unconstitutional.
We think these cases are so directly in point on the questions arising in the present case that they must control, and as
the record of the case presents the means by which the receipts arising from commerce wholly within the State, and
from that which, under these definitions, may be called inter-

