IDAHO AND OREGON LAND CO. v. BRADBURY.

509

Counsel for Parties.

TDAEO AND OREGON LAND IMPROVEMENT COMPANY v. BRADBURY
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IDAHO.
No. 105. Submitted November 13, 1889.-Decided December 23,1899.

Where the certificate of authentication of a record transmitted to thins court
on appeal begins by setting out the name and office of the clerk of the
court below as the maker of the certificate, and has appended to it the
seal of the court, but lacks the signature of the clerk, this court has jurisdiction of the appeal, and, if no motion to disiss is made until it is
too late to take a new appeal, will permit the certificate to be amended
by adding the clerk's signature.
Under the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, § 2, an appeal, and not a writ of error,
lies to this court from the decree of a territorial court in a proceeding in
the nature of a suit in equity, although issues of fact have been submitted to a jury.
On appeal from the decree of a territorial court in a proceeding in the
nature of a suit in equity tins court cannot consider the weight or sufliciency of evidence, but only whether the facts found by the court below
support the decree, and whether there is any error in rulings, duly excepted to, on the admission or rejection of evidence.
A suit to enforce a mechanic's lien under a territorial statute authorizing the
court to order the real estate subject to the lien to be sold, and any
deficiency to be paid by the owner, as in suits for the foreclosure of
mortgages, is in the nature of a suit in equity.
A court of equity need not formally set aside the verdict of a jury upon
issues submitted to it, before making a decree according to its own new
of the evidence.
In a suit in the nature of a suit in equity, a territorial court, after a jury
has found upon special issues submitted to it, and has also returned a
general verdict, may set aside the general verdict, and substitute its own
findings of fact for the special findings of the jury.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr C. TF .Uolomb and -Mr ±7 H. .AcGowan for appellant.
Mr Samuel Shlellabargei' and 3> dkremzak At. Wilson for
appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Mm. JunSTc GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced by Bradbury and Reinhart against
the Idaho and Oregon Land Improvement Company by a complaint filed in a district court of the Territory of Idaho on
September 24, 1883, alleging, in substance, that on April 13,
1883, the parties made an agreement in writing, by which the
plaintiffs agTeed to construct, upon the defendant's land, and on
a line designated by the defendant's engineer in charge of the
work, a ditch four miles long, eight feet wide and two feet
deep, and of a certain grade and slope, at certain prices by the
cubic yard for the material moved, and on other terms expressed in the agreement (a copy of which was annexed), that
on May 17, 1883, the parties made a supplemental agreement
(a, copy of which was also annexed) increasing the rate of compensation in some respects, that on June 1, 1883, after the
ditch had been completed by the plaintiffs and accepted by the
defendant, the parties came to a settlement, upon which it was
ascertained and agreed that there was due from the defendant
to the plaintiffs the sum of $16,774.49, of which $10,000 was
paid, and for the rest of which the defendant gave its acceptance for the sum of $6774.49, payable in fifteen days, which
was duly presented at maturity, but m no part paid, and on
June 27, 1883, was protested for nonpayment, and that sum,
with interest at the rate of one and a half per cent a month,
was now due from the defendant to the plaintiffs; and that
the plaintiffs, in order to perfect a lien on the ditch and adjoining land as security for the payment of that sum, on July 12,
1883, filed with the recorder of the county, as required by
chapter 48 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Idaho Territory,
a claim (a copy of which was annexed to the complaint) stating the substance of the original and supplemental contracts,
and the balance due as aforesaid.
The complaint prayed for judgment directing a sale of the
premises, and the application of theproceeds to the payment,
of the plaintiffs' claim, with interest as aforesaid, and costs,
and twenty per cent damages, as provided by the statutes of
the Territory, and also to the payment of the holders of any

IDAHO AND OREGON LAND CO. v. BRADBURY.

511

Opinion of the Court.

other liens who might come m, and that the plaintiffs might
have judgment against the defendant for any deficiency in the
proceeds of such sale to satisfy the amount due them, and for
further relief.
The answer denied the completion of the ditch by the plaintiffs and its acceptance by the defendant, or that there was
due from the defendant to the plaintiffs more than the sum of
$500, and alleged that, if any settlement was made between
the parties, it was under a misapprehension of facts caused by
false and fraudulent statements of the plaintiffs that the ditch
had been completed according to the contracts.
The court submitted several special issues to a jury, who
found some of them in favor of the plaintiffs and -failed to
agree upon others, and returned a general verdict for the
plaintiffs m the sum of $1274.49 and interest.
The court set aside the general verdict, and made and -filed
findings of fact, adopting as part thereof the findings of the
jury as far as they went, and substantially supporting all the
allegations of the complaint, and from the facts so found
made the following conclusions of law
"1st. That the plaintiffs are entitled to a judgment for the
sum of $10,107.52, and for costs, which includes the sum
found due, interest, and protest damages.
"2d. That the plaintiffs are entitled to a decree of foreclosure
of the lien set forth in their complaint, and it is so ordered."
By the final decree, rendered at a hearing upon the pleadings "and upon the proofs, records and evidence produced by
the respective parties, and the court havng heard the proofs
necessary to enable it to render judgment herein, and it appearing to the court from the proofs herein that there is now
due to the plaintiffs from the defendant the sum of $10,107.52,
for principal, damages and interest upon the debt set forth
in the complaint, and that all the allegations in the complaint
are true," the court ordered a sale of the premises by public
auction, the payment, out of the proceeds, to the plaintiffs, of
the sum of $10,107.52, with costs, and interest at the rate of
ten per cent from the date of the decree, and the amount
of any deficiency to be paid by the defendant to the plaintiffs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

The defendant moved for a new trial for "insufliciency of
the evidence to justify the verdict and findings," as well as
for "errors m law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to."
Upon this motion, the defendant fied a statement, which
was certified by the judge as "the statement of the case," and
contained parts of the testimony given and offered at the trial,
and exceptions of the defendant to its admission or exclusion,
instructions given to the jury and excepted to by the defendant, and a specification of twenty-one errors, touching the
rulings upon evidence and the instructions to the jury, and the
sufficiency of the evidence m the case and the findings of the
jury to support the court's findings of fact and conclusions of
law
The defendant's motion for a new trial was overruled, and
the defendant excepted to the ruling, and appealed "from the
judgment and decree of foreclosure and sale" to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, which adjudged "that the judgment
of the court below be affirmed, and that the decree for foreclosure of mechamc's lien be modified so as that the lien shall
hold only for the judgment, less the protest damages." 10
Pacific Reporter, 620. The defendant claimed an appeal, and
sued out a writ of error.
In order to give this court jurisdiction of an appeal or writ
of error, "an authenticated transcript of the record" of the
court below must doubtless be filed in this court at the return
term. Rev Stat. § 997, Pdmonson v Bloomskhre, 7 Wall.
306.
In the case before us, a motion to dismiss is now made, on
the ground that the record is not authenticated, because
neither the clerk nor the deputy clerk made the return " u n der
his hand," as well as under the seal of the court, as required
by IRule 8 of this court.
In support of this motion, reliance is placed on BZitz v
Br'own, 7 Wall. 693, m which the only certificate of authentication was a blank form, wanting both the seal of the court
below and the signature of the clerk, so that there was really
nb authentication whatever, and this court therefore dismissed the writ of error, but permitted the plaintiff in error

IDAHO AID OREGON LAND CO. v. BRADBURY.

,513

Opinion of the Court

to withdraw the record for the purpose of suing out a new
writ.
But in the case at bar the certificate not only begins with
setting out the name and office of the clerk as the maker of
the certificate, but has appended to it the seal of the court,
and lacks only the clerk's signature to make it conform to the
best precedents. The question presented is not one of no authentication, but of irregular or imperfect authentication, not
of jurisdiction, but of practice. It is therefore within the discretion of this court to allow the defect to be supplied. Considering that the motion to dismiss was not made until it was
too late to take a new appeal or writ of error, justice requires
that the record should be permitted to be withdrawn for the
purpose of having the certificate of authentication perfected by
adding the signature of the clerk.
In Idaho, as m other Territories, there is but one form of
civil action, in which either legal or equitable remedies, or
both, may be administered, through the intervention of a jury,
or by the court itself, according to the nature of the relief
sought, provided, however, that no party can be "deprived of
the right of trial by jury m cases cognizable at common law"
Rev. Stat. "§ 1868, Act of Congress of April 7, 1874, c. 80,
§-1, 18 Stat. 27, Idaho Code of Civil Procedure of 1881, §§ 138,
139, 230, 309, 353, Ely v. _Hew -tMexwo Railroad,129 UT. S. 291.
Congress has prescribed that the appellate jurisdiction of
this court over "judgments and decrees" of the Territorial
courts, "in cases of trial by jury shall be exercised by writ of
error, and in all other cases by appeal ;" and "on appeal, instead of the evidence at large, a statement of the facts of the
case in the nature of a special verdict, and also the rulings of the
court on the admission or rejection of evidence when excepted
to, shall be made and certified by the court below," and transmitted to this court with the transcript of the record. Act of

April 7, 1874, c. 80, § 2, IS Stat. 27, 28.
The necessary effect of this enactment is that no judgment
or decree of the highest court of a Territory can be reviewed
by this court in matter of fact, but only in matter of law As
observed by Chief Justice Waite, "We are not to consider the
VoL. cxxx-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

testimony in any case. Upon a writ of error, we are confined
to the bill of exceptions, or questions of law otherwise presented by the record, and upon an appeal, to the statement
of facts and rulings certified by the court below The facts
set forth in the statement which must come up with the appeal
are conclusive on us." .Hecht v Boughton, 105 U. S. 285,
236.
The provision of this act, permitting a writ of error "in
cases of trial by jury" only, evidently has regard to a trial by
jury, as in an action at common law, in which there is and
must be a trial by jury, and the court is not authorized to try
and determine the facts for itself, unless a jury is waived by
the parties according to statute, and has no application to a
trial of special issues submitted to a jury in a proceeding in
the nature of a suit in equity, not as a matter of right, or to
settle the issues of fact, but at the discretion of the court, and
simply to inform its conscience, and to aid it in making up its
own judgment upon the facts, and the real trial of the facts is
by the court and not by a jury In all proceedings in the
Territorial courts in the nature of suits in equity, therefore, as
well as in those proceedings in the nature of actions at common law in which no trial by jury is had, (either because a
jury has been duly waived, or because the issues tried are issues
of law only,) the appellate jurisdiction of this court must be
invoked by appeal, and not by writ of error. Dams v Alvord,
94 U. S. 545, Dams v Frederzeks, 104 U S. 618, Sto2y v
Black, 119 U. S. 235.
It must also be borne in mind that, as already seen, in either
class of cases, whether equitable or legal, coming up by appeal
from a Territorial court after a hearing or trial on the facts,
the evidence at large cannot be brought up, (as it is in cases in
equity from the Circuit Courts of the United States,) but only
"a statement of facts in the nature of a special verdict," and
rulings made at the trial, and duly excepted to, on the admission or rejection of evidence. Consequently the authority
of this court, on appeal from a Territorial "court, is limited to
determining whether the court's findings of fact support its
judgment or decree, and whether there is any error in rulings,

IDAHO AND OREGON LAND CO. v. BRADBURY. 515
Opinion of the Court.
duly excepted to, on the admission or rejection of evidence,
and does not extend to a consideration of the weight of evidence, or its sufficiency to support the conclusions of the court.
Strzngfellow v Cain, 99 U S. 610, Cannon v. Pratt,99 U. S.
619; .Yeslin v. WYells, 104 U S. 428, Hecht v Boughton, 105
U. S. 235, 236, Gray v Howe, 108 U. S. 12, Pilers v. Boatman, 111 U. S. 356, Zeckendorfv Johnson, 123 U-. S. 617.
The present suit was brought to enforce a mechanic's lien
created by the statutes of the Territory, which authorize the
court in such a suit to order both a sale of the real estate that
is subject to the lien, and judgment against the owner thereof
for any deficiency m the proceeds of the sale, "in like manner
and with like effect as in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages." Idaho Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 815, 826. The
relief provided for in those statutes, sought by the complaint,
and granted by the court, was purely equitable, and the proceeding was in the nature of a suit in equity
CanaI Co. v.
Gordon, 6 Wall. 561, Dams v Alvord, 94 U. S. 545, B'ewster
v. Wakefield, 22 How 118, 128, Walker v ])reville, 12 Wall.
440,
famn v Zalley, 17 Wall. 14, Rule 92 in Equity
The district court so treated the case, as is evident from its
having made its own findings of fact on some of the questions
at issue, and having based its decree, not upon the findings of
the jury, but upon the proofs produced at the final hearingneither of which would it have been authorized to do, had the
suit been in the nature of an action at common law, the parties
not having waived a trial by jury
At1organ v. Gay, 19 Wall.
81, Bodges v EFaston, 106 U. S. 408, Baylies v Travellers'
Ins. Co., 113 U. S. 316, Act of Congress of April 7, 18,74, c.
80, § 1, 18 Stat. 27, Idaho Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 361,
389.
The writ of error must therefore be dismissed, and the case
considered as pending upon the appeal alone. Stringfellow v
Cain, 99 U. S. 610, 612.
The case being one of equitable jurisdiction only, the court
was not bound to submit any issue of fact to the jury, and,
having done so, was at liberty to disregard the verdict and
findings of the jury, either by setting them or any of them

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

aside, or by letting them stand, and allowing them more or
less weight in its final hearing and decree, according to its
own view of the evidence in the cause. By the settled course
of decision in this court, it is not necessary that a court of
equity should formally set aside the verdict or finding of a
jury, before proceeding to enter a decree which does not conform to it. Prout v. Roby, 15 Wall. 471, 475, Basey v GalZagher, 20 Wall. 670, Garsed v Beall, 92 U S. 684, 695,
Johnson v. Harmon, 94 U. S. 371, 372, Watt v Starke, 101
U. S. 247, 252, Qunby v conlan, 104 U S. 420, 424, Wilson
v Riddle, 123 U S. 608, 615.
The case of Basey v Gallagher,just cited, is quite analogous
to the case at bar. In a suit brought in a district court of the
Territory of fontana for an injunction against the diversion
of a running stream in which the plaintiff asserted a right by
prior appropriation for the purpose of irrigation, the court submitted specific issues to a jury, and afterwards heard the case
upon the pleadings and proofs and the findings of the jury, and
rendered a decree for the plaintiffs, in which it disregarded
some of those findings and adopted others, and that decree
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, and by
this court on appeal, notwithstanding a provision m the statutes of that Territory, (similar to § 361 of the Idaho Code of
Civil Procedure,) that in civil actions "an issue of fact must be
tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived."
The action of the district court of the Territory of Idaho,
therefore, in setting aside the general verdict, and substituting
its own findings of fact for the special findings of the jury, was
a lawful exercise of its equitable jurisdiction, the propriety of
which cannot be reviewed by this court, and it is quite immaterial whether the general verdict was consistent with the findings of the jury, or with the evidence introduced at the trial.
The only other matters specified or argued in the brief of the
appellant are two exceptions to the admission or rejection of
evidence.
The first exception was to the admission of evideiice, offered
by the plaintiffs, tending to show that by the direction and
with the consent of one Case, the defendant's vice-president

IDAHO AND OREGON LAND CO. v. BRADBURY.

517

Opinion of the Court.

and general manager, and under the supervision of the defendant's engineer, the ditch was made ten feet wide and three
feet deep, whereas the original contract annexed to the complaint was for a ditch eight feet wide and two feet deep. .But
the supposed variance between the complaint and the proof
did not exist. The complaint did not proceed upon the written
contracts alone, but upon the defendant's acceptance of the
ditch and the subsequent settlement between the parties. And
the court found, as facts, that the changes in the dimensions of
the ditch were made with the knowledge and consent of Case,
and before the execution of the supplemental agreement, that
the ditch, when completed, was accepted by the defendant
through its general manager, and had ever since been appropriated and used by the defendant, that the settlement between the parties was based upon estimates and measurements
made by the defendant's engineer in charge of the construction
of the ditch, and that there was no fraud or misrepresentation
on the part of the plaintiffs in or concerning that settlement.
The other exception was to the exclusion of testimony,
offered by the defendant, of one Strahorn, its general manager
at the time of the completion and acceptance of the ditch, and
who had previously been its treasurer, tending to show that,
at the time of the execution of the original contract, the plaintiffs were informed by him that Case had no authority from
the defendant to contract for a ditch of larger dimensions than
those specified in that contract. But it was a sufficient reason
for excluding that testimony, that the offer was only to show
that the plaintiffs were told that Case had no authority to vary
the dimensions of the ditch, and was unaccompanied by any
offer of evidence that Case had in fact no such authority, and
at the tme of the offer no evidence as to the actual authority
of Case appears to have been introduced, and the offer to
prove the information given to the plaintiffs was not renewed
after the court had allowed Strahorn, against objection and
exception by the plaintiffs, to testify that neither he nor Case
had any authority from the defendant's board of directors to
enlarge the dimensions of the ditch, and that the board had
never ratified the enlargement of the ditch.

