JACKSON v. ALLEN.
Statement of the Case.

but from the reason of the thing and the proper application
of the principles of the law, that the course pursued in the
court below was free from error.
These are all the questions which it -is deemed important to
discuss, and the result is that
The judgment must be afflrmed, and it w 8o ordered.

JACKSON v. ALLEN.
BROWN v. ALLEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
los. 44, 45. Argued October 22, 23, 18S9.-Decided October 28, 1889.

When it appears from the record in this court in a cause commenced in a
state court, and removed to a Circuit Court of the United States on
the ground of diverse citizenship, and proceeded in to judgment there,
that the citizenship of the parties at the time of the commencement of
the action, as well as at the time of filing the petition for removal, was
not sufficiently shown, and that therefore the jurisdiction of the state
court was never divested, the defect cannot be cured by amendment,
and the judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed at the cost of the
plaintiff in error, and the cause remitted to that court with directions to
remand it to the state court.

THIs action was commenced June -7,
1884, in the Civil District Court, parish of Orleans, Louisiana, by petition as follows:
"The petition of Allen, West and Bush, a commercial firm
doing business in the city of New Orleans and composed of
James H. Allen, Thomas H. West, and John C. Bush, respectfully shows "That your petitioners sold to Alfred F Jones, to be paid for
cash on delivery, and delivered to him on the 4th day of June,
1884, certain two hundred and sixty-eight (268) bales of cotton
of the price and value of twelve thousand six hundred and
sixty-five
, $12,665.25, dollars, all of which more fully ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

pears and is set forth in the detailed account marked ' Exhibit
A' and hereto annexed as part of this petition.
"That said defendant has failed and neglected to pay and
now refuses to pay for said cotton, save and except the sum of
eighteen hundred dollars ($1800) paid on account of and in deduction of said purchase price, leaving said purchase price now
due and owing the full sum of ten thousand eight hundred and
sixty-five
dollars ($10,865.25).
"That your petitioners have special lien and privilege on said
cotton for the payment of said purchase price thereof, that
the same is now in possession of William J-ackson, master of
and bailee of the owners of the steamship called the 'Counsellor,' lying at the port of Orleans, that petitioners fear
that pending this suit the said Alfred F Jones and said William
Jackson, master of said steamship called the 'Counsellor,'
bailee of her owners, will part with, conceal, or dispose of said
cotton, which is an agricultural product of the United States,
and was sold as aforesaid in the city of New Orleans, or will
remove the same out of the State or beyond the jurisdiction of
this honorable court, and that they will thereby lose their
vendors' lien and privilege thereon.
'CWherefore, the annexed bond and affidavit considered, petitioners pray that a writ of sequestration issue directed to and
requiring the civil sheriff of the parish of Orleans to seize and
to hold the cotton as aforesaid, in whatsoever hands or place
the same may be found, subject to the further order of this
honorable court, that said Alfred F Jones and said William
Jackson, master of the steamship 'Counsellor' and as bailee
of her owners, be hereby cited to answer this petition, and,
after due proceedings, that petitioners have judgment against
said Alfred F Jones and against the said William Jackson,
master of said steamship and bailee of her owner mt solido, in
the sum of ten thousand eight hundred and sixty-five 2
dollars, (10,865.25,) with legal interest thereon from judicial
demand until paid, and for costs, with special lien and privilege
upon said cotton sold and seized for the payment of said judgment. They pray for all general relief.
"CAs. S. RicE,
Of Counsel."

JACKSON v. ALLEN.
Statement of the Case.

I

On the '7th of June the writ of sequestration was ordered to
issue and did issue. Thereupon, on the 11th of June, the following petition was filed in the cause
"The petition of intervention and third opposition of Brown
Bros. & Co., a commercial firm domiciled m and doing business in the city of New York and State of New York and
composed of citizens of said State, vzz., James M. Brown,
Charles D. Dickey, Howard Potter, John Crosby Brown,
John Edgar Johnson, Stewart Henry Brown, Alexander H.
Brown, Collett, Chalmers, respectfully shows "That in the above-entitled suit Allen, West & Bush, a commercial firm of this city, brought suit against A. F Jones, also
of tins city, for a balance claimed to be due upon certain cotton
sold and sequestered the same in the possession of one William
Jackson, master and bailee of the owners of the steamship
Counsellor, on which vessel said cotton, consisting of 268 bales,
fully described in plaintiffs' petition, had been laden for transportation to England.
"Petitioners represent that prior to said suit and sequestration the steamship Counsellor had issued to the defendant
Jones a bill of lading for the aforesaid 268 bales of cotton, on
which bill of lading, negotiable by indorsement, under the
law of Louisiana, the said Jones, prior to the suit herein, indorsed over and transferred to your petitioners for the purpose
of pledging said cotton for the payment of a draft for 2680
pounds sterling, drawn by said Jones, to which said bill of
lading was attached, and which draft your petitioners purchased upon the faith of said negotiable bill of lading; and
petitioners aver that they are innocent third holders of the
same for value, and, as against all persons, are to be deemed
and taken to be the owners of said 268 bales of cotton and
entitled to the same.
"Wherefore petitioners pray that this petition of intervention and 3rd opposition be filed, that the commercial firm of
Allen, West & Bush and the individual members thereof,
James H. Allen, Thomas H. West, and John C. Bush, and
William Jackson, master of the S. S. Counsellor, be cited to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

appear and answer this petition, and that after due proceedings there be judgment in favor of petitioners and against said
defendants, recognizing petitioners as the transferees and
holders of the bill of lading issued by the steamship Counsellor
for said 268 bales of cotton and the lawful owners and possessors of said 268 bales of cotton, and for costs, and petitioners
pray for such other and further order and relief as the nature
of the case may require and the court is competent to give.
" BAYE-& DnThGRE, Attorneys."
A citation of intervention issued on the 12th day of June,
and on the 26th of that month Jackson, the master of the
Counsellor, appeared and made answer setting up that he
was "an alien and subject of the British empire, master of
the steamship Counsellor, and bailee of her owners, all of
whom are aliens, subjects of said British empire."
On the same 26th of June two petitions were filed for the
removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United
States. The first, by Brown Brothers & Co., was as follows
"To the honorable the Civil District Court in and for the
parish of Orleans
"The petition of Brown Brothers & Co., a commercial firm
composed of James M. Brown, Charles D. Dickey, Howard
Potter, John Crosby Brown, John Edgar Johnson, Frederick.
Chalmers, Mark W Collett, Francis A. Hamilton, Alexander
H. Brown, Stewart M.Brown, residing in and doing business in
New York, and who are citizens of New York, as these petitioners aver, respectfully shows that the above-described suit
of Allen, West & Bush v A. F Jones et als., No. - of the
docket of this court, is a suit of a civil nature at law now
pending in the Civil District Court for the parish of Orleans,
a state court of the State of Louisiana, where the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of five thousand
dollars, that"1st. That there is a controversy between citizens of different States.
"2nd. That there is a controversy which is wholly between

JACKSON v. ALLEN.
Statement of the Case.

citizens of different States, which can be fully determined between them and these petitioners.
"3rd. That there is a controversy in which these petitioners,
citizens of the State of New York, William Jackson, master,
and owners of the steamship Counsellor, cited as bailees, concurring, and who are aliens, citizens and subjects of the Hingdom of Great Britain, on one side, and Allen, West and Bush
and the members of said firm and A. F Jones, citizens of
Louisiana, on the other side, make a controversy wholly between citizens of different States, which can be fully determined as between them, and authorizes the removal.
"4th. That there is a controversy wholly between petitioners,
citizens of New York, and Allen, West and Bush, citizens of
Louisiana, which can be fully determined as between them.
"Petitioners file their bond and security for entering in the
Circuit Court of the United States for costs, according to law,
on the first day of its next session, and for paying costs.
"And petitioners pray this court to proceed no further herein,
except to make the order for removal required, to accept the
bond, and cause the record to be removed to said United
States Circuit Court, fifth circuit, eastern district of Lomsiana,
and for all equitable relief.
"BA NE & DEN Gii,
Atorneys for Petitioners."

The second petition, by Jackson, was as follows
"To the honorable the Civil District Court in and for the parish of Orleans
"The petition of William Jackson, master of the steamship
Counsellor, who is an alien and a citizen and subject of the
Kingdom of Great Britain, bailee of the owners of said steamship Counsellor, for whom he is cited as bailee in this suit,
and Who are all aliens and citizens and subjects of the Kingdom of Great Britain, respectfully represents " That the matter and thing in dispute in above-entitled suit
exceed, exclusive of costs, the sum of and value of $500,
that the controversy m said suit is between citizens of a State

OCTOBER TERB,,

1889.

Statement of the Case.

and foreign citizens and subjects, and that petitioner and the
owners of said steamship all were at the time of the commencement.of this suit and still are citizens and subjects of
the Kingdom of Great Britain.
"That petitioner offers herewith a bond, with good and solvent surety, for his entering in the Circuit Court of the
United States in and for the fifth circuit and eastern district
of Louisiana a copy of the record of this suit and for paying
all costs which may be awarded by said Circuit Court if said
court should hold that this suit was wrongfully or improperly
removed thereto, and he prays this honorable court to proceed
no further herein, except to make the order of removal required by law and to accept the said surety and bond, and to
cause the record herein to be removed into said Circuit Court
of the United States in and for the fifth circuit and eastern
district of Louisiana, and petitioner will ever pray
" LEAR-Y & ]ThUTSCm=oseT,

Attorneys for Petitioner"
Thereupon on the 27th of June, orders were duly made for
the removal of the cause, in all its branches, to the Circuit
Court of the United States. Subsequently such proceedings
were had there, that after default taken against Jones, the
following judgment was entered in the cause at April term,
1886
"The parties in this cause having filed a stipulation waiving
the intervention of a jury, and submitted the cause to the
court upon the issues of fact as well as of law, and the court,
having considered the evidence and being advised in the premises, finds the issues of fact raised by the pleadings in favor of
the plaintiffs. It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed
that there be judgment in favor of the plaantiffs, the commercial firm of Allen, West & Bush, composed of James HI. Allen,
Thomas H. West, John C. Bush, and against the defendants,
the succession of Alfred F Jones, in the sum of ten thousand
eight hundred and sixty-five 2-5 dollars ($10,865.25), with legal
interest thereon from the 7th day of June, 1884, until paid,
with recognition of lien and privilege in favor of said plaintiffs

JACKSON1

v. AL LEN.

Counsel for Parties.

as vendors upon the two hundred and sixty-eight bales of cotton herein sequestered for the payment of the same.
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the petition
of intervention and third opposition of the commercial firm of
Brown Brothers & Co., composed of James A. Brown, Charles
D. Dickey, Howard Potter, John Crosby Brown, John Edgar
Johnson, Stewart Henry Brown, Francis A. Hamilton, Alexander H. Brown, Mark W Collett, and Frederick Chalmers, be
to the extent of the judgment, with lien and privilege, hereinabove rendered in favor of the said plaintiffs as vendors of said
-cotton sequestered herein, and the same is dismissed, but that
to any residue of said cotton or its proceeds, after satisfaction
of the aforesaid judgment thereupon, the said intervenors and
third opponents be declared to be entitled and accordingly
have judginent therefor.
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that said plaintiffs have judgment against the defendants, the succession of
Alfred F Jones, and William Jackson, master of the steamship Counsellor, and as bailee of the owner of said steamship,
,in solido, for all costs incurred in this suit prior to the filing
of said petition of intervention and third opposition, and that

all costs incurred subsequent to the filing of said petition be
paid out of the cotton sequestered or its proceeds."
Thereupon a writ of error was sued out by Jackson against
Allen, West & Bush and Brown Brothers & Co., and another
writ of error by Brown Brothers & Co. against Allen, West &
Bush. When the cause was reached on the docket in this
,court it was argued on the merits. The briefs on neither side
treat of the question of jurisdiction on which the case turned
in the opinion of the court.
Alf [Thomas .Bayne for Brown Brothers & Co.
George Denegre was with him on the brief.

Xr

MLr Ernest B. Keuttschnitt and MAb Edgar H. Farrar,for
Jackson, submitted on their brief.
Mr Ayfred Goldthwatte and .MrJohn .X. Allen for Allen,
West & Bush.
VOL. CX='-3

