OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

trial is had. Indianapjolis Railroad v Borst, 93 U. S. 291,
Hewcomb v Wood, 91 U. S. 581, Chateaugay 1fron, Co., Petihtoner, 128 U. S. 544.
Judgment afflrmed.

RAIMOND v. TERREBOiNE PARISH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 88. Argued November 12, 1889. -Decided

November 25,1889.

Either a statement of facts by the parties, or a finding of facts by the Circuit Court, is strictly analogous to a special verdict, and must state the
ultimate facts of the case, presenting questions of law only, and not be
a recital of evidence or of circumstances, wnch may tend to prove the
ultimate facts, or from which they may be inferred.

Tmis was an action by a citizen of IMississippi against a
parish inLouisiana -uponcertain bonds and coupons, amounting with interest to more than $5000 in value, alleged in the
petition and denied in the answer to have been issued in accordance with the statute of Louisiana of March 23, 1874, c.
7, and to liave been purchased by the plaintiff in good faith
and before maturity
After the case had been tried by the Circuit Court pursuant
to an agreement of counsel in open court to waive the intervention of a jury, and judgment for the defendant had 'been
rendered but not signed, and pending a motion for a new
trial, the counsel of the parties filed an agreement in writing,
waiving a jury, and submitting the case to the decision of the
court upon what they called a "statement of facts," and stipulating tha "the court shall find the facts in accordance therewith, and change [charge 2] the law so that a bill of exceptions
may be made up or error be assigned to the Supreme Court."
That "statement of facts" consisted of a description of the
instruments sued on, a reference to the plaintiff's deposition
on file, testifying to the circumstances under which he purchased them, an abstract of the testimony of another witness

RAIMOND v. TERREBOINNE PARISH.
Statement of the Case.

for the plaintiff to those circumstances, and a statement of
the proof offered by the defendant as to the circumstances
under which the bonds were issued.
The court, after setting forth the statement so filed, added
this finding "The court further finds that it was admitted
on the trial herein that, as far as the facts were stated in the
case of 1?abcassev Police Ja.y of Terrebonne Parzsh, in the
opinion of Mr. Justice Manning, reported in 30 La. Ann. 287,
they were a correct statement of the facts of this case, though
each party claimed that there existed additional facts beyond
those stated in said opinion."
The court found, as conclusions of law, "that the construction given to the statute authorizing the issue of bonds for the
debts of said parish should in this cause, and as to the points
determined in said cause by the Supreme Court of this State,
-. e., R~aasse v The ParwsAk, - be deemed and held as the
construction of a municipal law and not as that of a commercial law, and is therefore binding upon this court, and,
further, that if said construction should be deemed and held
as that of a commercial law, then the court adopts it as a
just and proper inference from the facts of the case," and
"that the petition herein should be dismissed, and that there
be judgment for the defendant."
The court thereupon signed the judgment previously rendered, which was as follows
"The parties in this cause having in open court waived the
intervention of a jury, and submitted the cause to the court
on the facts set forth in the opinion by Mr. Justice Manning,
in Rabasse v Pams of Teerebonne, 30 La. Ann. 287, and the
court, having considered the said agreed statement of facts
and being advised in the premises, finds the issues of law
raised by the pleadings in favor of the defendant, and, for
the reasons assigned by the court in the opinion this day read
and filed, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed, both the Circuit
and District Judges concurring, that there be judgment in
favor of the defendant, The Parish of Terrebonne, with costs,
and against the demands of the plaintiff, Peter Raimond." 28
Fed. Rep. 773.
VOL. cxxx-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff, without tendering a bill of exceptions, sued
out this writ of error.
. r Alfred Goldthwatte for plaintiff in error.
.Ar J D Rouse and .rA William Grant for defendant in
error.
MR. JusTioE GrAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Assuming the agreement in writing, waiving a jury, and
submitting the case to the decision of the Circuit Court, to
have been seasonably filed, the record is not in such a shape
as to authorize this court to review that decision.
By the settled construction of the acts of Congress defining
the appellate jurisdiction of this court, either a statement of
facts by the parties, or a finding of facts by the Circuit Court,
is strictly analogous to a special verdict, and must state the
ultimate facts of the case, presenting questions of law only,
and not be a recital of evidence or of circumstances, which may
tend to prove the ultimate facts, or from which they may be
inferred. Burr v Des 3iXomnes Co., 1 Wall. 99, N orris v
Jackson, 9 Wall. 125, 2fartinto v Fawbanks, 112 V. S. 670.
In the present case, the pleadings present issues of fact.
There is no bill of exceptions. The so-called statement of facts
is mainly a recapitulation of evidence introduced by the parties at the trial. The case was not submitted to the decision
of the court upon that statement only, but the court made a
further finding as to what took place at the trial. That finding merely states that the parties admitted that, so far as the
facts were stated in a certain reported opinion of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, they were a correct statement of the facts
of this case, but that each party claimed that there existed
additional facts, as to which there is no finding. On referring
to that opinion, such facts as are there stated appear to be
scattered through it, intermingled with statements of conflicting evidence, and with the court's conclusions of fact upon that

