632

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury This charge presented in a clear and, as we believe,
correct light a sound view of the question of damages as it
relates to this case. To it no exception was taken, nor to any
part of it. On the whole, we do not find any error in the
record, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly
Afflrmed.

CLAYTON v. UTAH TERRITORY
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Wo. 143. Argued December o, 1889.-Decided January 6, 1890.

This court has jurisdiction to hear and determine, irrespective of the
amount involved, an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Utah, in which the power of the governor of the Territory,
under the organic act, to appoint a person to be the auditor of public
accounts is drawn in question.
Under the organic act of that Territory the power to appoint an auditor of
public accounts is vested exclusively in the governor and council.
Under the power of Congress, reserved in the organic acts of the Territories, to annul the acts of their legislatures, the absence of any action
by Congress is not to be construed to be a recognition of the power of
the legislature to pass laws in conflict with the act of Congress under
which they were created.
So much of the acts of the legislature of Utah of January 20, 1852, and
February 22, 1878, as relates to the mode of appointing an auditor of
public accounts, is m conflict with the organic act and is invalid, but so
much as relates to the creation of the office is valid.

THERE was a motion to dismiss, and the cause was also
argued on the merits. The case is stated in the opimon.
il 1i'pa Bunton, (with whom was _Mr Jefferson Ciandler
on the brief,) for appellant.
.Ar Soli'tor General for appellee.
M . JUsTIcE ILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Utah.
The action was commenced in the District Court of the

CLAYTON v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

Third Judicial District of Utah Territory, county of Salt Lake,
by a complaint in the name of the people of the Territory of
Utah, by William H. Dickson, United States Attorney of said
Territory, against the present appellant, then defendant, Nephi
W Clayton, under the allegation that he had usurped and intruded into the office of auditor of public accounts in and for
said Territory in the year 1879, and ever since that time had
held and does still hold and exercise the functions of said office
without authority of law
An additional allegation in the complaint is, that on the 13th
day of March, 1886, and after the final expiration and adjourninent of the legislative assembly and council of the Territory,
Eli H. Murray, governor of said Territory, duly appointed
Arthur Pratt to be auditor of public accounts of said Territory,
and that thereupon said Pratt was qualified by taking the oath
of office and the execution of an official bond, with sufficient
sureties, as required by law, and, on the 11th of March aforesaid, was commissioned as such officer, and that, after being
so appointed and commissioned, and so qualified, the said Pratt,
on the day last mentioned, demanded of defendant that he
surrender to him the office and the msignia thereof, which demand was then and there refused by the defendant.
The petition also states that on several occasions during the
session of the legislative assembly previous to March, 1886,
the governor had nominated and presented to said council the
name of a fit person to fill the office of auditor of public accounts, but the council, at each of said sessions, failed and refused to take any action thereon, and that this was done with
the full knowledge of said council that the defendant was then
unlawfully holding the office and exercising its functions.
The defendant answered this complaint, denying almost
every allegation of the Iretition specffically, or by stating that
he is without knowledge on the subject of its averments, and
then proceeded to say, that on the 1st day of August, in the
year 1880, he was a citizen of the United States of the age of
twenty-one years, and was eligible to hold office under the laws
of Utah Territory, that at the regular election of that year,
on the 2d day of August, 1880, he was duly elected auditor of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

public accounts for the Territory of Utah, and that thereafter,
to wit, m September, 1880, Eli H. Murray, the governor of
Utah, issued to him, under his hand and the seal of said Terntory, a commission as auditor, which was also signed by the
secretary of the Territory And he further alleged, that since
said election of 1880, no one bad been elected to fill the office,
nor had defendant resigned, and that he is by virtue of that
election and the commission of the governor acting as auditor
of public accounts of said Territory
The defendant also demurred to the complaint, and the case
was afterwards heard upon the demurrer of the defendant
upon the pleadings on file and on the motion of plaintiff for
judgment of ouster against the defendant.
In regard to the motion, the court rendered the following
judgment
"It is now ordered and adjudged that the said demurrer of
the said defendant be, and the same is hereby, overruled and
denied, and it is further ordered and adjudged that the
answer of the said defendant is insufficient as a defence or
justification for his holding and exercising the functions of
said office, that the said defendant, lephi W Clayton, is
guilty of usurping and unlawfully holding and exercising the
said office of territorial auditor of Utah Territory, and that
said defendant be, and he is hereby, excluded from the said
office and from exercising any of the duties pertaining thereto."
As to the application of Pratt to be admitted into and hold
the office of territorial auditor it rendered the following judgment
"It is further considered, ordered and adjudged that the
said Arthur Pratt is the lawfully appointed and commissioned
auditor of said Territory, and is entitled, after taking the oath
of office and executing such official bond as by law required,
to use, hold and exercise the said office, and perform the
duties thereof and receive the emoluments thereto belonging,
until his successor is duly appointed and qualified.
"And it is further ordered and adjudged that the said defendant, Kephi W Clayton, do forthwith yield and deliver, up
to the said Arthur Pratt the said office of territorial auditor,

CLAYTON v. UTAH TERITORY.
Opinon of the Court.

and all the books, papers, keys, safes, furniture, property,
moneys and records belonging or pertaining to the said office
or the business thereof, and that the said plaintiff have and
recover of and from said defendant the costs herein, taxed at
twenty-two dollars and fifty cents."
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, taken by
Clayton, both these judgments were affirmed.
The legislature of Utah, by an act approved January 20,
1852, created the offices of treasurer and auditor of public
accounts, and defined the duties of each. It declared that
those officers should be elected by the joint vote of both
houses of the legislative assembly, and that their term of
office should be four years, and until their successors were
elected and qualified, unless sooner superseded by legislative
election. An act of the legislature, approved February 22,
1878, declares that the territorial treasurer and auditor of
public accounts shall be elected by qualified voters of the
Territory at the general election in August, 1878, and biennially thereafter.
The case being tried on complaint and answer, the allegation of the defendant Clayton, that he was elected under that
law in 1880 to the office of auditor of public accounts, received the commission of the governor upon that election, was
duly qualified, gave bond, and entered upon the duties of his
office, must be taken as true. Also the allegation that no
other person has since been elected to the same place, and
that he holds over under the act of 1852, is to be taken as
correct. It must also be considered as established in the case
that the governor undertook to exercise the power to appoint
a suitable man auditor of public accounts, and that he made
proper and fit nominations to fill that office to the council of
the Territory at various times, upon which they declined to
act, that on the 13th of March, 1886, when such legislative
body was not in session, he duly appointed Arthur Pratt to
be auditor of public accounts of said Territory, that Pratt
thereupon qualified by taking the proper oath and executing
a sufficient official bond, and was on the 17th of March aforesaid commissioned as such officer; that he demanded of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant that he surrender to him the said office, which
demand was then and there refused.
The District Court of the Third Judicial District decided
that the act of 1852, which vested the appointment of the
auditor of public accounts in the legislature by a joint vote
of its two branches, and the act of 1878, which transferred the
power to fill this office to an election by the people of the
Territory at a general election, were void, as being in conflict
with the seventh section of the organic act of September 9,
1850, creating the Territory of Utah. That act is the fundamental law which confers upon the Territory, upon its legislature, and upon its territorial officers, all the powers which the
government of the United States intended they should exercise. 9 Stat. 453, c. 51. The seventh section is m the followingJanguage
"That all township, district anct county officers, not herein
otherwise provided for, shall be appointed or elected, as the
case may be, m such manner as shall be provided by the
governor and legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah.
The governor shall nominate, and, by and with The advice and
consent of the legislative council, appoint all officers not herein
otherwise provided for, and in the first instance the governor
alone may appoint all said officers, who shall hold their offices
until the end of the first session of the legislative assembly,
and shall lay off the necessary districts for members of the
council and house of representatives and all other offices."
This part of the statute is reproduced almost verbatim in
section 1857 of the Revised Statutes of the United States as
applicable to all the Territories.
1. The first question presented to us for decision concerns
the jurisdiction of this court to entertain the appeal from the
Supreme Court of the Territory The law which governs
that jurisdiction now, is the act of Congress of March 3, 1885,
23 Stat. 443, c. 355, and is as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and -House of Representatives
of the United States of -Amerzca sn Congress assembled, That
no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed from any
judgment or decree in any suit at law or in equity m the

CLAYTON v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or in the Supreme
Court of any of the Territories of the United States, unless
the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum
of five thousand dollars.
"SEC. 2. That the preceding section shall not apply to any
case wherein is involved the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of or an authority exercised under the United
States, but in all such cases an appeal or writ of error may be
brought without regard to the sum or value in dispute."
In regard to the amount in controversy required by the
first section of this act, we are not at all satisfied that any
such value can be applied to the office of auditor of public
accounts, but we have no difficulty in holding that the record
before us presents a case in which there was drawn in question
an authority exercised under the United States, within the
meaning of the second section. This authority was that exercised by the governor in the appointment of Arthur Pratt,
acting upon the hypothesis that there was a vacancy in that
office which he had a right to fill.
If the legislation of the Territory of Utah, vesting this
appointment at first in the legislature of the Territory, and
afterwards in the votes of the people at a popular election, is
valid, of course the governor had no right to make such
appointment, and the commission issued upon the election of
Clayton in 1880 continues him in the office until his successor
is appointed. Under the pleadings in the case as presented to
us, it must be held that no successor has been appointed, unless the appointment of Pratt be a valid one. If, therefore,
the governor had authority and was the only person who had
authority, under the act organizing the Territory of Utah, and
under section 1857 of the Revised Statutes, to make this
appointment, then Clayton never was legally appointed, never
was auditor of public accounts de jure, and the action of the
governor in appointing another person to the place was valid.
It will be observed that this second section of the statute,
while it is based upon the general principle which is found
in the act of Congress allowing writs of error from this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

to the highest courts of a State, namely, to protect parties
against the exercise of an unlawful power on the part of the
state authorities, does not use the language which is found in
that act, that to give this court jurisdiction the decision of the
state court must be agamnst the right or power set up by the
party under the laws of the United States. On the contrary,
this peculiar feature of the appellate jurisdiction of this court
over that of the state courts is left out when the matter comes
to be applied to the Territories, and it is held sufficient that
there should be drawn "in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of or an authority exercised under the United
States;" and it is not required that the decision of the state
court should be against the validity of the treaty, statute or
authority so exercised or claimed. We are therefore very
clear that as the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah
based its decisiou upon the power conferred upon the governor by the seventh section of the organic act of Utah to
make appointments to office, this power was drawn in question,
and gives the defendant Clayton a right to have the judgment
of this court upon it.
The motion to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction is
therefore overruled.
2. The next question presented to us is the alleged error
of the Supreme Court of the Territory in holding that this
power was vested exclusively in the governor and council as
regards the office of auditor of public accounts. We are at
some loss to see how there can be any doubt upon this question, if it be admitted that in case of a conflict between the
organic act creating the Territory, of September 9, 1850,
9 Stat. 453, c. 51, and any act of the territorial legislature,
the act of Congress must prevail. That statute is not at all
ambiguous in its division of the power of appointment. "All
township, district and county officers, not herein otherwise
provided for, shall be appointed or elected, as the case may
be, in such manner as shall be provided by the governor and
legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah." This defines
very clearly the power of the legislature of Utah in providing
for appointments to office. The next sentence in the same

CLAYTON v. UTAH TERRITORY.

639

Opinion of the Court.

section declares that the governor shall nominate and, with
the advice and consent of the council, appoint all officers not
herein otherwise provided for; that is to say, all officers of
the Territory who are township officers, district officers or
county officers, shall be appointed in such manner as shall
be provided by law, namely, by a statute made by the governor and legislative assembly of the Territory, but all other
officers, all winch are not local or confined m their duties to
some particular township, district or county, shall be nonunated by the governor and by and with the advice and consent of the council appointed.
That this mode of dividing the power of appointing to
offices within the Territories is one to which Congress attached
importance, is seen by the fact that it was subsequently
adopted in the organic acts establishing the Territories of
Washington, 10 Stat. 175, c. 90, § 1, Colorado, 12 Stat. 174,
c. 59, § 7, Arizona, 12 Stat. 665, c. 56, § 2, Dakota, 12 Stat.
241, c. 86, § 7, Idaho, 12 Stat. 811, c. 117, § 7, Montana, 13
Stat. 88, c. 95, § 7, Wyoming, 15 Stat. 180, c. 235, § 7, and
it is reproduced as applicable to all the Territories by section
1857 of the Revised Statutes.
The office in question is not a township office, nor is it a
district office, nor is it a county office. It is not in any sense
a local office. It is a general office, whose duties concern and
pervade the entire Territory of Utah, and whose functions are
performed for the benefit of the whole Territory
The sixth section of the organic act is relied on as conferring
upon the legislature of Utah the authority to pass the act of
1862 and the act of 1878 in question. The language of section
six of that act is "that the legislative power of said Territory
shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent
with the Constitution of the United States and the provisions
of this act," and it is immediately following this section that it
is declared that the governor shall nominate and, by and with
the advice and consent of the council, appoint all officers of the
Territory, except township, district and county officers. The
inconsistency of an act which declares that the legislature
shall appoint these officers, or that they shall be appointed by

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

a popular election, with an express provision of the organic
act that they shall be nominated by the governor and appointed by him with the consent of the council, is too obvious
to require illustration. The governor of the Territory, the
secretary of the Territory, the judges of the Territory, the
United States marshal and the United States district attorney
are all appointed by the President, - these all being general
officers, and not local. The law then continues this control of
the federal authorities over the officers in the Territory by declaring that wherever the office is a general office and pervades the whole Teritory, and is not a township, district or
county office, the appointment shall be made by the governor.
It is utterly inconsistent both with the policy and the express
language of the statute that the legislature of the Territory of
Utah can change the appointing power and vest it in any
other body whatever, however popular, or that in the creation
of offices of this general character, whose duties and functions
pervade the whole Territory, they can confer the appointing
power upon anybody else but the governor and council.
The question of the conflict of a law passed by the legislature of Utah Territory with this same organic act is considered at some length in the case of Ferrwsv. Higley, 20 Wall.
375. The act of Congress contains the provision that "the
judicial power of said Territory shall be vested in a Supreme
Court, District Courts, Probate Courts, and in justices of the
peace," and that "the jurisdiction of the several courts herein
provided for, both appellate and original, and that of the Probate Courts and of justices of the peace, shall be as limited by
law" It was urged in that case that an act of the legislature
of Utah was valid which conferred upon the Probate Courts
of the Territory power to exercise original jurisdiction, both
civil and criminal, as well in chancery as at common law, when
nbt prohibited by legislative enactment. This proposition was
supported by a reference to the same clause of the organic act
which ]s relied on in this case, namely, that the legislative
power of the Territory extends to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of the United States
and with that act. It became a question in that case, as in

CLAYTON v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court

this, whether the law conferring this extraordinary power
upon the Probate Courts was consistent with the organic act
which conferred the same powers upon the Supreme and District Courts of the Territory That law was evidently intended
to dispense with the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States appointed by the President and Senate, as far as it could
be done, by investing the Probate Courts, which were under
the control of the legislature of the Territory, with the ,same
powers which the former courts had.
While there was no definition of the powers of Probate
Courts in the organic act, this court held that the essential
nature of Probate Courts was not such as to justify the conclusion that they were intended to exercise such powers, and
especially it was held that it was not competent for the legislature to create other courts, or vest in other courts created by
the organic act, powers which had already been vested in the
District and Supreme Courts of the Territory, and that therefore the statute of the Territory conferring common law and
equity jurisdiction on the Probate Courts was void, as being
in conflict with that provision of the act of Congress. We
think the present case is much clearer than that, because the
act of Congress in unequivocal terms declares where the appointing power to all offices shall be deposited, and the power
of appointment to the office now under consideration is distinctly reposed in the governor and council. The council,
which we have so often referred to, was a body constituting a
part of the legislature of the Territory, which answers to the
place of a senate in the general political system of the several
States and of the federal government. See section 4 of the
act to establish territorial government for Utah, 9 Stat. 454.
The case of Snow v The United States, 18 Wall. 317, is
supposed to conflict with these views. In that case, the office
of attorney general was created by an act of the legislature of
Utah, whose duty it should be to attend to all legal business
on the part of the Territory before courts where the Territory
was a party, and prosecute individuals accused of crime in the
judicial district in which he kept his office, in cases arising
under the laws of the Territory, and such other duties as perVOL. CXII--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tamed to his office.

Tins was supposed to be in conflict with

the provision of the organic act, which authorized the appointment of an attorney for the Territory by the President. The
court, however, held that the duties of the office created by
the territorial legislature were not identical with those of the
attorney for the Territory created under the organic act, and
that it differed especially in that his functions only extended
to the prosecution of individuals accused of crime in the judicial district in which he kept his office, in cases arising under
the laws of the Territory, and that for other districts a district
attorney should be elected in like manner and with like duties.
And the court with some hesitation based its decision on this
ground, and on the fact that the act had been in operation
without contest for many years.
It is true that in a case of doubtful construction the long
acquiescence of Congress and the general government may be
resorted to as some evidence of the proper construction, or of
the validity, of a law This principle is more applicable to
questions relating to the construction of a statute than to matters which go to the power of the legislature to enact it. At
all events, it can hardly be admitted as a general proposition
that under the power of Congress reserved in the organic acts
of the Territories to annul the acts of their legislatures the
absence of any action by Congress is to be construed to be a
recognition of the power of the legislature to pass laws in conflict with the act of Congress under which they were created.
The question of the appointing power, which is the matter
in controversy here, was not before the court in that case.
We do not think that the acquiescence of the people, or of the
legislature of Utah, or of any of its officers, in the mode for
appointing the auditor of public accounts, is sufficient to do
away with the clear requirements of the organic act on that
subject. It is also, we think, very clear that only that part of.
the statute of Utah which is contrary to the organic act, namely,
that relating to the mode of appointment of the officer is
invalid, that so much of it as creates the office of auditor of
public accounts and treasurer of the Territory is valid, and
that it can successfully and appropriately be carried into effect

