PACIFIC EXPRESS CO. v. MALIN.
Syllabus.

The judgment was not a personal judgment against J D.
Sugg, but a judgment against E. 0. Sugg individually, and
against E. C. Sugg & Bro., treating the partnership as a distinct legal entity So far as J D. Sugg was concerned, it
bound the firm assets only, and could not be proceeded on by
execution against his individual property Burnett v Sullivan,
58 Texas, 535, Texas & St. Loums Railroadv McCaughey, 62
Texas, 271, Alexander v. Stern, 41 Texas, 193, Sanger v
Overmzer, 64 Texas, 57.
The position taken by plaintiffs in error is not tenable, (Pennoyer v Nf, 95 U. S. 714,) and the judgment is
Affired.

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. MALIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
'WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1301.

Submitted December 2, 1889.-Decided December 23, 1889.

Plaintiffs sued defendant in a state court in Texas to recover $5970, the
alleged value of goods destroyed by a fire charged to have been caused
by defendant's negligence. Defendant pleaded and excepted to the petition. The cause was then removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States on defendant's motion, who there answered further, pleading the
general issue, excepting to the petition among other things for insufficiency and vagueness in the description of the goods, and charging contributory negligence on plaintiffs' part. Plaintiffs filed an amended petition
more precise in statement and reducing the damage claimed to $4656.71.
To this defendant answered, again charging contributory negligence and
setting up, "by way of set-off, counterclaim and reconvention," injuries
to himself to the extent of $8000, resulting from plaintiffs' negligence,
for which he asked judgment. Plaintiffs excepted to the cross-demand.
On the 6th October, 1888, the cause coming to trial, defendant's exceptions were overruled, except the one for vagueness, and as to that
plaintiffs were allowed to amend; plaintiffs' exceptions to the counterclaim
were sustained; and the jury rendered a verdict for 84300 principal, and
$792.15 interest. It appeared by the record that plaintiffs on the same
day remitted $435.50, and judgment was entered for $4656.65; but it
further appeared that on the 8th October, plaintiffs moved for leave to
remit that amount of the judgment and leave was granted the remittitur
to be as of the day of the rendition of the judgment, and the judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opion of the Court.
to be for $4656.65 and costs. On the same 8th of October, defendant
filed a bill of exceptions in the cause "signed and filed herein and made
a part of the record in this cause this 8th day of October, 1888." On the
9th October, a motion for a new trial was overruled. On a motion to
dismiss the writ of error or to affirm the judgment, Held.
(1) That the remittitur was properly made, and that it was within the
power of the Circuit Court to order it as it was ordered,
(2) That if no other question were raised in the case, the motion to dismiss would be granted,
(3) That the counterclaim, being founded on a "cause of action arising
out of, or incident to, or connected with the plaintiffs' cause of
action," was properly set up, and conferred upon this court jurisdiction to examine further into the case;
(4) That the plaintiffs' exception to the counterclaim was properly
sustained;
(5) That if the counterclaim could be maintained, a recovery could be
had only for damages which were the natural and proximate consequences of the act complained of,
(6) That the defendant's exceptions to the charge of the court, having
been taken two days after the return of the verdict, were taken
too late;
(7) That the facts furnished ground for maintaining that the counterclaim was set up only for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to
tbis court;
(8) But whether that were so or not, the judgment ought to be affirmed
on the case made.

MOTIONS TO DISMSS OR AFFImm.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
.Xr WF Hallett Phillipsfor the motions.
Mi" John Johm and .XP .D A. XlcEJnrght opposing.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE FuLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was commenced by Sam. Malin and George Colyin, partners doing business under the firm name and style of
M ain & Colvin, in the District Court of Mitchell County, Texas,
to recover of the defendant the sum of five thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars, the alleged value of certain goods
and chattels destroyed by a fire, occasioned, as averred, by the
negligence of the defendant. The defendant filed various pleas

and exceptions to the plaintiffs' petition, including the general

PACIFIC EXPRESS CO. v. T£ALIN.
Opmion of the Court.

issue. The cause was then removed from the state court to
the United States Circuit Court for the Western District of
Texas, and the defendant filed an amended original answer,
and as special exceptions stated various grounds upon which it
alleged the plaintiffs' original petition was insufficient, and,
among other things, that all the items of the.property charged
to have been destroyed were not sufficiently described, and
again pleaded the general issue, and also set up, with particularity, contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs thereupon filed an amended petition, recapitulating
with greater precision the items of the property alleged to
have been consumed, which reduced the aggregate of the claim
from $5970 to $4656.71, and prayed judgment for the latter
amount and costs, "and for all such other and further relief as
the said plaintiffs may be entitled to in the premises in law or
equity"
To this amended petition the defendant interposed, on the
5th day of October, 1888, a second amended original answer
and exceptions, reiterating the exceptions formerly taken, and,
further answering, "by way of counterclaim and reconvention," charged that the plaintiffs were themselves guilty of
negligence in keeping a dangerous lamp in a careless manner,
by reason of which the fire was occasioned, and that thereupon the plaintiffs, " without probable or adequate cause," instituted this suit, and divers other parties have instituted and
maintain suit against the defendant, by reason whereof the
defendant has been compelled to pay out a large sum of money,
to wit, three thousand dollars, for attorneys' fees and expenses
in defending this and said other suits, and further, that by
reason of said fire and the institution of said suits, the reputation of the defendant had become "damaged and bad, and
defendant has thereby lost custom and business upon which it
would have realized a net revenue of, to wit, five thousand dollars. Wherefore defendant says that it has been damaged by
reason of the premises in the sum of eight thousand dollars,
actual damages, and defendant pleads said damages herein by
way of set-off, counterclaim and reconvention, and asks for
judgment, etc."

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

On the same day, October 5th, plaintiffs filed an exception
to the cross-demand. The case came on for trial on the 6th
day of October, when the defendant's exceptions to the plaintiffs' petition were overruled, except the fourth special excep-.
tion objecting that the bill of particulars was too vague, in
respect to which .the plaintiffs were allowed to amend at once,
so as to meet such exception. The plaintiffs' exception to
defendant's plea m reconvention and counterclaim was also
sustained by the court, and the defendant excepted. A jury
was called and trial had, resulting in the return of a verdict on
said 6th of October in favor of the plaintiffs for the sum of
$4300, "with interest from the 11th day of June, A.D. 1886,"
and judgment was thereupon rendered for the sum of $4300,
and the further sum of $792.15, interest since the 17th day of
June, 1886, making m all the sum of $5092.15 with costs, and
the judgment record then proceeds thus "And then come
the plaintiffs and remit of and from the foregoing judgment
the sum of four hundred and thirty-five dollars and fifty cents,
leaving said judgment, as above rendered, to stand for the sum
of four thousand six hundred and fifty-six dollars and sixty-five
cents in favor of the said plaintiffs and against the said defendant, for which execution may issue." The charge of the court
at length was filed the same day
On the 8th day of October, 1888, a paper entitled "Defendant's Bill of Exceptions to the Charge of the Court" was
filed, which commenced "Now comes the defendant and excepts to the charge of the court to the jury, wherein and
whereby the jury are instructed to find for plaintiffs, if at all, the
value of the goods and property, together with eight per cent
interest thereon from the time and date of such said destruction," and after stating the reasons for objection to that part
of the charge, thus concludes "And for said reasons defendant objects and excepts to that portion of the charge of the
cour, and tenders herewith its bill of exception thereto and
thereof, and asks that the same be signed and filed herein and
made a part of the record in this cause, this 8th day of Oct.,
Ae888.r
And also another paper entitled 11B il l of :Exceptions tendered

PACIFIC EXPRESS CO. v. MALIN.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Defendant," commencing "Now comes the defendant
in said above cause and excepts to that portion of the charge
of the court to the jury relative and appertaining to defendant's interposition and allegation of contributory negligence,
etc., etc.," stating the words excepted to, and concluding thus
"And defendant tenders this its bill of exception to such said
charge so given by the court to the jury, and asks that same
be signed and filed herein and made a part of the record in this
said cause this 8th day of Oct., 1888." Both these papers
were signed by the judge presiding.
There appears on the same 8th of October, a motion by the
plaintiffs for leave to enter a remittitur for the sum of four
hundred and thirty-five dollars and fifty cents, and an order of
court allowing said remittitur as of the 6th day of October,
1888, and stating that the plaintiffs had on that day voluntarily remitted said amount of and from said judgment, but it
not appearing to have been done in open court or with leave
of the cour t, the plaintiff is now permitted, as of the 6th of
October, to remit the amount in question, and it is ordered
that the judgment of the 6th day of October, 1888, be corrected and reformed, so that upon the verdict and the remittitur the plaintiffs recover of the defendant the sum of four
thousand six hundred and fifty-six dollars and sixty-five cents
and costs, "and that this judgment take effect and be of force
of and from the 6th day of October, 1888."
On the 9th of October, 1888, a motion for a new trial was
overruled by the court, and the defendant excepted. To review the judgment the defendant sued out iNovember 23,
1888, a writ of error from this court, and a motion is now
made to dismiss the writ because the matter in dispute is less
than five thousand dollars, with which is united a motion to
affirm, "on the ground that, even if this court has jurisdiction, it is apparent that the questions involved are so frivolous
as not to need further argument, and that the writ of error is
sued out for.delay only"
Sections 1351, 1352, 1354, 1355 and 1357 of the Revised
Statutes of Texas are as follows
"Art. 1351. Any party in whose favor a verdict has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

rendered may in open court remit any part of such verdict,
and such remitter shall be noted on the docket and entered in
the minutes, and execution shall thereafter issue for the balance only of such judgment, after deducting the amount
remitted.
"Art. 1352. Any person in whose favor a judgment has
been rendered may, in open court, remit any part of such judgment, and such remitter shall be noted on the docket and entered m the minutes, and. execution shall thereafter issue for
the balance only of such judgment, after deducting the amount
remitted."
"Art. 1354. Where there shall be a mistake in the record
of any judgment or decree, the judge may, in open court, and
after notice of the application therefor has been given to the
parties interested in such judgment or decree, amend the same
according to the truth and justice of the case, and thereafter
the execution shall conform to the judgment as amended.
".Art. 1355. Where, in the record of any judgment or decree
of any court, there shall be any mistake, miscalculation or
misrecital of any sum or sums of money, or of any name or
names, and there shall be among the records of the cause any
verdict or instrument of writing, whereby such judgment or
decree may be safely amended, it shall be the duty of the
court in which such judgment or decree shall be rendered, and
the judge thereof, in vacation, on application of either party,
to amend such judgment or decree thereby, according to the
truth and justice of the case, but the opposite party shall have
reasonable notice of the application for such amendment."
"Art. 1357. A remitter or correction made as provided in
any of the six preceding articles shall, from the making
thereof, cure any error in the verdict or judgment by reason
of such excess." 1 Sayles' Texas Civil Statutes, 450, 451.
The record of the 6th of October states the remittitur in
proper form and the judgment for $4656.65 thereupon, but if
we are to understand that the remittitur of that date was
believed to be ineffective because it did not appear to have
been made in open court or with leave of court, it was entirely
within the power of the Circuit Court, on the 8th of October,

PACIFIC EXPRESS CO. v. MALIN.
Opinon of the Court.

at the same term and before any writ of error had been sued
out, to correct the record according to the fact. As the judgment as it stands is for less than $5000, if there were nothing
else in the case, we should grant the motion to dismiss. Pa.c-ftc Postal Tel. Cable Co. v O'Connor, 128 U. S. 394.
But it is contended that the plea or answer by way of reconvention or counterclaim affords sufficient ground for jurisdiction, and that the questions arising thereon cannot be
disp6sed of on a motion to affirm.
Reconvention, as the term is used in practice in Texas,
means a cross-demand, and the title of "Counterclaim," in
the Revised Statutes of that State, is referred to by counsel as
descriptive of such cross-action, which is more extensive than
set-off, or recoupment.
Under this title, section 645 of the Revised Statutes of
Texas provides
"Whenever any suit shall be brought for the recovery of
any debt due by judgment, bond, bill or otherwise, the defendant shall be permitted to plead therein any counterclaim
which he may have against the plaintiff, subject 'to such
limitations as may be prescribed by law"
By section 649, if plaintiff's cause of action be a claim for
unliquidated or uncertain damages, founded on a tort or
breach of covenant, the defendant is not permitted to set off
any debt due him by the plaintiff, and if the suit be founded
on a certain demand, the defendant is not permitted to set off
unliquidated or uncertain damages founded on a tort or breach
of covenant on the plaintiff's part.
Section 650 is m these words
"Nothing in the preceding article shall be so construed as
to prohibit the defendant from pleading in set-off any counterclaim founded on a cause of action arising out of, or incident to, or connected with the plaintiff's cause of action." 1
Sayles' Texas Civil Statutes, 236, 231.
The present alleged counterclaim is founded on the converse
of the same cause of action as that counted on by the plaintiffs, and inasmuch as the verdict and judgment determined
that the defendant had been guilty of negligence, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs had not, it may be assumed that the defendant suffered no injury through the action of the court in sustaining
the exception to it. Had the verdict been otherwise, the defendant might perhaps have complained that it had not been
allowed to recover such damages on its cross-demand as could
have been properly thereby claimed. A denial of the right of
recovery over did not cut the defendant off from establishing
plaintiffs' negligence, if it could. As that question was settled
in plaintiffs' favor, the particular ruling became immaterial,
but it may be added that the exception was properly sustained,
because the recovery by the defendant, if successful on such a
cross-action, would have been confined to the natural and
proximate consequences of the act complained of, and would
not have included such damages as are referred to in its pleading, and as therein claimed. Plumb v TWoodmansee, 34 Iowa,
116, approved in Pinson v Xirsh, 46 Texas, 26.
It may be further remarked that the alleged bills of exception do not show that the exceptions were taken on the trial.
While exceptions may be reduced to form and signed after the
trial, they must appear affirmatively to have been taken before
the jury withdrew from the bar.
Unsted States v. Carey, 110
T. S. 51, and cases cited.
Here it is expressly stated that the exceptions were taken on
the 8th day of October, two days after the return of the verdict. This was too late, and as to the motion for a new trial,
the action of the Circuit Court thereon was in the exercise of
its discretion and cannot be reviewed here.
As the cross-demand was not set up until after the plaintiffs had been compelled by the defendant to make their items
of loss more specific, and had thus reduced the amount claimed
below the jurisdiction of this court, there is color for the contention on the part of the defendants in error that it was put
forward for the purpose of giving this court jursdiction. But
assuming this not to have been so, and that the writ of error
should not be dismissed, we are of opinion that
The motson to a-firm must be sustanecu
under the cmroumstances, and it w so ordered.

