OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

CLEAVELAND v. RICHARDSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 125. Argued November 21, 1889. -Decided December 9,1889.
A creditor made a compromise with Ins debtor for sixty cents on the dollar,
and subsequently sued him to recover the balance of the claim, on the
ground of fraudulent action by the debtor in obtaining the compromise,
and that the debtor had violated his agreement not to voluntarily pay any
other creditor more than sixty per cent. Held, that he could not recover
because (1) There was no breach of good faith on the part of the debtor, and no
misrepresentation as to his assets, and no false. answer made by
him to any question,
(2) The payment of more thpn sixty per cent to another creditor having
been made when the latter had an attachment suit against the
debtor, winch was about to be tried, was not a voluntary payment
within the meaning of the agreement.

THis was an action of assumpsit, brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois,
in September, 1884, by George C. Richardson, Charles S.
Smith, George K. Guild, Ralph L. Cutter and Harrison Gardner, partners composing the firm of George C. Richardson &
Co., against James 0. Cleaveland, Cornelius B. Cummings,
Charles W Woodruff and Washington Libbey, partners composing the firm of Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff.
The declaration contained the money counts, and annexed
to it is a copy of an account showing various items of merchandise sold by the plaintiffs to the defendants, in August, September and October, 1883, amounting in debit items to $12,125.25,
with a credit item of cash, December 31, 1883, amounting to
$'[275.15, leaving a balance due to the plaintiffs, on the lastnamed day, of $4850.10.
The defendants were served with process and put in various
pleas, and there were replications and rejoinders, raising issues
covered by the findings of the court on the trial. The defendant Woodruff having died, it was ordered that the suit proceed

CLEAVELA1ND v. IRICHARDSON.
Statement of the Case.

against the surviving defendants. A trial before a jury was
commenced, but a juror was -withdrawn, and the parties duly
waived a trial by jury and consented that the case be tried by
the court.
The court filed special findings as follows
"1. James 0. Cleaveland, Cornelius B. Cummings and
Washington Libbey, three of the defendants, with one William
F Shelley, on the 31st of December, 1881, formed a limited
copartnership under the statute of the State of Illinois in that
behalf, under the name of ' Cleaveland, Cummings & Shelley,'
to do a wholesale business in merchandise in Chicago, m which
the said Washington Libbey was a limited partner, having put
in $50,000 of capital.
"2. About the 1st of May, 1883, the said Shelley went out of
the firm, and Charles W Woodruff, the other defendant in
this cause, came into the firm, which assumed the name of
' Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff,' and continued to do business until as hereinafter stated.
"3. Said firm of 'Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff' .mtended, as between themselves, to do business as a limited partnership, but they did not take the steps required by law to
make said firm a limited partnership under the statute of Illinois in that behalf.
"4. The plaintiffs sold to the firm of Cleaveland, Cummings
& Woodruff, upon the 28th, 29th and 30th of August, 1883,
and upon the 14th and 15th of September, 1883, merchandise
to the amount of $8064.03, payable by the said firm in sixty
days from September 15th, and on the 24 th of October sold to
Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff merchandise to the amount
of $1291.83, payable in sixty days from November 1st, and the
plaintiffs were also the holders of two notes of said Cleaveland,
Cummings & Woodruff, dated Chicago, September 15, 1883,
due in four months from the date thereof, payable to the order
of the defendants and endorsed by them, one for $13417.99 and
one for $1421.40, which two notes matured January 18, 1884,
said several amounts aggregating $12,125.25.
"15. On the 30th of October, 1883, Washington Libbey paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

to James 0. Cleaveland $1000 for his interest in the firm of
Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff, and said James 0. Cleave.land, Cornelius B. Cummings, Charles W Woodruff and Washington Libbey signed and delivered to James 0. Cleaveland an
instrument in writing as follows, viz.
"' The copartnership heretofore existing between James 0.
Cleaveland, Cornelius B. Cummings, Charles W Woodruff
and Washington Libbey, under the firm name of Cleaveland,
Cummings & Woodruff, has this day been dissolved by mutual
consent, and such dissolution to take effect Nov 1, 1883. All
accounts and indebtedness due the late firm of Cleaveland,
Cummings & Woodruff must be paid to Cummings, Woodruff
& Brown, successors to Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff,
by whom all liabilities of the late firm must be paid and said
Cleaveland held harmless therefrom.
"'Dated Chicago, Illinois, Oct. 30, A.D. 1883.
"' J _Es 0. CLEAVELA D.
"' C. B. CUMaNGs.
"'CHAILES W WOODRUFF.
"' "WAsm GToN LIBBEY.'

"6. It was contemplated, October 30, 1883, that a new firm
would be formed, composed of Cornelius B. Cummings, Charles
W Woodruff and Swan Brown, as general partners, and
Washington Libbey, as special partner, but said firm was never
formed, but the said Cleaveland supposed it was so formed
when he sold out his interest to the said Libbey
"17. The firm of Oleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff stopped
business on or before November 14, 1883. Said firm owed for
borrowed money about $179,000 which was unsecured, and
for merchandise about $461,000, and the assets of said firm
were sufficient to pay the borrowed money in full and not
quite sixty per cent on the dollar upon the mercantile debts.
The said Washington Libbey was reputed to be a man of large
wealth.
"8. On the 14th of November, 1883, all the bills receivable,
notes and accounts of Cleaveland, Cummings and Woodruff

CLEAVELAD v. RICHARDSONi.
Statement of the Case.

were sold to Columbus iR. Cummings for his two notes for
$201,110.43, one for $110,000, which was delivered to the
Union National Bank m full payment of borrowed money due
by said firm to said bank. The other, for $91,110.43, was
delivered to a member of said firm of Cleaveland, Cummings
& Woodruff. Columbus :R. Cummings was a brother of Cornelius B. Cummings, and a director in the Union National
Bank, to which he had introduced said firm, and felt in honor
bound to see that the bank suffered no loss.
"9. Immediately thereafter, Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff sent J T Inickerbocker, as their attorney, to New York,
and proposed to the mercantile creditors of that firm to pay
them sixty cents on the dollar of their respective claims.
When application to the plaintiffs was made to accept sixty
cents on the dollar of their claims, some had settled at that
rate and some had not. The attorney of Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff explained the situation of the assets of
Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff, saying that the borrowed money was to be paid in full, which would not leave
enough to pay quite sixty per cent of the remaimng indebtedness. Libbey's liability as a member of the firm was spoken
of, when said attorney stated to the plaintiffs that he had not
had opportunity to examnne into the question and was not in
possession of information to know whether Libbey could make
a successful defence or not, but that it was a question they
could investigate for themselves. One of said plaintiffs said
to said attorney they had sold no goods to the defendants on
the strength that Libbey was more than a special partner,
that no credit had been given to the firm on the faith that
Libbey sustained any other relation to it, that Libbey had
lost his special capital, and that they had no desire to make
him pay more. It does not appear, however, from the evidence, that the defendants, or their attorney, communicated
to the plaintiffs the fact that Libbey had signed the instrument in writing referred to in the fifth finding, or that he made
any statement as to Libbey's financial ability to pay the debts
of said firm. The plaintiffs at first refused, but about the
29th of December, 1883, upon the receipt of the sum of
voL. cx

-cu-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

$7275.15, which was sixty per cent of their entire claim, they,
by their agent, Walter M. Smith, executed and delivered to
the said John J Knickerbocker, the attorney for the defendants, at Chicago, an instrument in writing, as follows
"' For and in consideration of the sum of seven thousand two
hundred and seventy-five and 1 (87275.15) dollars, to us in
hand paid by John J Knickerbocker, of Chicago, Ill., the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged and confessed, we have
sold, assigned, transferred and delivered, and do hereby sell,
assigm, transfer, set over and deliver to said Knickerbocker,
his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns the above and
foregoing claim in our favor and against the late firm of
Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff, and all other claims and
demands which we now have or might or could have against
the said Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff, by reason of the
happening of any matter or thing from the beginning of the
world to the day of the date hereof, without recourse to us,
and authorize and empower said Knickerbocker to sue for,
collect, settle, compound and give acquittance therefor as
fully as we could do in person.
" 'In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hand and
seal this 29th day of December, 1883.
"' GEORGE C. TIhoAMDSOl & CO.,

"'PER

WALTER

M. SMITH,

[SEAL-]
[SEAL.]'

"Attached to said instrument are the following
"'Chicago, Sept. 15, 1883.
"'Four months after date we promise to pay to the order
of ourselves one thousand three hundred and forty-seven -p
dollars at the -Mechanics' National Bank, N.Y., value received.
"' Due Jan'y 18, 1884.
"'134'7.99.
CLEAVELAIM, CUMMINGS & WOODRUFF.'
"(Endorsed:) ' Cleaveland, Cumnings & Woodruff.'
"' Chicago, Sept. 15, 1883.
"'Four months after date we promise to pay to the order
of ourselves one thousand four hundred and twenty-one dol-

CLEAVELAND v. RICHARDSON.
Statement of the Case.

Jars and 4 at the Mechanics' National Bank, N.Y., value
received.
"'Due Jan'y 18, 1884.
"'$1421.41.

CLEAVELAND,

CUM:MNGS &

WooDRUF!

"(Endorsed:) ' Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff.'
"'Mess. Cleaveland, Cummings and Woodruff to George C.
Richardson & Co., debtors.
1883.
"'Aug. 28. To mdse., 60 days, Sept. 15
333 94
29.
"
"
"
853 79
cc
c
"9
i"
"156
06
30.
"
"
"
859 35
cc
cc
"
"
4783 65
"'Sept. 14.
"
"
"
324 74
15.
"
"
"
227 17
94
4
cc
"525
cc
33
"'Oct. 24.
"
"
Nov 1.
1291 83
9355 86'
"And Charles W Woodruff, one of the said defendants, at
the same time, and as part of the same arrangement, delivered
to the said agent of the plaintiffs an instrument m writing as
follows, viz.
"' John J Knickerbocker.
Jesse Holdom.
"'Knickerbocker & Holdom, attorneys-at-law, 164 La Salle
St.
"' Chicago,
,188"'In consideration of a compromise this day made by Messrs.
Geo. C. Richardson & Co. and Messrs. Jay, Langdon & Co.,
of New York City, of their respective claims against the late
firm of Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff, of Chicago, Ill.,
the said Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff stipulate and
agree not to pay voluntarily to any of their creditors holding
claims in excess of one thousand dollars, to exceed sixty per
cent on the dollar in settlement Providing, however, that
the payment of attorneys' fees and court costs in all cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

where suits have been heretofore or may hereafter be commenced shall not be considered as an evasion or violation of
this agreement.
"' CLEVELAID, CUINuGS & WOODRUFF.

"'Dec. 29th, 1883.'
"10. In April, 1884, all the mercantile debts of Cleaveland,
Cummings & Woodruff had been settled at sixty cents and released except about $88,000. The firm of Vietor & Achelis had
not released their claim, but had brought a suit by attachment
thereon against James 0. Cleaveland, Cornelius B. Cummings,
Charles W Woodruff and Washington Libbey, which was
about to be tried. The attorney of Cleaveland, Cummings &
Woodruff paid to Vietor & Achelis sixty cents on the dollar
of their claim, who thereupon released their said claim, but
at -the same time said attorney of Cleaveland, Cummings &
Woodruff gave his check (which was afterwards paid) to the
attorneys of Vietor & Achelis, for twenty-five per cent on the
dollar of said claim, and said attorneys remitted twenty of said
twenty-five per cent to Vietor & Achelis. This payment to the
attorneys of Vietor & Achelis was a cover under which Vietor
& Achelis were to and did receive on their claim more than
sixty per cent, and such payment was made, after Vietor &
Achelis had refused to take sixty per cent, by agreement between the attorneys of Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff and
Vietor & Achelis that Vietor & Achelis should receive eighty
per cent.
"11. The amount due on the original claim is $4850.10, and
the interest thereon from December 29th, 1883, to April 14th,
1886, is $679.35, making $5529.45 in all."
Thereupon a judgment was entered, whieh stated that the
court found the issues for the plaintiffs, and assessed their
damages at $5529.45, and overruled a motion by the defendants for a new trial, and ordered that the plaintiffs recover
from the defendants Cleaveland, Cummings and Libbey, survivors of Woodruff, $5529.45 damages and $141.80 costs. To
review this judgment, the defendants brought a writ of error.
There was a bill of exceptions, which stated that both par-

CLEAVELAND v. RICHARDSON.
Citations for Plaintiffs in Error.

ties adduced evidence tending to prove the issues on their
respective sides, that, when the written paper dated October
30, 1883, set forth in the fifth special finding, was offered in
evidence, the defendants objected to its introduction, on the
ground that it was incompetent and irelevant, but the court
overruled the objection and admitted the paper in evidence,
and the defendants excepted, that the plaintiffs also offered
in evidence the paper dated December 29,1883, signed "Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff," set forth at the close of the
ninth special finding, that the defendants objected to its
introduction, on the grounds of variance and incompetency,
but the court overruled the objection and admitted the paper
in evidence, and the defendants excepted, that evidence was
introduced touching the matters named in the tenth special
finding, and the defendants adduced evidence tending to show
that no payment was made to either of the mercantile creditors by preference, or with a view to discriminate between one
of the said creditors 4nd another, that the defendants objected
to the evidence tending to show that Vietor & Achelis were
paid more than sixty per cent, on the ground that such payment, if made as claimed by the plaintiffs, was not made
voluntarily, that the court overruled the objection, and held
that, under the contract of December 29, 1883, signed" Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff," any payment over sixty per
cent was made voluntarily, unless such clai had gone to
judgment, that the defendants excepted to such ruling, and
that it appeared from the evidence that the borrowed money
was paid in full during November, 1883, and each of the
mercantile creditors received sixty per cent on their claims,
from Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff.
-Mr Jarnes S. H7arlan, (with whom was 2r S. S. Gregory
on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error, cited Fingsley v Jingsley, 20 Illinois, 203, Potter v green, 6 A1llen, 442, Brooks v
Wh7ite, 2 Met. (Mass.) 283, Goodnozo v Smith, 18 Pick. 414,
Sibree v Tripp, 15 M. & W 23, Sermss v .fcDonnell, 107
N. Y 260, Grahaznf v .Meyer,99 N. Y 611, Carey v. Barrett,
4 C. P Div 319, Chicago & Alton Railroadv CJh'wago, Ver-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

milion &o. Coal Co., 79 Illinois, 121, Radich v lHtchis, 95
U. S. 210, 213, In e Sturges, 8 Bissell, 79.
.71& J R1.Doolittle,for defendants in error, cited 2 Parsons
Contr. 6 ed. 671, 672, Serviss v MDonnell, 107 R. Y 260,
265, Hefter v Cahn, 73 Illinois, 296, 300, Bump on Composition, 20, 23, Sevzng v Gale, 28 Indiana, 486, Elelt v. Snow,
2 Sawyer, 94, 106, Hoare v Dawes, 1 Doug. 371, Robznson v Tfilkqnson, 3 Price, 538, Graham v Jlfeyer, 99 N. Y
611, Dambmann v Schulting, 75 R. Y 55, S. C. (2d trial)
85 N. Y 622, 623, Carey v Barrett,4 0. P Div (1879) 379,
381, 382, Kingsley v Kingsley, 20 Illinois, 203, -Miller v
Jttantce, 6 Hill, 114, Vann v ifelNulty, 2 Gilman (Il1.) 355,
Bradshaw v Combs, 102 Illinois, 428, 433, 1 Greenleaf Ev.,
12 ed. 34, ยง 284, -Morgan v Grmfflth, L. R. 6 Ex. 70, Lewis
v Seabury, 74 N. Y 409, Chap2n v Dobson, 78 N. Y 74.
IMii. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD, after statingthe case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is contended for the plaintiffs that their assignment to
Knickerbocker was not binding upon them, because the defendants did not disclose to them the financial standing of
Libbey, nor the fact of his liability as a general partner in the
firm of Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff, nor the liability
in regard to the debts of that firm assumed by him by the
paper set forth in the fifth finding.
But the ninth finding sets forth fully what took place between Knickerbocker and the plaintiffs, on the visit of the
former to the latter, at Kew York, to propose to them to
accept from the defendants sixty cents on the dollar. That
finding states that Knickerbocker explained the situation of
the assets of Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff, saying that
the borrowed money was to be paid in full, which would not
leave enough to pay quite sixty per cent of the remaining
indebtedness (a fact which was true, according to the seventh
finding), that Libbey's liability as a member of the firm was
spoken of, when Knickerbocker stated to the plaintiffs that he

CLEAVELAiND v. IICHARDSON.
Opinion of the Court.

had not had opportunity to examine into the question and
was not in possession of information to know whether Libbey
could make a successful defence or not, but that it was a question they could investigate for themselves, and that one of
the plaintiffs said to Knickerbocker that they had sold no
goods to the defendants "on the strength that Libbey was
more than a special partner," that no credit had been given
to the firm on the faith that Libbey sustained any other relation to it, that Libbey had lost his special capital, and that
they had no desire to make him pay more. The ninth finding
does not state that Knickerbocker was in possession of any
information such as that which- he stated to the plaintiffs he
was not in possession of.
The ninth finding further says that it does not appear from
the evidence that the defendants or Knickerbocker communicated to the plaintiffs the fact that Libbey had signed the
paper set forth in the fifth finding, or that Knickerbocker
made any statement as to Libbey's financial ability to pay the
debts of the defendants' firm. It is not shown that Knickerbocker made a false answer to any inquiry put to him by the
plaintiffs.
It thus appears that Libbey's liability as a member of the
defendants' firm was spoken of between Kmckerbocker and
the plaintiffs, that Knickerbocker made to them no representation that Libbey was not liable, but substantially stated to
them that the question of Libbey's liability was a matter to
be examined into, and one which they could investigate for
themselves, that the plaintiffs communicated to Knickerbocker at the time the idea that, in their dealings with the
defendants, they had always acted on the view that Libbey
was only a special partner, and that Knickerbocker did not
state to the plaintiffs that Libbey was not financially able to
pay the debts of the defendants' firm.
The exact date of this interview in New York, between
Knickerbocker and the plaintiffs, does not appear, but it would
seem, from the eighth and ninth findings, that an interval of
between five and six weeks must have elapsed between the
time of that interview and the 29th of December, 1883, when
the assignment to Knickerbocker was executed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

It is not found by the court that it was known to the defendants' firm or to Libbey that the latter was not merely a,
special partner, nor is it found that the defendants were
guilty of any fraudulent concealment. The suggestion by
Knickerbocker to the plaintiffs that there was a question as to
the liability of Libbey as a general partner, was full enough
to put them on inqmry, and to call upon them to investigate
the question for themselves, during the five or six weeks that
elapsed before they made the assignment to Knickerbocker.
As to the statement in the ninth finding, that it does not
appear that the defendants or Knickerbocker communicated
to the plaintiffs the fact that Libbey had signed the paper set
forth in the fifth finding, it is to be remarked that that paper
sets forth that the liabilities of the defendants' firm were to
be paid by the proposed new firm of Cummings, Woodruff &
Brown, and that the sixth finding states that it was contemplated, on the day that paper bears date, that a new firm would
be formed, composed of Cornelius B. Cummings, Charles W
Woodruff and Swan Brown, as general partners, and Washington Libbey as special partner, but that such new firm was
never formed, although Cleaveland supposed it was so formed
when he sold out to Libbey his interest in the firm of Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff, on the day that paper was
signed. As the new firm was never formed, that paper had no
effective force at the time of the interview between Knickerbooker and the plaintiffs, or at the time the assignment to
Knickerbocker was made. Besides, Libbey was to be only a
special partner in the new firm.
We are unable to see, in this case, any breach of good faith
on the part of the defendants, or any nsrepresentation as to
the assets of their firm, or any false answer by Knickerbocker

to any question put to him by the plaintiffs.
It is found as a fact, by the court below, that Cleaveland,
Cummings and Libbey, with one Shelley, in December, 1881,
formed a limited copartnership under the statute of Illinois,
under the name of "Cleaveland, Cummings & Shelley," in
which Libbey was a limited partner, having put in $50,000 of
capital, that, about the 1st of May, 1883, Shelley went out of

CLEAVELAND v. RICHARDSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the firm, and Woodruff came into it, the firm being then called
"Cleaveland, Cummings & Woodruff," and that that firm
intended, as between its members, to do business as a limited
partnership, but did not take the steps required by law to make
itself a limited partnership under the statute of Illinois. It is
not found that either Cleaveland, or Cummings, or Woodruff,
or Libbey, supposed at any time that the copartnership was
other than a limited one, and it distinctly appears, by the
mnth finding, that the plaintiffs, m selling their goods to the
defendants, all the time regarded Libbey as only a special
partner.
In a case very like the one before us (Darnlmannv Schulftng,
75 N. Y 55) it was held that a party can commit a legaltfraud,
in a business transaction with another, only by fraudulent nsrepresentations of fact, or by such conduct or artifice, for a
fraudulent purpose, as will mislead the other party, or throw
him off his guard, and cause him to omit inquiry or examination
which he would otherwise make, that where there is no such
relation of trust or confidence between the parties as imposes
upon one an obligation to give full information to the other,
the latter cannot proceed blindly, omitting all inquiry and examination, and then complain that the other did not volunteer
to give the information he had, that ignorance of a fact extrinsic and not essential to a contract, but which, if known,
night have influenced the action of a party to the contract, is
not such a mistake as will authorize equitable relief, and that,
as to such facts, the party must rely upon his own vigilance,
and, if not imposed upon or defrauded, will be held to his contract. That was an action brought to set aside a release under
seal, on the ground that it was inoperative, because obtained
by misrepresentation and a concealment of material facts. It
was not found that there was any fraudulent misrepresentation,
and there was none m fact, and there was no misrepresentation
of any kind, nor was there any fraudulent concealment of any
facts, nor was any statement or artifice used to throw off
from his guard or to entrap or mislead the party executing the
release. The court says in its opinion "A party buying or
selling property, or executing instruments, must, by inquiry or

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

examination, gain all the knowledge he desires. He cannot
proceed blindly, omitting all inquiry and examination, and then
complain that the other party did not volunteer all the infor-

mation he had."

These views were reaffirmed when the case

was again before the court, in 85 N. Y 622.
In Graham v HNeyer, 99 N. Y 611, it was held that a compromise made by a debtor with his creditor cannot be assailed
on the ground that the debtor omitted to disclose his financial
condition, and that where he is not questioned in regard
thereto, and does nothing to mislead, he is not bound to make
any such disclosure. It was claimed in that case that, although
there was a failure to show that any fraudulent representations Were made on the part of the debtor to induce the compromise, yet it ought to be set aside on account of the undue
concealment by the debtor and his attorney of the true condition of the estate of the debtor, which he had assigned under
a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors. The
court said "But the defendant was not bound to make any
disclosure of his financial condition. He was not asked to
make any He made no misrepresentations, and did nothing to
mislead Graham, or prevent him from inquiring, or to throw
him off from his guard. They negotiated at arms' length.
The defendant was in no trust or confidential relation with
him. It is true that he had made an assignment, and had
thereby created a trust for Graham's benefit. But he was not
the trustee. Re bore the simple relation to him of debtor, and
he had the right to make the best compromise with him he
could, using no fraud or culpable artifice to accomplish the
result. Each party to such a compromise has the right to the
advantage which his superior skill, foresight and knowledge
may give him. The business of the world can be conducted
upon no other basis. If either party desires information from
the other, he must ask for it, and then he must not be misled
or deceived by answers given. These views are fully sustained by the case of Dambmann v Sc/ultng, 75 N. Y 62,
and the court below was not mistaken in holding that that
case was a controlling authority for the decision it made. The
principles of law laid down in that case were in no way ir-

CLEAVELAN)D v. RICHARDSON.
Opinion of the Court.

pugned or questioned when the case again came before this
court, in 85 N. Y 622, but they were reaffirmed."
As to Libbey's financial ability, the seventh finding states
that he "was reputed to be a man of large wealth," not that
he was a man of large wealth. The failure of Knickerbocker
to make any statement as to Libbey's financial ability to pay
the debts of the defendants' firm cannot give rise to any inference of concealment or fraud, because the importance of
Libbey's financial ability depended entirely upon whether he
was a special or a general partner, and the statement made
by one of the plaintiffs to Knickerbocker, that they had acted,
in their dealings with the defendants' firm on the view that
Libbey was only a special partner, joined with the fact that
Knickerbocker distinctly suggested to them an investigation
of the question as to the character of Libbey's liability as a
member of the firm, shows that there was no duty on the part
of Knickerbocker, as representing the defendants, to make any
statement as to Libbey's actual or reputed financial ability
The only remaining question is as to whether the defendants violated the agreement made by them in the paper
signed in their firm name, dated December 29, 1883, set forth
in the ninth finding, "not to pay voluntarily to any of their
creditors holding claims in excess of one thousand dollars, to
exceed sixty per cent on the dollar in settlement."
It appears by the tenth finding that, in April, 1884, all the
mercantile debts of the defendants' firm had been settled
at 60 cents and released, except about $88,000, that the firm
of Vietor & Achelis had not released their claim, but had
brought a suit by attachment thereon, against Cleaveland,
Cummings, Woodruff and Libbey, which was about to be
tried, that the attorney of the defendants' firm paid to Vietor & Achelis 60 cents on the dollar of their claim, which they
thereupon released, and that at the same time said attorney
gave his check, which was afterwards paid, to the attorneys of
Vietor & Achelis, for 25 per cent. on the dollar of said claim,
and the latter attorneys remitted 20 of said 25 per cent to
Vietor & Achelis, that this payment was a cover under
which Vietor & Achelis were to and did receive on their claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmlon of the Court.

more than 60 per cent, and such payment was made, after
Vietor & Achelis had refused to take 60 per cent, by agreement between the attorneys of Cleaveland, Cummings &
Woodruff, and of Vietor & Achelis, that the latter should receive 80 per cent.
We axe of opinion that the facts set forth in the tenth findmg fail to show that the payment of the 20 per cent to Vietor
& Achelis was a voluntary payment. They had brought a
suit by attachment on their claim, against their debtors, and
the suit was about to 1e tried. There was evidently no defence to it, and a judgment for the full amount of it would be
recovered, and it was secured by attachment. A settlement
of the entire claim for 80 per cent would be a saving of 20
per cent, and would, to that extent, increase the assets of the
firm, which were not quite sufficient to pay the 60 cents on
the dollar which the firm proposed to pay on the mercantile debts, and which they had paid, by April, 1884, and prior
to the transaction with Vietor & Achelis, on debts amounting
to $3'[3,000. Under these circumstances, the payment of the
20 per cent to Vietor & Achelis was not voluntary
It appears by the bill of exceptions that the defendants objected to the evidence tending to show that Vietor & Achelis
werepaid more than 60 per cent, on the ground that such payment was not made voluntarily, but that the court held that,
under the paper of December 29, 1883, signed by Cleaveland,
Cummings & Woodruff, any payment over 60 per cent was
made voluntarily, unless the claim had gone to judgment. If
the claim had gone to judgment, the payment over 60 per cent
would have been 40 per cent, and we do not see that the
payment of the 20 per cent, at the time it was made, was any
the less involuntary than would have been the payment of the
40 per cent after judgment had been obtained.
In Carey v Barrett, 4 0. P Div 379, certain creditors of
the defendant signed an agreement, to which the plaintiff assented, setting forth that they, in consideration of ten shillings
in the pound on their respective debts, agreed to accept the
same in discharge of those debts, " the whole of the creditors
receiving not exceeding a like sum in discharge of their

MLEAVE LASD v. RICRARDSO.
Opinion of the Court.

debts." At the time the agreement was entered into, it was
known that the debtor was being sued by a creditor for a sum
of money which was afterwards paid in full the day before
the cause was ripe for trial. In consequence of this, the plaintiff sued the defendant to recover a part of his unpaid debt.
The court (Lord Coleridge, C. X., and Lmdley, J.) held that
the agreement of compromise was limited to the creditors who
signed it, and that, even if that were not so, the payment to
the creditor who was paid in full, being made under pressure,
and not in pursuance of a prior arrangement to give him a
preference, did not render the transaction void. Lord Coleridge
said that the payment in full "was not the less a payment
under process of law, because the debtor did not wait to incur
the expense of a judgment and execution."
In Radich v Hutens, 95 _U. S. 210, 213, it is laid down
that where there is an actual or threatened exercise of power
possessed over the property of another by the party exacting
or receiving a payment, there is coercion or duress, which will
render a payment involuntary, and the case of -Mayor of
Baltimore v Leferman, 4 Gill, 425, is cited, which holds, that
when a payment is made to emancipate property from an
actual and existing duress imposed upon it by the party to
whom the money is paid, the payment is to be regarded as
compulsory
The ,udgmentis reversed, and the case s remanded to the
Circuit Court witk a direction to enter judgment for the
defendants on the fndings offgt.
MR. JusriOE

MiLLER dissented.

M.R. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, having been of counsel in this
case, did not sit in it or take any part in its decision.

