OREGON IMP CO. v. EXCELSIOR COAL CO.

215

Opinion of the Court.

OREGON IMPROVEMENT COMPANY v. EXCELSIOR
COAL COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1198. Submitted November 11, 1889 -Decided

November 25, 1889.

Where a complaint in an action at law, for the infringement of a reissued
patent for an invention, avers that the reissue is "for the same invention," as the original patent, and the answer denies "each and every, all
and singular, the allegations" of the complaint, it is error, on the trial,
to exclude the original patent from being put in evidence by the defendant.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

MrI Sidney JT Smith and XrA John A. Wrzght, for plaintiff
in error, submitted on their briefs.
-Ur J J Scrzvner, for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
MR.

JUSTICE BLAToiiFoRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought by The Excelsior Coal
Company, a corporation, against The Oregon Improvement
Company, another corporation, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California, for the
infringement of a reissued patent.
The complaint avers that, on the surrender of the original
patent, a new patent was issued to the patentee "for the same
invention, for the residue of the term then unexpired for which
the said original letters patent were granted." The answer of
the defendant denies "each and every, all and singular, the
allegations" contained in the complaint. The case was tried
before a jury, and resulted in a verdict of 7000 for the plaintiff, for which, with costs, judgment was entered. To review
this judgment the defendant has brought a writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

There is a bill of exceptions, which states that the plaintiff
read in evidence, without objection, the reissued patent, a copy
of the specification of which with the drawings is set forth,
and put in other evidence tending to show its right to recover
damages, that the defendant, "to sustain the issues on its
part," offered m evidence a duly certified copy of the original
patent, a copy of which with the drawings is set forth, that
the plaintiff objected to the introduction of the original patent,
on the ground that the same was immaterial and irrelevant to
any defence raised by the answer, that the court sustained
the objection, and that the defendant excepted to such ruling.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court committed an error
in excluding the original patent. It was relevant evidence
upon the question whether the reissue was "for the same
invention" as the original, and the issue on that subject was
sufficiently raised by the averment of the complaint and the
denial in the answer. The defendant was entitled to try that
question in a formal manner, and it could not do so unless the
original patent was introduced in evidence.
The judgment s reversed and the case is remanded to the
Circuit Court with a directon to award a new tral.

BROWN v. RANK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
WASHINGTON.
No 99. Submitted November 13, 1889. - Decided November 25, 1889.

The defendant in a possessory action In the nature of ejectment, brought in
a court of Washington Territory where the laws permitted a mingling of
common law and equity jurisdictions, pleaded the general issue, and also
set up four defences, one of which was the statute of limitations, and
one of which was an equitable defence. The plaintiff filed a general
demurrer to the second, third and fourth defences. The demurrer being
overruled, the plaintiff elected to stand upon it, and the case was thereupon dismissed. Held, that the final judgment was one dismissing the
action at law, and was not a judgment in the exercise of chancery jurisdiction.

