FORBES LITHOGRAPH CO. v. WORTHINGTON.

655

Syllabus.

cates clearly that the "returns received" did not show the
non-performance. So far from strengthening the alleged presumption that the postmasters reported the facts as they
existed, its effect is to the contrary What they did report,
in fact, is not shown, and, inasmuch as under Finding VI
no other inference can be drawn than that the first informationthat the Postmaster General had that the mail was not
carried from Gabilan by way of Katividad and Santa Rita,
was April 6, 1882, we cannot accept the conclusion that the
responsible officers of the Department were in possession of
information and knowledge of the conduct of the contractor
before that time, and acquiesced in the manner in which he
carried the mails during the period in question, or during the
preceding years, in respect to which it is found that he so
operated the route under a similar contract.
We can find nothing in the findings to justify us in holding
that the Department paid this claimant the full measure of
his compensation prior to March 31, 1882, with knowledge of
the manner in which he was performing the work, or that the
Department ever put the interpretation upon the contract
which is now contended for, or induced the contractor to
enter into the contract by reason of any such interpretation
on its part. The deduction of $746.25 was properly made,
and the conclusion of law on the facts found was erroneous.
The judgrnent is reversed and the cause remanded wah directions to enterjudgment -0or the United States.

FORBES LITHOGRAPH MANUFAOTURING COMPANY v. WORTHINGTON.
ERiROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 163. Submitted December 13, 1889. -Decided

December 23, 1889.

Plaintiff imported into the United States a quantity of iron advertising or
show cards of various sizes. 'They were sold here for advertising pur-

OCTOBER TERN:, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
poses, to hang on walls, or in windows, in public places, and contained
generally the name of the person or of the article advertised and some
picture or ornament, which were printed from lithographic stones
upon the plates of sheet iron in the same way that lithographing is
done upon paper or cardboard. The principal part of the value of the
completed card was in the printing done upon the material, and not in
the material itself; Held, that they were subject to a duty of 45 per
cent ad valorermi as manufactures, etc., not specially enumerated or provided for, composed wholly or in part of iron, under the last paragraph
of Schedule C, Rev. Stat. ยง 2502, as enacted March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 501,
c. 121, and not as printed matter not specially enumerated or provided
for, under the first paragraph of Schedule M in the same amending act.

Tins cause was heard by the district judge for the District
of New Hampshire, holding the Circuit Court, upon the following agreed statement of facts:
" This was an action in which the writ was dated April 18,
1884, brought by the Forbes Lithograph Manufacturing Company, a corporation located at Boston, in said district, to recover back $1081.42, the amount of duties alleged by them to
have been illegally exacted by the defendant Worthington,
as collector of the port of Boston, on certain merchandise
described in the invoice and entries as 'iron show-cards'
imported by them. The pleadings may be referred to. The
plaintiffs imported these cards into the port of Boston from
Paris, in France, by different steamers from Liverpool, the
importations being made in ten separate lots, and extending
from December 19, 1883, to April 2, 1884.
"On each importation as received the plaintiffs paid the assessed duties under protest, and duly filed such protest with the
collector and their appeal with the Secretary of the Treasury
A copy of one of the protests, which may stand for all, is
hereto annexed and marked 'A,' and this action was seasonably brought.
"The collector exacted a duty of forty-five per centum ad
valorem (amounting in the aggregate to $2432.62), under the
clause in Schedule C (last section) of the tariff law of March
3, 1883, which is as follows ' Manufactures, articles, or wares,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, composed
wholly or in part of iron
or any other metal, and

FORBES LITHOGRAPH CO. v. WORTHINGTON.

657

Statement of the Case.

whether partly or wholly manufactured, forty-five per centum
ad valorem,' while the said importers claimed that the goods
were dutiable at twenty-five per centum ad valorem only, (the
aggregate amounting to $1351.20,) under the clause in Schedule
11, (first section,) which is as follows 'Books, pamphlets, bound
or unbound, and all printed matter, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, engravings, bound or unbound,
etchings, illustrated books, maps and charts, twenty-five per
centum ad valorem.'
"The difference between the amount of said duties, at fortyfive per cent and at twenty-five per cent, is $1081.42, which
is the amount that the plaintiffs claim in this case.
"All the goods charged with the duties were iron showcards or advertising cards or signs.
"They were manufactured in Paris on orders given by the
said importers to fill orders from parties here, who used them
for advertising purposes (to hang on the walls or in windows
or in public places, to give to customers, etc.). The importers
imported and sold them to the consumers here for such advertising purposes only The cards were of different sizes, being
on the average about a foot long by six inches wide, and contained generally the name of the person and of the article
advertised, with some picture or ornament thereon- for example, as follows
BREWERY
ESTABLISHED

ROBERT SMITH'S

A.D.
1875.

Head of
Lio.

I DIA PALE ALE & BROWN STOUT,
IN BoTTLE.
LITtE.

ORMITZ,
MMAXPARIS.

PHILADELPHIA.
U. S. A.

ON DRAUGHT.

FORBES CO., BOSTON', o1

AGETS.

"These cards were prepared m different colors on plates of
sheet iron. It is agreed, if relevant to the issue, that the value
voL cxxxn-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of the iron plates before the printing was put upon them was
about two or three cents each, and that the other materral of
the card as material was of like trifling value, while that of
the completed card or sign was about twenty to twenty-five
cents.
"These cards. or signs were lithographed (that is to say,
printed) from lithographic stones on hand presses in the same
way that lithographing is done on paper or on card-board.
Samples of said cards are filed herewith, marked 'E xhibit B,'
and may be referred to at the hearing.
"The case is submitted by the parties on the above as an
agreed statement of facts.
"If upon the foregoing facts the merchandise should have
been assessed at 25 per cent, judgment is to be rendered for the
plaintiffs for $1081.42 and costs, otherwise for defendant for
costs."

Copy of the protest was attached to the statement, and samples of the cards accompanied it as exhibits.
The court found for the defendant and entered judgment
accordingly, and a writ of error was sued out from this court
upon exceptions to the findings and rulings. The opinion is
reported in 25 Fed. Rep. 899.
-Ur Selwyn Z. Bowman for plaintiff in error.
-Hr Asststant Attorney General faury for defendant om
error.
lim.

On=ra

JuSTioi

Fuuzri delivered the opinion of the

court.
We concur with the district judge in his conclusion that
these iron show-cards were properly assessed as manufactures
of iron not specially enumerated or provided for in the act of
March 3, 1883, and as such liable to duty under the last paragraph of Schedule C of section 2502 of the Revised Statutes,
as enacted by that act, which reads
"Manufactures, articles or wares, not specially enumerated

FORBES LITHOGRAPH CO. v. WORTHIN GTON.

659

Opunon of the Court.

or provided for m this act, composed wholly or in part of iron,
steel, copper, lead, nickel, pewter, tin, zinc, gold, silver, platinum, or any other metal, and whether partly or wholly manufactured, forty-five per centum ad valorem." 22 Stat. 501,
c. 121.
This is conceded by plaintiff m error unless the articles were
dutiable as "printed matter" under the first paragraph of
Schedule M of that section, 22 Stat. 510, c. 121, which is
quoted in the statement of facts, and given hereafter.
The diligence of counsel has furnished us with definitions,
from many dictionaries and encyclopmdias, of the words
"print," "printing" and "printed matter," from which it is
argued that the essential feature of printing is not the substance on which the printing is done, but the mode of making
the impression. But the question here is not whether these
iron show-cards, being lithographed or printed, could be styled
"printed matter" within the meaning of these words as given
by lexicographers, but whether they were "printed matter"
as those words are used in Schedule M of the act of March 3,
1883.
There was no evidence that signs of this kind were known
commercially, or by printers, bookbinders, dealers in books,
pamphlets or periodicals, or others, as "printed matter."
In Arthur v. .Iollkr, 97 U S.365, certain chromo-lithographs
printed from oil stones upon paper were held subject to the
duty levied upon printed paper, and Mr. Justice Hunt, m delivering the opinion of the court, says that "the term ' print'
or 'printing' includes the most of the forms of figures or
characters or representations, colored or uncolored, that may
be unpressed on a yielding surface," and that "the pictures
m question were printed from lithographic stones, by successive impressions, each impression giving a different portion of
the view and of a different color. Like other pictures, they
are made and used for the purpose of ornament. Equally
with engravings, copper plates and lithographs, they are
printed, and properly fall within the statutory designation of
printed matter. If further argument were needed it would be
found in the principle v oscitur a sociis. 'Printed matter' is

OCTOBER TERM, 1889
Opinion of the Court.

named in the list with engravings, maps, charts, illustrated
papers. With these printed pictures are naturally associated."
Undoubtedly the words "printed matter" are popularly
considered as applying to paper or some similar substance
commonly used to receive the impression of letters, characters
or figures by type and ink, and reference to the legislation of
Congress demonstrates that the phrase was used in the schedule in question in this sense.
By section 18 of the act of March 2, 1861, fixing duties on
imports, etc., a duty of fifteen per centum ad valorem was
levied " on all books, periodicals and pamphlets, and all
printed matter and illustrated books and papers."
12 Stat.
187.
In section 94 of the act of June 30, 1864, appears this
paragraph.
"On all printed books, magazines, pamphlets, reviews and
all other similar printed publications, except newspapers, a
duty of five per centum ad valorem." 13 Stat. 267.
By "Schedule M, Sundries," of section 2504 of the Revised
Statutes, it is provided
"Books, periodicals, pamphlets, blank books, bound or unbound, and all printed matter, engravings, bound or unbound,
illustrated books and papers, and maps and charts, twentyfive per centum ad valorem." Rev Stat. 2d ed. 474.
In section 2502, of Title 33, of the Revised Statutes as
enacted by the act of March 3, 1883, the first paragraph of
the schedule headed "Schedule M, Books, Papers, etc.," reads
"Books, pamphlets, bound or unbound, and all printed
matter, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act,
engravings bound or unbound, etchings, illustrated books,
maps and charts, twenty-five per centum ad valorem."
22
Stat. 510.
And then follow nine paragraphs, making ten in all in this
schedule, relating to blank books, bound or unbound, and
blank books for press copying; paper, sized or glued, suitable
only for printing paper; printing paper, unsized, used for
books and newspapers exclusively, manufactures of paper
not specially enumerated, sheathing paper, paper boxes, and

FORBES LITHOGRAPIIH CO. v. WORTHtINGTON.

661

Opinion of the Court.

all other fancy boxes, paper envelopes, paper hangings and
paper for screens or fire-boards, paper antiquarian, demy,
drawing, elephant, foolscap, imperial, letter, note, and all
other paper not specially enumerated or provided for in the
act, pulp, dried, for paper-makers' use.
It is very clear that these iron signs were not dutiable under
a schedule headed "books, papers, etc.," and confined throughout to the subject matter thus indicated.
If a duty had been inposed on iron show-cards eo nomsne,
the latter would not have been dutiable as "manufactures of
iron," any more than "braces and suspenders," though made
of rubber, were dutiable as "manufactures of t'ubber," Arthur
v. Davzes, 96 U. S. 135, or "artificial flowers," though made
of cotton, were dutiable as "man u factures of cotton." Arthur
v R e ns, 96 U. S. 143. The specific designation would prevail over the general words which otherwise embraced the article. In Arthur v Jacoby, 103 U. S. 677, decorated porcelain
ware being subject to one rate of duty and pictures to another,
it was held that where it appeared that certain pictures had
been painted by hand on porcelain, which, it was proved, "did
not in itself constitute an article of chinaware, being manufactured simply as a ground for the painting, and not for any use
independent of the paintings," they were taxable as pictures
and not as decorated porcelain ware. The question decided,
as stated by Mr. Chief Justice Waite at the close of the opinion, was that "the goods were not chinaware, but paintings."
But here the articles were clearly manufactures of iron, and
were not "printed matter," within the meaning of the clause
relied on by the plaintiff, because those words, as there used,
applied only to articles ejusden genems with books and pamphlets, which iron show-cards were not.
We find no difficulty in concluding that the case was properly decided, and the judgment is

A,/flmed.

