LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. WAIKGELIN.

599

Statement of the Case.

rule is expressed in words that leave no doubt as to what was
the intention of Congress. The judgment below gives effect
to that intention, and it is
Aff rmed.
M.

JUSTICE FIELD, with whom concurred

M1R. JUSTICE

MILLER, dissented.

LOUISVILLE

AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD
PANY v. WANGELIN.

COM-

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 169. Submitted December 19, 1889.-Decided Jauuary 6,1890.

Under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, ยง 2, one of two corporations sued
jointly in a state court for a tort, although pleading severally, cannot
remove the case into the Circuit Court of the United States, upon the
ground that there is a separable controversy between it and the plaintiff
because the other corporation was not in existence at the time of the
tort sued for -without alleging and proving that the two corporations
were wrongfully made joint defendants for the purpose of preventing
a removal into the federal court.

THE original action was trespass, brought in a court of the
State of Illinois on -May 10, 1883, by Lucinda Wangelin, a
citizen of Illinois, against the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, a corporation of Kentucky, and the Southeast and
St. Louis Railway Company, a corporation of Illinois, for
breaking and entering her close, and tearing up and carrying
away a railroad switch, and thereby destroying the connection
between a coal mine of the plaintiff and the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway, and injuring the value of the mine, to her
damage in the sum of $6000. The defendant corporations,
after being duly served with process, severally pleaded not

guilty
The case was removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States upon a petition of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, alleging that there was a separate controversy

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

between it and the plaintiff, which could be fully determined
between them, and specifically alleging that the St. Louis and
Southeastern Railway Company, an Illinois corporation, built
and owned the railway and the switch mentioned in the declaration in 1870, and operated the railway until November 1, 1874,
that thenceforth that railway was held and operated by a
receiver appointed in a suit to foreclose a mortgage from that
company until January 1, 1880, then by the Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Railway Company under a lease from
such receiver until May 1, 1880, and by the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company under an assignment of that lease
until January 27, 1881, and on November 16, 1880, was sold
under a decree of foreclosure to purchasers for the Southeast
and St. Louis Railway Company, and by such purchasers conveyed on January 27, 1881, to that company, that the Southeast and St. Louis Railway Company was incorporated under
the law of Illinois on November 12, 1880, and not before,
that the supposed trespasses alleged m the declaration were
committed, if at at all, in August, 1880, that at that time
"the defendant, the Southeast and St. Louis Railway Company, had no corporate or legal existence, and no existence in
fact, had no stockholders, officers, agents, employes or servants,
and had taken no steps whatever to become a corporation, and
was not in any way acting as a corporation or otherwise,"
that that company never came into possession of that railway
until lJanuary 27, 1881, when it entered into a contract with
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, under which
this company had since operated that railway, and that, at
the time of the supposed trespasses,, this company was in the
sole and exclusive possession of that railway, operating it
under the aforesaid assignment of lease.
Annexed to the petition for removal was an affidavit of the
vice-president of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company to the truth of its allegations.
In the Circuit Court of the United States, the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company, by leave of the court, filed
additional pleas, setting up, among other things, the matters
alleged in the petition for removal.

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. WANGELI-N.

601

Oprnon of the Court.

Upon a motion of the plaintiff to remand the cause to the
state court "for reasons apparent upon the face of the record,"
the court on April 7, 1886, ordered it to be remanded, and on
April 9, 1886, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
sued out this writ of error.
-Hr J IF Hamill, for plaintiff in error, cited, WVood v
Dams, 18 How 467, Carneal v Banks, 10 Wheat. 181,
Browne v Strode, 5 Cranch, 303, Boon's Heirs v Chiles, 8
Pet. 532, MffolWutt v Bland, 2 How 9, Walden v Sk7nner,
101 U. S. 577, 589, A'apahoe County v Hansas Pacific Railway Company, 4 Dillon, 277, 283, Removal Cases, 100 U. S.
457, Bacon v Rtves, 106 U. S. 99, ilartog v iMemory, 116
forrss v Gilmer, 129 U S. 315, 329.
U. S. 588, 591,
.Mr Charles 7

Thomas for defendant in error.

Mm. JusrTIc GR.&Y, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It often has been decided that an action brought in a state
court against two jointly for a tort cannot be removed by
either of them into the Circuit Court of the United States,
under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, ยง 2, upon the ground
of a separable controversy between the plaintiff and himself,
although the defendants have pleaded severally, and the plaintiff might have brought the action against either alone. 18
Stat. 471, Pre v Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, Sloane v Anderson,
117 U. S. 275, Plymouta Co. v Amador & Sacramento Co.,
118 U. S. 264:, fTorn Wire Hledge Co. v Fuller,122 U S. 535.
It is equally well settled that in any case the question
whether there is a separable controversy which will warrant
a removal is to be determined by the condition of the record
in the state court at the time of the filing of the petition for
removal, independently of the allegations in that petition or
the petitioner both
in the affidavit of the petitioner -unless
alleges and proves that the defendants were wrongfully made
joint defendants for the purpose of preventing a removal into
the federal court.

OCTOBER TERlNT, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

In Plymouth Co. v Amador & Sacramento Co., above cited,
a suit by a canal company against a mining corporation and
its agents, for polluting a stream of water belonging to the
plaintiff, was held to have been rightly remanded to the state
court in which it had been commenced, although the corporation's petition for removal alleged that it was the only real
defendant, and that the other defendants were nominal parties
only, and were sued for the purpose of preventing the corporation from removing the cause into the Circuit Court of the
United States. Chief Justice Waite in delivering judgment
said. "It is possible, also, that the company may be guilty
and the other defendants not guilty, but the plaintiff in its
complaint says they are all guilty, and that presents the cause
of action to be tried. Each party defends for lumself, but
until his defence is made out the case stands against him, and
the rights of all must be governed accordingly Under these
circumstances, the averments in the petition, that the defendants were wrongfully made [parties] to avoid a removal can
be of no avail in the Circuit Court upon a motion to remand,
until they are proven, and that, so far as the present record
discloses, was not attempted. The affirmative of this issue
was on the petitioning defendant. That corporation was the
moving party, and was bound to make out its case." 118
U. S. 210, 271.
In Little v Giles. 118 U S. 596, where a bill in equity
charged the defendants jointly with having fraudulently deprived the plaintiff of her property, Mr. Justice Bradley
delivering the opinion of the court said that one of the defendants "could not, by merely making contrary averments in his
petition for removal, and setting up a case inconsistent with
the allegations of the bill, segregate himself from the other
defendants, and thus entitle himself to remove the case into
the United States Court." 118 U. S. 600, 601.
So in East Tennessee Railroadv Grayson, 119 U. S. 240,
244, in a suit in equity against two corporations, the question
was whether there was a separable controversy between one of
them and the plaintiff which would warrant a removal into
the Circuit Court of the United States, and it was said by

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. WAIGELLN.

603

Opinion of the Court.

Chief Justice Waite, and adjudged by this court, that the
allegations of the bill must, for the purposes of that mquiry,
be taken as confessed. To the same effect is Graves v Corbzn,
just decided, ante, 571, 585.
In the case at bar, the declaration charged two corporations
with having jointly trespassed on the plaintiff's land, whether
they had done so or not was a question to be decided at the
trial, and it is not contended, and could not be, in the face of
the decisions already cited, that the record of the state court,
as it stood at the time of the filing of the petition for removal,
showed a separable controversy between the plaintiff and either
defendant.
The argument in support of the jurisdiction of the Federal
Court is that the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
was the only real defendant, because, at the time of the trespass complained of, the other defendant was not in existence.
But this was a matter affecting the merits of the case, and one
which the plaintiff was entitled to deny and disprove at the
trial upon the issues joined by the pleadings. Both the defendants were sued and served as corporations, and pleaded as
such, in the state court, and it is not denied that each of
them was a corporation when the action was brought. The
question whether one of them was in existence as a corporation
at the time of the alleged trespass did not affect the question
whether it could be now sued, but the question of its liability
in the action, in other words, not the jutrisdiction, but the
merits, to be determined when the case came to trial. It could
not be tried and determined in advance, as incidental to a
petition by a codefendant to remove the case into the Circuit
Court of the United States.
As to the suggestion, made in argument, that the Southeast
and St. Louis Railway Company was fraudulently joined as a
defendant in the state court for the purpose of depriving the,
Lomsville and Nashville Railroad Company of the right to
remove the case into the Circuit Court of the United States, it
is enough to say that no fraud was alleged in the petition for
removal, or pleaded, or offered to be proved, in the Circuit
Court.
Judgment affli-med.

