OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

Southkern Railroad v. Southern ExT. Co. and in Ex parte
.Yorton.
In Winthrop Ion Co. v. .Meeker, it was held that where a
decree decides the right to the property in contest, and the
party is immediately entitled to have it carried into execution,
it is a final decree, although the court below retains possession
of so much of the bill as may be necessary for adjusting
accounts between the parties, the court remarking that such a
case was different from a suit by a patentee to establish his
patent and recover for infringement, because there the money
recovery was a part of the subject matter of the suit.
Within the principles established by the foregoing cases,
the decree now before us was not a final decree and the appeal
must be
lDtsmtssed.

DAY v. FAIR HAVEN AND WESTVILLE RAILWAY
COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM THE COiRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONN1 ECTICUT.
No. 35. Argued October 23, 24, 1889.-Decided November 11, 1889.

The fourth claiminn the reissued letters patent No. 8388, granted August 27
1878, to Augustus Day for an improvement in track clearers, viz., "The
combination with the draw-bar 0 and scraper A of the diagonal brace E,
as and for the purpose set forth," would naturally suggest itself to any
mechanmc, and involves no patentable novelty.
A claim in letters patent must be held to define what the Patent Office has
determined to be the patentee's invention, and is not to be enlarged in
construction beyond the fair interpretation of its termst
IN EQUITY

for the infringement of letters patent.

dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed.
in the opinion.
.21", Charles J Runt for appellant.
-Mr William Edgar Simonds for appellee.

Decree

The case is stated

DAY v. 'FAIR 13AVEN RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHmF

JUST CE FULLER.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Augustus Day filed his bill in equity against the Fair Haven
and Westville Railway Company in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Connecticut, alleging an in-,
frmgement of the fourth claim of reissued letters patent No.
8388, dated August 27, 1878, for an inprovement in track
clearers.
The defence was that the clain lacked patentable novelty,
unless construed to contain parts not mentioned in it, and if
so construed, then that there had been no infringement. The
Circuit Court, Shipman, J., decided, that the claim did not
cover patentable novelty, Day v Fa, Haven &c. Railway,
23 Fed. Rep. 189, and dismissed the bill accordingly, and from
this decree the cause was brought to this court by appeal.
So much of the specification as is necessary to be quoted
here states that
"The nature of this invention relates to an improvement
in the construction of railway-track-cleaning devices and the
means of operating them, being more especially designed to be
attached to horse-cars for the purpose of removing snow, ice,
mud and other obstructions from the rails and immediately at
the sides thereof, and it consists zn the combimatwtn of a pair
of independently acting scrapers, pivotally secured to the j~oor
of a car, and resting upon the track, when in operation, wholly
by their own weight, with means for raisingand lowering such
scrapers sim~ultaneously, m the cornbnation,with an indepen.
dently acting scraper resting,when n oqperation, wholly by its
own weight jpon the track, of a draw-bar'n the direct line of
draft and a suwpplementary and diagonal draw-bar,which at
the same time acts as a brace, the forward ends of both of said
draw-bars being secured on the same axial line, in the peculiar
construction and arrangement of a cast-shank with relation to
the scraper, which is secured thereto, and the draft-irons,
which connect it to the under side of the car; in the pendent
guards, which lift the scraper from the track on meeting with
an obstruction on the outside of the rail, and deflect outwardly

OCTOBER TERAM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

from the track, and in a peculiar crank for operating the shaft
which raises and lowers the pair of scrapers at each end of the
car, as more fully hereinafter set forth.
"In the drawing, A represents my scraper, being a plate of
sheet metal of the form shown, slightly curved in cross-section.
The front end of this scraper is rounded off at its lower edge,
as shown in the drawings, to allow it to pass, without jar
or danger of breaking, over the ends of rails that may be projected above the plane of the adjacent rails. The lower edge
of the rear part of the wing of the scraper is cut away, as
shown, to allow it to pass over pavement or earth at the side
of the track which projects above the rail, thereby preventing
such projecting matter from lifting the scraper proper from
the face of the rail. B is the shank, to which it is secured
by the bolts a a. This shank is a casting in the form shown
in Fig. 2. It is formed with a pair of longitudinal ribs, b, on
top, to receive the end of the draw-bar, 0, whose other end is
pivoted to a hanger, D, pendent from the car, or it may be
pivoted directly to the sill of the car.
"The shank is also fitted or cast with diagonal studs c on
top of said ribs b to receive the outer end of a diagonal brace,
E, whose other end is pivoted to a hanger, DI, parallel with
the hanger D, but near the longitudinal centre of the car, both
draw-bar and diagonal brace being thus pzvoted on the same
assal line, so that when it 'is des'red to raise and lower the
scrayers, the samne will be done without disturbing the vertical
position thereof with relation to the track, as would be done
were there but one pvotal yoint. While the scraper and the
parts to which it is attached are free to move in a vertical
plane, this brace E effectually resists any lateral pressure to
which the scraper may be subjected an moving obstructions
from the rail, its own weight being sufficient to keep it down
on the rail. The draw-bar and brace axe securely bolted to
the shank, and by the described arrangement of the ribs and
studs perfect accuracy in the 'set' of the scraper is secured an essential feature of my invention."
The claims were nine in number, of which the first four are
as follows

DAY v. FAIR HAVEN RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"1. In a railway car, a pair of independently acting scrapers, pivotally secured to the floor of the same, and resting upon
the track, when in operation, wholly by their own weight, in
combination with means for raising and lowering such scrapers simultaneously, substantially as and for the purpose set
forth.
"2. In a track-cleaning device, the combination, with an independently acting scraper, resting, when in operation, wholly
by its own weight upon the track, of a draw-bar m the
direct line of draft, and a supplementary and diagonal drawbar, which at the same tune acts as a brace, the forward ends
of both of said draw-bars being secured on the same axial line,
substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"3. The construction and arrangement of the shank B, as
described, with relation to scraper A, draw-bar 0, and diagonal
brace E, as and for the purposes set forth.
"4. The combination, with the draw-bar 0 and scraper A,
of the diagonal brace E, as and for the purpose set forth."
But it was stipulated that the complainant did not seek to
recover except under the fourth claim.
The original patent, No. 125,54:7, was granted April 9, 1872,
and the original specification did not contain the words italicized above, nor the first and second claims.
Upon the hearing, the complainant adduced the evidence of
certain expert witnesses, who testified, on cross-examination,
in substance, that the draw-bar 0 performed the office of drawmg the scraper along the track, and was assisted in so doing
by the diagonal brace E, which brace also performed the office
of preventing the scraper from being removed from the track
by the side thrust, that while the diagonal brace assisted in
the direct draft, yet its most important functibn was to prevent
the lateral movement of the scraper from the track, that, m
considering the office performed by the draw-bar C and brace
E, that office was the same if they were attached to any scraper
in any way, provided an attachment was made, that so far as
the fourth claim of the reissue was concerned, it was not material how the draw-bar and brace were pivoted, except that the
pivoting should be on "the same axial line," so "that when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

scraper is lifted from the track it shall not be moved laterally
in either direction."
As already stated, the fourth claim is " The combination,
with the draw-bar C and scraper A, of the diagonal brace E,
as and for the purpose set forth."
Inasmuch as the scraper and draw-bar were both confessedly
old, and the primary function of the diagonal brace ismanifestly to prevent lateral displacement, the question, assuming
that it is the diagonal brace only which is claimed to be new,
is whether the application of a diagonal brace to a track-scraper
to prevent lateral displacement involves patentable novelty
And this question must be answered in the negative, for we
concur with the Circuit Court that the employment of a brace
to effect that purpose would naturally suggest itself to any
mechanic, and that its use in that way is within the range of
common knowledge and experience. Considered aside from
the method of the combination of the parts and the manner of
pivoting, the contrivance -is a well-known one of obvious suggestion, and used here to perform an office exactly analogous
to that in which it has been frequently formerly used.
But it is contended on behalf of appellant that, as the combination would be inoperative "for the purpose set forth,"
namely, clearing the track of a railway of obstructions such as
snow, ice, mud, etc., unless the bottom of the car were treated
as part of such combination, the peculiar method of pivoting
the draw-bar and'the diagonal brace must also be included.
The mechanism by which the draw-bar and the diagonal
brace are pivoted to the car and fastened to the scraper is
not referred to m this claim, although it is m other claims of
the series. As the claim must be held to define what the
:Patent Office has determined to be the patentee's invention, it
ought not to be enlarged beyond the fair interpretation of its
terms. It is true that elements of a combination not mentioned in a claim may-sometimes be held included, in the light
of other parts of the specification, which may be applicable,
but here the claim is so broad that we are not justified in importing into it an element which would operate to so enlarge its
scope as to cover an invention in no manner indicated upon
its face.

