OCTOBER TERiVM, 1889.

614

Syllabus.

31, 1879, the date of the payment by Ellis' administrator to
the defendant of the sum of $5901.64. To that instruction
the plaintiff excepted, but did not present any prayers for
instructions. A verdict was returned in conformity with the
direction of the court, and judgment was entered thereon.
For the reasons given m the opimon in Avery v. Cleary,
the peremptory instruction to the jury to find a verdict in
favor of the plaintiff for the surrender value of policy 68,429
was erroneous. But as the defendant did not prosecute a writ
of error, the judgment below must be affirmed, upon the ground
that no error was committed to the prejudice of the plaintiff.
His action was barred by limitation, for, there can be no
doubt that this suit is between the assignee and a corporation
claiming an adverse interest.
Judgment affimed.

ROBERTSON v. EDELHOFF
ERROR TO THE CUICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No.170.

Argued December 19, 20, 1889.-Decided January 6,1890.

Ribbons, composed of silk and cotton, in which silk is the component
material of chief value, used exclusively as trimmings for ornamenting
hats and bonnets, and having a commercial value only for that purpose,
are liable to only 20 per cent duty under the following provision in
"Schedule N. - Sundries," in ยง 2502 of Title 33 of the Revised Statutes,
as, enacted by the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 512 "Hats, and so
forth, materials for- Braids, plaits, filats, laces, trimmings, tissues,
willow-sheets and squares, used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods, composed of straw chip, grass, palm-leaf, willow, hair,
whalebone, or any other substance or material, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, twenty per centum ad valorem;" and are not
liable to 50 per cent duty, under the following clause in " Schedule L. Silk and Silk Goods," in the same section, Id. 510- "All goods, wares
and merchandise, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act,
made of silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value,
fifty per centum ad valorem."
The present case is controlled by that of Hartranftv Langfeld, 125 U. S. 128.
It was proper for the Circuit Court to direct a verdict for the plaintiff.

ROBERTSON v. EDELHOFF.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated m the opinion.

.Aln SoZiedor Gemral for plaintiff in error.
-Mr Josep.h,H. Cioate (with whom were -MA2- Henry EdwNn
Tr'emarn and Mr -Mason W Tyler on the brief) for defendants m error.
MR.JUSTIOE BLATOHFoD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought in the Superior Court of the city
of New York, by Charles August Edelhoff and Emil Rinke
against William H. Robertson, collector of the port of New
York, on the 25th of March, 1884, and removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, to recover an excess of duties paid
under protest on goods entered at the custom house on the
20th of August, 1883, the duty having been paid on the same
day
The case was tried by Judge Coxe and a jury, on April 12th,
1886. The articles in dispute were ribbons, composed of silk
and cotton, m which silk was the component material of chief
value. There was due protest and appeal. The collector
assessed a duty of 50 per cent ad valorem upon the goods,
under the following clause in "Schedule L.- Silk and Silk
Goods," in section 2502 of Title 33 of the Revised Statutes, as
enacted by the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 510 "All goods,
wares and merchandise, not specially enumerated or provided
for in this act, made of silk, or of which silk is the component
material of chief value, fifty per centum ad valorem." The
plaintiffs claimed in their protest and upon the trial that the
goods were liable to only 20 per cent duty, under the following provision in "Schedule N. - Sundries," of the same title,
22 Stat. 512 "Hats, and so forth, materials for Braids,
plaits, flats, laces, trimmings, tissues, willow-sheets and squares,
used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods, composed of straw, chip, grass, palm-leaf, willow, hair, whalebone,
or any other substance or material, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, twenty per centum ad valorem."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

On the trial, the undisputed evidence was that the articles
in question were used exclusively as trimmings for ornamenting hats and bonnets, and had a commercial value only for
that purpose. The defendant offered no evidence on that
subject in contradiction of that put in by the plaintiffs. At
the close of the testimony, the defendant asked the court
to direct a verdict in his favor, upon the ground that the foregoing provision in Schedule N, in regard to " Hats, and so
forth, materials for," should be construed as embracing only
articles made of a substance or material not elsewhere specially
enumerated or provided for in the act of 1883, and articles
made only of straw, chip, grass, palm-leaf, willow, hair, whalebone, or some other like substance or material, but this
request was denied by the court, and the defendant excepted.
The court then, at the request of the plaintiffs, directed the
jury to find a verdict in their favor, for the excess of duties
collected on the hat-ribbons or hat-bands, and upon certain
charges, commissions and coverings, in regard to which there
was no dispute, and the defendant excepted to such action of
the court. The jury found a verdict accordingly for the
plaintiffs, on which a judgment was entered in their favor,
to review which the defendant has brought a writ of error.
That the articles in question, silk being their component
material of chief value, were liable to a duty of 50 per cent
ad valorem, as "goods, wares and merchandise, not specially
enumerated or provided for in this act, made of silk, or of
which silk is the component material of chief value," if they
were not specially enumerated or provided for in the act of
1883, is plain. The question, and the only question, therefore,
is whether they come under the clause, "Hats, and so forth,
materials for'" as being "trimmin g s," "used for making or
ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods," composed of any of
the seven substances specifically named, "or any other substance or material, not specially enumerated or provided for
in this act," and were thus liable to a duty of only 20 per cent
ad valorem.
It is to be especially noted that the act of 1883 does not, in
Schedule L, in regard to silk and silk goods, or elsewhere,

ROBERTSON v. EDELHOFF.
Opunon of the Court.

impose any duty upon silk'ribbons by that name, or upon ribbons made of silk or of winch silk is the component material
of chief value, otherwise than as they may be covered by the
clause above quoted in regard to 50 per cent duty
We think it perfectly clear that the words "composed of,"
in the 20 per cent clause above quoted, relate to the eight
articles previously specifically mentioned in that clause, and
not to the words "hats, bonnets and hoods;" also, that the
words in the same clause, "not specially enumerated or provided for in this act," relate to the same eight articles, and
not to the words "hats, bonnets and hoods," or to the words
"any other substance or material." The clause is to be read
as if the word "and" were inserted before the word "composed" and again after the word "material," so that the
clause, as far as the question involved in the present case is
concerned, would read. "Trimmings used for ornamenting
hats, bonnets and hoods, and composed of" any of the seven
articles specially named, "or any other substance or material,
and not specially enumerated or provided for in this act."
We cannot agree with the contention of the defendant that
the words "any other substance or material" are to be read as
if they were "any other like substance or material," because,
while "straw, chip, grass, palm-leaf, willow" are vegetable
substances, "hair" and "whalebone" are animal substances.
There is no identity of genus among the two descriptions of
articles specifically mentioned, and we see no warrant for
interpolating the word "like," and applying it distributively
to each of the two classes of substances specifically mentioned.
The contention that, in the presence of the words "any other
substance or material," the naming of seven substances specifically is surplusage and without meaning, because the words
"any other substance or material " are adequate to cover
those seven substances, seems to us without force in view of
the well-known tautologacal phraseology of provisions m tariff
acts.
There is a clause in Schedule N of section 2502 of Title 33
of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by the act of March 3,
1883, 22 Stat. 511, which it is proper to consider in connection

OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

with the clause m regard to "Hats, and so forth, materials
for '" and which reads as follows "Bonnets, hats and hoods
for men, women and children, composed of chip, grass, palmleaf, willow, or straw, or any other vegetable substance, hair,
whalebone, or other material, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, thirty per centum ad valorem."
It will conduce to the solution of the question in hand to
consider prior legislation on the subject.
In section 22 of the act of March 2, 1861, c. 68, 12 Stat.
192, a duty of 30 per cent ad valorem was nnposed on "flats,
braids, plaits, sparterre and willow squares, used for making
hats and bonnets," and on "hats and bonnets for men, women
and children, composed of straw, chip, grass, palm-leaf, willow, or any other vegetable substance, or of hair, whalebone,
or other material, not otherwise provided for;" and by section
16 of the same act, (p. 186,) the following duties were imposed
on silk and silk articles: "On silk in the gum, not more advanced in manufacture than singles, tram, and thrown or
organzinp, fifteen per centum ad valorem, on all silks valued
at not over one dollar per square yard, twenty per centum ad
valorem, on all silks valued at over one dollar per square
yard, thirty per centum ad valorem, on all silk velvets. or
velvets of which silk is the component material of chief value,
valued at three dollars per square yard, or under, twenty-five
per centum ad valorem, valued at over three dollars per
square yard, thirty per centum ad valorem, on floss silks,
twenty per centum ad valorem, on silk ribbons, galloons,
braids, fringes, laces, tassels, buttons, button cloths, trimnings,
and on silk twist, twist composed of mohair and silk, sewing
silk in the gum or purified, and all other manufactures of silk,
or of which silk shall be the component material of chief value,
not otherwise provided for, thirty per centum ad valorem."
By this provision, a duty of 30 per cent was imposed on "silk
ribbons" by name. INo question of the kind before us could
have arisen under that statute.
In section 8 of the act of July 14:, 1862, c. 163, 12 Stat. 551,
are found the following clauses in regard to duties "On bonnets, hats and hoods, for men, women and children, composed

ROBERTSON

. EDELHOIii.

Opinion of the Court.

of straw, chip, grass, palm-leaf, willow, or any other vegetable
substance, or of silk, hair, whalebone, or other material, not
otherwise provided for, forty per centum ad valorem, On
braids, plaits, flats, laces, triammings, sparterre, tissues, willow
sheets and squares, used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods, composed of straw, chip, grass, palm-leaf, willow, or any other vegetable substance, or of hair, whalebone,
or other material, not otherwise provided for, thirty per
centum ad valorem." There was no provision in that act in
regard to silk, or silks, or silk ribbons, other than the one in
the first of the two clauses above quoted, in regard to bonnets, bats and hoods composed of silk. So the provision of
the act of 1861, in regard to silk, silks and silk ribbons, remained in force, and the provision in the second clause above
quoted, in regard to trimmings, could not apply to silk ribbons,
because they were "otherwise provided for" in the act of
1861, though the question would not have been material, because silk ribbons were, under the act of 1861, subject to 30
per cent duty, and the trnnimmgs were, under the act of 1862,
subject to the same duty
By the act of June.30, 1864, 13 Stat. 202, duties on imports
were increased, and by section 8 of that act, (p 210,) from
July 1, 1864, in lieu of existing duties, the following were nnposed on silk and articles of silk "On spun silk for filling in
skeins or cops, twenty-five per centum ad valorem. On silk in
the gum not more advanced than singles, tram, and thrown or
organzine, thirty-five per centum ad valorem. On floss silks,
thirty-five per centum ad valorem. On sewing-silk in the gum
or purified, forty per centum ad valorem. On all dress and piece
silks, ribbons and silk velvets, or velvets of which silk is the
component material of chief value, sixty per centum ad valorem.
On silk vestings, pongees, shawls, scarfs, mantillas, pelerines,
handkerchiefs, veils, laces, shirts,, drawers, bonnets, hats, caps,
turbans, chemsettes, hose, mitts, aprons, stockings, gloves, suspenders, watch-chains, webbing, braids, fringes, galloons, tassels, cords and trimmings, sixty per centum ad valorem. On all
manufactures of silk, or of which silk is the component material
of chief value, not otherwise provided for, fifty per centum ad

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

valorem." Thus the duty on silk ribbons by name was advanced from 30 per cent, as in the act of 1861, to 60 per cent.
No subsequent legislation until the Revised Statutes of June
22, 1874, affected the duty on silk ribbons. In "Schedule X.
-Sundries,"
of section 2504 of the Revised Statutes, 2d ed. p.
474, were contained the following provisions "Bonnets, hats
and hoods, for men, women and children, composed of chip,
grass, palm-leaf, willow, or any other vegetable substance, hair,
whalebone, or other material, not otherwise provided for, forty
per centum ad valorem, composed of straw, forty per centum
ad valorem," and p. 476 "Hats, etc., materials for. - Braids,
plaits, flats, laces, trimmings, tissues, willow sheets and squares,
used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods, composed of straw, chip, grass, palm-leaf, willow, or any other
vegetable substance, or of hair, whalebone, or other material,
not otherwise provided for, thirty per centum ad valorem;"
and in "Schedule H. - Silks and Silk Goods," p. 469 "Silk in
the gum not more advanced than singles, tram, and thrown or
organzme, thirty-five per centum ad valorem. Spun silk for
filling in skeins or cops thirty-five per centum ad valorem.
Floss silks, thirty-five per centum ad valQrem. Sewing silk in
the gum or purified, forty per centum ad valorem. Silk twist,
twist composed of mohair and silk, forty per centum ad valorem. Dress and piece silks, ribbons and silk velvets, or
velvets of which silk is the component material of chief value,
sixty per centum ad valorem. Silk vestings, pongees, shawls,
scarfs, mantillas, pelerines, handkerchiefs, veils, laces, shirts,
drawers, bonnets, hats, caps, turbans, chemisettes, hose, mitts,
aprons, stockings, gloves, suspenders, watch-chains, webbing,
braids, fringes, galloons, tassels, cords and trimmings, and
ready-made clothing of silk, or of which silk is a component
material of chief value, sixty per centum ad valorem. Buttons and ornaments for dresses and outside garments made of
silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value,
and containing no wool, worsted, or goat's hair, fifty per
centum ad valorem. Manufactures of silk, or of which silk is
the component material of chief value, not otherwise provided
for, fifty per centum ad valorem."

ROBERTSON v. EDELHOFF.
Opinion of the Court.

Thus, in the clause in regard to "Bonnets, hats and hoods,"
the word "silk," found in the act of 1862, was omitted in the
Revised Statutes, and silk ribbons, or ribbons of which silk
was the component material of chief value, were made by the
Revised Statutes dutiable eo 'nomme at 60 per cent, as in the
act of 1864.
Then came the act of February 8, 1875, 18 Stat. 307, by
the first section of wnch the following provision was made in
regard to duties on silk and articles of silk, in lien of then
existing duties "On spun silk, for filling, in skeins or cops,
thirty-five per centum ad valorem, on silk in the gum, not
more advanced than singles, tram, and thrown or organzine,
thirty-five per centum ad valorem, on floss silks, thirty-five
per centum ad valorem, on sewing silk, in the gum or purified,
forty per centum ad valorem, on lastings, mohair cloth, silk
twist, or other manufactures of cloth, woven or made in patterns of such size, shape, or form, or cut in such manner as to
be fit for buttons exclusively, ten per centum ad valorem, on
all goods, wares and merchandise not otherwise herein provided for, made of silk, or of which silk is the component
material of chief value, irrespective of the classification thereof
for duty by or under previous laws, or of their commercial
designation, sixty per centum ad valorem P'rovzded, That
this act shall not apply to goods, wares, or merchandise which
have, as a component material thereof, twenty-five per centum
or over in value of cotton, flax, wool, or worsted."
By that act, ribbons of silk, or ribbons in which silk was
the component material of chief value, were not made dutiable
eo nommne, but were dutiable at 60 per cent, as "goods, wares
and merchandise not otherwise herein provided for, made of
silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value."
They were not otherwise provided for in the act of 1875. This
act superseded all prior statutes in regard to goods made of
silk, or of which silk was the component material of chief
value. Of course, under the act of 1875, the goods in question
here would have been dutiable at 60 per cent.
Then came the act of 1883, the three provisions in which, in
regard to "Bonnets, hats and hoods," "Hats, and so forth,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

materials for " and "Silk and silk goods," have been before
quoted. The changes made in that act from the Revised
Statutes of 1874, in regard to "Bonnets, hats and hoods," were
these Those articles were qualified with the words "not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act," and the duty
was reduced from 40 per cent to 30 per cent. The changes
made in regard to "Hats, And so forth, materials for " were
these. The words, "willow, or any other vegetable substance,
or of hair, whalebone or other material not otherwise provided
for," were changed to the words, "willow, hair, whalebone or
any other substance or material, not specially enumerated or
provided for in this act," and the rate of duty was reduced
from 30 per cent to 20 per cent. Changes were also made in
the schedule in regard to "Silks and silk goods." The duty of
60 per cent on silk ribbons eo nomsne was omitted, and also the
like duty on silk trimmings, or of which silk was the component material of chief value, and the duty of 50 per cent
on "Manufactures of silk, or of which silk is the component
material of chief value, not otherwise provided for," was
changed to a like duty on "All goods, wares and merchandise,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, made of
silk or of which silk is the component material of chief value."
Section 6 of the act of March. 3, 1883, provides that, on and
after the 1st of July, 1883, "the following sections," being
twenty-three sections, one of which is section 2502, with
Schedules A to N, "shall constitute and be a substitute for
Title thirty-three of the Revised Statutes of the United States,"
thus abolishing all enactments found in the original Title 33,
in regard to duties on imports.
It is thus seen that, by the act of 1883, no duty is imposed
upon silk ribbons by name. Under the Revised Statutes of
1874 silk ribbons, being charged by name with a duty of 60
per cent, were not charged with a duty of 50 per cent as
"manufactures of silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value, not otherwise provided for," because they
were otherwise provided for, and they could not have been
used
liable to a duty of 30 per cent as "trimmings
and
not
hoods,"
and
hats,
bonnets
ornamenting
for

ROBERTSOIN v. EDELHOFF
Opinion of the Court

otherwise provided for, because they were otherwise provided
for, in Schedule H, as silk ribbons, by name, at 60 per cent.
But when we come to the act of 1883, silk ribbons are not
therein specifically named, in Schedule L or elsewhere, and are
not dutiable at 50 per cent, as silk goods not specially enuinerated or provided for in the act of 1883, because in the clause
in regard to "Hats, and so forth, materials for -" they are
specially enumerated and provided for in that act, as trimmings used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets and
hoods, and composed of some other substance or material than
the seven substances specially named, and are not otherwise
specially enumerated or provided for in that act, and are
therefore dutiable at 20 per cent.
The question, however, is not only clear on principle, on a
review of the statutory provisions, but it is disposed of by
decisions of this court.
In Arthur v Zimmerman, 96 U. S. 124, the articles imported
were composed of cotton, and were known commercially
as "hat braids." The collector imposed duty upon them
under that clause of section 6 of the act of June 30, 1864, 13
Stat. 209, which provided for a duty of 35 per cent on "cotton
braids, insertings, lace trimmings or bobbinets, and all other
manufactures of cotton." The importers claimed that they
were dutiable at only 30 per cent. It appeared that the articles were used exclusively for making and trimming hats and
bonnets, and the Circuit Court and this court held them to be
dutiable at only 30 per cent, under that clause of section 8 of
the act of July 14, 1862, c. 163, 12 Stat. 557, and of Schedule li of section 2504 of the Revised Statutes, (2d ed. p. 476,)
which inposed that rate of duty on trimmings used for making
or ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods, and composed of
other material than the substances specifically named, and not
otherwise provided for.
But the question in regard to goods substantially identical
with those in question in the present case was presented to
this court and decided by it in the case of Hartrctnft v Iangfeld, 125 U. S. 128. The goods in that case were imported
into Philadelphia, and entered at the custom house there in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

September and October, 1883. The suit was begun on the
28th of February, 1884. It was tried on April 6th, 1886. The
writ of error was sued out August 5th, 1886, while the writ
of error in the present case was brought September 29th, 1886.
The two transcripts of record were filed in this court the same
day, October 13, 1886, but the Langfeld case was advanced,
on motion, and heard February 15, 1888, while the present
case has stood on the docket until reached in its regular order.
The articles in the Langfeld case were velvet ribbons made
of silk and cotton, in which silk was the material of chief
value. The collector assessed upon them a duty of 50 per
cent, under that clause of Schedule L of section 2502 of Title
33 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by the act of March 3,
1883, 22 Stat. 510, before quoted, which reads as follows
"All goods, wares and merchandise, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, made of silk, or of which silk is the
component material of chief value, fifty per centum ad valorem." The plaintiffs in the suit claimed, and the jury found,
under the instructions of the court, that the duty ought to
have been assessed under the paragraph in Schedule N of section 2502 of the same title, providing for "Hats, and so forth,
materials for"" above quoted, and that the duty should have
been only 20 per cent. The goods in question there were
"trimmings," and were used "for making or ornamenting
hats, bonnets and hoods." There was no evidence that they
were used exclusively for that purpose. The testimony on
the part of the plaintiffs tended to show that they were used
chiefly for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods,
but that they might also be, and sometimes were, used for
trimming dresses. The testimony on the part of ihe defendant tended to show that they were dress trimmings equally
with hat trimmings, and were commonly used as much for
the one purpose as the other. The Circuit Court charged the
jury that the use to which the articles were chiefly adapted, and
for which they were used, determined their character within
the meaning of the statute, and that, if the articles were hat
trimmings, chiefly used for making and ornamenting.hats, the
jury should find a verdict for the plaintiffs, the suit having

ROBERTSON v. EDELHOFF
Opinion of the Court.

been brought by the importers against the collector, to recover the difference between 20 per cent and 50 per cent.
The defendant had requested the court to charge the jury
that, if the articles were not specially enumerated or provided
for, and silk was their component material of chief value, they
were dutiable at 50 per cent, under the clause before quoted,
and the verdict should be for the defendant, also, that if the
jury should find that silk was the component material of chief
value in them, and they were not exclusively or specially used
for hat trimmigs, they were not subject to the 20 per cent
duty, also, that if the jury should find that the articles could
properly be classified, under the above rules, as liable to 20
per cent duty, and also as liable to 50 per cent duty, they were
dutiable at the higher rate, and the verdict should be for the
defendant, and also that, unless the jury shall find that the
articles were not specially provided for, and were fitted only
for use for making or ornamenting hats, their verdict should
be for the defendant. The Circuit Court declined to give those
instructions, and the defendant excepted.
It appears by the opinion of this court that it was contended
here, on the part of the defendant, that the true construction
of the statute was not only that the use of the material must
be for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods,
but that the material itself must be in some one of the
forms named in the clause regarding "Hats, and so forth,
materials for." This court, however, held that, under the
charge of the court as given, the objection was not well taken
that the charge would have authorized a recovery if the goods
in question were materials used for making or ornamenting
hats, although not coming within the enumeration of the
articles so specified. This court further said that the Circuit
Court instructed the jury that they must find the goods in
question to be "trimmings," chiefly used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets and hoods, composed of a material not
otherwise specially enumerated or provided for. This court
also said that velvet ribbons were not specially mentioned as
subject to a duty by that name or description, that they were
manifestly trimmings, according to the natural meaniing of
VoL. C,.XX--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

that word, and because they were used to trim either hats or
dresses, and that the real controversy was as to the purpose
for which, as "trimmings," they were principally used. As
to the request of the defendant to charge the jury that, if they
should find that the articles could be classified properly as subject to 20 per cent duty and also as subject to 50 per cent duty,
they were liable to duty at the higher rate, under the provision of section 2499 of the Revised Statutes, this court said
that the principle of that section was not applicable to the
case, because the ribbons were found by the jury to be trimmings chiefly used for making or ornamenting hats, that this
brought them within the provision of Schedule 1, which fixed
the duty at 20 per cent, and that, being thus specially provided for, they were excluded from the operation of all other
provisions. On these views, this court affirmed the judgment
of the Circuit Court.
Therefore, in addition to the conclusion which results from
considering the history of the legislation on the points involved, we axe of opinion that the decision in the case of
Hartranft v Langfeld controls this case, and that it was
proper for the Circuit Court to direct a verdict for the plaintiffs. Such practice has been often sanctioned by this court.
There was no question of fact for the jury, and the defendant
did not ask to go to the jury Bevans v Unmted States, 13
Wall. 56, lVallwun v Babbztt, 16 Wall. 577, ffendnck v.
-Lindsay, 93 U S.143, Arthu' v Zimmnerman, 96 U. S.124,
Arthur v M[organ, 112 U. S.495, Anderson County v Beal,
113 U. S.227, 242, .Aarshall v Eubbard, 117 U. S. 419,
North Pennsylvama,-Bailroadv Commercial Bank, 123 U. S.
727, 733.
Judgment aflrmed.

