UINITED STATES v. BARLOW
Syllabus.

State or States, and the proper citizenship must exist when the
action iscommenced as well as when the petition for removal
is filed. Sewmng Jfachtne Cases, 18 Wall. 553, Vannevar
v. Bryant, 21 Wall. 41, Bible Society v Grove, 101 U. S. 610,
Cambria Iron Company v Ashburn, 118 U S. 54, Hancock
v. Holbrook, 119 U. S. 586, Fletcher v Hamlet, 116 U. S.
408. It does not appear from either of these petitions and
affidavits, or elsewhere in the record, that diverse citizenship
as to the parties therein named existed at the time of the commencement of the suit, nor that diverse citizenship existed between the complainant and all the necessary defendants at the
time the petitions and affidavits were severally filed. The
cause was not properly removed, and the state court has never
lost jurisdiction. Stevens v 3Tichols, 130 U S. 230, Crehore v
Ohw & _Iisssspp Railway Co., 131 U. S.240, and cases cited.
The decree isreversed and the record remitted to the D)trict
Court wzth a directon to remand the cause to the state
court.

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 31.Argued October 29, 30, 1889. -Decided

December 2, 1889.

When a part of an established post-route is found to be impracticable by
reason of being almost impassable, that portion of it may be changed by
the Post-Office Department without thereby creating a new route, requiring a new advertisement and bid.
In order to maintain an action brought to recover moneys alleged to have
been fraudulently obtained from the Post-Office Department for expediting mail service, it is not necessary to show that a subordinate officer of
the department participated in the fraud.
Money paid by the Post-Office Department to a contractor for carrying the
malls under a clear mistake of fact, and not through error m 3udgment,
may be recovered back.
The Postmaster General, m the exercise of the judgment and discretion
reposed in him in regard to matters appertaining to the postal service,
is not at liberty to act upon mere guesses and surmises, without information or knowledge on the subject.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Tim case is stated in the opinon.
.r Asststant Attorney General.1[ury, for plaintiff in error,
cited The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666, fofat v Unted
States, 112 U. S. 24, Cooke v United States, 91 U. S. 389,
eLockwood v ]Elsea, 41 N. H. 185, Wiseman v. Lyman, 7
Mass. 286, Moore v .Mandlebaum, 8 Alichigan, 433, United
States v Cosgrove, 26 Fed. Rep. 908.
1ITr fNathanzel Wilson, (with-whom were .r SanteZ Shellal3arger and .r' J M/. Wilson on the brief,) for defendants
in error, cited Miartzn v M/ott, 12 Wheat. 19, Belcher v. J2nn,
24 How 508, United States v Wiright, 11 Wall. 648, Schurz
v United States, 102 U. S. 378, Steel v Smeltng Co., 106
U. S. 447, Johnson v Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, WYarren v V-an
Brunt, 19 Wall. 646, French v Fyan, 93 U S. 169, Mlarguez
v. Frisbze, 101 U. S. 473, Vance v Burbank, 101 U. S. 514,
Qumnby v Conlan, 104 U. S. 420, Smeltzng Corpany v. -em2o,
104 U. S. 636, Baldwmn v. Stark, 107 U. S. 463, Blirhardtv
Hogaboom, 115 U S. 67, Page v Bent, 2 Met. (Mass.) 371,
XJwarshall v Hubbard,117 U. S. 415, Smith v Rwhards, 13
Pet. 26, Cary v Curtis, 3 How 236, Curtis v. -Fiedler,2
Black, 461, Liverpool Steamship Co. v Emigraton Commisszoners, 113 U S. 33.
Mis.

JusTicE

Fns.n delivered the opinion of the court.

This action is brought by the United States to recover from
the defendants, subcontractors for carrying the mail, moneys
paid to them under a mistake of fact caused by their false
representations as to the services. It appears that on the 15th
of March, 1878, one Luke Voorhees entered into a contract
with the United States, represented by the Postmaster General, to carry the mail over a route designated as No. 38,146,
from Garland to Ouray, in the State of Colorado, passing by
Lake City and several other places mentioned, and back, seven
times a week, for $19,000 a year, for a term beginning July
1, 1878, and ending June 30, 1882.

UITED STATES v. BARLOW
Opinion of the Court.

On the 28th of September, 1878, Voorhees made a subcontract with the defendants, Barlow and Sanderson, by which
they agreed to transport the mails over the route mentioned,
for the period designated, and to perform the service required
by his contract with the United States, in consideration whereof
they were to receive the pay which was or might become due
to him. They were recognized and accepted by the PostOffice Department as subcontractors for the service.
The distance between Garland and Lake City was one hundred and fifty miles, and the time prescribed for the service
over it was twenty-seven hours, or five miles and fifty-five
hundredths of a mile per hour. The distance between Lake
City and Ouray by the route designated was forty-six miles,
and the time prescribed by the contract for the transportation
of the mails over it was thirty hours, that is, one mile and
fifty-three hundredths of a mile per hour. The portion of this
latter line, which lay between a place known as Mineral Point
and Ouray, a distance of only ten miles, passed over mountains
upon which the mails could be carried only a part of the year
in the winter only by men on snowshoes, and at other
times only by pack horses. There was, in consequence, great
irregularity in the delivery of the mails upon this portion of
the route, and much complaint followed, leading, in October,
1878, to its abandonment and the substitution in its place of
a line making a detour around the mountains of one hundred
and ten miles, passing by way of Barnum, which afforded a
good practicable road easily travelled with wagons.
The present action has grown out of the orders of the PostOffice Department in making this change of line, and expediting the service over it, and providing increased compensation
for the additional service. The compensation allowed by the
original contract, as mentioned above, was $19,000 a year,
which, the distance being one hundred and ninety-six miles,
was at the rate of about $96.93 a mile. At that rate the compensation for the additional service was allowed, amounting
to $10,663.26 a year.
The time prescribed by-the original contract for the service
between Lake City and Ouray by way of Mineral Point across
VOL. CXXI-l

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opnon of the Court.

the mountains - thirty hours, that is, at the rate of one mile
and fifty-three hundredths of a mile an hour -was owing to
the great difficulties attending the crossing of the mountains,
as already mentioned. When the line was changed to one
making a detour of the mountains by way of Barnum, over
a road easily traversable by wagons, it was an obvious duty
to the public that the service at the rate of one mile and fiftythree hundredths of a mile per hour should be expedited.
Petitions for a change of that portion of the route which
led over the mountains came from officers of the counties
of Ouray and Hillsdale, in wnch the proposed new line was
to run, and they represented that over its whole distance there
was a wagon road by which the mail could be carried the
year round. On the 30th of September, 1878, whilst the PostOffice Department had before it the question of opening a
new line between Lake City and Ouray, the defendant Sanderson addressed a letter to the Second Assistant Postmaster
General, suggesting that, in lieu of the temporary service
ordered between Barnum and Ouray, such service should be
made by embracing Barnum in the route No. 38,146 between
Garland and Ouray, increasing the distance one hundred and
ten miles, "and expediting the schedule from the present, at
the pro rata rate of seventy-two hours, to thirty-six hours
between Lake City and Ouray" On the same day Sanderson
was consulted by the Post-Office Department, or at least was
requested to give an estimate, as to the additional number of
horses and men which would be required for the increased
expedition proposed, and in response to the request he wrote
to the department the following letter verified by his oath
"WAsHiNGToN, Sept. 30, 1878.
"Hon. THos. J

BRADY,

"Second A sst Postmaster'General
"Si
To perform the service on route No. 38,146, between
Lake City and Ouray, on the present schedule of seventy-two
hours, requires twenty-two horses and eleven men, and to
perform the same service on a schedule of thirty-six hours it
will require (66). sixty-six horses and twenty-two men.
"(Signed)
J L. SANDERsoN.

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW
Opinion of the Court.

"Subscribed

and sworn to before me this 30th day of

September, 1878.

"(Signed)

J

H=.H~aixoi ,

"IYotary Public."
There was no existing schedule prescribing seventy-two
hours for carrying the mail between Lake City and Ouray, as
assumed by Sanderson. As the schedule of time prescribed
in the original contract between those places over the mountains was at the rate of one mile and fifty-three hundredths of a
mile an hour, he assumed that rate as the existing schedule for
the new and easily traversable line of one hundred and ten
miles, which would require at the same slow pace seventy-two
hours. Notwithstanding the obvious error of this assumption,
the evidence tended to show that the Post-Office Department
acted upon his representations and estimates. Having extended the route one hundred and ten miles, and allowed the
additional compensation provided by the statute upon such
extension, it also allowed compensation for expediting the service on the new line, upon this extravagant estimate, at the rate
of $15,994.77 a year. That-sum for the increased expedition
was regularly paid during the term of the original contract.
It is admitted that no additional horses and men for which
this allowance -was made were ever employed. Neither the
horses nor the men exceeded the number originally employed
to perform the service, and the defendant Sanderson testified
that no greater number was necessary to perform it within
the thirty-six hours mentioned, and that he never afterwards
corrected his estimate, but continued to draw pay from the
government as though the additional horses and men were
employed.
It appears that the sums thus allowed and paid to the subcontractors for stock and carriers, which were never required
and never employed, aggregated $59,592.98, constituting the
principal item in the amount claimed in this action.
On the trial, the plaintiffs requested the court to instruct
the jury, among other things, to the effect, 1st, that if they
believed that service on a portion of the route between Lake

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

City and Ouray by way of Barnum was expedited and extra
compensation allowed for such expedition, upon the supposition that sixty-six horses and twenty-two men would be necessary to carry the mail on that portion upon a schedule of
thirty-six hours, and there was in fact no increase in the number of horses and men required above the number which the
defendants swore were necessary to perform the service upon
a schedule of seventy-two hours, then the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the sums paid upon such allowance, for, in
that event they were paid in violation of law, and, 2d, that
in determining the questions in issue the jury could only consider the number of horses and men actually necessary to carry
the mail, irrespective of the number of men and horses required
by the defendants as carriers of passengers and freight.
The court refused to give these instrudctions, and charged
the jury substantially as follows That if the agreement for
compensation for the additional service was made without
authority of law and in excess of all provisions of the statute, the government could not recover any part of the consideration paid the defendants for carrying the mail, unless m
the making of the contract there was fraud, participated in
and countenanced by the officers of the department who
acted in the matter; that if they were of opinion that the
parties combined and agreed to raise the compensation to an
extraordinary figure, with a view to benefit the defendants,
knowing that the compensation was excessive, the government could recover it back, but if they were of opinion that
those parties acted honestly and fairly, and in the belief that
they were dealing fairly with each other, and that the compensation for the services to be performed was reasonable,
there could be no recovery, without reference to what the
service actually cost, and without reference to what turned
out afterwards with respect to the force required. To the
refusal of the court to give the instructions requested, and to
the instructions given, the plaintiffs excepted. The jury found
a verdict for the defendants, upon which judgment was rendered in their favor, to review which the case is brought to
this court.

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW
Opinion of the Court.

The statutes upon winch the government relies to recover
in this case upon the facts presented, are contained m sections
3960, 3961 and 4057 of the Revised Statutes. Those sections
are as follows:
"Svo. 3960. Compensation for additional service in carrying
the mail shall not be in excess of the exact proportion which
the original compensation bears to the original service, and
when any such additional service is ordered, the sum to be
allowed therefor shall be expressed in the order, and entered
upon the books of the department, and no compensation shall
be paid for any additional regular service rendered before the
issuing of such order.
"SEc. 3961. No extra allowance shall be made for any increase of expedition in carrying the mail, unless thereby the
employment of additional stock and carriers is made necessary, and in such case the additional compensation shall bear
no greater proportion to the additional stock and carriers necessarily employed than the compensation in the original contract bears to the stock and carriers necessarily employed in
its execution."
"SEc. 4057. In all cases where money has been paid out of
the funds of the Post-Office Department under the pretence
that service has been performed therefor, when, in fact, such
service has not been performed, or as additional allowance for
increased service actually rendered, when the additional allowance exceeds the sum which, according to law, might rightfully
have been allowed therefor, and in all other cases where money
of the department has been paid to any person in consequence
of fraudulent representations, or by the mistake, collusion, or
misconduct of any officer or other employe in the postal service, the Postmaster General shall cause suit to be brought to
recover such wrong or fraudulent payment or excess, with
interest thereon."
In their amended complaint the plaintiffs claim not only the
amount allowed and paid each year for the expedited service,
but also the amount allowed and paid each year, namely,
$10,663.26, for the additional service by the new line from
Lake City to Ouray It would seem from what took place on

OCTOBER TERMK, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

the trial that the latter amount was claimed on the ground
that that route was a distinct one from that prescribed in No.
38,146, and that the contract for its service could only be
made after advertisement for bids. The judge who tried the
case below was of that opinion, and so instructed the jury,
but we are unable to agree in that view The new line became necessary to avoid an almost impassable portion of the
original route, and changes of that kind can be authorized
by the Postmaster General within the established regulations
of the Post-Office Department. Those of 1873 provide in
terms, that "the Postmaster General may order an increase
or extension of service on a route by allowing therefor a pro
rata increase on the contract pay" Such increase of service
may be made by enlarging the distance to be travelled when
that will better accomplish the object of the original contract,
as well as by requiring a greater number of trips between
specified points. That object was accomplished in this case by
the increase of distance from the detour around the mountains.
The carrying of the mails between the original terminal points
was thereby greatly facilitated. The compensation allowed
for this additional service over the hundred and ten miles of
increased route was in accordance with section 3960 of the
Revised Statutes in the exact proportion which the original
compensation bore to the original service. There was no
excess in the allowance.
But the amount allowed for the expedited service over the
new line stands upon a different footing. The evidence produced on the trial tended to show that the allowance of
$15,994.77 each year for that service was made upon a false
estimate of the additional expenses which would be required,
that a slight consideration of the subject would have exposed
its error, and that officers of the department and the subcontractors were well acquainted with the fact that the new
line was one that could be more easily travelled. It appeared
by the petitions presented to the department that the change
of route was asked because such was the condition of the new
line desired, while the line of the original route between
Mvineral Point and Ouray was impassable for the greater part

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW
Opinion of the Court.

of the year, and then only by pack-horses or on snowshoes.
To apply the same schedule time to both lines between the
same points -the original and the new one -was
to ignore
the known differences in the character of the roads over them,
as disclosed by the evidence on file in the department. It is
true the head of the department and those who stand inmmediately under hun as assistants or deputies are unable in person
to supervise all the estimates made in so extensive a department as that of the Post-Office, and, therefore, great reliance
is placed upon the judgment in those matters of clerks and
subordinate officers. Irregularities and favoritism and corrupt
practices are therefore sometimes found to exist which escape
observation and detection. It was to avoid fraud and mistakes
from this as well as from other causes that sections 3961 and
4057 were adopted.
Section 3961 declares that "no extra allowance shall be made
for any increase of expedition in carrying the mail unless thereby the employment of additional stock and carriers is made
necessary"
And section 4057, after providing that "Im all
cases where money has been paid out of the Post-Office Department under the pretence that service has been performed therefor, when, in fact, such service has not been performed, or as
additional allowance for increased service actually rendered,
when the additional allowance exceeds the sum which, according to law, might rightfully have been allowed therefor,"
declares that "Im all other cases where money of the department has been paid to any person in consequence of fraudulent
representations, or by the mistake, collusion, or misconduct of
any officer or other employe in the postal service, the Postmaster General shall cause suit to be brought to recover such
wrong or fraudulent payment or excess, with interest thereon."
These sections would seem to cover the present case. It
cannot be pretended that the allowance for expediting the
service over the new route was not made upon erroneous representations. It is admitted that such was their character.
Whether they were fraudulent as well as erroneous was a
matter to be left to the jury, and if fraudulent, their influence
in vitiating the payment and authorizing the recovery of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

moneys cannot be affected by knowledge of their character
and participation m the results sought to be obtained, by any
subordinate officers of the department. Whether they participated in the fraud or were simply imposed upon by the defendants, cannot change the legal liability of the latter. The
court, therefore, erred in instructing the.jury that in such cases
there could be no recovery of the money unless the fraud was
participated in and countenanced by such officers.
But, aside from any consideration of the question of fraud,
the evidence produced at the trial tended to show that the
allowance was made to the subcontractors, for the expedited
service, upon a clear mistake as to what additional number of
men and of ammals were required for such service, and that the
money was paid in ignorance of the fact that no additional
number had been employed in the performance of that service.
Such being the evidence, the plaintiffs were entitled to the
instructions asked which are mentioned above. It is no answer to say that the amount of compensation for the expedited
service was a matter for the determination of the Post-Office
Department. Its determination cannot operate to defeat the
express declaration of the statute prescribing the conditions
upon which contracts with the department shall be made. If
an allowance is founded upon a clear mistake of fact, not a
mere error of judgment, and payments are in consequence
made, the statute provides that "the Postmaster General shall
cause suit to be brought to recover such wrong or fraudulent
payment of excess with interest," which means that if such
mistake be established in the action of the department a
recovery must follow
We admit that where matters appertaining to the postal
service are left to the discretion and judgment of the Postmaster General, the exercise of that judgment and discretion
cannot in general be interfered with, and the results following
defeated. But the very rule supposes that information upon
the matters upon which the judgment and discretion are invoked is presented to the officer for consideration, or knowledge respecting them is possessed by him. He is not at
liberty, any more than a private agent, to act upon mere

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW
Opinion of the Court.

guesses and surmises, without information or knowledge on
the subject. If the defendant Sanderson intended no fraud
by his letter of September 30, 1878, to the Assistant Postmaster General, which he verified by his oath, if, in contradiction to his positive assertions, his testimony can be taken,
that he did not know at the time anything about the matter
in relation to which he was writing, and that the officers of
the department were well aware that he had no knowledge or
information on the subject, then they acted upon his guesses
only, and not upon evidence upon the subject, and their decision cannot be received as conclusive. It would be, indeed, a
mischievous doctrine in its consequences if a decision thus
made could conclude the government from recovering its
money, paid for additional stock and carriers, which were
never required and never employed in its service.
It is also true that where the subjects m relation to which
the contract of parties is made, are necessarily of an uncertain
and speculative character or value, and that is known to the
parties, a mere mistake by them in their estimate of the value
is not deemed sufficient to authorize a recovery of the moneys
paid upon the erroneous estimate. If this were a case of that
description no recovery could be had. But whether it was so
or not was the very issue in the cause to be determined by the
jury upon the evidence.
It is familiar law that an action may be maintained to recover back money paid as the price of articles sold, or of work
done, when the articles are not delivered or the work not
done. The reason is that the consideration for the payment
has failed. It is not perceived that the principle of law
sought to be applied in this case is in any essential particular
different. If the contract for extra allowance was void by
reason of fraud or dlear mistake, the action becomes simply
one for the return of moneys paid for services of stock and
carriers never rendered, but which when payment was made
were believed to have been rendered. As in the case of goods
not delivered, or work ordered not done, the consideration to
the party paying has failed. As said by Baron Parke m
.Kelly v. Sola',, 9 M. & W 54, 58, "Where money is paid to

