ROBERTSON v. FRANK BROTHERS CO.
Syllabus.

except by a new exercise of judicial power, and no appeal by
the dissatisfied party can of itself revive it. A fortion, the
mere prosecution of an appeal cannot operate as an injunction
where none has been granted.
As stated by Mr. Chief Justice -Waite, m Spraul v Lou ona, 123 IT. S. 516, 518, "The supersedeas provided for in
§ 1007 of the Revised Statutes stays process for the execution
of the judgment or decree brought under review by the writ
of error or appeal to which it belongs."
The supersedure of process on the decree dismissing the bill
could not supersede process on the judgment at law, and this
is so, notwithstanding a bill to impeach a judgment is regarded as an auxiliary or dependent and not as an original
bill.
The record presents no ground for the interference sought,
and
YTe motion must be overruled.

ROBERTSON v. FRANK BROTHERS COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 15. Argued October 17,1889.-Decided October 28, 1889.
The payment of money to a customs official to avoid an onerous penalty,
though the imposition of that penalty may have been illegal, is sufficient
to make the payment an involuntary one.
The compulsory insertion by an importer of additional charges upon the
entry and invoice, which necessarily involve the payment of increased
duties, makes the payment of those duties involuntary.
The general rule that the valuation of merchandise made by a customs
appraiser is conclusive if no appeal be taken therefrom to merchant appraisers, is subject to the qualification that if the appraiser proceed upon
a wrong principle, contrary to law, and this be made to appear, hs
appraisement may be impeached.
A statute which requires the dutiable value of imported goods to be reached
by adding to the market value of the goods the cost of transportation,
and other defined charges, does not authorize an appraiser to reach the
VOL. cxxxI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
amount of such cost and charges by an estimate or percentage and an
importer who pays duties on an importation thus calculated may, in an
action brought to recover such as were illegally exacted, show wherein
such estimate or percentage was illegal and excessive.

Tnis was an action to recover duties alleged to have been
illegally exacted. Verdict for the plaintiff, and judgment on
the verdict. The defendant sued out this writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.Mr Hlenry E. Treman for defendant in error. Mr MAfason
W B. Coughtry were with him on the
brief.
TW Tyler and .Ar

MR. JusvrcE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover for an alleged overcharge of
duties on imports. The goods imported were bananas brought
from Aspinwall. The duty was ten per cent ad valorem. The
plaintiffs offered evidence tending to show the market value
of the bananas at the port of shipment, which was claimed to
be only fifty cents apiece for the large bunches and twentyfive cents apiece for the small bunches. The invoices received
with the cargo exhibited this as the true market value, and
added certain charges for labor and consul fees. The appraisers
required the plaintiffs to add fifty per cent of these amounts
as transportation charges for bringing the bananas into Aspinwall, and also certain shipping charges and commissions. The
plaintiffs protested against this as.an unjust addition, but
whenever it was omitted, the charge. was added by the appraiser and a penalty of twenty per cent of the whole duty
was imposed and exacted, and the officers declared that this
would be done whenever the addition should be omitted. To
avoid this penalty, and to get immediate possession of their
goods, (which are of a perishable nature,) the plaintiffs made
the addition required, and paid the increased duties that resulted, -but always under protest as before stated.

ROBERTSON v. FRANK BROTHERS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The form of the entries and invoices with the additions was
as follows, the additions being in italics
Entry
"Merchandise imported by Frank Brothers Company in the
steamship Alsa, whereof Seymour is master, from Aspmnwall to New York, Feb. 23, 1882. Marks, F B."
"Two bins of bananas, containing 4132 large bunches, at
sixty cents," "pesos, 2479.20," "3463 small bunches at thirty
cents," "1038.90 pesos."
"Charges, two hundred and thirty-nine pesos."
"&?ppzng charges added as requwred by the appraiser to
make jie cents Colombzan currencyper bunch, 140.38 pesos."
"Transportation charges added as requvred by apfraiseron
4132 large bunches at 25 cents, $1033, and 3463 small bunches
at 121 cents, $432.87."
.1nvozce
"Invoice of merchandise shipped by the Frank Bros. Co. on
board the Alsa, Sansome master, bound for New York, and
consigned to Frank Bros. Co., Colon, Feb. 11, 1882, 2 bins
containing

-

"4202 bunches bananas at 60
"3564: bunches bananas at 30
"Charges for labor
"Consul fee

2521.20 pesos.
1069.20 "
239.37
3.
"
3832.77

"The Frank Bros. Company
"4132 large bunches at 60
2479.20
"3463 small bunches at 30
1038.90
"Charges
239.37
"Shiing charges added as required by the
apprawer to make 5 cents Colombia currency
per bunch
140.38
3897.85

"
"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"Reduced to U. S. currency

$3207.93

"Transportation charges added as regured b-y the
acipra-1seron 4132 large bunches at 25 cents 1033.
"3463 small bunches at 12J cents
432.87
4673.80
"Commission 2- per cent.

116.84
4790.64"

The appraiser's return mdorsed thereon was as follows

"Value correct, with importes additions."
It was contended by the counsel for the government at the
trial, and is contended here, that the payment of the duties
complained of was a voluntary payment, inasmuch as the
plaintiffs themselves made the additions -to the entries and
invoices, and that, therefore, they cannot recover back any
part of the money so paid, and they requested the court below to instruct the jury to render a verdict for the defendant.
Tins the court refused to do, and left it to the jury to decide,
upon the evidence, whether the making of the additions was a
voluntary act on the part of the plaintiffs, or done under constramt in view of the penalty sure to be imposed in case it
was not done.
On this point the judge, in his charge to the jury, speaking
of the entry and the additions made by the plaintiffs or their
agent, said
"He says he put them on there because he was compelled
to. If that is so he ought not to be estopped from recovering, and here is a question for you on that subject, and you
will decide it in this way If those statements and figures
were put on there because he thought that was the best way,
on the whole, if, exercising his own judgment freely, he
thought that it was the best way to get along with this to put
it on there and let it go, he can't take it back,
he
can't recover anything back. The verdict will have to be for
the defendant anyway, if that is so, because it was ins own
act in putting it on there. The collector assessed the duty
just as he made it, and he can't complain. But
if

ROBERTSONT v. FRANK BROTHERS CO.
Opimon of the Court.

he was required to do it, or given to understand by some
officer in the collector's department that it would be the wQrse
for him, seriously, if he didn't, as, for instance, if the appraiser
told him if he didn't put those on there the collector's office
would, that the appraiser would, and that he would be exposed to a penalty that would be assessed against him, if he
was given to understand by the collectors department, or
some officer of it, that if he didn't put these figures on there
they should, and make it the worse for him because he didn't,
and he would thereby be exposed to a penalty of a larger
duty which he would have to pay for not doing it, and he was
in that way, for the sake of saving hihiself from the penalty
which they would put upon him beyond what would otherwise be chargeable, induced to put them on, then he is not
bound by it.
If you find he did not do it freely, then
you can look further, and see if there was anything put on
there that ought not to be. If he was compelled to do it, it
ought not to go on, and if he was, the plaintiffs are entitled to
recover. And if you decide he is bound by putting that on,
that will end the case, you must give a verdict for the
defendant. If not, you may look and see if he was compelled
to pay more than he ought, if he was compelled to pay transportation charges more than he ought to, and, if so, find a
verdict for the right amount. If they were compelled to pay
labor charges more than they ought to pay, find the verdict
for the plaintiffs for the right amount of that. If they didn't
pay any more than they ought to, transportation or labor
charges, then the verdict is for the defendant."
Under this charge, of course, the jury in finding for the
plaintiffs must have found that they acted under constraint,
under moral duress, in making the additions for transportation
and labor. We do not see how the verdict can be set aside
for error in the charge on this point, unless the law be that
virtual or moral duress is insufficient to prevent a payment
made under its influence from being voluntary
This point was discussed in .fawell v Griswold, 10 How
24:2, 256, and in Swft Co. v United States, 111 U S. 22, 28.
In -Maxwell v. Griswold, an appraisement was erroneously

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

made as to the point of time of the valuation, and the importer paid the consequent excess of duties. The government
contended that this was voluntary But this court said.
" This addition and consequent payment of the higher
duties were so far from voluntary in him that he accompanied
them with remonstrances against being thus coerced to do the
act in order to escape a greater evil, and accompanied the
payment with a protest against the legality of the course pursued towards him.
"Now, it can hardly be meant in this class of cases that to
make a payment involuntary it should be by actual violence
or any physical duress. It suffices if the payment is caused
on the one part by an illegal demand and made on the other
part reluctantly and in consequence of that illegality, and
without being able to regain possession of his property except
by submitting to the payment.
"All these requisites existed here. We have already decided that the demand for such an increased appraisal was
illegal. The appraisement itself as made was illegal. The
raising of the invoice was thus caused by these illegalities in
order to escape a greater burden in the penalty The payment of the increased duties thus caused was wrongfully
imposed on the importer, and was submitted to merely as a
choice of evils.
"He was unwilling to pay either the excess of duty or the
penalty, and must be considered, therefore, as forced into one
or the other by the collector colore offieii through the invalid
and illegal course pursued in having the appraisal made of
the value of the wrong period.
"The money was thus obtained by a moral duress not justified by law, and which was not submitted to by the importer
except to regain possession of his property already withheld
from him on grounds manifestly wrong. Indeed, it seems
sufficient to sustain the action whether under the act of February 26, 1845, [Rev Stat. § 3011,] or under principles of the
common law, if the duties exacted were not legal, and were
demanded and were paid under protest."
Inthat case, it is true, the fact that the importer was not

ROBERTSON u FRANK BROTHERS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

able to get possession of his goods without making the payment complained of, was referred to by the court as an important circumstance, but it was not stated to be an indispensable
circumstance. The ultimate fact, of which that was an ingredient in the particular case, was the moral duress not justified
by law
When such duress is exerted under circumstances
sufficient to influence the apprehensions and conduct of a prudent business man, payment of money wrongfully induced
thereby ought not to be regarded as voluntary But the circumstances of the case are always to be taken into consideration. When the duress has been exerted by one clothed with
official authority, or exercising a public employment, less evidence of compulsion or pressure is required,-as where an
officer exacts illegal fees, or a common carrier excessive
charges. But the principle is applicable in all cases according
to the.nature and exigency of each. In Swzft Co. v Unzted
States, 111 U. S. 22, the plaintiffs, who were manufacturers of
matches, and furnished their own dies for the stamps used by
them, and were thereby entitled to a commission of ten per
cent on the price of such stamps, accepted for a long period
their commissions in stamps, (which, of course, were worth to
them only ninety cents to the dollar,) and they did this because the Treasury Department would pay in no other manner. We held that the apprehension of being stopped in
their business by non-compliance with the Treasury regulation
was a sufficient moral duress to make their payments involuntary Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering the opinion of the
court, said "The question is whether the receipts, agreements,
accounts and settlements made in pursuance of that demand
of necessity were voluntary in such sense as to preclude the
appellant from subsequently insisting on its statutory right.
We cannot hesitate to answer that question in the negative.
The parties were not on equal terms. The appellant had no
choice. The only alternative was to submit to an illegal
exaction, or discontinue its business. It was in the power of
the officers of the law, and could only do as they required.
Money paid, or rather value parted with under such pressure,
has never been regarded as a voluntary act within the mean-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmon of the Court.

ing of the maxim volenti nonfit njurza." The cases referred
to by Justice Mattliews abundantly support the position
taken, and need not be repeated here. In our judgment the
payment of money to an official, as m the present case, to
avoid an onerous penalty, though the imposition of that penalty might have been illegal, was sufficient to make the payment an involuntary one. It is true that the thing done
under compulsion in this case was the insertion of the additional charges upon the entries and invoices; but that necessarily involved the payment of the increased duties caused
thereby, and in effect amounts to the same thing as an involuntary payment.
But it is contended that the act of the appraiser in making,
or requiring to be made, the additional charges for transportation and labor was finil and conclusive, and cannot be made
the subject of inquiry It is undoubtedly the general rule that
the valuation of merchandise made by the appraiser, unappealed from to merchant appraisers, is conclusive. But whilst
this is the general rule, it is subject to the qualification that if
the appraiser proceed upon a wrong principle, contrary to
law, and this be made to appear, his appraisement is not unimpeachable. This qualification applies to the acts of many
other officials charged with duties of a similar character, such
as assessors of the value of property for taxation, commissioners for appraising lands taken for improvements, or damages
sustained by owners of land and the like. What is complained
of in the present case is, that the plaintiffs were required to
add to the market value of the goods at the places from which
they were exported transportation charges and expenses for
labor which were never incurred. If that complaint is well
founded, such additions cannot be maintained, for whilst the
appraisers are not limited to the actual cost of articles exported,
but may place upon them their market value at the places
from which they were imported, and their estinate of that
market value is conclusive, they could not, whilst the law reqired the addition to that market value of additional charges
of transportation, &c., exercise any discretion as to those
charges - but were confined to the actual cost thereof when

ROBERTSON v. FRANK BROTHERS CO.
-Opinion of the Court.

such cost could be shown. It was "cost," not "value," which
was required in that part of the estimate of dutiable values.
The sections of the Revised Statutes which regulated this matter in 1881 and 1882, when the transactions involved in the
present suit took place, were §§ 2906 and 2907, the latter
of which was repealed by the act of March 3d, 1883. 22 Stat.
523.
Section 2906, which is still in force, declares that "when an
ad valorer rate of duty is imposed on any imported merchandise, or when the duty imposed shall be regulated by, or
directed to be estimated or based upon, the value of the square
yard, or of any specified quantity or parcel of such merchandise, the collector within whose district the same shall be
imported or entered shall cause the actual market value, or
wholesale price thereof, at the period'of the exportation to the
United States, in the principal markets of the country from
which the same has been imported, to be appraised, and such
appraised value shall be considered the value upon which duty
shall be assessed."
Section 2907 declared that, "in determining the dutiable
value of merchandise, there shall be added to the cost, or to
the actual wholesale price or general market value at the
time of exportation in the principal markets of the country
from whence the same has been imported into the United
States, the cost of transportation, shipment and transhipment,
with all the expenses included, from the place of growth, production or manufacture, whether by land or water, to the
vessel in which shipment is made to the United States, the
value of the sack, box, or covering of any kind m which such
merchandise is contained, commission at the usual rates, but
in no case less than two and a half percentum, and brokerage,
export duty, and all other actual or usual charges for putting
up,preparngandpackingfor transportation or shipment. All
charges of a general character incurred in the purchase of a
general invoice shall be distributed _pro rata among all parts
of such invoice, and every part thereof charged with duties,
based on value, shall be advanced according to its proportion,
and all wines or other articles paying specific duty by grades

OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court..

shall be graded and pay duty according to the actual value so
determined."
Now, whilst under the first of these sections (2906) the estimate of the market value of the goods, made by the appraiser,
is in general unimpeachable, it is plain that the items to be
-added to that value under § 2907 did 'not depend upon estimation, but upon the actual truth of the case, namely, the cost
of transportation, shipment, &c., to the vessel in which shipment is made. This cost may be something, it may be nothing. In the present case the appraiser required fifty per cent
of the market value of the goods to be added as cost of transportation. The plaintiffs disputed this item. Evidence was
gone into on the subject, and the matter was left fairly to the
jury The only question for us to determine is, whether the
matter was open to evidence, and could lawfully be left to
the consideration of the jury, or whether the determination
of the appraiser on this subject was conolusive. We think with
the court below that this was a question open for examination.
In Oberteufer v. .Ro3ertson, 116 U. S. 499, we decided that
since the act of 1883, repealing § 2907 of the Revised Statutes,
it is not lawful for the appraiser to add to the market price of
the goods the cost or value of the cartons or boxes in which

they are packed, either by themselves, or as part of the market value. In the principle involved that case is similar to the
present. If since the repeal of § 2907 the appraiser cannot
lawfully add the cost of packing boxes to the appraised value
to the goods, before such repeal he could not lawfully add
more than that cost, and if he did, it was a matter for examination and correction. To the same effect is the case of
Badger v Cuszmano, 130 U. S. 39, where the collector caused
an appraisement to be made in which a portion of the charges
for packing and transportation of the goods imported was
deducted from that category and added to the invoice value
of the goods themselves. We held that, in the absence of
fraud on the part of the importer, this could not lawfully
be done, and that such an appraisement is not lawful or
conclusive.
We are satisfied, not only on the authority of these cases,

