OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

for damages for injuries causing death, which result from negligence, upon corporations which had not been previously subjected by their charters to such liability Boston, Concord &c.
Railroad v. The State, 32 INew Hampshire, 215, South Western Railroad v Paulk,24 Georgia, 356, Duncan v Pennsylvanza Railroad, 94 Penn. St. 435, Georgia Railroad &
Bankmg Co. v Smith, 128 U S. 174, Cooley's Const. Limit.,
4th ed. * 581, 724, 1 Hare's American Const. Law, 421.
Nor will the exemption claimed from future general legislation, either by a constitutional provision or by an act of the
legislature, be admitted to exist, unless it is expressly given, or
unless it follows by an implication equally clear with express
words. In the present case, the statutory provisions existing
prior to the constitution of 1873, in favor of the defendant,
cannot be properly interpreted so as to hold that the State
parted with its prerogative of imposing the liability in question,
in regard to future transactions. Provmdence Bank v. Billings,
4 Pet. 514, Charles River Brdge v Warren.Bdge, 11 Pet.
420, Chrst Church v. Philadelpha, 24 How 300, Gilman v
City of Sheboygan, 2 Black, 510, Tucker v Ferguson,22 Wall.
527, ffertilizng Co. v Hyde Park, 97 U S. 659, Nfewton v.
Commisszoners, 100 U. S. 548, 561, 2 Hare's American Const.
Law, 661, 663, 664.
Judgmentaffirmed.

ARON v. MANHATTAN RAILWAY COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 43.

Argued October 28, 29, 1889. -Decided

November 11, 1889.

The first five claims of letters patent No. 288,494, granted to Joseph Aron,
as assignee of William W Rosenfield, the inventor, November 13, 1883,
for an "Improvement in railway car gates," are invalid, because what
Rosenfield did did not require invention.
The same devices employed by him existed in earlier patents; all that he
did was to adapt them to the special purpose to which he contemplated
their application, by maling modifications which did not require inven-

ARON v. MANHATTAN

RAILWAY CO.

Opinion of the Court.
tion, but only the exercise of ordinary mechanical skill, and his right to
a patent must rest upon the novelty of the means he contrived to carry
his idea into practical application.

Decree dismissing the bill. Plaintiff appealed.
I EQuT.
The case is stated m the opimon of the court.
MT

XA. B. Philipp for appellant.

Ar Edwzn H. Brown for appellee. Mr Julien T Dames
was with him on the brief.
MR. JusTIcE BLATcHFORD delivered the opimon of the court.

This is a suit m equity, brought by Joseph Aron against
the Manhattan Railway Company, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, to
recover for the infringement of letters patent No. 288,494,
granted to the plaintiff, as the assignee of William W Rosenfield, the inventor, November 13, 1883, for an "improvement
in railway car gates," the application for the patent having
been filed April 3, 1883. The Circuit Court, held by Judge
Wallace, dismissed the bill, and the plaintiff has appealed.
The specification of the patent says "In many classes of
railway cars, and particularly those used upon the elevated
and other city railways, it has been found necessary, in order
to prevent passengers from falling from the train, and also to
prevent persons from attempting to get off or on a car while
in motion, to provide the entrances to the car-platforms with
gates, by which they can be closed except at the proper times.
These gates are usually in charge of a guard or attendant, whose
duty it is to close the gates before the train commences to
move, and to open them only after the train has come to a full
stop. As there is usually but one guard or attendant stationed
between each two adjoining cars, it follows that to open or close
both gates he must pass around from one to the other of the adjoining platforms. This passing from one platform to the other,
besides being a source of annoyance to the guard, occasions
some delay, which is very annoying to the passengers, particu.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

larly at times when a large number are required to get off or
on a car in a very short tune. It is the object of the present
invention, among other things, to provide means by which the
guard or attendant can, without changing his position, open
or close both gates simultaneously and with the least possible delay To that end one feature of the invention consists
m providing the gates with connections so arranged that any
Jtwo adjoining gates can be simultaneously opened or closed by
the guard while standing in the passage-way leading from one
of the cars to the other."
The drawings annexed to the patent represent two ordinary,
railway cars, with platforms adjoining each other, and the
usual entrances from the station platform, and gates of the
ordinary construction for closing such entrances. The gates
are hinged m the usual manner to posts which rise from the
corners of the platforms, and close against the usual jambs
which project from the sides of the cars. The platforms are
provided with the usual guard-railings, extending inward from
the above-mentioned posts to similar posts which are located
a sufficient distance apart to leave a passage-way from one car
to the other. When the gates are thus arranged, it is necessary, in order to close or open both gates, for the guard to pass
from one platform around the inner post to the opposite platform, thus causing some delay in opening and closing one
of the gates, adding to the labor of the guard, and causing
annoyance to the passengers. In order to avoid this, each of
the gates is provided, at a suitable distance from its hinge,
with a curved lever, which extends rearward and terminates
a short distance outside of the guard-railing. This lever is connected by a link, e, with a rod, f, vhich slides in or on a
suitable bearing secured to the guard-railing, and is provided
at its inner end with a handle by which it can be operated.
The guard or attendant, while standing in the passage-way,
can, by grasping the two handles and pushing or pulling the
rods, .f,open or close both gates simultaneously and without
loss of time.
The specification states that the rods, f, will preferably be
provided with some form of locking mechanism by which the

ARON! v. 2A KHATTAN RAILWAY CO.

87

Opinion of the Court.

gates can be fastened in their opened or closed positions, and
that such locking may be accomplished by having the handles
pivoted to the rods, f, as shown, and provided with extensions
which can bo turned so as to extend in front of the inner posts,
and hold the gates closed, or so as to lie in the rear of lugs and
hold the gates open. It then describes an arrangement whereby
the rods, f, and links, e, may be placed upon the inside of the
guard-railing-s, as well as upon the outside, and also an arrangement by which the connections for operating the gates may, if
desired, be placed beneath the platforms, and also an arrangement whereby the gates may be so hinged as to lie against the
body of the car when open, instead of against the guard-railngs, and also an arrangement whereby sliding gates may be
used, instead of swinging gates.
There are six claims in the patent, only the first five of
which are involved m the present case. They are as follows
"1. The combination, with a gate arranged to close the side
entrance to a car-platform, of an operating-handle located at
or near the inner end of the platform guard-rail, and means
connecting said gate and handle, whereby the attendant may
open and close the gate while standing at the end of said
guard-rail, substantially as described.
"2. The combination, with gates arranged to close the side
entrances to the adjoining platforms of two cars, of operatinghandles located at or near the inner, ends of the platform
guard-rails, and means connecting said gates and handles,
whereby the attendant may open or close both gates simultaneously while standing at the ends of said guard-rails, substantially as described.
"3. The combination, with a railway car and its platform,
having an end guard-rail, by which a side entrance thereto is
provided, of a gate for closing said entrance, a rod, asf, sliding
in or on guides secured to said guard-rail, and a link, as e, connected to said gate and rod, all substantially as described.
"4. The combination, with a railway car and its platform,
having an end guard-rail, by which a side entrance. thereto is
provided, of a swinging gate for closing said entrance, a rod,
as f, sliding in or on a guide secured to said rail, a link, as e.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

connected to said gate and rod, and means for locking said
gate in its closed position, all substantially as described.
"5. The combination, with gates arranged to close the side.
entrances to the adjoining platforms of two cars, of rods, as
sliding in or on guides secured to the guard-rails of said platforms, and links, as e, connected to said gates and rods, substantially as described."
The opimon of Judge Wallace is reported in 26 Fed. IRep.
314. The only question he considered was that of the patentable novelty of the improvement, saying"
"A brief reference to the prior state of the art will indicate
that the combinations referred to in the several claims are
merely an application to a new situation of old devices which
had been previously applied to analogous uses. Devices to
open and close an aperture at a distance from the operator, in
a great variety of forms, were old. As illustrations of those
things which are matters of common knowledge and of which
the court will take judicial notice, it is sufficient to allude to
the strap used by the driver at the front of the omnibus to
open and close the rear door; to the devices for opening or
closing valves at a distance, in steam and hydraulic apparatus,
and to the devices used at railway switches for opening and
closing the rails.
"Referring to the prior state of the art, as shown by various
prior patents which have been introduced m evidence, it appears also that mechamsm to open and close the entrance to
passenger cars at a point distant from the operator was likewise old, as, where the operator standing upon the front platform employed such mechanism to open or close a door at the
rear platform. One prior patent alone, the one granted to
John Stephenson September 15, 1874, shows five methods of
closing and opening the rear doors of street cars from the
front platform.
"1Mechanismfor closing and opening apertures at a distance
from the operator, in which the same devices were employed
as are employed by the patentee, was old, and is disclosed in
a number of earlier patents, which have been put in evidence.
It will suffice to refer to two only The patent to Wollen-

ARON v. MANHATTAN RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

sak of March 11, 1873, for an improvement in transom-lifters,
describes the means for opening and closing the transom as
consisting of a sliding rod, which is connected by a pivoted
link to the arm of the transom frame. The patent to Corrigan,
granted April 16, 1878, for an improvement in blind-adjusters,
whereby outside blinds are opened and closed without lifting
the window-sash, describes as the mechanism employed a
sliding bar connected by a pivoted link with a hinged shutter.
In both of these patents the aperture to be opened and closed
at a distance from the operator-in the one case a shutter and
in the other a transom -is opened and closed, as is the case
in the patent in suit, by pushing or pulling the sliding rod or
bar. In both of these patents there is likewise described a
locking device, by means of which the sliding rod or bar is
retained in a fixed position, so that the shutter or the transom
will remain fastened when opened or closed, at the option of
the operator, thus showing opening, closing and locking
apparatus in all essentials like that of the patent in suit.
Moreover, the patent to Corrigan shows this apparatus arranged to open and close the two shutters of the window, at
the option of the operator, simultaneously, the sliding bars
being so arranged as to be pushed or pulled each by one hand
of the operator.
"Mechanism for opening and closing apertures distant from
the operator, in which the devices used for the purpose are
the mechanical equivalents of those employed by the patentee,
is shown to be old by a large number of patents which have
been put in evidence.
"This partial exhibit of the prior state of the art demonstrates that what the patentee did was to adapt well-known
devices to the special purpose to which he contemplated their
application. It was necessary that the gate should swing inward to open and outward to close, that the sliding rod
should be located where it would be out of the way of passengers entering or leaving the platform, and that the end or
handle of the rod should be located where it could be conveniently operated by the attendant, without inconveniencing
outgoing or incoming passengers. The new situation required

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

adequate modifications of existing devices for opening and
closing an aperture at a distance from the operator, appropriate to the new occasion. Accordingly, the patentee located
the rods on bearings secured to the guard-rails, with their
handles near the passage-way formed by the space or opening
near the middle of the guard-rail. If this required invention,
his improvement was the proper subject of a patent. He did
nothing more and nothing less than this. It seems impossible
to doubt that any competent mechanic familiar with devices
well known m the state ol the art, could have done this readily
and successfully, upon the mere suggestion of the purpose
which it was desirable to effect. When it was done as to one
car-platform, it was only requisite to duplicate it upon another
to make the improvement of the patentee in all its length and
breadth.
"The patentee is entitled to the merit of being the first to
.conceive of the convenience and utility of a gate opening and
closing mechanism which could be operated efficiently by an
attendant in the new situation. His right to a patent, however, mustrest upon the novelty of the means he contrives to
carry his idea into practical application. It rarely happens
that old instrumentalities are so perfectly adapted for a use
for which they were not originally intended as not to require
any alteration or modification. If these changes involve only
the exercise of ordinary mechanical skill, they do not sanction
the patent, and, in most of the adjudged cases where it has
been held that the application of old devices to a new use was
not patentable, there were changes of form, proportion,, or
organization of this character which were necessary to accommodate them to the new occasion. The present case falls
within this category"
We concur = these vwew, and afirm the decree of the Cirotu
Court.

