MISS. PAC. R'Y v. CH. AND ALT. R'D.
Opinion of the Court.

therefore, making a controversy arising under that Constitution. Without considering whether any other ground for
affirming the decree exists, it is sufficient to say that this
case is disposed of by the decision which has just been announced in that referred to.
Decree affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. CHICAGO AND ALTON RAILROAD COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 66. Submitted November 5, 18S9. - Decided November 25, 1889.

In regard to motions for a new trial, and bills of exceptions, the courts of
the United States are independent of any statute or practice prevailing
in the courts of the State in which the trial is had.

THE case isstated in the opinion.
.Mr John F Dillon for plaintiff in error.
.r Alexander Martin and .'
fendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

Robert H

Xern for de-

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

In this action, tried by the Circuit Court without a jury,
there is no case stated by the parties, or finding of facts by
the court. The bill of exceptions, after setting forth all the
evidence introduced at the trial, states that "there were no
declarations of law asked for, or given by the court," and
the single exception taken is to the overruling of a motion for
a new trial, which is a matter of discretion, and not a subject
of exception, according to the practice of the courts of the
United States. In regard to motions for a new trial, and bills
of exceptions, those courts are independent of any statute or
practice prevailing in the courts of the State in which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

trial is had. Indianapjolis Railroad v Borst, 93 U. S. 291,
Hewcomb v Wood, 91 U. S. 581, Chateaugay 1fron, Co., Petihtoner, 128 U. S. 544.
Judgment afflrmed.

RAIMOND v. TERREBOiNE PARISH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 88. Argued November 12, 1889. -Decided

November 25,1889.

Either a statement of facts by the parties, or a finding of facts by the Circuit Court, is strictly analogous to a special verdict, and must state the
ultimate facts of the case, presenting questions of law only, and not be
a recital of evidence or of circumstances, wnch may tend to prove the
ultimate facts, or from which they may be inferred.

Tmis was an action by a citizen of IMississippi against a
parish inLouisiana -uponcertain bonds and coupons, amounting with interest to more than $5000 in value, alleged in the
petition and denied in the answer to have been issued in accordance with the statute of Louisiana of March 23, 1874, c.
7, and to liave been purchased by the plaintiff in good faith
and before maturity
After the case had been tried by the Circuit Court pursuant
to an agreement of counsel in open court to waive the intervention of a jury, and judgment for the defendant had 'been
rendered but not signed, and pending a motion for a new
trial, the counsel of the parties filed an agreement in writing,
waiving a jury, and submitting the case to the decision of the
court upon what they called a "statement of facts," and stipulating tha "the court shall find the facts in accordance therewith, and change [charge 2] the law so that a bill of exceptions
may be made up or error be assigned to the Supreme Court."
That "statement of facts" consisted of a description of the
instruments sued on, a reference to the plaintiff's deposition
on file, testifying to the circumstances under which he purchased them, an abstract of the testimony of another witness

