OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

burn, with whom the other judges concurred, said "It is unnecessary to determine whether, if the company had given the
tickets to the boys, and the boys had not produced their
tickets, it would have been competent for the company to
have turned them out of the carriage."
In Butler v Afanchester, Shefteld & mcolnshtre Railway,
21 Q. B. D. 207, the ticket referred to conditions published by
the company, containing a similar by-law, which further provided that any passenger travelling without a ticket, or not
showing or delivering it up when requested, should pay the
fare from the station whence the train originally started. The
plaintiff, having lost his ticket, was unable to produce it when"
demanded, and, refusing to pay such fare, was forcibly removed from the train by the defendant's servants. The Court
of Appeal, reversing a judgment of the Queen's Bench Division, held the company liable, because the plaintiff was lawfully on the train under a contract of the company to carry
him, and no right to expel him forcibly could be inferred from
the provisions of the by-law in question, requiring him to
show ls ticket or pay the fare, and each of the judges cautiously abstained from expressing a decided opinion upon the
question whether a by-law could have been so framed as to
justify the course taken by the company
Judgment afflrmed.

GLENN v. SUMNER.
.RRo

TO THE cIcurr COUeT OF THE

UITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 67. Argued November 5, 1889.- Decided November 18, 1889.

When the answer, in an action at law, both denies the plaintiff's allegations
and sets up matters in avoidance, and the jury return a general verdict
for the defendant upon all the issues, he is entitled to judgment, notwithstanding any error in rulings upon the matters in avoidance, or any statements of fact in that part of the answer setting up those matters, or in
a bill of exceptions to such rulings.

GLENN v. SUMNER.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action brought November 16, 1883, in the Cir-

cuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
North Carolina by John Glenn, as trustee of the National
Express and Transportation Company, against Thomas J
Sumner to recover $7500 for an assessment on shares held by
him m that company
The complaint contained the following allegations
"1st. That the plaintiff is and was at the time of issuing
the summons in this case a citizen of Maryland, and the defendant a citizen of the Western District of the State of North
Carolina.
"2d. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in
the sum of seven thousand five hundred dollars, for that
the defendant, on or about the first day of November, 1865,
subscribed for two hundred and fifty shares of the capital
stock of the National Express and Transportation Company,
a body corporate of the State of Virginia duly incorporated
under the laws thereof, and thereby undertook and promised
to pay to said company for each and every share so subscribed
for by said defendant the sum of one hundred dollars in such
instalments and at such times as said defendant might be lawfully called upon and required to pay the same, according to
the legal tenor and effect of the law under which said company was incorporated, whereby and by force of said subscription said defendant became and was received and admitted as
stockholder in said company"
3d. That on September 20, 1866, the company made a deed
of assignment of all its property, rights and credits to trustees
for the benefit of its creditors.
4th. That on December 14, 1880, by a decree of the Chancery Court of Richmond in the State of Virginia, the plaintiff
was substituted as sole trustee under that deed, and it was adjudged that the sum of eighty dollars a share had never been
paid or called for, and an assessment of thirty dollars a share
was made upon the stock and stockholders of the company to
pay its debts under the deed of trust.
5th. That the plaintiff accepted and qualified as such
trustee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

6th. That by force of that decree and of the statutes of
-Virginia, he was authorized to receive and collect the assess-ment.
"7th. That by force of said contract of subscription to the
stock of said company, and of said call and assessment so made
by said decree, the said defendant became and is indebted and
liable to pay to the plaintiff the sum of seven thousand five
hundred dollars, being the amount of thirty dollars on each of
said shares of the stock of said company so as aforesaid subscribed for by said defendant, and, being so liable to pay, the
said defendant, in consideration thereof, promised to pay said
sum to the plaintiff when thereto requested, and the defendant, although requested by the plaintiff, failed and refused to
pay the same to the plaintiff and still refuses so to do."
The answer set up four defences, as follows
1st. Admitting the first paragraph of the complaint; and
alleging that the second paragraph, as well as the seventh, "is
not true as the defendant is informed, advised and believes,"
and that "the defendant has no knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief as to the truth of the allegations
contained in the third, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs of
the complaint."
2d. The statute of limitations of three years, and the statute
of limitations of ten years.
3d. That in November, 1865, the defendant subscribed for
thirty shares in the company, but never received any certificate of stock or other evidence of subscription, or paid any
assessment, or was notified to do so, and soon afterwards, m
good faith, and while the company was free from debt, transferred all his right and interest in the subscription to one
Hart, who was perfectly solvent, and Hart was immediately
afterwards accepted by the company as a stockholder in the
place and stead of the defendant, and "that more than ten
years had elapsed since the transfer of the defendant's subscription as aforesaid to the said Hart, next before the commencement of this action, and defendant pleads the statute of
limitations to such case in bar of the same."
4th. A discharge in bankruptcy, granted to the defendant

GLEiNNv. SUMNER.
Statement of the Case.

by the District Court of the United States on May 31, 1879,
under proceedings commenced in August, 1875.
The record, after setting out these pleadings, stated that the
case was tried by a jury, that the jury "for their verdict say
that they find all the issues in favor of the defendant," and
that thereupon judgment was entered as follows "This case
coming on to be tried at said term of the Circuit Court aforesaid by a jury, and a verdict having been rendered finding all
the issues raised by pleadings in favor of the defendant, it is
now, on motion of Jones & Johnston, attorneys for the defendant, considered and adjudged by the court that the plaintiff
take nothing by his said writ."
The record set forth the following bill of exceptions tendered by the defendant and allowed by the court "The
plaintiff excepts to the ruling of the court, and for cause of
exception shows that upon the trial it was proved that the defendant was a stockholder in the National Express and Transportation Company, that at the time of the organization of
said corporation he paid twenty per cent on his said stock, and
the residue was unpaid, that the said corporation suspended
business because insolvent, and made a deed of trust to trustees
to secure its creditors in the year 1866, that in the year 1875
.the defendant filed his voluntary petition in bankruptcy in
said district, and was thereafter adjudged a bankrupt, and discharged from all his debts and liabilities in the year 1879."
The bill of exceptions then set forth the substance of the
decree of the Chancery Court of Richmond, as stated in the
complaint, and continued and concluded as follows
"This suit was brought to recover of the defendant thirty
per cent of the par value of the two hundred and fifty shares
of stock held by him. The answer shows the defences set up,
which include the plea of his discharge in bankruptcy, in bar of
recovery The plaintiff contended that it was not a provable
debt at the time of filing the petition in bankruptcy The
court held that it was a provable debt and that the discharge
barred it, and so instructed the jury Verdict for defendant."
The defendant sued out this writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

2fr CarZles 2farshalland .Afr John fHowc'rd for plaintiff
in error.
.Abr S. F Phillipsfor defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The sufficiency and scope of pleadings, and the form and
effect of verdicts, in actions at law, are matters in which the
Circuit Courts of the United States are governed by the practice of the courts of the State in which they are held. Rev
Stat. § 914, Bond v Dustn, 112 U. S. 604.
By the Code of Civil Procedure of North Carolina, the complaint is required to contain a plain and concise statement of
the facts constituting the cause of action, and to have each
material allegation distinctly numbered. § 93. The answer
must contain "a general or special denial of each material
allegation controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge
or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief," and "a
statement of any new matter constituting a defence or counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language." § 100. In the
absence of a counterclaim, no replication is necessary, unless
ordered by the court. § 105. A general verdict is defined to
be one "by which the jury pronounce generally upon all or
any of the issues." § 232.
In the present action, brought by the trustee under an assignment from an insolvent corporation to recover an assessment upon its stock, the allegations concerning the defendant's
subscription for shares, and his liability, by reason of his contract of subscription and of the assessment made thereon by a
court of chancery, were contained in the second and seventh
paragraphs of the complaint, and their truth was specifically
denied in the first defence set up in the answer. The pleadings therefore distinctly presented the issue, whether the defendant made the subscription and was liable for the assessment, as well as the issues of,the statutes of limitations and of
a discharge in bankruptcy
In the record sent up, the verdict unequivocally states that

GLENNf v. SUXN-ER.
Opnion of the Court.

the jury "find all issues in favor of the defendant," and the
judgment repeats that "all the issues raised by the pleadings"
were so found. This necessarily includes a finding that the
defendant was never liable to pay the assessment. This explicit finding cannot be controlled by statements of fact in
those parts of the answer which set up as independent defences
matters in avoidance, or in a bill of exceptions relating to
one of those defences only Such statements, made for the
purpose of presenting the issue to which they relate, are not
evidence upon any other issue in the same record. As held
by Chief Justice Marshall, sitting in the Circuit Court for the
District of lNorth Carolina, where the law authorizes a defendant to plead several pleas, he may use each plea in his defence,
and the admissions unavoidably contained in one cannot be
used against him in another. Whstaker v. ]Feeman, 1 Dev
270, 280. See, also, Knight v -eADouall, 12 Ad. & El. 438,
442, Gould v Oliver, 2 Man. & Gr. 208, 234, S. C. 2 Scott
N. R. 241, 262.
The finding of the jury, that the defendant never subscribed
for the shares or was liable to pay the assessment, constitutes
of itself a conclusive determination of the case in his favor.
Consequently, the ruling of the Circuit Court upon the question, stated in the bill of exceptions and principally argued at
the bar, of the effect of the discharge in bankruptcy, is wholly
immaterial, and cannot have prejudiced the plaintiff, for, however that question should be decided, the defendant would be
entitled to judgment upon the verdict. Evans v Pk, 118
U S. 241, foores v NYatonal Bank, 104 U. S. 625, Hom~eey
v Bunting, 1 Dev 3.
Judgment afflrmed.

