OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

state commerce, can be separated, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Alabama is
Reversed, and the case remanded to tt, wdhl directionsfor
furtherproceedings -in conformty wth ths opttnn.

RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANWY v. GOMILA.
ERROR TO THE CIRcUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 113. Argued November 15, 1889. -Decided December 9, 1889.

Property of a debtor, brought within the custody of the Circuit Court of
the United States by seizure under process issued upon its judgment,
remains in its custody to be applied in satisfaction of its judgment, notwithstanding the subsequent death of the debtor before the sale under
execution.
The jurisdiction of a court of the United States, once obtained over property by its being brought within its custody, continues until the purpose
of the seizure is accomplished, and cannot be impaired or affected by any
legislation of the State, or by any proceedings subsequently commenced
in a state court.
Probate laws of a State which, upon the death of a party to a suit in a
Federal Court, withdraw his estate from the operation of the execution
laws of the State, and place it in the hands of his executor or administrator for the benefit of his creditors and distributees, do not apply
when, previous to the death of the debtor, his property has been seized
upon execution, and thus specifically appropriated to the satisfaction of
a judgment in that court.

Tmis case came from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana. It arose out of the following facts On the 5th of June, 1885, the Rio Grande Railroad
Company, a corporation, recovered a judgment in that court
against a copartnership firm known as Gomila & Co., and
against its members, Anthony J Gomila and Lamed Torrey,
sn solido, for $26,731.99, with interest from January 1, 1884.
Upon this judgment execution was issued under which certain
interests were attached, or seized, as it 3s termed in the laws of
Louisiana, namely, a claim upon which, in February, 1885,

RIO GRANDE RIULROAD CO. v. GOMILA.
Statement of the Case.

judgment was recovered m that court in favor of Gomila &
Co. against Culliford & Clark, for $23,999.76, with interest at
therate of five per cent per annum from June 30, 1883, from
which judgment an appeal was, at the time, pending in the
Supreme Court of the United States, also a claim and judgment thereon in favor of Gomila & Co., against John T.
Milliken, rendered in a state court of Louisiana, on the 27th
of June, 1883, for $6200, with interest at the rate of eight
per cent per annum from February 27, 1883, and also a claim
made by Gomila & Co. against Kehlor Brothers, garnishees in
the suit of Gomila & Co. against Milliken. Under this execution a parcel of real estate in the city of :New Orleans was
also seized. The property, except the real estate, was advertised by the marshal of the district for sale. Whilst thus advertised, and before the day of sale designated, Gomila, of the
firm of Gomila & Co., died. The sale did not, therefore, take
place, and the representatives of Gomila were made parties to
the proceedings under the execution.
Subsequently a new
sale was advertised. Before the day of sale arrived, the public administrator, and, as such, dative testamentary executor of
Gomila, upon an affidavit that three-fourths of these assets belonged to and were inventoried as of the succession of the deceased, and should be administered with his other assets in the
Probate Court of the Parish of Orleans, moved the Circuit Court
of the United States for an order directing the marshal of the
district to discontinue and withdraw the advertisement of sale,
and desist from making the sale as advertised, or offering for
sale the property seized. To this motion the railroad company
appeared, and by way of exception and demurrer, pleaded, 1st,
that the executor could not proceed by motion if he had any
cause of complaint, but must proceed by an original bill in
equity, and, 2d, that the motion presented issues of law and
fact, which, if within the jurisdiction of the law side of the
court, should be tried in the ordinary way by a jury The company further stated that, if the demurrer and exception were
overruled, it desired to set up in answer to the motion the fact
that the claims were seized and advertised for sale before the
death of Gomila, and were in the custody and jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the court at the time of his death, and should not, therefore,
be transferred to the Probate Court of the prish. Upon the
hearing, which took place on the 5th of November, 1885,,the
court overruled the exception and demurrer, and ordered that
the marshal discontinue and withdraw the advertisement of
sale, which had been fixed for that day, and desist from making the sale until further order of the court, reserving to the
parties all the rights not therein passed upon. This order
merely operated to postpone the sale. Subsequently another
rule was taken out by the executor upon the railroad company
to show cause why the effects and property should not be delivered to him, burdened with any liens in its favor, which
might have resulted from their seizure, and be received and
held by him as executor for the purpose of administration,
under the orders of the Probate Court. Upon the hearing
which followed, the Circuit Court, in December, 1885, adjudged
and decreed that the rule be made absolute, and that the property described in the motion, then in the possession and under
the control of the marshal, be delivered to the executor as the
officer of the Probate Court for the Parish of Orleans, the said
property to pass into his possession burdened with any liens in
favor of the plaintiff which might have resulted from its seizure, and that it be received and held by the executor for the
purpose of administration under the orders of the Probate
Court, and that the cost of the proceedings be paid by the Rio
Grande Railroad Company Rio Grande Railway v Gomila,
28 Fed. Rep. 337.
To reverse this judgment the case was brought to this court
on writ of error.
Mr George 1. Binght for plaintiff in error.
.M

Gus. -4. B e aux for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opimon of the court.

The question presented for our consideration is whether
property of a debtor, brought within the custody of the Circuit

RIO GRANDE RAILROAD CO. v. GOMILA.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of the United States by seizure under process issued upon
its judgment, remains in its custody to be applied in satisfaction of the judgment notwithstanding the subsequent death of
the debtor, or is removed by such death from the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court and passes under the control of the Probate Court of the State, to be disposed of m the administration
of the assets of the deceased. To this question we have no
doubt the answer must be that the property remains in the
custody of the Circuit Court of the United States, to be applied
to the satisfaction of the judgment under which it was seized.
The jurisdiction of a court of the United States once obtained
over property by being brought within its custody continues
until the purpose of the seizure is accomplished, and cannot be
impaired or affected by any legislation of the State or by any
proceedings subsequently commenced in a state court. This
exemption of the authority of the courts of the United States
from interference by legislative or judicial action of the States
is essential to their independence and efficiency If their jurisdiction could in any particular be invaded and impaired by
such state action, it would be difficult to perceive any limit to
which the invasion and impairment might not be extended.
To sanction the doctrine for which the executor, appointed by
the Probate Court of the Parish of Orleans, contends would
be to subordinate the authority of the Federal courts in essential attributes to the regulation of the State, a position which
is wholly inadmissible.
The principle declared in -F'eeman v. ffowe, 24:How 450,
and in Buck v. Colbatk, 3 Wall. 334, both of which have, from
their importance, attracted special attention from the profession,
in effect determines the question presented here.
In the first of these cases the marshal had levied a writ of
attachment, issued'from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Massachusetts, upon certain property which
was subsequently taken from his possession by the sheriff of
the county of Middlesex, in that State, under a writ of replevin
issued from a state court, and the question presented was
whether the sheriff was justified in thus taking the property
from the marshal's possession, or whether the marshal had the
VOL. C2.Xxi-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

right to retain it. The court held that the property was, by
its attachment under process of the Federal Court, brought
within the custody of that court and under its jurisdiction,
that it could not be taken from that custody by any tribunal
of the State, and that if a conflict in the assertion of jurisdiction in such case arose, the determination of the question rested
with the Federal Court, observing that "no government could
maintain the administration or execution of its laws, civil or
criminal, if the*jurisdiction of its judicial tribunals were subject
to the determination of another." p. 459.
In the second of the above cases - Buck v Colbath, 3 WAll.
334 -this court referred to the decision in .Freemanv Howe,
and, after stating that, when first announced, it had taken the
profession generally by surpiise, said that the court was clearly
satisfied with the principle upon which the decision was
founded, "a principle," it added, "which is essential to the
dignity and just authority of every court, and to the comity
which should regulate the relations between all courts of concurrent jurisdiction. That principle is, that, whenever property
has been seized by an officer of the court by virtue of its process, the property is to be considered as in the custody of the
court and under its control for the time being, and that no
other court has a right to interfere with that possession, unless
it be some court which may have a direct supervisory control
over the court whose process has first taken possession, or some
superior jurisdiction in the premises." p. 341. The doctrine of
F'eeman v HZ~owe was thus reaffirmed, with a statement of the
limitation to which, in its application, it was subject, by allowing suits against officers and others for seizing the property of
strangers, which did not invade the custody of the court over
the property With the property in custody, so long as it continues, no other tribunal can interfere, though, but for such
custody, possession of it might be taken under process from
state courts. Covell v Heyman, 111 _U. S. 1'6.
In lzggs v Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166, which came from
the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa, and was before us
at December term, 1867, this doctrine finds illustration. There
the plaintiff had obtained judgment in the Circuit Court against

RI0 GRANDE RAILROAD CO. v. GO-ILA.
Opinion of the Court.

the county upon certain of its bonds. Execution, issued upon
the judgment, was returned unsatisfied. Thereupon he applied
to the Circuit Court for a mandamus upon the supervisors of
the county to compel the levy of a tax for the payment of the
judgment. An alternative writ was issued commanding the
supervisors to assess the tax or show cause to the contrary on
a day designated. The supervisors appeared on the return day
and alleged that they had been enjoined by proceedings in a
state court from assessing a tax for that purpose, and that they
could not do so without being guilty of contempt and becoming liable to punishment. To this return the plaintiff demurred
on several grounds; and, among others, that the state court
had no jurisdiction, power or authority to prevent him from
using the process of the Circuit Court to collect its judgment,
and that the decree for an injunction rendered in the state
court was no bar to his application for relief. The court overruled the demurrer, and decided that the return was sufficient.
Judgment was thereupon rendered for the supervisors, and the
plaintiff brought the case to this court by writ of error. Here
the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded with directions to sustain the demurrer, and take further proceedings in
accordance with the opinion of the court. In considering the
grounds of the demurrer, this court held that the jurisdiction
of a court is not exhausted by the rendition of judgment, but
continues until that judgment is satisfied, that process subsequent to judgment is as essential to jurisdiction as process
antecedent to judgment, observing that the judicial power
would otherwise be incomplete and entirely inadequate to the
purposes for which it is conferred by the constitution, that
mandamus is an appropriate remedy to compel the levy of a
tax to pay a debt contracted by a municipal corporation, where
judgment has been recovered for the debt, and execution
thereon has been returned unsatisfied, and that state laws
,cannot control its process. "Repeated decisions of this court,"
was its language, "have also determined that state laws,
whether general or enacted for the particular case, cannot in
any manner limit or affect the operation of the process or pro.
ceedings in the Federal courts." p. 195. And it concluded

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

its consideration of the subject by holding that the injunction
of the state court was "inoperative to control or in any manner
to affect the process or proceedings of a Circuit Court, not on
account of any paramount jurisdiction in the latter courts, but
because, in their sphere of action, Circuit Courts are wholly
:independent of the state tribunals." p. 196.
It is earnestly contended that this doctrine cannot apply
-where the property brought under the control of the Federal
Court has by the subsequent death of the debtor become, under
the statute of Louisiana, the subject of administration in the
:Probate Courts of the State. The doctrine as declared in the
eases cited does not admit of any exception to the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court of the United States in such cases. In-deed, if an exception could be made in cases in the Probate
Court, it might be made in other cases. Special jurisdiction in
particular classes of cases might be authorized, so as to take a
large portion of subjects from the jurisdiction of the Federal
,courts. When property is seized to satisfy a money judgment
-of the United States Court, and thus brought within its custody, it is appropriated to pay that judgment, and the court
cannot surrender its jurisdibtion over the property until it is
applied to that judgment, or that judgment is otherwise satislied. Only the part remaining after such appropriation goes,
upon the death of the debtor, into the Probate Court as his
assets. All proceedings under a levy of execution have relation
Freeman v
back to the time of the seizure of the property
-Dawson, 110 U. S.264, 970.
We do not question the general doctrine laid down in
Yonley v Lavender, 21 Wall. 276, 279, 280, to the effect that
the administration laws of a State are not merely rules of practice for the courts, but laws limiting the rights of the parties,
and will be observed by the Federal courts in the enforcement
of individual rights, and that those laws upon the death of a
party withdraw the estate of the deceased from the operation
of the execution laws of the State, and place them in the hands
of his executor or administrator for the benefit of his creditors
and distributees. But that doctrine only applies where the
property has not been, previous to the death of the debtor,

RIO GRANDE RAILROAD CO. v. GOMILA.
Opimon of the Court.

taken into custody by the Federal Court upon its process, and
thus specifically appropriated to the satisfaction of such judgment. In this case, had Gomila died before the property in
question had been seized upon process issued upon a judgment
against him, the doctrine of the case cited might have been
applicable. We do not recall any case now where the Federal
courts have not paid respect to the principle that all debts to
be paid out of the decedent's estate are to be established in the
court to which the law of his domicile has confided the general
administration of estates, and that judgments against the
deceased, unaccompanied by a seizure of property for their
satisfaction, stand in the same position as other claims against
his estate, and are to be paid in like manner. The jurisdiction
of chancery to enforce the equitable rights of a non-resident
creditor in the case of maladministration or non-adminstration
of the estate of a decedent, stands upon a different principle,
(Payne v Hrook, 7 Wall. 425,) the rule prevailing, as stated in
Hyde v Stone, 20 How 170, 175, that the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States over controversies between citizens
of different States cannot be impaired by the laws of the State
which prescribe the modes of redress in their courts or which
regulate the distribution of their judicial power.
Nor is there anything in the doctrine of the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Court to dispose of the property in its
custody without any intervention of the Probate Court, until
its judgment is satisfied, that in any way trenches upon that
doctrine equally well established, that where a state and a Federal court have concurrent jurisdiction over the same subject
matter, that court which first obtains jurisdicticn will retain it
to the end of the controversy, either to the exclusion of the
other, or to its exclusion so far as to render the latter's decsion
subordinate to the other; a doctrine which, with some exceptions, is recognized both in Federal and state courts. Wa1lace
v .MeConnell, 13 Pet. 136, 143, fTaylor v Tamtor, 16 Wall.
366, 370.
Wallace v .7cConnelZ, 13 Pet. 136, 143, was a case brought
in the District Court of the United States for the District of
Alabama, exercising the power of a Circuit Court, upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

prormssory note of the defendant for $4880. The defendant
appeared and pleaded payment and satisfaction, and, issue
being joined, the case was continued until the succeeding term.
The defendant then interposed a plea of puqs darr en, continuance, alleging that, as to $4204 of the sum, the plaintiff ought
not to maintain his action, because that sum had been attached
in proceedings commenced against him under the attachment
law of the State in which he was summoned as garnishee. In
those proceedings he had admitted his indebtedness beyond a
certain payment made, and the state court gave judgment
against him for the balance. To this plea the plaintiff demured, and the demurrer was sustained. The case being
taken to this court, it was contended that the proceedings
under the attachment law of Alabama were sufficient to bar
the action as to the amount attached, and that, therefore, the
demurrer ought to have been overruled. But the court said
"The plea shows that the proceedings on the attachment
were instituted after the commencement of this suit. The
jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States, and the
right of the plaintiff to prosecute his suit in that court having
attached, that right could not be arrested or taken away by
any proceedings in another court. This would produce a collision in the jurisdiction of courts that would extremely embarrass the administration of justice."
From the views expressed it follows, that the court below
erred in ordering the marshal to discontinue the advertisement
for the sale of the property seized, and from proceeding with
its sale, and directing its delivery over to the executor of the
deceased, Gomila, for purposes of administration under the
orders of the Probate Court of the Parish of Orleans. Only
so much of the property, or of its proceeds, as may remain after
the satisfaction of the judgment under which the property was
seized, can be transferred to such executor. The judgment of
the court below must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to discharge the rule; and it ss so ordered.

