ROEMffER v. PEDDLE.
Opinion of the Court.

ROEMER v. PEDDIE.
ROEM ER v. HEADLEY
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

ROEIMER v. KUPPER.
ROEMER v. JENKINSON.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Nos. 120, 121, 132,133. Argued November 18, 19, 1889.-

FOR

Decided December 9, 1889.

The claim of letters patent No. 195,233, granted to William Roemer, September 18, 1877, for an improvement in a combined lock and handle for
travelling-bags, namely, "The lock-case made with the notched sides
a a, near its ends to receive and hold the handle-rings B, substantially
as herein shown and described," having been inserted by amendment,
after his application for a broader claim was rejected, and after he had
amended his specification by stating that he dispensed with an extended
bottom plate, cannot be so construed as to cover a construction which
has an extended bottom plate.
When a patentee, on the rejection of his application, inserts in his specification, in consequence, limitations and restrictions for the purpose of
obtaining his patent, he cannot, after he has obtained it, claim that it
shall be construed as it would have been construed if such limitations
and restrictions were not contained in it.
IN EQUITY for the infringement of letters patent.
is stated in the opinion.

The case

Zr Arthur v. Briesen for appellant.
Xr Frederwc H. Betts, (with whom was Xr J E. Hindon
Hyde on the brief,) for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCI-FORD delivered the opinion of the court.
These are two suits in equity, brought by William Roemer
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, one against Thomas B. Peddie and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

George B. Jenkinson, and the other against Albert 0. Headley, and two suits in equity brought by the same plaintiff m
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of New
Jersey, one against Charles Kupper, and the other against
Richard C. Jenkinson. All four of the suits are brought for
the infringement of letters patent No. 195,233, granted to the
plaintiff September 18, 1877, for an improvement in a combined lock and handle for travelling-bags.
The specification says "Be it known that I, William Roemer, of Newark, in the county of Essex and State of New
Jersey have invented a combined lock and handle holder for
travelling-bags, etc., of which the following is a specification
Figure 1 is a top view of my improved combined lock and
handle holder. Fig. 2 is a vertical longitudinal section of the
same, Fig. 3 is a cross-section on the line c c, Fig. 2. Similar
letters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the figures. This invention relates to a new construction of lockcase for travelling-bags, satchels, and the like, whereby thesame is made to retain the rings which connect with the
handle, [to dispense with an extended bottom plate,] and yet
to leave said rings movable in their bearings. The invention
consists in forming notches in the sides, near the ends of the
lock-case, which notches engage over the lower parts of the
handle-rings, all as hereinafter more fully described. In the
accompanying drawing, the letter A represents the lock-ease,
the same being of suitable construction, shape and size, and
adapted to be fastened to the frame of the satchel or bag by
rivets or other suitable means. The ends of the lock-case are,
by notches a, which are cut into or formed in its sides, made
hook-shaped, as clearly shown in Fig. 2, and these hooks b,
thus produced, serve to retain the handle-rings B B in place.
These handle-rings are, as indicated in Fig. 3, preferably flattened at their lower parts, and are, with these flattened portions, placed under the hooks b of the lock-case, and thereby
secured to the satchel-frame, to which the lock-case is riveted,
as already described. In these hooks, however, the rings are
free to vibrate, and free, therefore, to move with the handles,
and the rings constitute, in consequence, a flexible connection

ROEMER v. PEDDIE.
Opinion of the Court.

between the handle and the bag or satchel. [By making the
notches in the sides, the top of the lock-case remains smooth
and offers no obstruction to the free movement of handle and
rings.]" The claim of the patent is as follows "The lockcase made with the notched sides a a near its ends to receive
and hold the handle-rings B, substantially as herein shown
and described."
In the application for the patent as filed, the parts above
put in brackets were not contained in the specification, and
the proposed claim was as follows "The combination of the
lock-case, A, having the hooks, b,at its ends, with the rings,
B B, which are held in place by said hooks, substantially as
herein shown and described." The application as thus made
was rejected, by a reference to patent No. 177,020, granted
May 2, 1876, to William Simon, for improvements in a travelling-bag. The proposed claim was then stricken out, and the
following claim was substituted "The lock-case, A, having
the notches, a a, at its under side, and combined with the rings,
B B, which are held m said notches, substantially as and for
the purpose specified." The application was again rejected,
-by a reference to the patent to Simon, the Patent Office saying "The difference between the two devices appears to be,
that m applicant's device the notches are cut in the vertical
sides of the lock-case, and in the reference they are struck up
from the bottom plate." The application was then amended
by inserting in the specification the words above put in brackets, and by altering the claim so as to read as it does in the
patent as issued.
After an answer and a replication in the suit against Peddle
and Jenkinson, proofs were taken on both sides and the court,
held by Judge Wheeler, made a decree dismissing the bill, with
costs. In the opinion of the court (27 Fed. Rep. 702) it was
said "The improvement patented consists essentially in extending the sides of the lock-case to hold the handle-rings of
travelling-bags. The bottom plate of the lock had before been
extended for that purpose. By the improvement the bottom
plate could be dispensed with, and the side walls of the lockcase made both to enclose the lock and hold the handle-rings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants use the same thing to hold the handle-rings,
but place the lock above it, and do not use it for the side walls
of the lock-case. It becomes, by the use which they make of
it, an extended bottom plate to the lock, of an improved form.
If this piece was patented and the patent is valid to cover it,
the defendants do infringe. The file-wrapper and contents are
made a part of the case. From them it appears that the orator,
in his application for this patent, at first applied for a patent
covering the combination of the lock-case with the handle-rings.
His claim was rejected on a reference to patent No. 177,020,
granted to William Simon, which covered an extended bottom
plate to the lock, to hold the handles. The claim was amended,
and again rejected on the same reference, and was not granted
until the specification was amended to dispense with an extended bottom plate to the lock, and the claim was confined
to a lock-case with notched sides near its ends, to receive and
hold the handle-rings. This piece, which the defendants use,
was the same before as after these amendments. The Patent
Office would not grant a patent for it generally in combination with the handle-rings, but only specifically when used for
the sides of the lock-case and for the handle-rings. The orator
accepted the patent narrowed in that manner, and cannot now
be heard to claim that it is any more broad than that m its
scope. He invented this particular form of lock-case, and his
patent is for that only, and it cannot be construed to cover
anything else. Railway Co. v Sayles, 97 U S. 554. The defendants do not use his lock-case, but use an extended bottom
plate like his lock-case. It has been argued ingeniously and
with plausibility that the same thing is used under a merely
different name, but this argument is not in reality well founded.
The patent was for a lock-case not only in name but in substance. The defendants do not use this lock-case. They evade
the patent not by a mere colorable, but by a substantial evasion."
As the patentee, after the rejection of his application, inserted in his specification a statement that his invention related to a new construction of lock-case, whereby it was made
"to dispense with an extended bottom plate," he cannot now

ROEMER v. PEDDIE.
Opinion of the Court.

contend that his specification and claims are to be interpreted
so as to cover a construction which has an extended bottom

plate.

By his patent, as issued, he dispenses with the ex-

tended bottom plate, and confines his claim to a lock-case with
sides notched near its ends to receive and hold the handlerings - an arrangement not found in the defendants' structure.
In that, the lock and the handle-fastenings are combined with
the extended bottom plate, as in the Simon patent of May 2,
18,76. The lock-case of the defendants does not have notches in
its sides, but the notches are in the sides of an extended
struck-up bottom plate, such extended bottom plate being expressly excluded from the construction by the specification of
the plaintiff's patent.
This court has often held that when a patentee, on the rejection of his application, inserts in his specification, in consequence, limitations and restrictions for the purpose of obtaining
his patent, he cannot, after he has obtained it, claim that it
shall be construed as it would have been construed if such
limitations and restrictions were not contained in it. Leggett
v Avery, 101 U S. 256, Goodyear -Dental YFuleanste Co. v.
Davis, 102 U. S. 222, 228, Fay v Cordesman, 109 U S. 408,
.ahn v Harwood, 112 U S. 354, 359, Cartrzdge Co. v Cartrzdge Co., 112 U. S. 624, 644, Sargent v Hall Safe & Lock
Co., 114 U S. 63, Stepard v Carrigan, 116 U. S. 593, 597,
White v Dunbar, 119 U S. 47, Sutter v. Robinson, 119 U. S.
530, Bragg v Fitch, 121 U. S. 478, Snow v. Lake Shore Railway Co., 121 U. S. 617, Crawford v fleysinger, 123 U. S. 589,
606, 607.
It is contended by the defendants, that, in view of the prior
state of the art, the patent is invalid. We do not consider it
necessary to examine that question, because, for the reasons
before assigned, we are of opinion that the decree must be
affirmed, and as, in each of the other three cases, there is a
stipulation that the suit may be argued here, on.appeal, on
the record in the Peddle suit, and abide the result of that suit,
and as the decree in each of those other three cases was a
decree dismissing the bill with costs, each of such decrees is
fArmed.

