DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

167

Ogde v. Parson et a7.

quently, their guarantor cannot. They have misconceived the.
import of that settlement without the agency of the plaintiffs,
and are not entitled to charge them with the consequent loss.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury, that if they foind the
engine, boilers, and apparatus for steam power, were sufficient
to drive six run of stones*suitable for grinding; the damages
to be found should be such as would enable:the plaintiffs to
supply tile deficiency, and that they were not required to assume the contract price as. the full value of such machinery.
. The principle thus laid down coincides with that in Alder
v. Keightly, 15 M. and W., 117. "No doubt," say the court
in that case, "all questions of damages are, strictly speaking,,
for the jury; and, however clear and plain may be the rule oflaw on which the damages are to be found, the act, of finding
them is for them. But there are certain established rules, according to which they ought to find; and here is a clear rule:
that the amount that would have been received, if the contract
had been kept, is the measure of damages if the contract is
broken." This rule was reaffirmed in Hadley v. Baxendale,
10 Exch., 841. The exception to the introduction of the notice to the defendant, and the report accompanying it, cannot
be sustained. It was proper for the plaintiffs to notify the
principals and their surety of the defects'in their vork, and to
call upon them to aiend it. The report was not introduced
as testimony of the defects, nor can we assume that it was
u~ed for that purpose. Upon the whole record our conclusion
is, there is no error, and thejudgment.of the Circuit Court is
afirmed.

DAviD OGDEN , AppiLLANT, v. JOTHAM PARSONS, Jom A. McGnAw, J sHUA ATzwns, EDwiN AT ms, AND JosHuA ATKINS, "Ju
Where a charter-party stipulated that a vessel should receive-a full cargo, the
opinions of.experts are the best criteria of how" deeplyshe can be loaded with
.safety to the lives of the passengex

SUPREME COURT.
Ogden v. Parsons e al.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court. of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
Parsons and the other appellees were the owners of the ship
Hemisphere, and a charter-party was executed between their
agents and Ogden, the terms of which, together with the other
facts of the case, are summarily stated in the opinion of the
court.
The libel was filed in the District Court, praying for a writ
with a clause of foreign attachment. The writ was accordingly issued against Ogden, -commanding the marshal to take
his person; if not found, then to take his goods and chattels;
if none found, then to attach his credits in the hands of garnishees.
Ogden appeared, and the case proceeded through the District
and Circuit Courts in the manner stated in the opinion of the
court. From the decree of the Circuit Court, Ogden appealed.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Owen and
Mr. Vose for the appellant, and by Mr. -Parsonsand Mr. Donohue for the appellees.
The arguments upon both sides entered into the meritsindependently of the evidence of their witnesses, Whose testimony the court considered to be conclusive upon the point of
what ought to be considered a full cargo. It is not thought
necessary, therefore, to report those arguments.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The libellants let the ship Hemisphere by charter-party to
David Ogden on a voyage from Liverpool to New York. The
covenants which are the subject of this litigation are briefly as
follows: "Ogden, to furnish a full cargo of general merchandise, and not exceeding 513 passengers, to pay X1,500 for the
use of the ship, to have fifteen running lay days, and for eLvery
day's detention beyond that to pay one hundred dollars."
The libel demands $700 as demurrage for seven days, and
for a balance yet due on the contract.
The answer denies any. liability for demurrage, admits that

-DECEMBER T'lVMM, 1859.
Ogden v. Parsons el al.

the whole amount of £1,500 has not been paid, and charges
libellants with breaches of their charter-party, and damages in
consequence thereof exceeding the balance claimed by them.
1st. "Because that they carelessly, wrongfully, and contrary
to usage, stowed portions of the cargo where it ought not to
have been stowed," and thereby deprived respondent "of the
ill and lawful use of the ship," by having -room for only 350
passengers instead of 513.
2d. That libellants would not take and rec ve "a full cargo
of general merchandise"
The District Court decided against the charge for demurrage, but allowed the respondent no damages for the alleged
breaches of the charter-party by libellants.
On appeal by respondent to the Circuit Court, the sum of
$1,200 tas allowed him by that court for the breach first mentioned with regard to the number of passengers received.
From this decree the respondent has appealed to this court.
As the libellants have not appealed from the decree of either
the District or Circuit Court, the only question now to be considered is, whether the respondent has shown himself entitled
to more damages than were allowed him by the Circuit Court.
The judge of the Circuit Court being of opinion, from the
evidence, that the cargo might and ought to have been stowed
so as to admit ihe fuRt number of passengers, (513,) made a
calculation from admitted data of the damage to respondent
on that account, without.referring, the case again to a master,
and deducted the sum of $1,200 from the amount of the decree" of the District Court. Of this the appellant does not
complain, but insists that the owners had refused to receive a
"full cargo of merchandise."
The registered tonnage of the ship was 1,080 tons; the cargo
of general merchandise received was 1,297 tons.
The charter-party covenants for no specific amount to, be received. What was "a full cargo" under all the circumstances,
and whether the ship could have been loaded to- a, greater
depth than 18 feet 10 inches with safety to the lives of the
passengers, was a question which could be solved only by,experienced shipmasters. Where-experts are introduced to test-

SUPREME COURT.
Irvine et a. v. Redfid.

ify as to opinions on matters peculiar to their art or trade,
there is usually some conflict in their testimony. What was
a full cargo for this ship to carry with safety was not a fact
which could be settled by any rule of law or mathematical
computation, and the court must necessarily rely upon the
opinions of those who have experience, skill, and judgment, in
such matters. At least three competent witnesses of this
character testify that the ship was loaded as deep as prudence
would permit, under all the circumstances. Both the District
and Circuit Court were of the same opinion, and we do not
find in the evidence anything to convince us that they have
erred.
Let the decree of the Circuit Court be affirmed with costs.

SAMUEL IRVINE AND PETER FORBES, PLAINTIMFS, V. HERLMAN J.
REDFIELD, LATE COLLECTOR OF THE CUSTOMS OF THE UNITED

STATES AT THE PORT OF NEW YORK.
The duties upon foreign merchandise are to be computed on their value on the
day of the sailing of the vessel from the foreign porL (See 20 Howard, 571.)

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, upon a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action of assumpsit on the money counts brought
by the plaintiffs against the defendant as collector. Upon the
trial, the division in opinion between the judges occurred,
which is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on the record, no counsel appearing for
either party.
Mi. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the core
This case comes to tlis court under a certificate of division
of opinion from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of the State of New York.

