SIUPR.EME COURT.
United Mates v. Alvso.

regarded. Within the doctrine of the cases we have cited,
the claim must be treated as one abandoned prior to the date
of the treaty of Guadalupe IHidalgo, and is not entitled to
confirmation.
Decree of the District Court reversed; cause remanded;
petition to be dismissed.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JOSE ANTONIO

ALviso.

Where proceedings for a grant of land in California were commenced by a
Mexican in 1838, and continued from time to time and the claimant ha
been in possession since 1840, and no suspicion of the truth of the claim
exists, this court will not disturb the decree in his favor made by the court
below.

Tis was an appeal from the District Court of the United

States for the northern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton for the United States, and by

Mr. Robinson and Mr. Leigh for the appellee.
The arguments upon the value of the title are omitted.
Upon the subject of possession, the counsel for the appellee
said:

In such a case as this, lapse of time may operate for, but not
against, the petitioner. As was said by the Court of Appeals
of Virginia, its weight "is thrown in favor of the party who
insists that the state of things existing during that lapse shall
not be disturbed."
Evans, &c., v. Spengin, &c., 11 Grat., 622.
In these cases the court said: "The appellees seek only to
preserve the existing state of things; they and those under
whom they claim have been in possession of the subject in
controversy, and have held it since August, 1809, at least.
They are demanding nothing at the hands of the appellants;
they -9.k to defend their long-continued actual possession by

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

319

United States v. Alviso.

means of their superior equitable title-a title fully proved by
the direct testimony, and confirmed by the lapse of time. There
is nothing on the record on which to found the allegation that
the appellees, or those under whom they claim, have abaadoned or waived their rights; on the contrary, from 1805 or
from 1809 they have, in the most emphatic manner,. asserted,
these rights, by holding and enjoying their property.' With
a change of dates, according to the facts, these remarks emphatically apply to the present case.

-

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee was confirmed in his claim to two square
leagues of land in the county of Santa Cruz, and known as
La Canada de Verde y Arroyo de la Purissima, by the board
of commissioners and the District Court of California.
His testimony consists of a petition by his brother (Jose
Maria Alviso) to the Governor of California, in 1888, for a
grant of the land, anl permission to occupy it, while the proceedings for the perfection of his title were pending. This
petition was granted, and the administrator of the ex-missior
of San Francisco, de Assis, was directed to make a report upor
the subject.
In 1839, this order was exhibited to the prefect of that district, who agreed to reserve the land for the claimant, and that
the claimant might occupy it, referring him to the Governor
for a complete title. In 1840, the administrator reported that
the land was unoccupied, and was not recognised as the property of the mission or of any private person. The claimant
has a conveyance from his brother, the petitioner, dated in
1840.
The testimony shows that his occupation commenced in
1840, and has continued for fourteen years; that he has improved and cultivated the land, and that his family have
resided on it.
The claimant appears to have been a citizen of the Department, and no objection was made or is suggested why he should
not have been a colonist of that portion of the public domain
he has solicited. Nio imputation has been made against the

SUPREME COURT.
Sutton et a7_ v. Bancroft et al.

integrity of his documentary evidence, and no suspicion exists
unfavorable to the bona fides of his petition, or the continuity
of his possession and claim. He has been recognised as the
proprietor of this land sipce 1840.
Under all the circumstances of the case, the court is not
willing to disturb the decrees in his favor.
Decree of the District Court affirmed.

WILLIAM B. SUTTON, SAMUEL L. GRIFFITH, AND JAMES SUTTON,
COPARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM AND STYLE OF SUTTON, GRIFFITH, & CO., PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, -V. STACY B. BANCROFT,

THOMAS BEAVER, AND OTHERS, COPARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM
AND STYLE OF BANCROFT, BEAVER, & Co.
Where parties were sued on a promissory note executed by them, did not pretend to have any defence, entered a false plea which was overruled on demurrer, refused to plead in bar, and had judgment entered against them for
want of a plea,this court will affirm the judgment with ten per cent. damages.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
0ourt of the United States for the western district of Arkansas
It was submitted on a printed brief by Mr. Watkins for the
defendants in error, no counsel appearing for the plaintiffs in
error.
Mr Watkins stated the case, and said that the judgment
was rendered on the 22d of May, 1856, since which time the
hands of the plaintiffs below have been tied from having execution, and .heplaintiffs in error have never appeared in this
court, Por hlve they taken any steps to prosecute their writ
of error.
. The defendants in error now ask for an affirmance of the
judgment, with exemplary damages for delay.
Mr. Just ce' ( FTER delivered the opinion of the court,

