481

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Clifton v. Sheldon.

evidence was in their possession; and their admission that the
transaction was secret made the proof still more'indispensable
on their part. The want of it, under the circumstances, is
nearly if not quite fatal to the validity of the deed as against
creditors.
The continuance of the vendor in the possession audT occupation and full enjoyment of the premises, the same after the
deed as before, and absence of interest in the subject manifested by the vendee, are circumstances not satisfactorily explained; also, the heavy indebtedness of J. F. Callan, and
suits pending and maturing to judgment-all well known to
the vendee.,
We are satisfied the decree of the court below is right, and
Rhould be affirmed.

JOHN CLIFTON, CLAIMANT OF THE BRIG WATER WITCH, HER
TACKLE, &a., APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM

H.

SHELDON.

Where a decree was made by the Circuit Court, sitting in admiralty, that two
persons should pay freight, one in the sum of $583.84, and the other in the
sum of $1,754.22, and the latter only appealed' to this court, the appeal must
be dismissed, as the amount in controversy is less than $2,000.
The rights of the two were distinct and independent; but if the freight be con
sidered a joint matter, both should have joined in the appeal.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the dourt.
The motion to dismiss the appeal was argued by Mr. Donohue in support of it, and by 31r. Owen against it.

Mr. Donohue's points were the following:
I. The record shows that Mr. Sheldon is ordered and decreed to pay between $1,800 and $1,900, besides costs, and
that Mr. Brower does not complain of the decree below.
IT. As'a matter of law, no appeal lies, unless the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of $2,000.
vor,. xXIII.
31

SUPREME COURT.
Cliflon v. Sheldo.

Udall v. the Ohio, 17 How., 17.
Olney v. the Falcon, 17 How., 19.
Allen v. Newbury, 21 How., 248.
III. In this case, the amount in dispute is less than $1,900
and costs; the only judgment or decree against Sheldon is
that, and Brower not appealing, Sheldon cannot
appeal for
him.
Where the property is bonded, that bond takes the place of
the thing, and the judgment goes against the claimant, there
Sheldon's cotton could not be held for Brower's freight.
IV. As a matter of equity, the record shows that the appellant has a judgment against Clifton for the very amount he
defends against here.
Mr. Owen opposed the motion, on the following grounds:
The right of appeal is given when the "matter in dispute"
exceeds the sum of $2,000, exclusive of costs.
I. The "matter in dispute" in this action was the freight
upon the entire cargo, and which, according to the decree,
amounted to $2,338.06, exclusive of costs. Unless, therefore,
the apportionment of this sum between the claimants, which the
Circuit Court, by its decree, assumed to make, operates as a
severance of the action, giving the ]ibellant independent rights
against the respective claimants for their particular portion of
freight, and no more, the motion must be denied.
I. But the decree did not so operate, and the respective
claimants,, as to the libellant, were liable for the entire
amount.
1. The stipulation or bond given by the claimants, claiming
the property, was joint, and the summary judgment thereon,
against the stipulators, must be a joint judgment for the entire amount of freight. The court could not order otherwise;
certainly not without the consent of the stipulators and of the
libellant.
2. The decree was irregular and erroneous in attempting
so to sever the liability of the claimants. There was no allegation in the pleadings upon which to found such a decree. The
decree should have been sceundum allegata.

DECEiMBER 'i'iRM, 1859.

483

Cliflon v. Sheldon.

MT. But if the decree apportioning the liability be regular
and proper, still the claimant, Sheldou,has a right of appeal,
for, as to him, the matter in dispute exceeds $2,000.
1. The decree of the Circuit Court directs Sheldon to pay
$1,754.22, together with the costs, taxed at $586.79, amounting, in the aggregate, to $2,341.01. Even if it be considered
that he is not to pay the whole, but only his proportion of the
costs, still the amount which he is decreed to pay will exceed
$2,000.
2. The "matter in dispute" on this appeal is therefore the
sum so decreed to be paid for damages and costs. The costs
are as much a part of the judgment debt as the damages; both
are merged in one judgment.
3. The costs referred to in the judiciary act are not those
which have entered into and become part of the judgment appealed from, but those which may accrue on the appeal.
Such appears to have been the views of this court in the
case of Olney v. the Falcon, (17 How. IRep., 19,) where it is
said that "the defendant can appeal when the judgment or
decree against him exceeds the sum or value of $2,000.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the southern district of New York, in admiiralty. A motion has been made, on the part of the appellee,
to dismiss the appeal, for the want of jurisdiction.
A libel was filed by Clifton, in the District Couit, to recover
freight on the two hundred and sixty-nine bales of cotton and
nine bags of wool. Brower and Sheldon appeared as' claimants, and contested the claim for the freight. 3rower claimed
sixty-seven of the two hundred and sixtyznine bales, and
Sheldon two hundred and two bales. The District Court dismissed the libel.
On appeal to the Circuit Court; this decree was reversed, and
decree rendered in favor of the libellant for~the amount of the
freight, $2,338.06; that J. W. Brower, claimant of a portion ofIhe cotton, pay to the libellant the sum of $583.84, being the
freight on the cotton claimed by him in the suit, and that the

SUP1REME COURT.
Green v. Custard.

claimant, W. H. Sheldon, pay for the portion claimed by him
the sum of $1,754.22. Sheldon appealed from the decree to
this court.
The motion is now made to, dismiss the appeal, on the
ground. that the decree against Sheldon is less than $2,000,
and which is apparent from a perusal of the decree. The sum
decreed against him is only $1,754.22.
.The freight was separately awarded against the claimants,
in proportion to the cotton shipped by each one. The rights
of each were distinct and independent.
But if it were otherwise, and the whole of the freight jointly
against the claimants, the appeal must still be dismissed, as
then the claimants should have joined in it.
Motion to dismiss granted.

TiOMAS

J. GREE, PLAINTIF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM CUSTARD.

Where the Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction over the parties
and cause of action, by virtue of the 12th section of the judiciary act, it can

not be affected by any amendment of the pleadings, changing the cause of
action, or by the proviso to the l1th section.
The evils commented upon, arising from the courts of the United States permit,
ting the hybrid system of p1pading from the State codes to be introduced on
their records.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the Uinited States for the western district of Texas.
The facts and history of the case are stated in the opinion
of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Frederick P. Stanton for the plaintiff
in error, no counsel appearing for the defendant.
Upon the principal point involved in the case, .Mr. Stanton
said:
The court below properly acquired jurisdiction of the case
as made by the original petition, which alleged that Custard
was a citizen of Texas, and Greel a citizen of Massachusetts.

