SUPREME COURT.
Bliven et al. v. New England Screw Company.

the intention of the parties. That inference is wholly gratuitous, and, in my judgment, unfounded. When adjusted, the
sum to be paid must conform to the established rate at the
time the return was made to the company.
If the parties cannot agree what the established rate was at
that time, like other matters of controversy, it must be settled
by the judicial tribunals. Harman v. Kenyston, 3 Camp.,
150; 1 Arnold on Ins., 175, 177; Smith's Mer. L., 208; U.
S. v. Wilkins, 6 Whea., p. 144. Unless this be the true construction of the policy, then it is a delusion which ought to be
shunned by every business man. Loss often occurs before
the notice of the shipment. The insured cannot adjust the
additional premium until he knows by what vessel the
shipment has been made, so that, if it be true that the contract is incomplete until the additional premium is adjusted
and paid, then open or running policies for the insurance of
goods from distant ports are valueless. They are worse than
valueless, as generally understood, because they have the effect
to delude and deceive.
For these reasons, I am of the opinion that the judgment of
the Circuit Court ought to be affirmed.

CHARLES BLIVEN AND EDWARD

B.

MEAD, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR)

V. THE NEW ENGLAND SCREW COMPANY.

Where there was a company incorporated for the purpose of making screws,
and they were sued by certain persons with whom they had been in the habit
of dealing, for not supplying a sufficient quantity of the manufactured article,
according to orders which had been given and received, the defence was, that
the supply manufactured was not equal to the demand, and that the plaintiffs
knew that the articles were furnished to customers in regular order, according
to date.
Such custom was not a sufficient defence, unless it was known to the other contracting party, and formed a part of the contract.
Parol evidence of usage is generally admissible to enable the court to arrive at
the real meaning of the parties, who are naturally presumed to have contracted
in couformity with the known and established usage.
But pare] evidence of custom and usage is not admitted to contradict or vary
01prea stipulations or provisions restricting or enlarging the exercise and
enjoy" tnt of the customary right.

DECEMBER TERM, .1859.
Bliven et al. v. New England Srew Company.
The evidefice in this case proved that the plaintiffs knew of the usage of the
defendants to supply orders as fast as the articles could be made, and according to a list kept in a book.
It was correct in the court to construe this evidence, and to instruct the jury
that if they beli~ved the evidence, it showed that the plaintiffs were chargeable with notice of the defendants' custom to fill their contracts only in the
order in which they were acceptea and in proportion with each other, and not
in full, according to the strict terms thereof.
I

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the -United States for the southern district of New
York..
Bliven was of Westchester county, and Mead of Brooklyn,
in the State of New York, and the New England Screw Company were a corporation created by Rhode Island.- The suit
was brought by Bliven & Mead in the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, and removed by the defendants into the
Circuit Court of the United States. The Screw Company
brought an action 0 against Bliven & Mead in the Circuit
Court, which will be the subject of the case next reported.
The suit by Bliven & Mead was against the company for
not furnishing them with screvs- enough; and the suit by the
company against Bliven & Mead was to make them pay for
what had been furnished. Both suits grew out of the same
series of transactions, which are fully stated in the opinion of
the court. The judgment of the court below, in both cases,.
was against Bliven & Mead, and hence both .were brought
up to this court.
They were submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Wright
for the plaintiffs iu error and by Hr. Stoughton and Mr.
Jenckes for the defendants in error.
The following were the points made by the counsel, respectively:
Pointsfor Plaintiffs in Error.
I. The specific contracts on which the screws for the recovery of the value of which suit was brought, neither of them
having been fulfilled, no recovery can be had for the partial
performance.

"

SUPREME COURT.
Bliven el al. v. New England Screw Company.

2 Kent's Commentaries, 509.
See Note a, and cases cited.
II. The delivery of the full quantity of goods agreed upon
cannot be excused by any custom to deliver only a part.
Linsley v. Lovely, 26 Vt., (3 Deane,) 123.
Schooner Reeside, 2 Sumner, 567.
III. The custom (as well as the contract) must be mutual.
Bliven & Mead might with equal propriety set up a custom, when they order 10,000 gross of screws, to receive but
1,000, as the New England Screw Company, on accepting
such order unconditionally, to deliver only the smaller quantity.
Here the custom alleged was all on one side. If screws fell
in price, Bliven & Mead were obliged to receive the whole. If
the screws rose in value, Bliven & Mead could only claim
what the company, in its discretion, saw fit to deliver thenL
Such rise took place.
See Holford v. Adams, 2 Duer, (N. Y.,) 471.
IV. The custom proved was illegal as dangerous, and contrary to the policy of the law.
1. It varied express and written contracts.
Hone v. Mutual Safety Ins. Co., 1 Sanford's Superior
Court Rep., 137.
The Reeside, 2 Sumner, 569.
2. The delivery of goods at the time and in the quantity
expressly agreed on is as obligatory as the payment of money.
A debtor's custom to pay his debts "in course, and as far as he
consistently can in view of his obligations to his other creditors," will not excuse him from paying his notes given without
any such limitation.
V. 1. Custom, to be legal, must be the general custom of
the trade, and not, as was this case, the custom of the party
only.
2. What was proved was not properly a custom, but was a
habit of the defendants in error, to fulfil thcir obligations only
so far as they found it convenient.
VI. If sui-h custom (or habit) could legally be proved, the
extent o.n1l effect thereof shoild have been submitted as a

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bliven et a?. v. ew England Screw Company.

question of fact to the jury under the evidence, and not determined by the court.
The points on behalf of the defendants in error were the following, as taken from the trief of Mr. Jenckes:
I. The evidence of the custom of the New England Screw
Company to fill orders in part only was properly admitted
under the general rules as to the admissibility of evidence of
customs and usages.
These rules have been fully established in this court.
"Evidence of this 'haracter is received for the purpose of
ascertaining the sense and understanding of parties by their
contracts, which are made with reference to such usage or custom, for the custom then becomes a part of the contract, and
may not improperly be considered the law of the contract,"
&c.

Renner v. Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheaton, 581, citing
Yeatoh" v. Bk. Alexandria, 5 Cranch, 49.
Mills v. Bank of U. S., 11 Wheaton, 431.
Bank of Washington v. Triplet et al., 1 Pet., 25.
Van Ness v. Packard. 2 Pet., 137.
Cookendorfer v. Preston, 4 How., 324.
Bowling v. Harrison, 6 How., 258.
Adams v. Otterback, 15 How., 544.
And in, the Circuit Courts of the United StatesTrott v. Wood, 1 Gallison, 442.
The Reeside, 2 Sumner, 569.
See, also, the following text-writers:
1 Black. Com., 75.
2 Stark. on Evidence, 258.
-1 Phill. on Evidence, 556.
2 Greenleaf on Evidence, secs. 251; 252.
Smith's Merc. Law, 29, 30, and note.
And the following cases:
Gabbay v. Lloyd, 3 Barn. and Cres., 798.
Stewart v. Cautty, 8 Mees. and Wels., 160, citing Perly
v. Royal Exeb. Co., 1 Burr, 341.
Ougier v. Jennings, 1 Camp., 505.

SUPREME COURT.
Bliven el al. v. New England Screw Company.

Palmer v. Blackburn, 1 Bing., 61.
Yeates et al. v. Pim et al., 1 H olt., 92.
Noble v. Kennoway, Doug., 510.
Loring v. Gurney,.5 Pick., 15.
Naylor v. Semmes, 4 G. and J., 274.
II. The contracts for the sale of screws by the defendant
company were subject to the custom of the defendant company, to fill the same in part only.
1. Because it was a usage of trade.
The defendant company were the only manufacturers of
gimlet or sharp-pointed screws in. the world, at the time of
making the contract. Any usage or custom, therefore, which
they had established, which was "known, certain, uniform,
reasonable, and not contrary to law," was the usage and custom of the trade.. This usage was, and was well known to be,
tc fill orders in part only; and the contract with the plaintiffs
was made subject to and controlled by this custom.
See the following authorities:
Renner v. Bank of Columbia.
Mills v. Bank of United States.
Van Ness v. Packard.
Cookendorfer v. Preston.
Bowling v. Harris.
Adams v. Otterback, as cited above.
2 Greenleaf on Evidence, sees. 251, 252, and notes.
Stewart v. Cautty, ubi sup.
2. Because it was the usage of an individual, and the plaintiffs, having dealt with the defendant company, and corresponded with them, were chargeable with notice; and in this
case, the evidence showed that they had actual notice.
See, also, as to the law governing the usage and habit of
trade of an individual, the following authorities:
2 Greenleaf on Evidence, sees. 251, 252.
Loring v. Gurney, 5 Pick., 15.
Naylor v. Semmes, 4 G. and J., 274.
Noble v. Kennoway, Doug., 510.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

425

Bliven e al. v. New England creo Company.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
According to the transcript, the suit was originally instituted in the Supreme Court of the State of N~ew York by the
present plaintiffs, who were citizens of that State; but was
afterwards regularly removed, under the twelfth section of the
judiciary act, into the Circuit Court of the United States, because the corporation defendants were citizens of the State of
Rhode Island.
It was an action of assumpsit, brought to recover damages
for the supposed breach of six separate aud listinct contracts,
in which the defendants, as was alleged in the declaration, stipulated to deliver to the plaintiffs, pursuant to their written
orders given at sundry times, certain quantities of screws,
usually denominated wood screws, of various sizes and descriptions, as were therein specified. Readiness to 'perform
on the part of the plaintiffs, and neglect and refusal on the
part of the defendants to deliver the goods, after seasonable
demand, constituted the foundation of the respective claims
for damages, as alleged in the declaration. Those claims are
set forth in eighteen special counts, to which are also added
the common counts, as in actions of indebitatus assumpsit. Of
the several contracts, the first is alleged to have been made
on the seventh day of October, 1852, and the last on the nineteenth day of April, 1853.
At the May term, 1855, the parties went to trial upon the
general issue. To prove the several agreements, the plaintiffs
relied on certain correspondence which had taken place between the parties upon this subject, consisting of letters written by the plaintiffs to the defendants, in the nature of orders
or requests for the goods, and the replies thereto written by
the defendants.
As appeardd by the proofs, the plaintiffs were merchants,
engaged in buying and selling hardware, and the defendants
were engaged in manufacturing the description of goods specified in the declaration. They-were in point of fact the.sole
manufacturers of the article in the United States, and were
constantly receiving orders for the article from their c*ustomers

SUPREME COURT.
Blivem et at. v. Mooew England Screw Company.

faster tlan they could fill them, and for larger quantities than
they were able to produce.
Orders had been given for this article by the plaintiffs prior
to the date of this controversy; but the evidence in the case
does not show when their dealings commenced. Six orders
of like import were given by the plaintiffs, during the fall of
1852 and the early part of the year 1853, for large quantities
of the article, of various sizes and description. This snit was
brought to recover damages for not filling those orders, which,
it is insisted by tJbe plaintiffs, had been accepted without any
reservation. Some of them had been filled in part only, and
others had not been filled for any amount, when the suit was
commenced.
It was denied by the defendants that the orders had been
accepted without condition. On the contrary, they insisted
that the plaintiffs well knew that the supply was greatly less
than the demand, and that the orders were only accepted to
be filled in their turn, as the defendants were able to produce
the article.
To support the first three counts of the declaration, the
plaintiffs, among other things not necessary to be noticed,
introduced three letters-two from themselves to the defendants, and the reply of the defendants to the same. Reference
will only be made to such brief portions of the correspondence
as appear to be essential to a proper understanding of the
legal questions presented in the bill of exceptions.
Dissatisfaction was first expressed by the plaintiffs in their
letter dated on the 30th day of September, 1852. In that communication, they simply refer to the long delay that has occurred in filling their orders, and furnish a memorandum of the
amount and sizes of the article claimed by them to be due and
not delivered, under their order of the 29th of June of the
same year. They state, that after -hree months' delay, only
about one and one-fourth per cent. of the same has been filled,
and that they have not a gross of screws under an inch in
their stock. Request was also made in the same coimmunication that the plaintiffs would send at once all they could of
the article, aiid the balance of the same as soon thereafter as

DEOEMBER TERM; 1859.

427

BZvn et aZ. v. New England Screw Comp~any.

it was possible. That request was, in effect, repeated in another letter, written on the 5th day of October, 1852; and on
the 17th day of the same month, the defendants replied, saying that the order referred to would be taken up at the earliest
possible day.
ifo further correspondence applicable to the first three
counts was introduced by the plaintiffs in the opening of the
case.
They then gave evidence to prove the second agreement, as
alleged in the fourth, fifth, and sixth counts of the declaration.For that purpose, they introduced two letters-one from themelves to the defendants, dated on the 15th day of October,
1852; and the other from the defendants to them in reply,
dated on the following, day. Their letter -to the defendants
contained an order for three thousand seven hundred and fifty
gross of screws, half to be delivered by the 15th day of March
then next, and the other half a month later, subject to the
regular discount. at the time of delivery. That order was
given thus early,. as the plaintiffs stated, with a view to avoid
thereafter the inconvenience they had suffered from not having
their orders filled, and because they anticipated a short supply
of the article the next season. In the same letter, they informed the defendants that it was given as an additional order,
and requested that those previously sent might be filled without further delay.
To that communication the defendants replied, acknowledging its receipt, and saying that the order had been entered
in their books, to be executed at the times named. They also
referred to the previous orders, saying they would do what
they could to fill them before navigation closed on the canals;
but added, that they could only take them up in course, as
they had a great many orders from other parties in the same.
condition.
Evidence was then offered by the plaintiffs to prove the
third ag,0em~rt, as all( ged in the sevenith, eighth, and ninth
counts of the declara ion. To support those counts, two
i0tters v :'eintroduced -one from the plaintiffs to th" defendants, dated the 4th day of November, 1852; and the reply of

SUPREIMIE COIURT.
.Bliven et al. v.

ew England Screw Company.

the defendants to the same, which was dated on the sixth day
of the same month. By the letter first named, the defendants
were furnished with another order of the plaintiffs for an
additional quantity of screws, and were requested to place the
order in their books, to be filled as.fast as possible, at a given
rate. Previous orders were also referred to in the same letter,
and the plaintiffs complain that they have not been filled in
their turn; adding, that they have not a gross of gimlet-point
screws in their store, and earnestly requested the defendants
to send them a lot by steamboat on the following day. Two
days afterwards, the defendants acknowledged the receipt of
the order, and informed the plaintiffs that it had been entered
in their books, to be taken up in course.
Those letters constitute the only evidence offered by the
plaintiffs in the opening to prove the third agreement.
They then gave in evidence another order from themselves
to the defendants, to prove the fourthi agreement, as alleged in
the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth counts of the declaration. It
was dated on the 7th day of November, 1852. In the same
communication, they stated that they were in great want of a
certain description of screws, and expressed the hope that the
plaintiffs would send what they could of the article by steamboat without delay, adding: "We have always said, send
what you can of our orders as fast as you get a case or two,
ready, or to that effect." To that letter the defendants replied, under date of the 19th of the same month, saying that
the best they could do was to enter the order, to be taken up
in course, intimating that perhaps it might be accomplished
in about two months.
Similar evidence was given to prove both the fifth and the
sixth agreements, as alleged in the six remaining counts of
the declaration. Two orders given by the plaintiffs were
introduced for that purpose. One'was dated on the 10th day
of February, 1853, and the other on the 19th day of April, of
the same year. They were each for twenty thousand grossof* screws; and the defendants were requested to enter the
orders in their books, to be filled as soon as possible after they
Separate
should have completed 'those previously given

DEOEMBER

EWRM, 1859.

Bliven et al. v.New England Srew Company.

answers were given by the defendants to each of these orders,
to the effect that they would be entered in the books of the
defendants, to be taken up in course or in their turn, and be
filled when they reached them, as far as they should be able
to do so, consistently with their obligations to other customers.
No part of the two orders last named had been filled when
this suit was commenced. Demand was made of the defendants, on the 30th day of September, 1853, for the delive'y of
such proportions of the several orders as had not been previously filled. At the same time, the plaintiffs rendered their
account, and tendered to the defendants their promissory notes
for the respective sums which would become due to the de.
fendants on making such delivery.
Such was the substance and effect of the evidence introduced by the plaintii[ in the opening, so far as it is necessary
to consider it at the present time. Many other matters were
stated in the correspondence; but as they are not material to
this investigatiofi, they are omitted.
To maintain the issue on their part, the defendants, among
other things, introduced a letter from the plaintiffs, addressed
tb them, dated on the 3d day of September, 1852, in which
inquiry was made of the defendants why they did not fill the
orders given by the plaintiffs. They also stated in the same
letter that not a week passed without their hearing of the
defendants taking and executing orders from other customers;
but admitted in effect that they had long since been given to
understand the rule of business adopted by the defendants in
that behalf, and only complained that precedence was given
to the first orders from other customers.
Testimony was also introduced by the defendants, that they
had some five huhdred customers, and that the orders of the
plaintiffs had been taken up and filled in proportion to the
orders given by other customers, as the defendants manufactured the article and were able to deliver the goods. To that
testimony the plaintiffs objeeted; but the court overruled the
objection, and it was admitted, and the plaintiffs excepted.
All of the orders given by the plaintiffs, except the two last
naned, were filled in part, and, as the defendants proved, in

SUI IEME COURT.
Bliven et al. v. Aew England Screw Company.

due proportions to the orders of other customers, as the article
was produced. They also proved, that when orders were given
and accepted without the price of the article being agreed, it
was their custom, and according to the usage of their business, to charge at the rates ruling at the time of the delivery;
and if during the interval the discount from fixed rates had
increased, the purchaser had the benefit of the allowance; but
if prices had risen, and the discount was less, then the purchaser paid according to the increased price. To this testimolly, as to the usage of the defendants' business, the plaintifi objected, but the court overruled the objection; and the
testimony having been admitted, the plaintiffs excepted. That
practice, however, was not applicable to customers who were
not duly notified of the usage, but all such had their orders
filled at former rates. Orders from other customers were
received by the defendants throughout the period of these
transactions, but they refused to accept orders from new parties.
Proof was also offered by the defendants, tending to show
that the profit to the manufacturer was less upon the small
sizes of the article than upon the large, and it was admitted
by their counsel that the market price of the goods advanced
after the orders of the plaintiffs were given. Much additional
testimony was introduced on the one side and the other, to
which it is not necessary to refer, for the reason that it presents no question for the decision of this court. On this state
of facts, the presiding justice instructed the jury tb the effect
that the several contracts for the sale of the goods by the
defendants to the plaintiffs were subject to the custom of the
defendants to fill the same in part only, and that the plaintiffs,
from having been dealers with the defendants, and from the
correspondence between them, were chargeable with notice of
the defendants' custom to fill their contracts only in the order
they were accepted, and in proportion with each other, and
not in full, according to the strict terms thereof. Under the
rulings and instructions of the court, the jury returned their
verdict for the defendants, and the plaintiffs excepted to the
instructions. Exception was taken to two of the rulings of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

431

Bliren e al. v. .Mheo Enyland Screw Company.

the court and to each of the instructions to the jury, but they
present only one question for decision, and therefore may well
be considered together. No evidence of general usage or custom in the ordinary sense of those terms was offered in this
case, and no question touching the general rules of law upon
that subject is presented for the decision of this court. It may
also be safely admitted that the custom of a party to deliver a
part of a quantity of goods contracted to be delivered, though
invariable, cannot excuse such party from a full compliance
with his contract, unless such custom is known to the other
contracting party, and actually enters into and forms a part of
the contract. Mere knowledge of such a usage would not be
sufficient, but it must appear that the custom actually constituted a part of the contract. But when it appears that such
custom was well known to the other contracting party as
necessarily incident to the business, and actually formed a
part of the contract, then it may furnish a legal excuse for the
non.delivery of such a proportion of the goods as the general
course of the business and the usage of the seller authorize.
for the reason that such general usage, being a part of the
contract, has the effect to limit and qualify its terms. Linsley
v. Lovely, 26 Vt., 137. Customary rights and incidents, universally attaching to the subject matter of the. contract in the
place where it was made, are impliedly annexed to the language and terms of the contract, unless the custom is particularly and expressly excluded. Parol evidence of custom,
consequently, is generally admissible to enable the court to
arrive at the real meaning of the parties, who are naturally
presumed to have contracted in conformity with the known
and established usage. But parol evidence of custom and
usage is not admitted to contradict or vary express stipulations
or provisions restricting or enlarging the exercise and enjoyment of the customary right. Omissions may be supplied, in
some cases, by the introduction of the custom, but the custom
cannot prevail over or nullify the express provisions and stipulations of the contract. 2 Add. on Con., 970. Proof of
usage, says Mr. Greenleaf, is admitted either to interpret the
n,aning of the language of the contract, or to ascertain the

SUPREME COURT.
BJiven et al. v. New England Screw Compare.

nature and extent of the contract, in the absenceof express
stipulations, and where the meaning is equivocal or obscure.
1 Greenl. Ev., sec. 292. Its true and appropriate office is to
interpret the otherwise indeterminate intention of the parties,
and to ascertain the nature and extent of their contracts,
arising not from express stipulations, but from mere implications and presumptions, and acts of a doubtful or equivocal
character. The Reeside, 2 Sum., 564. Nothing can be plainer
than the proposition, that the evidence in the case proved that
the supply with the defendants was much less than the demand of their customers. To avoid dissatisfaction, therefore,
they were obliged to devise some system which would enable
them to do equal justice among those who were properly competing for the article. Accordingly, they adopted a rule to
accept all such requests, and to enter the list in a book kept
for the purpose, and to fill them as far as possible in the
order they were received. They had been in business for
some time, and that rule had become the custom of their trade.
and, as such, was well known to the plaintiffs during all the
time of these transactions. Many of their orders thus given
at short intervals had been expressly accepted to be filled in
turn or in course, and the correspondence plainly showed that
the plaintif s well knew what was meant by those terms. Evidence to prove that the orders had been taken up in turn, and
filled in proportion to the orders given by other customers,
was therefore admissible, in order to show that the defendants
had fulfilled their contract, and done no injustice to the plaintiffs; and it is equally clear that evidence to show what had
been the usage of the defendants' business was also admissible,
because that usage constituted an essential part of the several
contracts which were the subjects in controversy. Renner v.
Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheat., 588. After what has beeu remarked, one or two additional observations respecting the
instructions given to the jury will be sufficient. Written evidence, as a general rule, must be construed by the court, and
the first instruction was confined to that purpose. It gives
the true exposition of the correspondence, and therefore is not
the subject of error. It is insisted by the coursel of the plain-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bliven, e al. v. New Engand Screw Coniany.

tiffs that the second instruction withdrew the evidence of
notice from the consideration of the jury.
We think not, and for two reasons. In the first place, it
was the proper duty of the court to construe the correspondence, and that of itself was sufficient to justify the charge.
But the charge must receive a reasonable interpretation. In
effect, the jury were told that the evidence, if true, showed
that the plaintiffs had notice of the custom of the defendants
in regard to the filling of the orders. It did not withdraw the
question as to the credibility of the witnesses from the consideration of the jury, and that was all that could properly be
submitted to their determination. In view of all the circumstances, we think the exceptions must be overruled. The
judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with costs.

CHARLES BLIVEN AND EDWARD

B.

MEAD, PLAINTIFFS iN ERROR,

V. THE NEW ENGLAND SCREW COMPANY..
Where the screw company sued persons who had received the manufactured
articles, and the defence was, that the whole amount which had been ordered
had not been delivered, the contracts for the sale and delivery of the screws
were subject tor the custom of the plaintii to fill the same in part only.
See the report of the preceding case.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New

York.
It was the case mentioned in the preceding report, as the
one in which the screw company sued Bliven & Mead for
the articles which had been furnished; and in which the defence was, that the amount contracted for had not been supplied, and consequently the contract had been broken.
See the report of the preceding case.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of
VOL. XXT 1.

28

SUPREME COURT.
Bliven et al. v. New England Screw Company.

New York. It was an action of indebitatus assumpsit, brought
by the present defendants to recover the amount due them for
certain goods sold by them to the plaintiffs in error, who were
the original defendants. At the May term, 1855, the parties
went to trial upon the general issue. To prove the issue on
their part, the plaintiffs introduced a letter from the defendants, dated on the seventeenth of May, 1853, and addressed .to
the plaintiffs. In that letter the defendants acknowledged the
receipt of the plaintiffs' account, but claimed a small deduction
for an alleged error. Evidence was then introduced by the
plaintiffs, tending to show that account was correct.
Having proved their account, the plaintiffs rested their case.
To maintain the issue on their part, the- defendants set up
that the goods charged in the account had been delivered to
them in pursuance of certain contracts made between the parties, in which the plaintiffs had agreed to sell and deliver to
them large quantities of screws usually denominated wood
screws, of various sizes and descriptions, but that they had
failed to fulfil their contracts. They Mdmitted that a part of
the goods had been delivered; but, inasmuch as no one of the
contracts had been completed, they insisted that a recovery
could not be had for a partial performance.
Their defence was sustained by the same evidence as that
introduced by them in the preceding case, and the plaintiffs
offered the same evidenee in reply as they had in the other
case, to make out their defence. Similar exceptions were
taken by the defendants to the rulings of the court in admitting
their testimony as to the course of business, and the usage of
the plaintiffs' trade. After the evidence was closed, the court
instructed ,the jury that the several contracts for the sale and
delivery of the screws by the plaintiffs to the defendants were
subject to the custom of the plaintiffs to fill the same in part
only. Under that instruction, the jury returned their verdict
in favor of the plaintiffs for the amount of the account, together
with interest, and the defendants excepted. No question is
presented in the bill of exceptions that has not already been
considered and decided by this court in the preceding case.
For the reasons there given, we think the rulings and instruc-

DECEMBER TERM, -1859.
.finturm v. Larue et al.

tions of the Circuit Court were correct, and refer to those reasons for the grounds on which the conclusion in this case rests.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.

EDWARD MINTURN, COMPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V. JA31ES B.
LARUE, CARLISLE P. PATTERSON, AND JOHN R. FOURATT.
The charter of the town (now city) of Oakland, in California, which conferred
upon the corporation power to regulate ferries, did not give an exclusive
power, and therefore the corporation did not possess the power to confer upon
others an exclusive privilege to establish them.
The difference pointed out between this charter and those grants which are exclusive.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
Minturn filed his bill against the defendants, claiming a
right, under the authorities of the town of .Oakland, to establish a ferry, exclusively, between the city of San Francisco and
the city of Oakland. The bill prayed for a perpetual injunction to restrain the defendants from running the steamboat
San Antonio or any other steamboat or vessel between the
two places. The defendants demurred to the bill, and the
Circuit Court sustained the demurrer. The complainant appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Johnson for the appellant, and
by Mr. Stanton for the appellecs.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of California.
The bill was filed by the complainant in the court below to
restrain the defendants from running a ferry between the city
of San .Francisco and the city of Oakland, on the opposite side
of the bay, and which, it is claimed, is in violation of the ex-

