DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

149

Benjamin v. Hillarde al.

actions which he had failed to institute belonging to the succession. (15 Lou., 527; 7 Rob., 188; 2 Ann., 889; 7 Ann.,
367.) In such a suit by the heirs, the same defences may be
made which could have been kpplied if the executor's seizin
had been continued. But in this instance, neither the executor nor the heirs, the plaintiffs in the suit, took any legal
step to carry to a judgment Mulhollan's citation of Keller &
Foreman in warranty in the District Court of the parish of
Rapides, until the .80th May, 1858, more than fourteen years
after the eviction of Mulhollan had occurred, and after the
rights of the Calvits had been bought. The heirs now, how.ever, seek by this suit in assumpsit in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Maryland, to recover damages
from Foreman, the survivor of his partner, Keller, for the failure of their warranty to Mulhollan, the suit having been commenced between eight and nine years after their right of action
had accrued. •The defendant relies upon the statutes of limitation of Maryland as his defence to prevent a recovery. We
think it must prevail, and that the court below, in giving to
the jury such an instruction, committed no error. We therefore direct its judgment to be affirmed.

SBEoN BENJAmmIN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. OLIVER B. FHIARD
AND MOSES 0. MORDECAI.

Where there was a contract for furnishing a steam engine, the following guar
anty was made: "For value received, I hereby guaranty the performance of
the within contract, on the part of Hopkins & Leach; and in case of non
performance thereof, to refuna to Messrs. Hillard & Mordecai all sums of
money they may pay or advance thereon, with interest from tha time Ihe same
is paid."
This contract is not in the alternative, but consists of two terms: one, that the
principals shall perform their engagement, not merely by the delivery of some
machinery, but of such machinery as the contract includes; the other, that if'
there be a non-performance, whether excusable or not, the money advanced
on the contract shall be secured to the plaintiffs, to the extent to which the
principals are liable.
An 4cquiescence of both parties in the prolongation of the thue within which
the contiact was to be fulfilled, will not operate to discharge the'guarantor.

SUPREME COURT.
Benjamin v. iillardet al.
There was no change in the essential-features of the contract, and if the parties choos6 mutually to accommodate each other, so as better to arrive at their
end, the surety cannot complain.
So, where the machinery delivered was imperfect, and the two contracting parties had exchanged receipts, but the imperfection was afterwards discovered,
and the recipients of the machinery had to expend money upon it, the guarantor is responsible for it.
The defects in the machinery were latent, and could only be ascertained by its
use. The settlement between the parties did not embrace the subject to which
the warranty applied, nor contain any release or extinguishment of the covenants concerning it.
The damages to be found should be such as would enable the plaintiffs to supply the deficiency, and the jury were not required to assume the contract price
as the full value of such machinery.

THis case was brought up by. writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States -for the southern district of New
York.
Hillard & Mordecai, the plaintiffs below, of Wilkesbarre, in
Pennsylvania, made a contract with Hopkins & Leach, of Elmira, New Y6rk, dated September 11, 1847, under seal.
Benjamin guarantied the performance of this contract, as follows:
. "For value received, I hereby guaranty the performance
of
the within contract on the part of Hopkins & Leach; and in
case, of non-performance thereof, to refund to Messrs. Hillard
& Mordecai all sums of money they may pay or advance thereon, with interest from the time the same is paid."
The action-was brought upon this guaranty, which res~ilted
in a verdict for the plaintiffs, damages six thousand dollars,
and'$1,869.15 costs. A motion was made for a nonsuit, which
was overruled: The particulars of the case are stated in the
opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. hacy and
Mr. Ncyes for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Goddard for
the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, made the follo.wing
points:

DEOEMfBER TERM, -1859.

151

Benjamin v. RIlard et a.

I. The court erred in the constructidn of -the defendantsi
agreement.
1. It was the contract of a surety, which is to be taken
.trkissirijuris, and is not to e enlarged by a liberal or loose
interpretation.
Leggett v. Humphreys, 21 Hovard, 66, 76.
Miller v. Stewart, 9 Wheaton, 681, 703.
Wright v. Johnson, 8 Wendell, 512, 516.
2. The motive and design of the writing was to protect.the
plaintiffs against the loss of the money they were to advance.
It therefore guarantied a performance of the contract by a delivery of the articles, and that if they were not delivered the
money should be refunded with interest.
3. That it referred to such a performance, or such a nonperformance, is evident from the stipulation-that provides foy
a repayment of the entire advances with interest, and not for
any partial damages. This suretyship is for such a performance only, and is answerable only for a failure in that respect.
Under this agreement, if the articles should be made and accepted, and the business settled by the principals, the surety
has no liability.
4. There is nothing ihthe surety's agreement which binds
him to answer for the breach of any warranty which the principals have contracted to make. The sealed agreemeht binds
the manufacturers to warrant the engine capable of driving
six run of stones, but the guaranty has no connection with
such a prospective warranty. The surety's obligation must be
and is definite; he idliable at once, or never; the articles are
delivered, or they are not; if 'delivered, he is clear; if not delivered, he i6 at once liable to. refund the money advanced, but
nothing else.
5. The essential idea of having the money refunded in gross,.
apparent on the face of the paper, shows that it was a total
non-performance alone which should charge the surety, and
the ' mention of that sum necessarily excludes all othek liabil-

ity.
6. The surety cannot be supposed to have intended to as.
sume an indefinite future liability for ultimate defects in arti-

SUPREME COURT.
Benjamin v. Hillardet al.

des accepted and, used by the plaintiffs, and as to which the
defendant was wholly ignorant.
7. The interpretation adopted by the charge renders threefourths of the writing senseless and inoperative. The writing
is in five lines, and all below the word "Leach," in the second
line, is deprived of all force and effect. This passage is manifestly intended to limit and define the extent of the obligation
of the surety, and it performs that office, and no other.
II. The undertaking of the defendant was satisfied by the
performance of Hopkins & Leach's contract.
L The delivery and acceptance of the engine, &c., the giving
Hopkins & Leach credit therefor, the settlement of the acco~unt, and payment of the balance, and the giving of a receipt
in full, were acts of the plaintiffs, determining and proving a
performance of the contract. The contract for the engine,
boiler, and appurtenances, constituted one item at a set price;
and the delivery of the whole completed that part of the contract, and the charging, crediting, and allowing of the same
as done, and settling for the price, closed that part of the contract.
2. The receipt which went forth from the plaintiffs was
justly relied upon by the defendant as a full discharge of the
contract; and he acted upon it in relinquishing valuable securities which he held for his indemnity. The plaintiffs are
therefore estopped from denying the performance so evidenced
by their receipt.
Broom on Common Law, 841, 842, (91 L. L. 0. S.)
3. The defendant being a mere surety, and not a principal
in the contract, was ignorant of the transaction, and knew not
whether the contract was performed or broken. He was informed and assured of its perfqrmance by the receipt, and that
*became his full voucher for treating the performance as established.
4. The making of the last payment was a determination
that the contract was "fully completed;" for it was only to
be had "when the contract is fully completed."
5. The case shows that the settlement of the plaintiffs with
Gopkins & Leach was made December 18th, 1848; before

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

153

Benjaminv. Rillard et ad.

the mill was fully tried, which was not done till December
25th, 1848.
Thus the plaintiffs waived the right to test the work by a
fall trial, and proceeded to a closing of the contract at once.
After that, they could not resort to the surety, on. the ground
of non-performance.
6. The "plaintiffs treated this settlement with Hopkins &
Leach as a determination of the suretyship. Thus, on the
27th December, 1848, being nine days after the settlement,
they gave notice to Hopkins & Leach of the failure of the engine; but they never gave any notice to the defendant till the
last of May, 1849. The idea that the defendant owed them
any undischarged obligation was an afterthought, occurring
five months subsequently to the discovery of the failure of the
engine.
III. The defendant's obligations as surety were discharged
by the acts and agreements of the plaintiffs and Hopkins. &
Leach.
1. The time of performance by Hopkins &,Leach was enlarged. The contract required them to deliver the articles at
Wilkesbarre, by the first navigati on of the ensuing spring
which would be in March, 1848. The new agreement, to
which the defendant was not a party, gave them till the third
rise of water in October, to complete the delivery. Such new
agreement was made upon a good consideration, and was valid
and binding. It made a permanent and -material change in
the contract.
The surety thereupon ceased to be liable. The identity of
the contract was gone. He was not subject to be made liable
thus for a longer period, with increased risks, and larger
amounts of interest in case of being charged to -refund advances.
Whether the change was for the benefit of the one party or
the other, or both, it was, in either case, a change of the con
tract, and discharged the surety.
Miller v. Stewart, 9 'Wheaton, 681, 703.
Burge on Suretyship, 203, 206.
Pitman on Pr. and Surety, 208.

SUPREME COURT.
Bejamin v. HilZard et al.

Theobald on Pr. and 5urety, 154.
Parsons Mercantile Laiv,-67.
Brigham v. Wentworth, 11 Cushing, 123.
Dickerson v. Commissioners, 6 Indiana, 128.
Hunt v. Smith, 17 Wendell, 179, 180.
Walwrath v. Thompson, 6 Hill, 540; 2 Comst., 185.
McWilliams v. Mason, 6 Duer, 276.
Bangs v. Strong, 7 Hill, 250.
Samuel v. Howartb, 3 Merivale, 272.
Thus, In Miller v. Stewart, (above cited,) Judge Story says:
,.,Nothing can be clearer, both upon principle and authority,
than the doctrine that the liability of a surety is not to be extended, by implication, beyond the terms of his contract. To
the extent and in the manner and under the circumstances
pointed out in his obligation; he is bound, and no further. It
is not sufficient that he may sustain no injury by a change in
the contract, or that it may be for his benefit. He has a right
to stand upon the very terms of his contract; and if he does
not assent to any variation of it, and a variation is made, it is
fatal."
So in Parsons Mercantile Law, (above cited,) "If the liability of the principal be materially varied by the act of the party
guarantied, without the consent of the guarantor, the guarantor is discharged."
So in Walwrath v. Thompson, (above cited,) it is laid down
that the terms of the guaranty must be strictly complied with,
Or the guarantor will not be bound. If he propose a credit,
that particular credit must be given to the principal.
In 3 Merivale, 272, the Lord Chancellor said that an extension of time to the principal discharged the surety, "although
such giving of*time is manifestlyfor the benefit of the surety."
So in' Brigham v. Wentworth, (above cited,) it i§ held that
an agreement by 'the plaintiff,-for a consideration, changing
the obligation of the principal, discharges the surety.
The like rule runs through all the authorities above cited.
After the plaintiffs in this action made the new agreement
with Hopkins & Leach, in March, 1848,.they could- maintain
no action against Hopkins & Leach for not completing the de-

DEOEMJ3ER TERM, 1859.

155

Benjamin v. Hillardet al.

livery by the first water of the spring. The time of performance was effectually enlarged to June and October. For this
extension the plaintiffs paid a consideration-the agreementto add $200 worth of extra work-a consideration of benefit
to the plaintiffs and of loss to Hopkins & Leach.
The case thus falls perfectly within the rule, that the contract of the principal being changed, the surety is discharged.
The fact that the time of performance originally contracted for had already arrived, and Hopkins & Leach migb
be deemed in default of performance, makes no difference in
the application of the rule. The plaintiffs chose to waive the
default and make a new contract. Ifthe plaintiffs had insisted
on the default, then Hopkins & Leach would have kept the
engine, and the'defendant would have been liable only for the
advances previously made, being then about $4,000; and he
would have been more secure of indemnity, by reason of the
engine, so far as built, being still the property of Hopkins &
Leach.
2. The plaintiff did not perform the stipulations of the
original contract on their own part.
They did not make the advances at the times set by the
contract, nor in money as it required.
The contract provided for the payments as follows:
$2,000 on or about December 1st, 1847.
$2,000 on or about February 1st, 1848.
And all the balance when the contract was fully completed.
The plaintiffs waited till December 14th, and then remitted
a draft for $2,000. From that time forward they gaye acceptances and notes, at various times; thus giving to the principals
larger advances, and of other kinds, and at other times, than
stipulated for in the contract.
8. The defendant as surety, therefore, is not bound to respond on the guaranty. It is material to the risk or safety of
the surety, that the advances be made as specified in the contract to which he is surety; and a change in that respect, although made by the principals, is no less a breach of the Pontract, and discharges him. An advance made before the time
it should be made, or after it, or in a different kind of medi-

SUPREME COURT.
BeVamin v. Hillardet al.

un, is equally a departure from the conditions of the suretyship.
Theobald Pr. and Surety, 154, sec. 183.
1 Starkie N. P. 0., 192, Bacon v. Chesney.
2 ib., 426, Simmnons v. Keating.
6 Beavan, 110, (13 L. J. N. S., Ch., 260; Jurist., 38; 4
Beavan, 379; 10 L. J. N. S., Ch., 395; 5 Jur., 164,)
Bonsor v. Cox.
2 Comstock,
. 185, Walwrath v. Thompson, (6 Hill, 540
0.)
S.
4 Barbour, 487, F. and M. Bank, Mich., v. Evan.
2 Keen, 638, (7 L. J. N. S., Oh., 90; 2 Jar., 62,) Calvert v.
London Dock Co.
Burge on Suretyship, 117, 118.
8 Wendell, 512, Wright v. Johnson.
17 ib., 179, Hunt v. Smith.
Fell's Law of Guaranty, 206, et seq., (2d Am. ed.)
The above authorities fully sustain the principle above
stated.
Thus in the above case of Bacon v. Chesney, the time of
credit was shortened from eighteen months to twelve months,
and in Simmons v. Keating it was changed from one credit of
six months to two credits of three months, and the surety was
hld discharged.
In Bonsor v. Cox, the surety was discharged, because the
creditor advanced to the principal cash: instead of a three
months' draft stipulated in the contract.
Theobald says, (p. 154, sec. 183,) "If the creditor neglects
to perform, or performs defectively, any of the conditions,
either express or implied, which are incumbent uon him, or
any of the terms which .collectively form the consideration,
either of the sureties' contract or -of the contract to which the
surety acceded, the surety is discharged, or, rather, his liability never attaches."
In Walwrath v. Thompson, (above cited,) there was a guaranty of predit to January. 1st, but the credit was, in fact, given
to December 25th, and the surety was held discharged, although the principal was not called on to pay till January 1st.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

157

Benjamin v. Hilard et a.

Judge Bronson says, (p. 542:) "The fact 'that the credit was
abridged only a few days is not important; cutting off a week
is as fatal as though it had been a month."
In 4 Barbour, 487, the contract was for a loan .of five thousand dollars. The surety was held discharged, because 'the
loan was made for a larger sum than the one specified.
In 17 Wendell, 179, the surety was held not to be liable for
two reasons: first, that the credit was given to a larger amount
than the one specified in the agreement; and second, that it
was given for a longer time. This was a decision by the Supreme Court of the State of New York, when it was composed of Judges Nelson, Bronson, and Cowen.
1. The court erred in refusing to charge the jury as requested by the defendant's counsel, in relation to the rule of
damages.
The engine, boilers, and appurtenances thereof, had a definite price fixed by the contract, viz: $3,150. The parties had
set this as the value of such articles, properly made and fully
answering to the terms of the contract. In any assessment of
damages for a failure to deliver such articles, that' price must
be taken as the test of value.
Whatever rule of damages might be applied, this element
of the price of an engine of the specific dimensions, and sufficient to drive six run of stones, was an essential consideration,
and the instruction asked for should have been granted.
Cary v.:Gruman, 4 Hill, 265.
The price of the article stipulated by the contract is prima
face the value of such article when it fully conforms to the
agreement.
The jury, being left withoat such instruction, found a verdict against the plaintiff for nearly twice the contract price of
the engine, boilers, and appurtenances, although the plaintiffs
retained the property, and it had material value.
V. The court erred in admitting the paper called a survey.
This paper was an unsworn statement, made ex parle, and
contains allegations of particular facts, and also expressions of
opinions of the persons signing it.
Tt was calculated greatly to affect and mislead a jury, and

SUPREME COURT.
Benjaminv. HiUlardet aL.

ought to have been excluded. It was wholly inadmissible as
evidence. The effect of admitting such evidence was to enable the plaintiffs out of court to get up an ex parte statement,
and then bring it before the jury with the apparent force of
regular proof.
The circumstance that the paper had been sent to the defendant made no difference in its admissibility, for it -was
received in evidence generally, and not for any qualified purpose.
The counsel for the defendant in error made the following
points:
The plaintiffs gave evidence to prove that the engine and
machinery were not well made; were not put in operation,
would not drive six run of st6nes; that they spent large sums
of money to put them in a condition to run, and that they
would not then or ever drive six run of stones, and proved the
damages sustained; and that when the accounts were balanced, December 18, 1848, the engine had not been tried, or
run in connection 'with the mill.
That notice of the failure of the engine was sent to Hopkins
& Leach, December 27, 1848, who again tried to put the
engine in operation, and again failed. That notice of such
final failure was then sent to defendant, with a copy of a survey upon the engine made by engineers.
I. The first exception in the case was to the admission of
this suicvey.
It was competent evidence to show what notice and information were sent to defendant; and in this light only was it put
in evidence.
It being proper evidence for one purpose, and the exception
being general to its entire exclusion, it is not well taken..
Cambden v. Doremus, 3 How., 515.
It was, however, admissible for all purposes, as the defendant had already introduced evidence as to its contents, as had
the plaintiffs also, without objection.
The objections taken on the execution of the commission
were not made at the trial

DECEMBER TERM, 185a.

159

Benjamin v. Hillardet a7.

IL The next exception is to the refusal to nonsuit.
cannot be done against the will of the plaintiff.
Elmore v. Gryines, 1.Pet. Rep., 469.
De Wolf v. Rabaud, 1 Pet. Rep., 476.
Crane v. Morris's Lessee, 6 Pet. Rep., 593.
The questions raised on the motion for a nonsuit will not,
therefore be considered, except Such of them as are contained
in exceptions to the judge's charge to the jury.
III. The remaining exceptions are to the charge.
1. The construction given to the guaranty is correct.
The last clause of the contract with Hopkins & Leach is,
that they would give security for the money and for the fulfilment of this contract. And then on the same paper follows the guaranty, by which the defendant guaranties "the
performance of the within contract on the part of Hopkins &
Leach." And also agrees to refund the money paid on it, if
not performed.
The exception does not indicate with which part of this.
charge the defendant was dissatisfied. - Whether that part of
it which relates to the repayment of the money, if the engine,
&c., were not delivered at all, or that part which holds defendant responsible, if they were delivered, but not according to
contract.
If either portion is correct, the exception is too general.
But the whole is correct.
The defendant guaranties the performance of the contract.
That is, he undertakes and binds himself that the contract
shall be performed. Not merely that an engine and machinery
shall be delivered of certain dimensions, but that they shall be
according to the contract. Any other guaranty would have
been of no value, and would not have been what the contract
entitled the plaintiffs to.
If the contract was not performed, the defendant was liable
to such damages as the plaintiffs had legally sustained-as
the court afterwards charged-and no more.
2. The charge of the court on the alleged enlargement of
the time for completing the contract was correct.
The amount of it is, that such an acquiescence in delay, on

SUPREME COURT.
Benjamin v. .Hillardet at.

the part of Hopkins & Leach, as was testified to, would not,
as matter of law, discharge the defendant. But that a material
alteration of the contract by the parties would discharge him.
The evidence as to the-aUeged enlargement of the time is
on page 20-that of Frederick Leach. He says: "We did
not get the whole completed by the first run of water in the
spring;" and that he wrote Hillard & Mordecai he could
have the engine ready "'by the next rise of water in Jftne."
He then says that he saw Hillard, and it was agreed he
might bring down "the engin and other work and materials
in the June rise of water." That is, the residue of it-most ot
it was brought in the spring.
This was no enlargement of the time, as Leach had alreadywritten he could not have them ready till "the next rise of
water in June."
And it seems the articles could only be sent when there was
a rise of water.
He also says: "It was also agreed that I might have till
October to deliver some paifts of the work." But what those
parts were does not appear. They were not "the engine and
other work and materials" that were'to come in June ; nor "a
large majority of the ragchinery and boiler, and pretty much
all the engine," that were taken down in March.
It does not appear that the parts to be sent in October were
of any importance in the fulfilment of the contract.
The time forthe putting up the engine, &c., was not fixed
by the contract. They were to be put up "when the foundations are finished and ready for the reception of the machinery,"
of which Hopkins & Leach were to have ten days' notice.
There was no change in this.
An agreement with the principal for delay does not discharge the surety, unless it is one which the principal can
enforce; one which is valid in law; and made on- safficient
consideration.
McLemore v. Powell, 12 Wheat., 554.
Vilas v.,Jones, 10 Paige, 79.
The contract was under seal, and could not be varied by
parol, so as to be obligatory on the parties to it.

DJECEMBBER TERM,, 1859.
Benjamin v. .Hardd, aZ.

Davey v. Prendergrass) 5 Barn. and ARd, 187.
Galm v. Tiemceuicz, 11 Wend., 312.
3. There was no error in the charge as to the effect of the
settlement of the accounts between the plaintiffs and Hopkins
& Leach, and the payment of the balance, December 18, 1848.
The account which Hopkins & Leach retained, and took to
Elmira, is that signed by plaintiffs.
The witness, Leach, testified that he showed this accountto
the defendant, and required him to give up certain securities.
He also says that his firm of Hopkins & Leach dissolved at
that time, and sold out to Leach, Potter, & Covill; and thai,
to make such sale, they had to settle with "Mr. Benjamin, and
get up the chattel mortgage; and thai they gave Mr. Benjamin the notes of the new firm, in place of those of the old.
He does not state whether the mortgage or the notes were
held as security for the guaranty. There was really no evidence that any security held for the guaranty was given up,
unless it was the substitution of one security for another.
The witness sought to create an impression that the securi.
ties were given up in part, on the faith of the-settlement with
the plaintiffs, but he does not say so.
The account and settlement, on page 22, was no discharge
of Hopkins & Leach on their contract.
The contract was then completed. The engine was delivered
and put up; and the-other work was delivered, but not all put
up, that being no part of the contract of Hopkins & Leach.
The engine had not been tried in connection with the mill.
And of course it could not be determined whether it would
drive the mill with six or any run of stones, and whether that
part of the contract had been performed.
If the defendant's guaranty of the "1performance of the contract" extended to the quality and sufficiency of the work
when done, then he had no right to assume, if he did, that his
liability thereon ceased when the last payment was made to
Hopkins & Leach; for that payment might, and in fact did,
become due before the mill was complete, and before the
engine could be tried.
VOL. XXII.

11

162

SUPREME COURT.
Benjamin v. Hillardet al.

There was nothing in the memorandum of settlement to
mislead 1 im.
Whether the contract was performed or fulfilled in the sense
of the contract, and as guarantied, could only be ascertained
at Wilkesbarre. And the defendant was bound to ascertain,
before he could -act on such assumption, to the prejudice of
the plaintiffs.
4. The guaranty was coextensive with the obligations of the
contract.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
In September, 1847, Hillard & Mordecai employed the
firm of Hopkins & Leach to make at Elmira, in New York,
and deliver to. them at Wilkesbarre, Pennsylvania, -a steam
engine, and apparatus necessary to put the same in complete
operation, of the best materials and in the most substantial
and workmanlike manner, according to specifications, and
warranted to be of sufficient capacity and strength to drive
six run of stones, and the gearing and machinery necessary
for flouring and gristing purposes. Also, to make and deliver
the cast-iron, wrought-iron, steel, and composition work for
driving six run of stones, and the machinery attached, of the
best materials and workmanship. These they were to erect
and put up on a foundation prepared by Hillard & Mordecai, who were to afford the proper aid for that purpose.
The machinery was to be completed and delivered at Wilkesbatre upon the first safe and navigable rise in the water of the
river (Chemung) in the ensuing spring; and Hopkins & Leach
were to give a responsible individual for security for the money
paid on the contract; and for its fulfilment, Hillard & Mordecai agreed to pay two thousand dollars the first of December, 1847; two thousand dollars the first of February, 1848;
and the remainder upon the completion of the work, for which
payments they were to be allowed interest. Before the first
payment,. the defendant subscribed an agreement, endorsed
on the contract, as follows: "For value received I hereby
guaranty the performance of the within contract on the part
of Hopkins & Leach-; and in case of non-performance thereof,

DECEMBER TEEM, 1859.

163

Benjamin v. .Ifard et al.

to refund to Messrs. Hillard & Mordecai all sums of money
they may pay or advance thereon, with interest from the time
the same is paid." This suit was brought on this guaranty
by Hillard & Mordecai for the insufficiency of the work
done by Hopkins &-Leach. On the trial, tlhey adduced testimony to show that the engine and apparatus set up by Hopkins & Leach were not of the best material, nor of substantial
and workmanlike construction, and had not strength to drive
six run of stones, and in improving them they had sustained
expense and loss; that from the middle of December, 1847,
till December, 1858, the time when the work was finished,
they.had advanced fifty-five hundred dollars, and that only a
trifling balance existed at that date, which was paid before
the work had been tested by use; that afterwards, and in that
month, defects were discovered, of which Hopkins & Leach
had notice. In consequence of which, they made eflbrts to
improve their work; but in June, 1849, the plaintiffs procured an examination to be made by three machinists and
engineers, whose report upon the imperfection of the machinery was communicated to Hopkins & Leach and to the
defendant, and who were required to amend their work.
This notice and report were read to the jury, the defendant
excepting to their competency. The defendant, after the case
of the plaintiff was submitted to the jury, insisted to the court
that his contract was merely a guaranty, either of the performance of the*agreement by Hopkins & Leach by the delivery
of the machinery, or the refunding of the moneys that might
be paid before that event; and that the advances of the plaintiffs, being in drafts or notes, and not within the time limited
by the contract, the defendant was not liable at all, oi if
liable, only to the extent of the payment of $4,000, until they
had fully performed their contract; and the plaintiffs having
fully paid off Hopkins & Leach, and receipts being given, the
de'fendant had a right to consider his guaranty as at an end.
The court overruled a motion to nonsuit the plaintiff, and
instructed the jury that the defendant was responsible on his
.contract, not only for the non-payment of the money advance4V
-AoHopkins 4 Leach *in case they failed to make and delivex

SUPREME COURT.
Benjamin v. ilardet al.

the engine and machinery,' but also for the full and faithful
performance of all of the agreement of Hopkins & Leach. The
general rule is, to attribute to the obligation of a surety the
same extent as'that of the principal. Unless from the terms
of the contract an intention appears to reduce his liability
within more narrow bounds, a restriction will not be imposed
by construction contrary to the nature of the e.ngagement.
If the terms of his engagement are general and unrestricted,
and embrace the entire subject, (omnem causam,) his liability
will be measured by that of the principal, and embrace the
same accessories and consequences, (connexorum et dependcnium.) It will be presumed that he had in view the guaranty
of the obligations his principal-had assumed. Poth. on Ob.,
404; 3 M. and S., 502; Boyd v. Moyle, 2 C.B., 644.
In the case before us, the contract of the surety is not in the
alternative, but consists 6f two-terms: one, that the principals
shall perform their engagement, not merely by the delivery
of some machinery, but of such machinery as the contract
includes; the other, that if there be a non-performance,
whether excusable or not, the money advanced on the contract shall be secured to the plaintiffs to the extent for which
their principals are liable.
The defendant, to sustain his defence that the plaintiffs had
varied their agreement with Hopkins & Leach, adduced testi
mony to the effect that the latter had informed them of their
inability to complete- the work "by the first safe and navigable
rise in the river," and that they assented to the delay proposed
by them till another rise; that a portion of the work was sent
in April, and a portion in June, and a portion in October, and
that the plaintiffs were not ready to receive it until October,
and it was not erected until December, 1848, at which time a
settlement took place, and the plaintiffs paid the small balante then due.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury that the waiver by the
plaintiffs of the punctual delivery of the engine and machinery
did not constitute such a 'change in the contract as to discharge the guarantor. That a niutual alteration of the- con
tract by the principal parties would operate to discharge the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

165.-

Benjamin v. Hillard d A

defendant as a guarantor; but an acquiescence on the part of
the plaintiffs in a. longer time than was specified in the contract for fulfilment, especially as the time of fulfilment was
somewhat indefinite, would not, as matter of law, operate to
discharge the defendant; and the. court declined to charge
the jury "that if they believed that the performance of the
contract was essentially altered or varied, or the time of the
delivery of the machinery at Wilkesbarre extended upon good
consideration, withbut the knowledge or consent of the defendant, the plaintifis were not entitled to recover."
The agreemert of Hopkins & Leach comprised the manu
facture of complicated machinery of distinct parts and differ
ent degrees of importance, and these were to be transported
to a distance,' there to be set up in connection with other
works about.which other persons- were employed. That such
a contract should not be fullilled to the letter by either party
is not a matter of surprise. ' The covenants are independent,
and there is nothing that indicates that a failure on either part
to perform one of these covenanits would authorize its dissolution, or that the breach could not be compensated in damages.
The evidence does niot allow us to conclude that there was
any intention to change the object or the means essential to
attain the ,object of the original agreement. In its execution,
there -*ere departures from its stipulations; but these seem to
have been made on grounds of mutual convenience, and did
not increase the risk to the surety. He was fully indemnified
by his principals until after the settlement between the plaintiffs and Hopkins & Leach.
It is clear that the mere prolongation of the term of payment of the principal debtor, or of the time for the performance of his duty, will not discharge a surety or guarantor.
There must be another contract substituted for the original
contract, or some alteration in a point so material as in effect
to make a new contract, without the surety's consent to produce that result. But when the essential features of the contract and its objects are preserved, and the parties, without
.objection from the surety, and without any legal constraint on
themselves, mutually accommodate each other, so as better to

166

SUPREME COURT.
Benjamin v. Hillard et al.

arrive at their end, we can find no ground for the surety to
complain. The Circuit Court presented the question fairly to
the jury, and the exceptions to the charge cannot be supported.
Trop. de Caution, 575; Beaubien v. Stoney, Spear So. Ca. Ch
R., 508; 11 Wend., 312.
The defendant adduced testimony to show that the plain.
tiffs accepted the engine and machinery; that an account was
stated between the plaintiffs and Hopkins & Leach of the work
done and money paid, and an acknowledgment of its settlement entered upon it, and signed by the parties; that Hopkins & Leach exhibited this account to the defendant, and demanded a return of the securities they had deposited with
him for his indemnity, and that they were yielded on the
credit given to that aoknowledgrnent. He requested the court
to instruct the jury, that if they believed that the defendant,
relying upon tle receipt given by the plaintiffs, settled with
Hopkins & Leacr, aitd surrendered- to them securities he held
to indemnify him against the liability he assumed by his guaranty, and such surretfder aud discharge were made after the
settlement between Hopkins & Leach and the plaintiffs, and
upon the faith of it, the ° plaintiffs are bound by such settlement and receipt, so far as the same relates to the defendant,
they having put it in the power of Hopkins & Eeach to procure the surrender of such securities for the defendant. This
prayer finds its answer in the agreement of Hopkins & Leach,
and the guaranty of the defendant.
The material of which the machinery was to be composed,
and the workmanship and capacity of the manufacture, were
warranted. The defects in the machinery were latent, and
could only be ascertained by its use. The settlement between
the parties did not embrace the subject to which the warranty
applied, nor contain any release or extinguishment of the covenants concerning it. The cause of the present suit is not the
same as that inbluded in the stated account, or acknowledgment entered upon it.
The present suit originates in the contract between Hopkins
& Leach and the plaintiffs. The former could not plead that
settlement in bar of a similar suit against them; and, conse-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

167

Ogde v. Parson et a7.

quently, their guarantor cannot. They have misconceived the.
import of that settlement without the agency of the plaintiffs,
and are not entitled to charge them with the consequent loss.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury, that if they foind the
engine, boilers, and apparatus for steam power, were sufficient
to drive six run of stones*suitable for grinding; the damages
to be found should be such as would enable:the plaintiffs to
supply tile deficiency, and that they were not required to assume the contract price as. the full value of such machinery.
. The principle thus laid down coincides with that in Alder
v. Keightly, 15 M. and W., 117. "No doubt," say the court
in that case, "all questions of damages are, strictly speaking,,
for the jury; and, however clear and plain may be the rule oflaw on which the damages are to be found, the act, of finding
them is for them. But there are certain established rules, according to which they ought to find; and here is a clear rule:
that the amount that would have been received, if the contract
had been kept, is the measure of damages if the contract is
broken." This rule was reaffirmed in Hadley v. Baxendale,
10 Exch., 841. The exception to the introduction of the notice to the defendant, and the report accompanying it, cannot
be sustained. It was proper for the plaintiffs to notify the
principals and their surety of the defects'in their vork, and to
call upon them to aiend it. The report was not introduced
as testimony of the defects, nor can we assume that it was
u~ed for that purpose. Upon the whole record our conclusion
is, there is no error, and thejudgment.of the Circuit Court is
afirmed.

DAviD OGDEN , AppiLLANT, v. JOTHAM PARSONS, Jom A. McGnAw, J sHUA ATzwns, EDwiN AT ms, AND JosHuA ATKINS, "Ju
Where a charter-party stipulated that a vessel should receive-a full cargo, the
opinions of.experts are the best criteria of how" deeplyshe can be loaded with
.safety to the lives of the passengex

