DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Heirs of Berrqjesa.

THE UI7rrED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. THE WInOW AND HEIRS
OF JOSE E. BERREYESA, DECEASED.
A decree of the District Court affirmed, in a case where the genuineness of the
grant of land in California and the fulfilment of its conditions are established.
This court declines to give instructions to the court below relative to the location and survey of this grant. No question was decided in the court below
upon this subject, and it is to be presumed it will act according to the established rules on the subject.
THIS was an appeal from -the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Stanton for the United States, and by
Mr. Goold for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CA IPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees were confirmed in their claim to a parcel of
land in the county of Santa Clara, known by the name of San
Vicente, and being a part of the Canada de los Capitancillos,
containing one square league, and adjoining the lands of Justo
Larios.
They are the widow and heirs at law of Jose E. Berreyesa,
who became possessed of the land in 1834, under the auth6rity
of the Governor, Figueroa, and occupied it, with his family,
until 1842. In that year he presented a petition to the Governor, representing these facts, and complained that his neighbor Larios had disturbed his enjoyment and repose, and desired that there might be granted to him two sitios, from the
house of Larios to the Matadera, with all the hills that belong
to the Canada. He says that he served the country in the army
for twenty-four years and upwards, without receiving pay, and
that he had with him eleven children.
A reference was made of the petition to the justice of the
pueblo, who called Larios before him, and an agreement was
then made between the parties in reference to the division
line.

SUPREME COURT.
Gridley et al. v. Wrynant.

This report was returned to the Governor, who directed that
a title should issue to the applicant, and that the expedieute
be remitted to the Departmental junta, for its approval. The
decree and titulo describe a parcel of land included within
natural boundaries; but in the conditions, it is confined to a
single league in quantity.
Subsequently to this, Berreyesa complained to the Governor
of the limitation, insisting that his petition had been for two
leagues, and that be had returned the grant, to have it corrected. The Governor directed the proper inquiries, and the
result was to concede the prayer of the petitioner; but, for
some reason, the grant did not issue.
The board of commissioners confirmed the claim of the petitioners for one square league; and this decree was confirmed
by the District Court on appeal, and it ordered the land to be
located, according to the description and within the boundaries set out in the original grant, and delineated in the map
contained in the expediente, to both of which reference is made
for a more particular description. The genuineness of this
grant and the fulfilment of the conditions are fully established,
and the validity of the claim is unquestionable.
The appellees have requested the court to give instructions
relative to the location and survey of this grant, similar to those
found in the case of the United States v. Fossatt, 20 Howard.
But no question was decided in the court below upon the location of the lines of the tract, and it would be irregular for this
court to assume that the action of that court will not conform
to the established rules on the subject. The decree of the District Court has not been called in question by the appellees; and
should any difficulty arise in the location of the grant, it will
be competent for the appellees to invoke the aid of that court.
Decree affirmed.
RUEL C. GRIDLEY, CLARISSA H. BEEBE,
AND

CHARLES SNYDER,

AND

SARAH

P.

OTHEJRS, APPELLANTS,

SNYDER,
V.

DAVID

WYNANT.
Where a married woman became a trustee of l]nd for the" lnefit of her son in
law, and executed a deed (without joining her husband) to a bona fide pur.

