DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

49

Oericks et al. v. Ford.

dents The court decide, "that it is too well settled by repeated decisions of this court to be longer regarded as an open
question, that at the period of the death of the decedent, his
heirs, being aliens, could not inherit his estate."
We understand these decisions to declare a law of descent
applicable to the landed property of Texas generally, and not
co lands in a particular colony, or settled under a particular
act of colonization. The case before the court falls within the
control of these decisions.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.

lRHxy OELRICKS

AND GUSTAV W.

LuRmAN, PLAINTIS IN

ERROR, V. BENJAIIN FORD.

Where there was a written contract for the delivery of a certain number of barrels of flour at a given price, to be delivered within a named time at tho
seller's option, and evidence was offered by the purchaser of an usage existing, that a margin should be put up, the court below was right in refusing to
allow this evidence to go to the jury, because it was too indefinite and uncer.
tain to establish an usage.
And, moreover, if the usage existed, the proof would have been inadmissible to
affect the construction of the contract, in which there was no ambiguity o)
doubt on the fdce of the instrument.
Any parol evidence of conversations or of an understanding of the parties thal
the contract was made subject to such an usage, was inadmissible, as thesr
were merged in the written instrument.
The contract was made in Baltimore, between the purchasers and an agent o
the seller, the seller residing in New York. The latter, and not the agent
was bound to bring the suit, as the character of the agent was disclosed ov
the face of the contract. There is no distinction in the principle governing
agencies of this description between the cases of a home or foreign principal

THIs czse was brought up by writ of error from the Circwi

Court of the United States for the district of MAaryland.
It was an action of assumpsit brought by-Ford, a citizen of
New York, against Oelricks & Lurman, merchants of Baltiimore, upon a contract in writing, made by the defendants,
who agreed to purchase from Bell, agent for Ford, ten thouband barrels~of flour, deliverable at seller's option at the prices
VOL. XXII.

'k

SUPREME COURT.
OeIricks et al. v. Ford.

and upon the terms stated in the contract, which is fully set
forth in the opinion of the court, and need not be repeated.
Ballard was the broker who made the contract on behalf of
Oeiricks & Lurman.
The evidence given upon the trial by the plaintiff and defendants was very voluminous, and was both oral and written.
The points of law which arose in the case will be manifest
from the prayers to the court offered by the counsel for the
plaintif and from the instructions to the jury given by the
court, which ,were as follows:
f. That the evidence in this case is insufficient to authorize
t the jury to find that there is an usage in the city of Baltimore,
with regard to contracts for the sale of me'chandise to be delivered at 1a future time, by wbich0 the defendants wire authorized to aninul the contract bearing date the 7th November,
1855, given in evidence, upon the failure of the 'plaintiff to put
up a margin in money, as security for its performance, in compliance with the demand contained in the letter of the witness,
Ballard, to J. W. Bell, of the 21st Decemlber, given in evidence.
2. That such an usage, if found by them to exist, is invalid,
and not binding, because it is unreasonable.
3. That evi'lence of such an usage, if it should be established by competent evidence, and be held reasonable by the
court, is inadrnissible in this case, because it c6ntradicts' 6r
waives the written contract dated the 7th November, 1855,
given in evidence.
4. That if the jury find, that before the 21st day of December, 1855, J. W. Bell had left'the city of Baltimore without
authorizing any person to represent him in hjs absence, and
have never since returned, the letters of the witness, Ballard,
of the 21st and 24th December, 1855, left at the former place
of business of said Bell, as proved by the said Ballard, did not
afFect the plaintiff with notice of the demand for a margin
mentioned in said letters, even if, under any usage or contract,
the defendants were authorized to make such demand.
5. That if the jury find that the witness, Ballard, reduced
the said contract, dated the 7th November, and given in evi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

51

Odricks et aZ. v. Ford.

deuce, to writing, at the request of the defendant, Lurman,
and that said Ballard signed two copies of the same, and procured the approval of the defendants, and of Bell, as agent of
the plaintiff, to the same, by their signatures thereto, and delivered one of the said contracts to the defendants, and the
other, which has been given in evidence by the plaintiff, to
said Bell, and shall further find all this was done on the 23d
November, 1855, after the interview at the Exchange between
the defendant, Lurman, and the said Bell, spoken of by the witness, Ballard; and shall also find that, at said interview, the defendant, Lurman, declined to have the clause inserted in said
contract having reference to putting up a margin; and if the
jury.find that said Bell, upon the 12th and 15th December,
delivered 2,000 barrels of flour under said contract, which
were received by the defendants, and paid for by them; and if
the jury shall further find that the plaintiff offered to deliver,
and was prepared and willing to deliver, the balance of the 8,000
barrels contracted to be delivered under said contract, at the
times and at the prices testified to by the witnesses of the
plaintiff, and that the defendants refused to receive the same,
then the plaintiff-is entitled to'rectwer in this suit the difference between the price of flour mentioned in said contract
($9.25) and the market value of the parcels of flour tendered
by the plaintiff on the days on which they were respectively
tendered, with interest thereon from'such periods, respectively.
Bnt the court rejected ihe prayers of the plaintiff, and each of
them, and, in lieu of them, granted the following instructions
to the jury:
1. If the jury shallbfind, from the evidence in this case, that
the defendants entered, into the written contract dated the
7th of November, 1855, which has been offered in evidence,
and that the plaintiff offered to delivir to the defetidants in
the months of January and February, .1856, eight thousand
barrels of flour, in pursuance of the stipulations of said contract, and in the mode therein pointed out; and that, when
said offeis were made by the said.plaintiff, he had the requisite
amount of flour to comply in good faith with said offers, and
could have delivered the sanme, if the defendants had been

SUPREME CO URT.
Oebricks et al. v. Ford.

willing to receive the same, and shall further find that the
defendants wholly refused to receive and pay for said flour
according to the terms of said contract, then the plaintiff is
entitled to recover such damages as the jury may find from
the evidence he has suffered from said refusal of defendants to
execute the said contra6t on their part.
2. The rule of damages in this case is the difference between
the contract price of the flour and the market value in the city
of Baltimore of the same on the several days on which the plaintiff offered to deliver the same in accordance with the provisions of said contract, with interest on such sum in the discretion of the jury. To the granting of which instructions the
defendants prayed leave to except, and upon this exception
the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. _Prick and Mr. Benjamin for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Brown, upon a brief filed by himself
and Mr. Brne, for the defendant.
The reader will perceive, from the prayers and instructions,
that the two principal points in the case were: 1. Whether the
evidence to support an usage was sufficient to authorize the
jury to infer an usage; and 2. Whether Ford could maintain
the action.
The decision of the first point necessarily involved an examination of the evidence, which, as before remarked, was very
voluminous, and a summary of which is given in the opinion
of the court. It would require a prolonged statement to follow the counsel through this examination, but the points can
be given as follows:
I. That all the evidence in the cause ought properly to have
been submitted to the jury, and was sufficient, if they believed
it, to establish the existence of an usage, among a certain class
of flour dealers in the city of Baltimore accustomed to deal in
"time contracts," under which, either the buyer or seller
might demand security, by way of a margin to be put up by
both, whenever the faithful performance of such a contract
should be considered doubtful by either party The amount

DECEBMBER TERM, 1859.

53

Oelricks et al.-v. Ford.

of such margin to be reasonable, according to the judgment
of other merchants in the same business, and the contract to
be cancelled, upon a failure to put it up.
I. That there was evidence in the cause, which ought properly to have been sabmitted to the jury, tending to show, that
both the agent of the plaintiff below, and the defendants, made
all their "time contracts" for flour, with reference and subject
to such an usage; and that each party knew such to be the
special custom of the other's business, when the "time contract" in evidence was entered into; and that the contract
was specially made with reference and subject to such an
usage.
"II. That the usage; as proved, was, a reasonable and lawful
usage.
IV. That the effect of the usage was not to vary and contradict the contract, but to add to it something incidental
and not inconsistent with it; and that, on this ground, proof
of the usage was admissible, although the contract was in
writing. And further, that the agreement for a "time" sale
of flour on certain terms and for a margin, if required by
either party, to secure it,-being one and simultaneous, and a
part only of the contract having been reduced to writing, on
that ground, parol evidence of the residue was properly admissible.
V. That the agent of the plaintiff below had a right to contract in reference to the usage, so as to bind his principal; that
the demand made for a margin, upon, the agent, as proved,
affected the principal with constructive notice of it;. and that
moreover there was 'evidence, proper for the jury, tending to
show that the principal had actual notice of the demand, and
in fact put his refusal to comply with it only upon the ground
that there was no agreement for a "margin" in the written
contract.
VI. That not only by the rules of legal presumption, but by
necessary inference from the facts, the credit in this case was
given exclusively to the agent, and the principal had no right
of action on the contract; and that, even if this we-re otherwise,
the rule of damages, as anDlied to the case, was erroneous.

SUPREME COURT.
Oelricks et al. v. Ford.

Upon the last point, the following authorities were cited:
There is still another view of the case, showing error in the
instruction given by the court below. This instruction announced the whole law of the case in the court's own language, and proceeded upon the ground that all the evidence
offered to incorporate the usage into the contract was inadmissible. But it had the effect of withdrawing also from the
jury all the evidence showing that the credit given in the
transaction was to the agent, Bell, exclusively; and if that fact
had been found, the defendants could not have charged the
plaintiff upon the contract, and the plaintiff had therefore no
right of action against them.
The rule laid down -by Story as a presumption of law is,
that "a foreign factor, buying or selling goods, is ordinarily
treated, as between himself and the other party, as the sole
contracting party; and the real principal eannot sue or be
sued on the contract."
Story on Agency, see., 423.
See also more specially sections 268, 290, and 400.
Thi's is the established English doctrine.
Russell on Factors and Brokers, 288.
Livermore on Agency, vol. ii., p. 249.
Patterson r. Gandasequi, 15 East., 62.
Addison v.Gandasequi, 4 Taunt., 574.
Thompson v. Davenport, 9 Barn. and Cress., 78.
Smyth v. Anderson, 7 Mann. Grang. and Scott, 21, (62 E.
C. L. R.)
The rule as stated by Story, in the four sections above quoted,
has never been directly questioned in this country, except in
one case, (Kirkpatrick v. Steiner, 22 *Wendell, 244,) and then
by a divided court.
It is reaffirmed by him (and that case examined) in note 1
to sec. 268, 5th edition of 1857, Story on Agency, and has been
adopted in Mc]Kenzie v. Nevins, 22 Maine, (9 Shepley,) 143 ;
Alcock v. Hopkins, 6 Cushing, 490; Merrick's Estate, 5 Watts
and Serg., p. 14.
.It ishowever an open question, whether the rule extends to
-the different States of the Union, as jurisdictions foreign to

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Oelricks et al. v. Ford.

each other. There are dicta in 22 -Wendell, above referred to,
to the effect that it does not. But the point has never been
expressly made and decided that way.
On the contrary, in iNewcastle M. Co. v. Red River R. R., 1
Rob. Louisiana R., p. 145, it was directly held that it did apply to the different States, as a reasonable rule of presumption; and this would seem to be the true doctrine.
The term used in the books is principals "beyond seas;"
and in construing those words in acts of limitation, they are
held to refer to other States of this Union.
And so, bills of exchange are foreign bills when drawn by a
party in one State, upon one in another State.
Story on Bills of Exchange, sees. 22 and 23.
Buckner v. Finley, 2 Peters R., 586.
So, both Scotland and Ireland are foreign to England for
tbe purposes of this rule; and the reasons for the decision
given in Story, 22, 23, and 2 Peters, in regard to bills of exchange, are similar to those in see. 290 (Story on Agency) for
the distinction made between domestic and foreign principals.
This rule, in the absence of any evidence on the question
"to whom credit was given," creates a conclusive presumption of exclusive credit to the agent. It is of course liable to
be rebutted. But the onus is on the principal. In this case,
there is nothing to remove the weight of the presumption.
On the contrary, the proof is all the other way.
(Evidence referred to.)
The counsel for the defendant in error made the foll')wing
points:
L The evidence is not sufficient to establish a general usage
in Baltimore, by which either party to a contract to deliver
flour at a future time is entitled to demand a margin or
security of the other.
II. Such an usage, if proved, would not be valid and binding, because1. It is not ancient, reasonable, and certain. It opens the
door to fraud and deception, and offers facilities to parties to
escape from contracts which appear likely to occasion loss.

SUPREME COURT.
Oelricks et al. v. Ford.

The cause for.which a margin may be demanded, the amount
of the margin and its character, whether money or anything
else, the notice to be given, the place of deposit, and the
manner in which the deposit is to be made, are not established with reasonable certainty.
2. Because the usage is not generally known in Baltimore.
3. Because an usage may explain the meaning of terms, but
cannot avail to contradict or vary a written contract, as in this
case is attempted to be done. To permit it to do so would be
in violation of a settled rule of evidence and of the statute of
'frauds.
According to the testimony of Ballard, a witness for the defendants, and the only one who details the circumstances connected with the making of the contract, Bell and Lurman
both said that they made their contracts with reference to the
usage. Ballard then asked Lurman if he should insert about
'the margin in the contract. Lurman said, no; he was satisfied
with Mr. Bell. 'Whereupon, the contract was drawn without
rek'erring to the usage. The previous conversation in refer.
ence to the usage is inadmissible in evidence, because it contradicts or varies the written contract in an important particular.
II. If the conversation with reference to the usage is of
any avail at all, it can only bind Bell personally, and was intended only to do so, .for Lurman expressly excluded it from
.the contract, and declared that "he was satisfied with Mr.
Bell."
]-V. The testimony of Ballard would be inadmissible to
show the usage of Bell in reference to his own contracts, in a
case like this, where it .vould vary or contradict a written contract, but it certainly cannot bind the plaintiff who does not
appear to have had any notice or knowledge thereof. Bell's
plerk, (Manro,) who was well acquainted with his business,
never heard bf such a usage.
, V. Even if the usage be proved, and be good in law and
binding on the plaintiff, the defendants cannot avail themselves of it; because, in the letter of Ballard, the broker, in
which the inargin is -emanded, it is expressly claimed on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
OeIricks et al. v. Ford.

-ground of contract, and not of usage. And in the conversation on the 29th of December, 1856, which took place between Brown and Frick, the attorneys of the respective parties, the attorney of the defendants did not claim a right to
security on the ground of usage, or make any reference to
usage, but referred to the notice given by Ballard, for defendants, and took the ground that the contract had been rescinded
by defendants, because the plaintiff had not given security, as
demanded by the notice. The plaintiff's attorney denied the
right of the d~fendants-to demand any security, but said that
the plaintiff was prepared to do anything required by the contract. Nothing is said of usage until the letter of the 16th of
'January, 1856, of the defendants, which mentions the usage
-to the plaintiff for the first time.
VI. Because the notice was not addressed by Ballard to the
plaintiff, in New York, but was directed to Bell, in Baltimore,
and sent to his counting-room after he had disappeared. The
notice is dated 21st December, and required the money to be
put up on the 22d, and the plaintiff never saw the notice until
Christmas day following.
VII. Bell was not the plaintiff's agent for the purpose of
receiving any such notice; and even if he were, a notice addressed to an absconding agent, and sent to his nounting-room,
and so sent, in fact , because the agent was known to have disappeared, is not sufficient to bind the principal. Bell's absconding put an end to his agency; and his disappearance,
which was knowli to the defendants, was a sufficient notice
to them of the fact. Good faith and fair dealing required that
the notice should have been sent to the plaintiff in New York.
VIII. But the notice did not give the plaintiff reasonable
time to comply, even if it had been communicated to him by
telegraph, which it was not. It was left at Bell's countingroom before 12 M. on the 21st, and gave notice to deposit
$5,000 in the Merchants' Bank of Baltimore on the following
day. Flour had then fallen in price. The object of the defendants, undoubtedly; was to get rid of a losing contract, iby
giving a notice with which the plaintiff had neither time nor
.pportunity to comply.

SUPREME COURT.
Oelricks et al. v. Ford.

IX. The defendants did not comply with their own noticethey state that on the 22d they would deposit $5,000 in the
Merchants' Bank, and required Bell to do the same; but, in
fact, they made no such deposit, and therefore under no circumstances could the plaintiff be required to do so.
X. The defendants had no right to require the arbitrary
sum of $5,000 in cash to be put up on a contract, on which,
at the time of the demand, they were, in fact, losers; and,
therefore, no security at all was necessary.
XI. Nor had the defendants the right to select the Merchants' Bank of Baltimore as the place of deposit for the plaintiff, under the penalty of a cancellation of the contract.
XII. Nor had Ballard, the broker, who made the contract,
any right to give a notice to put up a margin. The notice,
which required immediate action and the deposit of a large
sum of money, should have come from the defendants themselves.
XIII. The instructions of the court are correct, and cover
the whole case. The rule of damages, as laid down, is sustained both by reason and authority.
XIV. Ford is principal, and has right to sue.
Green v. Kopke, 36 Eng. L. and Eq., 396.
Mahoney v. Kekule, 25 ib., 278.
Kirkpatrick v. Steiner, 22 Wend., 244.
Taintor v. Prendergrast, 3 Hill, 72.
3 Robinson Pr., 57.
2 Kent's Com. 8th ed., 630.
May, 818.
The following authorities are relied on to establish the
propositions that the written contract cannot be varied or
contradicted by the proof of usage; that the alleged usage is
not properly proved, and if proved, is not valid.
United States v. Buchanan, 8 How., 83, 102.
Adams v. Otterback, 15 How., 545.
Brittan v. Barnaby, 21 How., 538.
Foley v. Mason, 6 Md., 50.
1 Greenleaf's Evidence, secs. 275, 278, 281, 284, 288, 292
293, 294.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

59

Odrkb? et al. v. Ford.

Coxe v. Heisley, 19 Penn. State, 247.
Maury v. Insurance Co., 9 Met., 363.
Brown v. Stoddart, 10 Met., 381.
Adams v. Wordley, 1 Mees. and Wels., 374.
Magee v. Atkinson, 2 Mees. and Wels., 442.
Truemau v. Loder, 11 A. and E., 596.
Allen v. Dykes, 3 Hill N. Y., 597.
Hinton v. Locke, 5 Hill N. Y., 437.
Gross v. Criss, 3 Gratt., 262.
Macomber v. Parker, 13 Pick., 182.
Howe v. Mutual Ins. Co., 1 Sandf. Sup. C., 137.
Barlow v. Lambert, 28 Ala., 710.
1" Smith's Leading Cas., 307, 308, 309, margin; and see
note of H. B. W. to p. 369.
Browne v. Gatliffe, 11 C1. and Fin., 45, 70.
Ford v. Yates, 2 M. and Gran., 549.
Browne on St. of Frauds, p. 116, sees. 118, 448, 451.
2 Parsons on-Contracts, 59.
3 Craunch, 31.
1 Met., 199.
4 M. and W., 140.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
The suit was brought by Ford against the defendants in the
court below upon the following contract:
BALTIMorE, November 7, 1855.
For and in consideration of one dollar, the receipt whereof
is hereby acknowledged, I have this day purchased from J.
W. Bell, agent for Benjamin Ford, New York, for account of
Oelricks & Lurman, Baltimore, ten thousand barrels superfine
Howard Street or Ohio flour, deliverable, at seller's option, in
lots of five hundred barrels, each lot subject to three days'
notice of delivery, and payable on delivery, at the rate of nine
dollars and twenty-five cents per barrel, viz:

SJPhEME COURT.
Odricks et al. v. Ford.

2,000 barrels, seller's option, all December, 1855.
January, 1856.
"
" "
4,000
February, 18,56.
"
"
4,000
10,000
L. E. BALLARD, Broker.
Approved:
OELRICKS & LURIMAN.
The 2,000 barrels deliverable in December were delivered,
accepted,. and paid for, as per contract. The 1,000 barrels to
be delivered in each of the months of. January and February
were duly tendered to the defendants, and payments demanded,
and which were refused.
The only objection to, the acceptance of the flour at the
time tendered was therefusal of Ford to a demand made upon
his agent to deposit $5,000 in one of the banks in Baltimore
to secure the punctual delivery of the flour at the time mentioned. This demand for a deposit of money was denied by
the plaintiff, on the ground that the contract contained no such
stipulation.
After much testimony given by- both parties on the trial, on
the, subject of a usage among the dealers in. flour in the city
of Baltimore to demand on time contracts a deposit of money,
-(or margin, as it is called,) and the right to reseind the contract if refused, the court charged the jury, that if they shall
finid, from the evidence, the defendants entered into the contract given in, evidence, and that-the plaintiff offered to deliver
the flour therein mentioned according to its terms, and that
when the offer was made be had the requisite quantity of
flour to complywith the contract, and could have delivered it
if the defendants had been willing to receive it, and that they
had refused, then the plaintiff was entitled to recover. The
court further instructed the jury, that the rule of damages
was the difference betweeii the contract price of the flour and
the market value in the city of Baltimore on the several days
of tHe tenders, -vith interest on this surn, in the discretion of
thejury. The jury found for the plaintiff.

DECEMBER TERMS 1859.

61

Odrick's e al. v. Ford.

One of the principal grounds of objection to the ruling of
the court is, its refusal to submit the question of usage, which
was the subject of evidence on the trial, to the jury.
The witnesses introduced by the defendants to prove the
usage speak in a very qualified manner as to its existence, as
well as to the instances in which they have known it to have
been adopted or acquiesced in; and all of them admit they
.have no knowledge that it was general among the dealers.
Some of them state that they recognised and had acted upon a
custom in their own business, under which either party to the
contract might require a margin to a reasonable amount, to be
put up to sechre the performance, and that the contract might
be rescinded, if the party refused; that they could not say
such was the general custom; that different persons have different customs; some consider there is such a usage, and some
.do not. One witness states that he had at all times in his
business considered it to be a right which might be exercised
I
by either party to a time contract, whenever he apprehended a
risk; that if the 'party was solvent, he supposed there was no
right to demaud it; another, that in his business he had always
considered such contracts to be subject to the right of either
party to demand the margin; that the occasion of exercising
it was rare, as contracts made by his house were made with
responsible persons; that he did not know that this was a general usage in Baltimore. The broker who negotiated the contract for the defendants states that he considered it a clearly
understood right of both parties to such contracts to demand
a margin to,a reasonable anmount; that he entertained the belief, from conversations with various merchants on the subject;
that he recollected but one instance where, when the demand
was made, the margin was put up, which was a mairgin of
twenty-five cents on the barrel in a 'contract for 500 barrels.
There were ten witnesses, flour merchants for many years
in the city, who state that they knew of no such usage.
It will thus be seen, from a careful analysis of the evidence,
that the defendants wholly tidied to prove any general or established usage or custom of the trade in Baltimore, as claimed
if the defence. Every witness called on their behalf fails to

SUPREME COURT.
OeIricks et al. v. Ford.

prove facts essential to make out the custom in the sense of
the law; on the contrary, most of them expressly disprove it.
They express opinions upon the subject of a margin as a right
to be exercised in their own business, but admit that it is not
founded upon any general usage; and none of them speak of
its having been claimed or exercised in his own business but
in one or two instances. Whether a usage or custom of the
kind set up existed in the trade in Baltimore, was a question
of fact to be proved by persons who bad a knowledge of it
from dealing in the article of flour. Opinions of persons as to
what rights they might exercise in their own business in respect to time contracts fall far short of any legal proof of the
fact, especially when they admit that there was no general
usage of the kind known to them.
Then, as to the precise limit or character of the custom
claimed, the opinions of the witnesses are various and indefinite. The margin they say, must be reasonable, but the pretended usage contains no rule by which a reasonable margin
may be determined. It is said the amount may be referred to
merchants. But there is no evidence that this is a part of the
custom, or that any such mode of adjusting it ever occurred
in the trade. Some of the witnesses state, that the margin
must be a sum of money sufficient to make the party safe
according-to the state of the market. One states, that at the
time the demand was made in this case for a margin, flour had
tllen, and the price lower than the price in the contract; yet
this, in his judgment, did not affect the right to make the
demand, as the general opinion among dealers was, that the
price would advance; that there were great fluctuations in the
price, and that, in such a condition of things, a reasonable
margin would depend upon the extent and character of the
fluctuations, and upon the speculative ideas 'f the future value
of flour.
The broker of the defendant,,, who pu,'chased this flour,
states his view of the reasonableness of the margin, which is
the diflrence between the intrinsic value of the flour and itsq
speculative value; by intrinsic value, he says he means the
cost of the production; and by speculative value, the price at

DECEIBER TERM, 1859.

68

Oelricks el al. v. Ford.

which it was rating above its intrinsic value ; and to a question
what, in his opinion, would be a reasonable margin under the
custom, when flour in the market was lower than the contract
price, he answered, that he considered the demand reasonable
in this case, because lie believed flour was going up to twelve
dollars per barrel. It would be difficult to describe a custom "
more indefinite and unsettled.
But, independently of the total insufficiency of the evidence
to establish the usage, we are satisfied, if it existed, the proof
would have been inadmissible to affect the construction of the
contract. This proof is admissible in the absence of express
stipulations, or where the meaning of the parties is uncertain
upon the language used, and where the usage of the trade to
which the contract relates, or with reference to which it was
made, may afford explanation, and supply deficiencies in the
instrument. Technical, local, or doubtful words may be thus
explained. So where stipulations in the contract refer to matters outside of the instrument, parol proof of extraneous facts
may be necessary to interpret their meaning. As a general
rule, there must be ambiguity or uncertainty upon the face of
the written instrument, arising out of the terms used by the
parties, in order to justify- the extraneous evidence, and, when
admissible, it must be limited in its effect to the clearing up
of the obscurity. It is not admissible to add to or engraft
upon the contract new stipulations, nor to contradict those
which are plain. (2 Kent Com., p. 556; 3 ib., p. 260, and
note; 1 Greenl. Ev., sec. 295; 2 Cr. and J., 249, 250; 14 How.,
445.)
Applying these principles to the contract before us, it is
quite clear that the proof of the usage attempted to be established was inadmissible, and should have been rejected. There
is no ambiguity or uncertainty in its terms or stipulations, and
the condition sought to be annexed was not by way of explanation or interpretation, but in addition to the contract. The
plaintiff agrees to deliver a given number of barrels of flour on
certain days, at the price of $9.25 per barrel, in consideration
of which the defendants agree to receive the flour, and pay the
price. This is the substance of the written contract. But the

SUPREME CO UlrT.
Oelricks et aL. v. Ford.

defendants insist, that besides the obligations arising out of
the written instrument, the plaintiff is under an additional obligation to give security, whenever called upon, for the faithful
performance; and this, by the deposit in bank of the sum of
$5,000.- The written instrument bound only the personal respolisibility of the plaintiff; the parol evidence seeks to superadd, not a responsible name, as a surety, but in effect the
same thing, a given sum of money. The parol proof not only
adds to the written -instrument, but is repugnant to the legal
effect of it.
It was also urged on the argument that this contract was
entered into between the defendants and the agent of the
plaintiff, with the understanding at the time that it should. be
subject to the usage; but the answer to this is, that no such
usage existed; and if it did, the terms of the contract exclude
Any conversations and verbal understanding between the
parties at the time were merged in the contract, and parol evidence inadmissiblb to engraft them upon it.
We are satisfied the court below was right in excluding the
consideration of the evidence of the usage from the jury: 1,
because the usage was not proved; and 2, if it had been, it
was incompetent to vary the clear and positive terms of the
instrument.
An objection has been taken oi the argument, which was
not presented to the court below, but which, it is insisted, is
involved in the exception to the cherge; and that is, inasmuch
as it appears upon the evidence that the plaintiff was a resident of New York, and the contract made at Baltimore, in
the State of Maryland, by an-ageut, the presumption of law
is, that the credit was given exclusively to the agent, the principal being the resident of a foreign State; and hence, that
the contract, in legal effect, was made with the agent, and not
with the principal, and the former should have brought the
suit.
This doctrine is laid down by Judge Story in his work on
agency, mid which was supposed to be the doctrine of the
English courts at the time, and founded upon adjudged cases.
(Story on Agency, see. 268 and note; sees. 290, 423.) It did

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

65

Oelrick et al. v. Ford.

not, however, at the time receive the assent of some of the
courts and jurists of this country. (2 Kent's Com., pp. 630,
631, and note; 22 Wend., p. 224; 3 Hill., 72.) And the doctrine has recently been explained, and Judge Story's rule
reject6d, by the English courts. In the case of Green v. Kope,
(36 Eng. L. and Eq. R., pp. 396, 399, 1856,) the court denied
that there was any distinction, as it respected the personal
liability of the agent, whether the principal was English or a
foreigner. The .Chief Justice observed: "It is in all cases a
question of intention from the contract, explained by the surrounding circumstances, such as the cus'tom- 6r usage of the
.rade when such exists. No usage," he observes, "was proved
in the present case, and I believe none could have been
proved." Again, he observed: "It vould be ridiculous to
suppose that an agent, for a commission of one-half pei
cent., is to guaranty the performance of a contract flor the
shipment of 1,000 barrels of tar." The case was finally put
upon the intent of the parties, as derived from the construe.
tion of the contract, and which was, that the defendant contracted only as agent, and not to make himself personally
liable. Willes, J., doubted if evidence of -ustom was admis.
sible to qualify the express words of the contract, so as to
make the agent liable.
(See also 14 Com. B. R., p. 390; Mahoney v. Kekule, 5
Ellis and Black, pp. 125, 130.)
In the pkesent case, the broker's note, and which is approved by the defendants, affixing the firm name, is too clear
upon the face of it to admit of doubt as to the person with
whom the contract was made. The purchase is from "J. W.
Bell, agent for Benjamin Ford, of New -York," and the casu
shows that Bell had fall authority. The name of the principal is disclosed in the contract, and the place of his residence,
as the person making the sale of the flour, through his agent.
This fixes the duty of performalnee upon him, and exonerates
the agent.
The judgment of the court below affirmed.

VOL

XXIII.

