DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

8538

Adams v. Nor.

friends "that he had been to the Governor, and that the Americans could not rob the church any longer;" that he had the
paper, "in which- were all his hopes;" "that he was well
off;" and used other exultant expressions, which denote that
the acquisition of the deed was newly made, and that a great
change was effected by it in his condition and Teelings. In the
month of March, 1850, he announced to .the public of San
Francisc6 that such a grant was in his possession, with other
circumbtances before detailed, and in the month of April conveyed the land to the claimant.The testimony does not disclose what was the depository of
this grant in Santa Barbara, nor when nor under what circumstances it was placed there, nor under what circumstances
withdrawn. Neither Santillan nor Dr. Poli have been examined as witnesses; nor was Pio Pico interrogated in reference
to the authenticity of the grant.
There is no proof to show that any of the conditions of the
grant have been fulfilled. The testimony as to the payment
of any portion of the mission debts is vague and unsatisfactory. There was no judicial possession sought or obtained,
and no claim made for the land as the grantee thereof, to give
the community at large any information concerning it.
Our 6pinion consequently is, that the validity of the grant
has not been oustained, and that the decrees of the board ofcommissioners and the District Courts are erroneous and must
be reversed, and that the cause be remanded to the District
Court, with directions to dismiss tle claim.

EDWIN

G.

ADA MS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, i.

SAMUEL NORRIS.

In California, where a will with its codicils was offered in evidence, the testator
of which died in 1848, an objection to its admission because it had never been
admitted to probate was not well bunilhd. The codicil was not inadmissible
as testimony on that account.
Neither was :t inadmssible because the witnesses who were present at its execution had never been examined to establish ii as an authentic act.
An objection to the admission'of the codicil, because it does not -appear on the
iiu.e of the instrum ,nt that the witnesses were present duiing the whole time
23
vOL. XXXI.

SUPREME COURT.
Adams v. Norris.
of the execution of the will, and heard and understood the dispositions it con
tained, was not well founded.
Cases cited to cstablish this point.
It was proper in the court to allow evidence to go to the jury of a custom in
California as to the manner of making wills, and to instruct them that the
evidence was competent; and that if the custom was so prevailing and notorious that the tacit assent to it of the authorities may be presumed, it will operate to repeal the prior law.
The Spanish law upon this point examined, and also the decisions of the State
courts in California.
It was proper in the court to instruct the jury that the testator and witnesses
should alike hear and understand the testameut, and that, under these conditions, its publication as the will of the testator should be made.
With regard to the proof of the will, as all the witnesses were dead, evidence of
their signatures and that of the testator was admissible, and also of a declaration by him that he had made a will with a similar devise. The sindico, who
attested it, should be counted among the witnesses.
The binding force and legal operation of the codicil are to be determined by
the law as it existed when the codicil was made. But the mode iu which it
should be submitted to the court and jury, and the effect to be given to the
testimony that accompanied it, depend upon the law of the forum at the time
of trial. It was a proper question to be submitted to the jury, whether, under
the circumstances of the case, it was probable the formalities required by law
were complied with.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the districts of California.
It was an ejectment brought by Adams and Grimes, citizens
of Massachusetts, against De Cook and Norris, to recover a
rancho in California. Thte amended complaint reduced the
parties to Adams, plaintiff, against Norris, defendant.
Adams claimed, as representing the heirs at law of one Eliab
Grimes, and Norris under a codicil to the will of Grimes. The
question therefore was, whether the will should stand.
Grimes, who was a Mexican citizen by naturalization, made
a codicil to his will in 1845, by which he devised the rancho
to his nephew, Hiram Grimes, under whom Norris claimed.
The codicil was signed by himself and executed "before me,
in the absence of the two alcaldes.
"ROBERTO T. RIDLEY, Sindico.
"Witnesses: NATHAN SPEAR.
GUILLERMiO HicKLEY."

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

35f

Adams v..Kori.

Upon the trial, the plaintiff made out his title, when the
defendant offered the original will and codicil in evidence, the
will never having been probated.
The witnesses were all dead. Hinckley died in 1846, Spear
in the fall of 1849, and Ridley in April, 1852. Grimes, the
testator, died in November, 1848.
The first exception was as follows:
The plaintiff admitted the genuineness of the signatures to
the documents A and B, and they were given in evidence
without objection; but the plaintiff objected to the admissibility of document C, upon the following grounds:
First. Because a paper offered in evidence as a will or codicil without probate, and which has never been duly probated,
cannot be admitted in evidence for want of such probate, and
does not become a will until probated.
Second. Because the courts of the United States have no
probate jurisdiction; and no document or paper purporting to,
be a will can be probated in any court of the United States.
The court overruled the said objections, and admitted the
said document to be given in evidence, and permitted the defendant to offer proof of the execution of said document, the
the same not having been admitted to probate by any probate
or other court.
The complainant then and there immediately excepted to
the ruling of the court, and the exception was then and there
allowed.
It would be tedious to follow the trial through the numerous points made, prayers to the court, and rulings thereon;
and unnecessary, because the substance of them is stated in
the opinion of the court. The jury found for the defendant,,
and the plaintiff-brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Bejamnin and Mr. Cushing for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Johnson and 31r. Stanton for the
defendant.
The California cases referred to in argument were the following:

SUPREME COURT.
Adams v. Norris.

Panaud v. Jones, 1 California Reports, 49T.
Castro v. Castro, 6 California Reports, 158.
Grimes's Estate v. Norris, 6 California Reports, 621.
Tevis v. Pitcher, 10 California Reports, 465.
1 McAllister's Reports, (this case,) 253.
The arguments of the counsel upon both sides, investigating
minutely the provisions of the Hispano-Mexican law in force
in Mexican California, and referring to the authorities upon
that branch of jurisprudence, would not be interesting to the
generality of the readers of this volume, and are therefore
omitted.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL -elivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff claimed, as the assignee of heirs at law of Eliab
Grimes, deceased, the title and possession of an undivided
seven-eighths of a parcel of land in Sacramento county, known
as the rancho del Paso, containing ten square leagues, being
the land granted to Eliab Grimes by Micheltorena, Governor
of California, the 20th December, 1844. The defendant resisted
the claim, as the assignee of Hiram Grimes, who is a devisee
of the land by a codicil to the last will of Eliab Grimes, which
is in the Spanish language, and of which the following is a
translation:
"SEAL FIRST-EIGHT DOLLARS.
"Provisionally empowered by the maritime custom-house
of the port of Monterey, in the Department of the Californias,
for years eighteen hundred arid forty-four and eighteen hunPABLO DE LA GUERRA.
dred and forty-five.
" MIHELTORENA.

[SEAL.]
"I, Eliab Grimes, a Mexican citizen by naturalization,
having to add a codicil to ray testament heretofore made, and
desirous of doing it in conformity with law established in this
Republic, do make and declare it to be of my will and intention, in presence of the alcalde of this jurisdiction, his secretary, and two witnesses of assistance, as follows:
"Codicil 2d. I give and bestow to Hiram Grimes, my
nephew, all the right and title which the Goveruentcon-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Adams v. Norm.

ceded to me to the rancho known (or named) as the ' rancho
del Paso,' in Upper California, situated on the American river,
as is delineated and appears in the plan and title, the original
of which exists in the public archives of Monterey, together
with all the cattle, horses,, and other animals, that are on said
rancho, as also all the buildings and laboring and cooking
utensils, and all other property of mine which is met with on
said rancho, deducting always a certain proportion of all the
cattle, horses, and other animals, and of their produce, for
those who have had the care of said rancho, in payment of
their services, according to the agreement made.
"And in order that it may be evident, I sign in the manner
above expressed this 18th day of April, 1845, at the pueblo of
San Francisco de Asis, and at the same time there remains
deposited a copy in the archives of the same.
"ELIAB GRIMES.
"Before me, in the absence of the two alcaldes.
"ROBERTO T. RIEDLEY, Sindico.
;'Witnesses:
"NATAI

SPEAR.

" GUILLERMO HINCKLEY."

The verdict and judgment in the Circuit Court were in
favor of the defendant; and the cause is presented to this
court upon exceptions to decisions of the presiding judge in
the course of the trial.
The defendant, to sustain the codicil, established, by the
admission of the plaintiff, the genuineness of the signatures
of the testator 9nd of the witnesses to the codicil, and that
they were all dead, the testator having died in 1848. He also
adduced the testimony of a number of witnesses to prove the
existence of a custom in California asto the mode of making
wills prior to any change in the Mexican law by the State
Government, and that Grimes, shortly before his death, had
informed a witness that he had devised his place of del Paso,
with the stock on it, to Hiram Grimes, his nephew, and desired of him some aid for his nephew in the settlement of his.
affairs. No other testimony is reported in the bill of exceptions. It was contended, on behalf of the plainfiff, that the

SUPREME COURT.
Adams v. Nort.

codicil was not competent as evidence, nor sufficient to transfer property:
1. That the codicil had never been admitted to probate in
California, and that the proof of the signatures to the codicil
was not sufficient to establish its validity.
2. That there is no statement in the paper itself tending to
show that the disposition was dictated by the testator in presence of the witnesses, or read over to the witnesses in the
presence and hearing of the testator, they being present at one
and the same time, without interruption or turning aside to
any other act, and having been so dictated, or so' read over,
was declared by the testator to the witnesses to be his last will
and testament.
3. That three witnesses of assistance are necessary to the
validity of a will, and that the sindico, not having professed
to act as a witness, and being without authority to receive wills
in that capacity, the codicil is void for want of the sufficient
number of witnesses, and that this deficiency could not be
cured by proof of any custom at variance with the written
law.
The court did not support these objections, but instructed
the jury that a will, executed undel- the Mexican laws, in
presence of only two witnesses, afibrds no sufficient proof .of
the execution. But if they should be satisfied, from the proofs
in this case, that a uniform and notorious custom existed uninterruptedly for the space of ten years in California, which
authorized the execution of wills in the presence of two witnesses only, and which custom was so prevailing and notorious
that the tacit assent to it of the authorities may be presumed,
then the proof of such a custom, and for such a length of time,
will operate a repeal of the prior law, and that two witnesses
will be sufficient. On the contrary, if a custom of the character
described and for the period mentioned was not proved to
their satisfaction in such ca e, if three witnesses have not
attested to the codicil, it is a nullity.
The court further instructed tihe jury, that if, friom the evidei:ce and 'inder the Instructions giveni. they should find three
witnesses requkred,
ahv wh. !c!tire whether each and all of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

859

Adams v. Norris.

the three witnesses to the will is or are competent; that the
will being written in the Spanish language, if either of the
witnesses did not speak or read that language, and could not
understand the disposition of the property made by it, and
that the testator wa8 in the same predicament, such witness
would be incompetent, and, unless the custom was established,
the codicil would be null; but if the custom was established,
that custom would control thi.. case; and if the signatares of
the testator and of a sufficient number of witnesses is established, in the absence of countervailing testimony, the jury may
infer a due executionof the will. This selection from some
twenty exceptions will sufficiently present the questions that
were considered in the Circuit Court and have been discussed
at the bar of this court.
These instructions require an examination of tht. law of
California, previously to its organization as a State, relative to
the execution of a testament, and the modification of that law
by the revolution made in its legal system after that event.
The law of Spain was introduced into Mexico, and forms the
basis of its jurisprudence. By the laws of the Council of the
Indies, it was provided in all cases, transactions, and suits,
which are not decided nor provided by the laws contained in
that compilation, nor by the regulations, provisions, or ordinances, enacted and unrepealed concerning the Indies, and by
those which may be promulgated by royal orders, the laws of
the kingdom of Castile shall be observed conformably to the
law of Toro, with respect as well to the substance, determination and decision of causes, transactions, suits, as to the
form of proceeding. The Partidas (6 part, tit. 1, 1. 1, 2) describes two kinds of wills. "The one is that which is called,
in Latin, testamentum nuncupativum, which means a declaration openly made before seven witnesses, by which the
testator makes known by words or in writing who the persons
are whom he institutes as his heirs, and the manner in which he
disposes of his other property." This form of will is of Roman origin, and can be traced to the modes of testamentary
disposition employed in the time of the republic. Originally
the form was wholly nuncupative, but the use of writing

SUPREME COURT.
Adams v. Norrs.

was allowable before the testamentum in scriptis was introduced.
The Partidas proceeds to describe the other form of will"that which is called, in Latin, testamentum in scriptis, which
means a- declaration made in writing, and in no other way.
This will ought to be made before seven witnesses, called at the
instance of the testator for that purpose. Each of the witnesses ought to write his name at the end of the wi!l; and if one
of them should not know how to write, either of the others
may do it for him, at his request. We also say that the testator ought to write his name at the end of the will; and if he
should not know; or could not write, then another may do it
for him, at his itequest."
The witnesses were formerly required to superscribe and
seal as well as sign the will. If the testator desired to conceal
the contents of his will from witnesses, he could do so, either
by writing the will, or procuring it to be written, and enclosing
it in an envelope, and by writing his name and causing the
witnesses to write their names on the envelope, with the declaration that the paper contained the last will and testament
of the testator.
The essence of the testamentum in scriptis consists in the
.vriting, and whether it was published to the witnesses who
;ubscribed and attested it, or was concealed. from them, was
not a fact of any consequence. But the writing contained in
the envelope was subject to no formality. It might be written
by the testator, or by the hand of another. His signature to the
will itself was not required.
The announcement to the witnesses that it was his will, and
their attestation of that declaration, and the sufficiency of the
seals, were the onily securities against forgery or fraud. Other
formalities were added, anid a rigid exaction of those that were
prescribed, rendered this form of testamentary disposition
onerous. On the other hand, the nuncupative or oral will was
subject to the objections that the witnesses might die, or fail
to remember the declarations of the testator, or misrepresent
them. In the process of time, the thrin of making a will orally
became unfrequent. The olographic will and the mystic will

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Adams v. Norris.

served the purpose of those who desired to conceal the disposition of their property; while the written will, prepare.d bya
public officer, and attested by witnesses, was the form commonly used on the continent of Europe.
The last-named form, with a reduced number of witnesses,
was permitted in Spain by'the law of Toro. This testament
might be ruade before a inotary public, but he was not indispensable. ff made before a notary public, there should be
three witnesses of the vicinage; but if there was not a notary,
five witnesses were necessary, unless they could not be had,
in which event three witnesses of the place, or seven strangers,
would be sufficient. 1 Tapia Febrero, 364.
The authentication of the will by the intervention of judicial
authority is also of Roman origin.
Savigny traces the changes in that administration, and explains the manner in which this system penetrated the jurisprudence of Europe; 1 Say. hist. du droit Ro., 83; and the
result, as it affects the question under consideration, is clearly
ascertained in the writings of the civilians.
Ricard says: "It results from what has been established,
that the depositions of-the seven witnesses before the judge,
when the nuncupative will has not been drawn up in writing
at the time it was made, is in a manner of the essence of the
testament, since it could not have effect without those depositions." ***
"But in respect to those that were drawn
up in writing," he says, "the opening and reading that were
made after the death of the testator contributed nothing to
the validity of the testament, and served only to verify the
seals of the witnesses, and to render the testament public.
We see, however, from laws of the title, in what manner shall
testaments be opened (quem ad mod. testam. oper.) in the
Code and Digest, that it was the ordinary practice for those
who were interested in the. execution of the testament to apply
to the pretor, who obliged the'testamentary witnesses to come
before him to admit or deny their signatures and seals, and of
which he made a proces verbal; and that this is the practice
in the countries where the Roman law prevails."
IRicard des don,, 1325-1398.

SUPREME COURT.
Adams v. Norris.

The Mexican jurists agree that the written testament from
its form is not a public and authentic act, and that it is necessary, to the full enjoyment of their rights, that those interested
in the will should invest it with that quality. They show that
such a person may compel the production of a will from private custody, and that the witnesses may be examined in
reference to all the circumstances relative to the execution of
the will, and the capacity and death of the testator; and if it
shall result from these that the testament is legal, the judge
may order it to be protocoled, and it obtains the faith due to
an authentic or public act. These writers describe the measures to be taken in case of the death or absence of the witnesses, in order to obtain the same result. 2 Sala Mex., 127,
128; 2 Curia Felip. Mej., 327; 2 Febrero Mej., ch. 25, section 5.
We do not consider it necessary to inquire whether the
elevation of this writing to the grade of an authentic act was
a necessary condition to the support of a suit upon it by an
heir or legatee in the ordinary tribunals in the Department of
California. We think it is clear that the heir was not restrained from entering upon the inheritance, by the fact that
this was not done; and that there are circumstances that would
have authorized the heir to maintain a suit, even though the
testament could not be produced. The right exists independently of that evidence. Merlin, verbo preuve. Gab. des preuves,
368, 450. This testator died in 1848. His devisee seems
to have taken possession of the property bequeathed to him.
There is no testimony of any action by the tribunals in California previously to the organization of the State Government.
We know that the political condition of California from the
time of the death of the testator until the organization of that
Government was chaotic, and no inference can be drawn from
such an omission. Immediately after the organization of that
Government, the common law of Enghand was introduced,
and the ancient legal system of the Department abrogated.
No provision was made fbr the probate of wills that had been
executed before the introduction of that system. "The statute of the State," say the Supreme Court of California, "faile

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

863

Adams v. Norris.

to require wills executed before its passage to be probated;"
and. "this was not a casus omissus;" but "the Legislature
actually intended to exclude them from the operation of the
statute altogether, leaving their validity to rest upon the laws
under which they were made."
Grimes v. Norris, 6 Cal. R., 621.
And in Castro v. Castro, 6 Cal. R.., 158, they say, that a will
is regarded by the courts of England and the United States as a
conveyance, and takes effect as' a deed, on proof of its execution, unless there be some express statute requiring it to be
probated." Coficeding, therefore, that, under the Mexican
system, the preliminary proof of the will before some public
authority was necessary to give it probative force in a court of
justice, that condition has been altered by the statutes of California before adverted to.
Our conclusion is, that the. codicil was not inadmissible as
testimony, because it had never been admitted to probate, and
because the witnesses who were present at its execution had
never been examined to establish it as an authentic act. The
next inquiry will be, whether the codicil is null because it does
not appear on the face of the will that the witnesses were present during the whole time of the execution of the will, and
heard and understood the dispositions it contained. The laws
that prescribe these formalities do not require that express
mention shall be made of their observance under the penalty
of the nullity of the testament. In Bonne v. Powers, 3 Martin,
N. S., 458, the question arose in Louisiana upon a will mad,
in 1799, before the change of government.
The Supreme Court say: " The Spanish law did not require,
-as our code does, it should appear on the face of the instrument
itself that all the formalities necessary to give effect to a will
previous to the signature of the testator. and the witnesses had
been complied with." In Sophie v. Duplessis, 2 Louis.-Ann.
R., 724, the Supreme Court say: The principle invoked by
the defendants, that a will must exhibit upon its face the evidence that all the formalities required for its signature have
been fulfilled, has no application to nuncupative testaments
under private signatures. Such testaments are not required

SUPREME COURT.
Adams v. NVorrI.

to make full proof of themselves, and the observance of formalities which dc not appear on the face of the will may be
shown by testimony dehors the instrument. Biec, in his supplement to Escriche, reports the case of a mystic will attached
foi nullity, because the solemnities required for those of that
class, in the law of the Partidas before cited, did not appear
to have been followed. The supreme tribunal of justice in
Spain sustained the will. Sup. a]. dic. v. Testamento. And
the same conclusion iWmaintained by the French jurists upon
similar statutes. Merl. Rep. v. Testament.
In order to show that the codicil was valid and translative
of property, the defendant introduced evidence of a custom in
California as to the manner of making wills, and the jury were
instructed that the evidence was competent; and that, if the
custom was so prevailing and notorious that the tacit assent
to it of the authorities may be presumed, it will operate to
repeal the prior law. The civilians state that customs which
are opposed to written law are held to be invalid, unless they
have been specially confirmed by the supreme power of the
State, or have existed immemorially; and it is not material
whether they consist in the non-observance of the written law,
or in the introduction of principles or practices opposed to
such law; that every valid custom presupposes a rule, observed as binding by the persons who are subjected to it, by
an unbroken series of similar acts; and that it belongs to the
sound, legal discretion and conscience of the tribunals to determine by what testimony such a custom can be established.
Lind's Study of Juris., 14, 17, and note.
The Spanish codes recognise these principles. They say, to
establish a custom, the whole or greater part of the people
ought to concur in it; that ten years must have elapsed amongst
persons present, and twenty at least amongst persons absent, in
order to its being introduced; that it may be proved by two
sentences of judges or judgments given upon or according to
it; that, being general and immemorial, it may repeal or alter
the anterior law, the approbation of the Prince being supposed
or presunied.
De Asso & itodri. Inst., ch. 1. I Febrero, 55

I

DECEMBER TEIM, 1859.
Adaras v. Nonris.

The custom under consideration is one of a general nature,
and its existence for the period must be assumed from the verdict of the jury. It is a rule of property pervading in its application, and necessary to be known in order that judicial
administration should be carried on. The recognition of such
a rule, if it exists, was therefore to be looked for from the
superior and supreme tribunals of the State of California. In
the case of Panaud v. Jones, 1 California R., 497-505, the Supreme Court say: "The custom with respect to the execution
of wills, so far as the testimony goes, appears to have prevailed
generally'and for a long time in California. It may have been
the universal practice from the first settlement of the country."
In Castro v. Castro, 6 Cal., 158, this observation is cited, and
the court-say: "That it is shown, from the testimony of various witnesses, that two [witnesses to a will] were sufficient
under the customs of California." The same fact is restated
in the case of Tevis v. Pitcher, 10 Calif. R., 465.
Nor is such a change in the mode of transfer of property a
singular fact in the history of the American States. Several
cases are mentioned in the opinion of the court in Panaud v.
Jones, above cited, and a similar instance is mentioned in
Fowler v. Shearer, 7 Mass., 14.
Nor is the.existence of such a departure from the written
law extraordinary, when the circumstances of the early history
of the Department are understood. The most important of the
arrangements for the colonization of the Department related to
the establishment of the military districts and presidios, and
the mission establishments in close proximity to them. -The
priests and soldiers were the most conspicuous and influential
members of the Department, and exerted supreme influence in
its political and dconomical arrangem~nt§. The Spanish laws
relieved the soldier from the inconvenient formalities that
attended the execution of the ordinary nuncupative or closed
testament, and authorized him to make a nuucupative will
before two witnesses, 6r an olographic will.
The 'canon law distinctly reprobates (priesmTptarn consuetudi.
ner i nrobamus) the requirement of seven or five witnesses
for the testation of 'a will: "secundurn quod leges /rinnanwe decer-

SUPREME COURT.
Adam.s v. Norris.

nunt;" * * * "quia vero a divina lege et sanctorum .Palrum
institutis et a generaliecclesie consuetudine id noscitur esse alienuzn
?um scriptum sit, in ore duorum vel trium testium siet omne vcrbam."
Decret. Greg., lib. 3, tit. 26, ch. 10.
The precept and example of these dominant classes in the
Department may possibly have exercised a controlling influence
in forming the habitude of the population on this subject. And
if it became prevailing and notorious, so as that the assent of the
public authorities may be presumed, upon principles existing
in the jurisprudence of Spain and Mexico, the acts of individuals, in accordance to it, are legitimate. This codicil was
written in the Spanish language; and it is to be inferred that
there was testimony that the testator and one or more of the
witnesses understood that language imperfectly.
The instructions of the Circuit Court required the jury to
find that the testator dictated the contents of the codicil to the
witnesses, they being assembled at the same time, and that it
should be then read in the presence of all, so that it was understood by all, and that the testator should then have declared it to be his last will; and the court informed them that
if the testator did not understood the language, and there was
not present any one who explained and interpreted the codicil
in the presence and hearing and understanding of the witnesses, the document was not a valid instrument; and also,
if neither the testator nor a sufficient number of the witnesses understood the language of the codicil, that it was not
valid.
The Roman law did not require the witnesses to a Latin will
to understand the Latin language: "nam 6i vel sensu percipiat
quis, cui rei adhibitus sit, suftlcere." It is admitted by the civilians that a testator may dictate his will ilhis own language,
and the will may be drawn in another, provided that the witnesses and notary understand both. The object of the law is
that the instrument shall express the intentions of the testator,
and it does not require the reproduction of his exact words.
Whether the witnesses should understand the language of the
will, has been the subject of much contest among those
writers; and names of authority may be cited in favor of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

367

Adams v. A'rris.

either opinion. But the current of judicial authority seems
to have decided it is not necessary that the witnesses to a testament should comprehend the language in which it is written.
And the same authority has settled that the witnesses should
understand the language of the testator.
16 Dalloz. jur. gen. tit. disposi. entre vifs. et test., No.
3126.
3 Trop. don. & test., No. 1526.
2 Marcad. Exp., 15.
Escriche dice. verb. interprece.
The instruction of the presiding judge to the jury, that the
testator and witnesses should alike hear and understand the
testament, and that, under these conditions, its publication as
the will of the testator should be made, embraced all that it
was necessary to be said upon this parL of the case.
The last inquiry to be made refers to the weight to be given
to the testimony adduced in support of the factum of the codicil. This consists of the proof of the signatures of the deceased witnesses and of the testator, and of some declaration
by him that he bad made a will with a similar devise. We
comprise, among the witnesses to the will, Ridley, the sindico. It does not appear that a sindico was charged with any
function in the preparation or execution of testaments by the
law or custom of California. Nor is it clear that the sindico
in the present instance expected to give any sanction to the
instrument by his official character. He attests the execution
of the will, and we cannot perceive why the description of
himself which he affixes to his signature should detract from
the efficacy of that attestation.
The binding force and legal operatiofi of this codicil are to
be determined by the law, as it existed when the codicil was
made. But the mode in which it should be submitted to the
court and jury, and the effect to be given to the testimony
that accompanied it, depend upon the law of the forum at the
time of the trial. The evidence of the signatures of the testator and witnesses was competent; and it was a proper question to be submitted to the jury, whether, under the circumstances of the case, it was probable the formalities required by

SUPREME COURT.
Wiseman v. Chiappella.

the law were complied with. As suppletory proof that the testator had made the codicil, and was acquainted with the contents
of the instrument, the admission -or declaration offered as evidence was competent testimony.
Upon a review of the whole case, our opinion is, there is no
error in the record, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is
affirmed.
WILLIAM WISEMAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
PELLA.

v.

ACHILLE UHIAP-

Where the notarial protest of a bill of exchange stated that the bill had been
handed to him on the day it was due, that lie went several times to the office
of the acceptors of it in order to demand payment for the same, and that at
each time he found the doors closed, and "no person there to answer my
demand," this was a sufficient demand.
It was not necessary to call individually upon one of'the partners of the firm
who had a residence in the city, or to make any further inquiries for' the
acceptors, than the repeated calls at their office.
Cases can be found, and many of them, in which further inquiries than a call
at the place of business of a merchant acceptor have been deemed proper i
but the rulings in such cases will be found to have been made on account of
some peculiar facts in them which do not exist in this case.
In making a demand for an acceptance, the party ought, if possible, to see the
drawee personally, or some agent appointed by him, to accept i and diligent
inquiry must be made tbr him, if he shall not be found at his house or place
of' business. But a demand for payment need not be personal, and it will be
sufficient if it shall be made at one or the other place in business hours.
The cases upon these points examined.
When, upon presentment for acceptance, the drawee does not happen to be
f'ound at his house or counting-room, but is temporarily absent, and no one
is authorized to give an answer, whether the bill will be accepted or not, in
such case it would seem the holder is not bound to consider it as a refusal to
accept, but he may wait a reasonable time fbr the return of the drawee.
He may present the bill on the next day, but this delay is not allowable in a
presentment for payment. This nust be made on the day the bill falls due;
and if there be no one ready at the place to pay the bill, it should be treated
as dishonored, and protested.
Presenting a bill, under such circumstances, at the place of' business of the
acceptor, will bf. in'ima.icie evidence that it had been done at a proper time
of' the day. if that shall be denied, it must be shown by evidence.
Where a suit was brought against a notary in Louisiana for negligence in
inling a protest, lie will be protected from responsibilify by showing that
the protst was made in contormnity with the practice and law of' Louisiana,
where the bill was payable. -

