SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Tucker.

authorizing such a question, or even furnishing an example
where it was put, and our researches in that direction have
not been attended with any better success. For these reasons,
we think the question was properly excluded. Some further
attempts were made by the plaintiffs to impeach this witness,
and with that view they called another witness, who testified
that he knew the one sought to be impeached, and had had
business transactions with him during the years 1852-'53 in
the city where they resided. On being asked by the counsel
of the plaintiffs what was the reputation of the witness for
truth and veracity, he replied that he had no means of knowing what it was, not having had any dealings with him since
those transactions; thereupon the same counsel repeated the
question, limiting it to that period.
Objection was made to that question by the counsel of the
defendants on the ground that the period named in the question was too remote, and the court sustained the objection and
excluded the question. To this ruling the plaintiffs excepted.
Such testimony undoubtedly may properly be excluded by the
court when it applies to a period of time so remote from the
transaction involved in the controversy, as thereby to become
entirely unsatisfactory and immaterial; and as the law cannot
fix that period of limitation, it must necessarily be left to the
discretion of the court. Considering that the witness had
already stated that he was not able to answer the question, we
do not think that the discretion of the court in this case was
unreasonably exercised. None of the exceptions can be sustained, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
affirmed with costs.

AmmxEw LAwRENCE, COMPLAINANT A"D APPELLANT, V. Em&MA
A. TUCKER.
Where a mortgage was given to secure the payment of a note for $5,500, and
such advances as there had been or might be made within two years, not to
exceed in all an indebtment of six thousand dollars, and advances were made
the mortgage was good to cover the advances and the note for $5,600.
The parties to the transaction so understood it, and acted, upon it accordlngly.

DECIE4ER TERM. 18b9.

15

Lawrence v. !&ceo
In respect to the validity of mortgages for exisung 4eots anaL imre acvancea,
there can be no doubt. This court has made three decisions directly and in.
ferentla~ly in support of them.

THIS was an appeal fiom the Oircuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of Illinois.
The nature of the mortgage and the circumstances under
which it was given are set forth in the opinion of 'the court,
and need not be repeated.
The cause was submitted on printed argument by Mr. B.
R. Curtis for the appellant,- and argued by Mr. Tinton, upon a
brief filed by himself and Mr. Hayne, for the appellee.
Mr. Curt s, after giving a narrative of the facts in the case,
and contending that the answer did not allege nor was there
uny evidence tending to prove that the complainant, who was
thus admitted to be a bona fide purchaser for a valuable consideration, had any uotice of any lien upon' this property save
what he gathered from the record of the mortgage to the respondent, made the following points:
1. H. A. Tucker, individually, cannot set up this 4ote
against a subsequent encumbrance, as intended to cover
future advances.
It is true that a mortgage may be taken to secure future
advances; and perhaps, where no fraud is intended, a note for
a sum of money may be given in consideration of such expected advances; though the policy of allowing such departures from strict truth on the public registries of the country
is extremely questionable. But this mortgage, in effect, asserts that the note is not to stand for future advances. For it
makes a specific" and distinct provision for future advances,
and expressly, and clearly distinguishes between them and
the note, which is, in so many words, declared not to have
been given for future-advances, but fo that amount of money
already due.
If H. A. Tucker, individually, had actually made advances'
subsequent to the mortgage, he could not have a lien by virtue
of it, to secure advances, by himself and his firm, beyond the

16

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Tucker.

amount of $6,000, without being allowed to contradict the express and clear terms of the deed, which limits the future advances to that sum.
But he has advanced nothing. And the question is, whether
a mortgage to one partner, purporting to secure a debt due to
him individually, can, as against a bona fide purchaser, without notice of any parol understanding between mortgagor and
mortgagee, be set up as a security for advances made, by the
firm of which he is a member.
2. The mortgage expressly declaring that it was to stand as
security for future advances only to the extent of six thousand dollars, it cannot stand as security for any greater
amount of such advances, as against a junior encumbrancer,
who has no notice of any parol agreement between the mortgagor and mortgagee, that it shall stand as security for a
greater sum.
The public registry informed the complainant that future
advances were not to exceed $6,000; that the note was not
given for future advances to be made by any one, but for
money then due; that the note had reference to dealings between H. A. Tucker, individually, and the mortgagors, and
not between the mortgagors and the firm of H. A. Tucker &
Co.
A decree allowing H. A. Tucker to set up the mortgage as
security for $9,689.56 of advances made by his firm, contradicts each of these material representations, on which the
complainant had a right to rely when he purchased the
property.

3. Upon the face of the mortgage and the whole evidence,
it is not made out with the requisite certainty that there was
an original agreement between the mortgagors and the mortgagees, that the $5,500 note should stand as a continuing
security for all future advances; and when advances to that
amount had been made and repaid, that part of the security,
if ever applicable to advances, was extinguished.
Truscott et al. v. King, 2 Seld., 147.
4. This mortgage to 11. A. Tucker, to secure future advances by the firm of H. A. Tucker & Co., cannot stand as

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Lawrence v. Tucker.

security for advances made after the admission of new partners into the firm. As against the mortgagors, their conduct
and understanding may prevent them from taking this objection. But a junior encumbrancer is affected only by the precise terms of the mortgage itself, which provides only for advances to be made by the then firm of H. A. Tucker & Co.
Either the admission or retirement of a partner puts an end
to the right to make further advances upon the credit of the
security, as against the junior encumbrancer, and, if the
amount due at the time of -such change of the firm is afterwards balanced by payments on account, nothing remains due
on the mortgage.
Bank of Scotland v. Christie, 8 C1. and Fin., 214
Spiers v. Houston, 4 Bligh. N. S., 515.
Pemberton v. Oaks, 4 Russell's R., 154.
Cremer v. Higginson, 1 Mason, 323.
Simpson v. Cook, 1.Bing., 452, 441.
There are cases in which.it has been held that the security
continues, though new partners are introduced into the firm.
But this was only as against the debtor, or his assignees in
bankruptcy, who have only his rights, and by force of an
agreement by the mortgagors to extend the operation df the
security to the new firm.
Without such agreement, which binds only the debtor and
his representatives, there is believed to be no case which
holds that the right to make advances on the credit of the
security continues after a change in the members of the firm.
See Ex parte, Oakes, 2 M. D. and De G., 284.
Ex parte, Marsh, 2 Rose, 239.
If there was such an agreement in this case, the complainant
had no notice of it, and is not bound by it.
The firm of H. A. Tucker & Co. wis changed by the admission of new partners, January 1, 1857, and all advances made
previous to that date have been repaid.
Mr. Vinton replied to these points as follows:
Qu stion 1. The first question that arises in this case is. what
was the mortgage to Tucker intended to secure?
VOL. XX=II.
2

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Tucker.

We claim that it was intended to secure any indebtedness
that might arise in the manner specified therein, to an amount
not exceeding, at any one time, the sum of eleven thousand
five hundred dollars; and that the actual knowledge of defendant's claim by the subsequent encumbrancers, and by
Lawrence, the purchaser, made them chargeable with what
was in fact due on the mortgage, not exceeding that sum, as
the only condition on which they or any of them would be
allowed to redeem the property. In other words, they can
only redeem subjedt to the satisfaction of Tucker's prior
equity, whatever that may be.
Question 2. May a mortgage be taken as a security for future
advances, and be a lien on the property to the extent of the
'um or sums provided for in it?
The cases which affirm the doctrine that a mortgage may be
given to secure future advances, or future liabilities, are very
numerous.
Shirras v. Caig, 7 Craunch, 34; Leeds v. Cameron, 3 Sumner, 492; Lyle v. Ducomb, 5 Binney, 590; Collins v. Carlisle,
13 Illinois, 256-are some of the leading American cases on
this head.
In Leeds v. Cameron, Judge Story said: "Nothing can be
more clear, both upon principle and authority, than that, at
the common law, a mortgage bona fide made may be for future
advances and liabilities for the mortgagor by the mortgagee,
as well as for present debts and liabilities." He cites 3Cranch,
73; 1 Pet. Rep., 448.
There are cases which question the prior lien of the first
mortgage for future advances made after a second mortgage
has been given; but in this case no such question arises, as
all the advances were made before the execution of either of
the subsequent mortgages.
The advances covered by the first mortgage having been
made prior to a subsequent lien, and prior to complainant's
purchase, it could make no difference, nor work any injury to
the subsequent encumbrancers, nor to the complainant as purchaser, that at times during the continuance of the dealing
under the first mortgage there was actually due less than the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

19

Lawrence v. TAwker.

whole amount secured by it, or, if such were the fact, that
there was no indebtedness or balance due; and they cannot
avail themselves of that objection, because, during the continuance of the dealing, the mortgage and note for $5,500 were
treated as and understood by the parties to be a continuing
security for whatever advances might be made during the two
years the contract was to last. And neither subsequent eneumbrancers nor purchasers could suffer any prejudice, if du"
inquiry were made, from a mortgage, the record of which was
notice to all persons of an encumbrance to the extent of eleven
thousand five hundred dollars. They were interested in knowing what was in fact due when the subsequent encumbrance
was taken, and when the subsequent purchase was-made, and
they were interested no further.
The note for $5,500 states on its face that it was given for
an actual loan of money, and consequently the mortgage, to
the extent of that note, "appears to have been given to secure
a debt then due, and this presents the question:
Question 3. Whether parol evidence can be given to show
that the note and mortgage were taken as a collateral, security
for advances thereafter to be made, and that in fact such advances were subsequently made, on the faith of that security?
Ag between the parties to the mortgage, there can be no
question but such proof would be let in. Indeed, it is one of
the most ancient principles of a court of equity, that if a deed
be absolute on its face, *it may be proved by patol, in a court
of equity, that it was a conditional conveyance given to secure
a loan of money.
Whether such proof will be let in against third persons will
depend upon the fact whether the mis-statement or 'aisrepresentation in the deed was made for a dishonest purpose, and
whether such third person has been deceived or injured by it.
This objection w~s made in the case of Shirras v. Caig, (2
Pet. Cond. Rep., 410.) Judge Marsh'all said: "It is true the
real transaction does not appear on the face of the mortgage.
The deed purports to secure a debt of thirty thousand pounds
sterling, due to'-all th6 mortgagees. It was really intended to
secure different sums due at the tiire to pai'ticular mortgagees.

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrenc v. Tucker.

advances afterwards to be made, and liabilities to be incurred
to an uncertain amount."
After remarking that misrepresentations of a transaction
are liable to suspicion, he says: "But if, upon investigation,
the real transaction shall appear to be fair, though somewhat
variant from that which is described, it would seem to be
unjust and unprecedented to deprive the person claiming
under the deed of his real equitable rights, unless it be in
favor of a person who has been in fact injured and deceived
by the misrepresentation. That cannot have happened in the
present case."
The same may be said of the case now in hand; the misrepresentation in Tucker's mortgage, if it may be called such,
has neither injured nor deceived the subsequent encumbrancers nor the purchaser under them, nor was it made for an
unfair or dishonest purpose. If the complainant could prove
any of these facts, he had the right and an opportunity to do
it. And they are not to be presumed in the absence of proof.
Question 4. Judge Curtis, in his brief, has raised the question, whether the mortgage can stand as a security for advances made by the firm of H. A. Tucker & Co., after the admission of new partners into that concern.
The complainant comes into court asking for equity, and
praying that the defendant's legal title to the property mortgaged may be taken from him by a decree of the court. That
being his attitude, he will not be likely to meet with much
encouragement in setting up technicalities to deprive the defendant of his honest rights.
It ought here to be borne in mind, that all the securities
claimed to be now due, with one exception, are notes of hand
given by Floyd & French, payable to the order of H. A.
Tucker alone, and consequently within the precise letter of
the mortgage. The demand note of the 18th of December,
1857, for $2,000, is made payable to H. A. Tucker & Co.
If H. A. Tucker raised money through the firm of H. A.
Tucker & Co., for Floyd & French, and took their notes for it
payable to himself personally, thus bringing the transaction
within the precise letter of the mortgage, who, it may be

DE'EAM1ER TERM, 1859,

21

Lawrence v. 'Bxcer.

asked, has a right to complain of that? Was this dishonest
or unfair?
This fact would seem to dispose of this'o1jection to all the
claims except the $2,060 note. And what, it may well be
asked, is the equity or justice of the objection to that note?
In January, 1857, two new partners were .brought into the
firm of H. A. Tucker & Co. But the stipulation respecting
this fact, at page 34 of the record, shows that no new capital
was brought into the concern. No change was made in the
name of the firm; all the old accounts, and that of Floyd &
French among the rest, were carried forward without any
change. Tucker retained in his own hands the exclusive
right to manage and control the affairs of the concern, and to
sign the partnership name; it was in fact his concern. Floyd
& French continued to get advances as before, with the understanding by both parties that they were made on the faith
of the mortgage.
This understanding and this course of dealing could work
no injury to subsequent encumbrancers, because ihey then had
no mortgage or claim on the property, nor isit pretended they
were misled or deceived by it to their injury.
Lyle v. Ducomb (5 Binney, 590) was a case where defendant Ducomb gave a bond 'for $18,000, conditioned to pay
$9,000, with a mortgage on real estate. By an endorsement
on the mortgage, it was stated that it was made to secure the
plaintiff for notes drawn and to be drawn by him, and by Lyle
and Newman, for Ducomb's accommodation.
Objection was made, that a mortgage intended as an indemnity against acts to be performed at a subsequent time, ought
not to have any effect against third persons.
Tilghman (Justice) said: "This point was very properly
abandoned. There cannot be a more fair, bonafide, and valuable consideration, than the drawing and endorsing of notes
at a future period, for the benefit and at the request ofthe
mortgagor, and nothing is more reasonable than the providing
a sufficient indemnity beforehand."
In that case, six months after the making of the mortgage,
and after a builder's lien had attached to the property, the

SUPIEME 'COURT
Lawrence v. Tucker.

mortgagor and mortgagee entered into an agreement, that a
description of notes not before embraced by the mortgage, and
made by a different drawer than the drawers named in the
mortgage, should be embraced therein. Held, that the parties
had a right to make such agreement, as between themselves,
and that it was also good as to third parties, who were intervening encumbrancers, if the amount of the mortgage encumbrance were not thereby increased beyond the amount which
the mortgage was intended to secure.
5 Binney, 589.
This doctrine would seem to dispose of the objection we are
now considering. In the case of the Commercial Bank v.
Cunningham, (24 Pick., 270,) the mortgagors, who were a
firm under the name of Edgarton,-Whitecomb, & Co., made a
mortgage to secure their existing debts, and also future debts
they might owe mortgagees; and afterwards mortgagors admitted 'a' new partner- into the firm, which assumed a new
name. Held, that notes given by the new firm were covered
and secured by the mortgage.
In conclusion, we think it may be safely affirmed, that upon
no known principle of equity can the defendant be deprived
of his'legal and equitable lien upon the property mortgaged
to him, until he is paid the full amount equitably covered by
the mortgage, and due to him and to the other parties named
in ther deed. .In other words, the complainant himself must
do what is equitable, as the sole condition on which he can
claim -to redbem and obtain possession of the property discharged of the defendant's lien.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have been unable to find' anything in this record to authorize us to change or modify the decree made by the Circuit Court in-this case.
Andrew Lawrence filed his bill in that court, for the northern district of Illinois, against Hiram A. Tucker, to redeem
the furniture of a hotel in the city of Chicago, called the
Briggs House, upon which Tucker has a mortgage.
On the 1st of September, 1856, John J. Floyd and George

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.2

123

Lawrence v. Tuckr.

H. French, who then were the keepers of that hotel, wishing
to have a current business credit with Tucker and the firm of
H. A. Tucker & Co., and the bank named in the mortgage,
executed, under the name and firm of Floyd &French, to Hiram
A. Tucker, a mortgage of the furniture of the hotel, to secure
a note of Floyd & French, made to Tucker, for $5,500, and
such advances of money as there had been or might be made
within two years, by H. A. Tucker, H. A. Tucker & Co., or
the Exchange Bank of H. A. Tucker & Co., not to exceed in
all an indebtment of six thousand dollars in addition to the
sum for which their note was given. The note was dated on
the Ist of September, the day on which the mortgage was
made, pa able one day after date, with interest at the rate of
ten pef cent. per annum. The note was to be held by Tucker,
a's a collateral security for such advances as have just been
stated, and the amount of the note also. Under this arrangement, successive advances were made to Floyd & French, on
their checks or by discount of their notes, until some time in
October, 1857, when they ceased.
Tucker, during this time, continued to hold the note for
$5,500. He also held several other promissory notes of Floyd
&French, as appears by the exhibits, 0, D, E, G, H, annexed
to Tucker's answer to the complainant's bill. All of these notes,
except that for $2,000, are drawn payable to H. A. Tucker;
all of them are prior in dates to other mortgages upon the
same furniture, except the note just pmentioned for $2,000, and
that was a renewal of anote fr a loan made on the 26th'September, 1857, prior to Ithe- date of the mortgages made to
Briggs & Atkyns. The mortgage to Briggs was made ou)the
19th N~ovember, 1857, by 'Floyd & French, and one Ames;'who
had bben taken into their firm. It was given to secure"tebts
due to Briggs, and- liabilities he had assumed for them, and
also for .such advances of money as Briggs might thereafter
niake to them, with a power of sale on default. When Briggs
took this mortgage, he knew that Tucker had a prior -mortgage on the same furniture, and.he states in his evidence .that
he knew advances of money had been made upon it by Tucker,
for which"he knew it stood as a security.

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Tucker.

-

On the 12th-of January, 1858, Floyd & French and Ames
made a third mortgage of the same property to Henry Atkyns,
as trustee, with a like power of sale, to secure debts mentioned
in it. Both of these mortgages refer to Tucker's mortgage as
an existing encumbrance upon the furniture, &c., &c. Briggs
and Atkyns had then, of course, notice of Tucker's mortgage.
Atkyns sold the furniture under his power of sale on the
27th February, 1858; Briggs sold under his power of sale on
the 12th March following. Lawrence became the purchaser
at both sales. Briggs sold to him expressly subject to the
mortgage of French & Floyd to H. A. Tucker; and Lawrence
admits, by a stipulation in the record, that when he purchased
the property under the mortgages, he had notice thai either
the defendant Hiram A. Tucker or H. A. Tucker & Co. held
the notes against Floyd & French, as they are set forth in the
defendant's answer, and that the amount was claimed to be
due upon them, as it is set out in the answer.
Upon referring to that answer, and its exhibits, C, D, E, G,
H, we find that the only securities now claimed to be due are,
with one exception, notes of hand given by Floyd & French,
payable to the order of H. A. Tucker alone, precisely within
the mortgage, and that the note of Decemnber 18th, 1857, payable to H. A. Tucker & Co., for the sum of two thousand dollars, payable at the counting-house of H. A. Tucker & Co., in
Chicago, was for an actual loan of money, and that it was the
renewal of a former note for the same sum, dated the 26th
September, 1857.
W have, then, the admission of the complainant, that when
he purchased under the mortgages of Briggs & Atkyns, he
knew the particular items constituting the outstanding unpaid
debt -of Floyd & -Frep to Hiram A. Tucker and H. A.
Tucker & Co. for advanfces. One of these notes, dated the
14th October, 1857, was for $1,000, exhibit 0; another, dated
22d October, 1857, exhibit D, was for $3,000; the third, exhibit E, dated July 11, was for $450; exhibit G, of the same
date, was a note f6r the Sum of $5,000; and exhibit H, dated
the 18th December, 1857, was for $2,000.
Floyd, who did the financial business of the firm -of Floyd

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

25

lawriw v. !&cker.

& French, testifies that the notes just mentioned were given
for advances; but be claims a credit of $1,500 on the note, ex-hibit D; and states that the note for $450, exhibit E, had not
been given for money advanced, but that it and another note
for the same amount were given for the interest for one year
on the note for $5,500 Floyd also states that the note marked
exhibit I, for $5,500, was signed by himself when he signed
the mortgage, and that he personally made the negotiation
with H. A. Tucker & Co.
It is further stated by him, that the aggregate amount of all
the advances which had been made by the defendant to his
firm upon the faith of the note and the mortgage, since the
first of September, 1856, amounted to "from fifty to a hundred
thousand dollars," and that the sum now remaining due was
"somewhere in the vicinity of ten thousand dollars." He
verifies the notes named in the exhibits, 0, D, E, G, H, with
the originals; confirms the statement in exhibit A of the discounts which his firm had received under the note and mortgage; and-adds, that when the note and mortgage were given,
his firm then owed to H. A. Tucker & Co. twenty-five hundred dollars, which was paid on the 7th September, 1856;
and Iepeats in his cross-examination what he had said in his
examination in chief, concerning the amount of the discounts
and cash received from H. A. Tucker & Co. under the note
and mortgage.
It must have been upon the testimony of this witness that
the court below gave its decree.
But we have not referred to it with the view of testing the
correctness of the sum allowed to the defendant, as the condition upon which the complainant might redeem the mortgage-though, having made the computation, we find it to lbe
correct, with a small mistake. Our object has been to show
that the parties to the original transaction understood it alike,
and acted upon it accordingly; that there never was a difference between them, as to the character of the mortgage aqd
its purpose; and that it was intended to be a security for.and
a lien upon the property mortgaged. for future .advances, to
the extent of the sum provided for in it. So also Floyd &

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Tucker.

French represented it to be in their transactions with others,
when they found it convenient to their business to give other
mortgages upon the same property for the security of other
creditors.
We consider it to be a mortgage for future advances, that
tbey were subsequently made in conformity with its provisions, and that the proofs that they were so, were rightly
received by the court below to substantiate them. There is
neither indirectness nor uncertainty in the terms used in the
mortgage, to make it doubtful that it was intended to cover
the note for $5,500 and for future advances. It is stated in
terms that it was intended for that purpose. The note, though
expressed to be an existing indebtedness at the date of the
mortgage, secured to be paid by a promissory note, payable
one day after date, is associated with the advances to be made
to Floyd & French to the amount of $6,000; but it is proved
that the note and mortgage were in fact taken as a security
for advances thereafter to be made, and that it was done without any other purpose tfian to get a credit extended to them
of eleven thousand five hundred dollars, instead of advances
only to the amount of $6,000. It is objected that the difference makes the transaction subsidiary.
An objection of this kind was made in the case of Shirras v.
Caig, 7 Cranch, 34; but this court then said, it is true the
real transaction does not appear on the face of the mortgage;
the deed purports to have been a debt of thirty thousand
pounds sterling, due to all of the mortgagees. It was really intended to have different sums due at the time to particular
mortgagees, advances afterwards to be niade, and liabilities
to be encountered to an uncertain amount. After remarking
that such misrepresentations of a transaction are liable to suspicion, Chief Justice Marshall adds: "But if, upon investigation, the real transaction shall appear to be fair, though somewhat variant from that which is'described, it would seem to
be. unjust and unprecedented to deprive the person claiming
under the deed real equitable rights, unless it be in favor of a
person who has been in fact injured and deceived by the misrepresentation." In this case, the complainant has not been

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

27

Lawrence v. Tucker.
deceived, and the variance between the alleged indebtedness
and that advances were to be made afterwards gives to his
suit no additional force or equity.
No proof was given by the complainant that he had been
injured or deceived by it into making his purchase under the
mortgages of Briggs and Atkyns, and that cannot be presumed in his behalf. In fact, there is not an averment in the
complainant's bill in favor of the equity of his demand, which
is not met and denied in the defendant's answer, and which
has not been disproved by competent testimony. We do not
think there is anything in the objection that the mortgage to
H. A. Tucker to secird future advances by the firm of H. A.
Tucker & Co. cannot stand as security for advances made
after the admission of new partners into that firm. The cases
cited in support of this objection do not sustain it, and we
have not been able to find any one that does.- They relate
exclusively to stipulations for an advancement of money to a
copartnership after a new member has been taken into the firm.
In respect to the validityof mortgages for existing debts and
future advances, there can be no doubt, if any principle in the
law can be considered as settled by the decisions of courts.
This court has made three decisions directly and inferentially
in support of them: United States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch, 73;
Conrad v. Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters, 448; Shirras
.v. Caig, 7 Cranch, 34: Tilghman, C. J., says, in 5-Binney,
590, Lyle v. Ducombi "there cannot be a more fair, bona
fide, and valuable consideration than the drawing or endorsing
of notes at a future period, for the benefit and at. the request
of the mortgagors; and nothing is more reasonable than the
providing a sufficient indemnity beforehand." Mr. Justice
Story-declared, in Leeds v. Cameron, 3 Sumner, 492, that nothing can be more clear, both upon principle and authority, than
that at the common law a mortgage, bona fide made, may be
for future advances by the mortgagee as well as for present
debts and liabilities. I need not do more upon such a subject
than to refer to the cases of the United States v. Hoo.e, 3
Pranch,'73, and Conrad v. the Atlantic Insurance Company,
1 Peters, 448..

SUPREME COURT.
Richardsonet al. v. Goddardet al.

We affirm the decree of the Circuit Court in this case, and
shall remand it there for execution.

CHARLES RICHARDSON AND OTHERS, CLAImANTS OF THE BARQuE
TANGIER, APPELLANTS, V. DAVID GODDARD AND OTHERS.
The general rules which regulate the delivery of goods by a carrier, by land or
water, explained.
Where the master of a vessel delivered the goods at the ptace chosen by the consignees, at which they agreed to receive them, and did receive a large portion
of them after full and fair notice, and the master deposited them for the consignees in proper order and condition at mid-day, on a week day, in good
weather, it was a good delivery according to the general usages of the commercial and maritime law.
The fact that the Governor of the State had appointed a day as a general fast
day, did not abrogate the right of the master to continue the delivery of the
goods on that day. Holiday is a privilege, not a duty.
There was neither a law of the State forbidding the transaction of business onthat day nor a general usage engrafted into the commercial and maritime
law, forbidding the unlading of vessels on the day set apart for a church festival, fast, or holiday; nor a special custom in the port,forbidding a carrier from
unloading his vessel on such a day.
In the absence of these legal restrictions, the master had a right to continue the
delivery of the goods on the wharf on a fast day.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States. for the district of Massachusetts.
It was the case of a libel filed in the District Court by Goddard & Pritchard, against the barque Tangier, f6r the non-delivery of 6ertain bales of cotton shipped at the port of Apalachicola. The barque arrived'at Boston, and the cotton was
lost tnder the circumstances mentioned in the opinion of the
court. The District Court dismissed the libel, but this decree
was reversed by the Circuit Court, and the vessel ordered-to
pay the amount reported by the assessor. The claimants of
the vessel appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Shepley for the appellants, and
by Mr. Gushing for the appellees.

