SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Noe.

to defeat the appellants of any legal or equitable priority which
they may have acquired for the payment of their claims over
the other creditors, either from their being judgment creditors,
or from their vigilance in first filing a bill to set aside the conveyance from Washburn to Keith. We do not mean now to
decide those points upon this motion, nor any other point
connected with the merits of this controversy. All such points
will claim the attention of the court upon the argument of the
case hereafter. The record clso suggests an inquiry, whether
those persons who were madeoparties to the original bill, and
who have become by the decree of the court participants in
the fund to be distributed, were ncessary parties to the bill,
6r were allowably so, in their then attitude in respect to their
claims against Washburn. And in no other way can the
question of right between themselves and these appellants in
the fund be reached4 for the former, having accomplished their
purpose, for which they were made parties, are neither willing
to appeal from the decree nor to be considered as parties to this
-appea.
The record, indeed, suggests many points connected with
the real merits- of the controversy, and others in respect to
proper pleadings in equity, which cannot be considered and
determined upon a motion to dismiss the appeal summarily
for any irregularities in the process by which it has been
brought to this court. We therefore refuse the motion for
the dismission of the appeal, allowing it, however, to be
brought to the notice of the court again, when the case shall
be a-.gued upon its merits.
This- course has often been taken by this court upon a motion to dismiss a case, for irregularities in- the appeal or writ
-of error, similarly circumstanced as this is.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

V. JAMES NOE.

Where a grant of land in CaliforniS was made in 1841, under the colonization
laws; which looked to the settlement and improvement of the country, and
eleven years elapsed, during which time the applicant t. -c no step toward.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

313

United States v. Noe.
the completion of his title or the fulfilment of the obligations it imposed, nor
is there any expediente in the archives to show the segregation of the land
from the public domain, nor was there any delivery of judicial possession, nor
any other assertion of right, the claimant must be considered guilty of an unreasonable delay in fulfilling his part of the engagemdnt, and has slept for a
lengthened period on his rights, coming forward at last, when circumstances
have changed in his favor, to enforce a stale demand.
The excuse for the laches of the applicant, that the Indians were numerous and
hostile, is not sufficient. That fact existed at the date of the decree in 1841.
The claim must be treated as one abandoned prior to the date of the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, and is not entitled to confirmation.

TIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
It was a claim for an island in the Sacramento river, in California.
*The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Bakk (Attorney General) and Mr.
Mtanton for the United States, and by Mr. Benham for the appellee.
The arguments upon the merits of the case generally need
not be stated, as the decision of the court turned upon a single
point, which was treated by Mr. Benham thus:
The land was not occupied, but it was situated in a-very remote quarter of the country, in the midst of hostile Indians.
This rendered settlement impossible for several years after the
date of the grant, and until political disturbances arose, which
prevented the grantee from occupying it up to the change of
flags.
In regard to this point, the case is stronger than Fremont's.
Elwell's inability to make a d~o-at the time the petition was
presented was stated as in that case, and, as the evidence discloses it, for the same reasons. Here its preliminary production was dispensed with, as in that case, and the conditions
usually imposed were not inserted in the grant. Yet, in. the
Fremont case, where the conditions were imposed, the court
expressed themselves as being encouraged in holding him ex-

SUPREME COURT.
Unt

States v. Ne.

cused for his default, because the Mexican Governor had dispensed with the diseno, for the reasons urged.
There could not, however, be default in this case, for no
time was fixed for performance.
Arredondo's Case, 6 Peters S. 0. R., 745.
The presumption of abandonment cannot arise.
There was no denouncement, and the right was unimpaired
at date of cession. Denouncement was necessary to divest the
grant.
Fremont's Case.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
Robert Elwell, in a petition to Governor Alvarado, that
bears date in 1841, represents that he had resided in the
country sixteen years, was married to one of the natives, and
had a numerous family, and had been employed in commercial
business; that his capital had been-impaired, and he had been
reduced to enlist as a private soldier in the militia, and had
served in the yqar 1838, under the command of the Governor,
in the south, arid had received no compensation. He solicits
of the Governor, as a generous recompense -to his subordinate,
aud also with a view to promote the progress of agriculture,
to confer upon him a concession of a parcel of land situated in
the northern frontier, and forming an island in the Sacramento
river, eighteen leagues from the establishment of Don Aug.
Sutter, containing five square leagues.
The Governor, in March, i841, "in consideration of the
services and merits specified," grants the land askdd for, the
claimant to abide the reports, as to whether the land is vacant
with whatever else that is proper, and that he shall furnish
the diseno, in order to commence the expediente.,
Two days before the claim was presented to the board of
commissioners in 1852, Elwell conveyed his claim to the appellee. He (Elwell) was examined as a witness, and testifies
that he had presented a diseno some three months after he
had exhibited his petition; that there was no information or
fiomal report made to the Governor, and that he had never

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

815

UWited Stat& v. Noe.

occupied the land or had judicial pessession delivered to.him;
that there was no officer to perform these duties.
There is some testimony to show that Noe had ELtenant on
the land in 1851, who inhabited a small house, and that the
whole region of the Sacramento above Sutter's fort was not in
a situation to be occupied, owing to the dangerous character
of the Indians.
The board of commissioners rejected this claim; but, on appeal, their sentence was reversed by the District Court, and
the claim confirmed to the entire island, provided it did not*
.contain more than eleven leagues. From this decree crossappeals have been prosecuted to this court.
As an inducement to the allowance of his petition, the applicant refers to the services he had rendered to the Governor
in a military campaign; but the consideration of the grant is
the proposed improvement of the Department, by the settlement and occupation of its waste lands. The authority of the
Governor to make the grant is derived from the laws that provide for that object.
The decree of the Governor indicates that the title was to
be perfected in the usual manner; and, consequently, that it
was to be subject to the conditions of colonization. An interval of eleven years elapsed from the date.of this decree till the
presentation of the claim to the board of commissioners in
1852. During this time, the applicant took no st.p ,towards
the completion of his title, or the fulfilment of the obligations
it imposed. There is no expediente in the archives to show
the segregation of this island from the public domain, nor
report to the Departmental Assembly or the Supreme Government to testify that a citizen had been enlisted, "to give
impulse to the progress of agriculture in the country." There
was no delivery ofjudicial possession, nor any other assertion
of right, by which t'±a inhabitants could be charged with
notice of this claim. A great change has taken place in the
condition of the country; and other persons have assumed ta
settle and improve the land, which the applicant failed to .do.
It is a general principle of equity, to grant.a decree of
specific performance only in cases where there is a mutuality of

SUPREME COURT
United States v. Noe.

obligation, and When the remedy is mutual, and that it will
not be rendered in favor of one who has been guilty of an
unreasonable delay in fulfilling his part of the engagement,
or who has slept for a lengthened period on his rights, and
comes forward at last, when circumstances have changed in
his favor, to enforce a stale demand. And it would be manifestly unjust to revive long antecedent covenants and dormant
engagements in California, since the change in the condition
and circumstances of that country, where it is evident that
they were treated as abandoned, and imposing no obligation
previously to that change.
The only explanation for the laches of the applicant is found
in the testimony of the witnesses Castro and Combs, who say:
"The whole of the region of country of the Sacramento above
Sutter's fort, or New Helvetia, was not in a situation to be
settled upon by individual grantees, owing to the hostilities
of the Lidians;" "that the Indians were numerous and hostile."
But this fact existed at the date of the decree in 1841, and
will account for the abandonment of the purpose, that the
applicant seems to have entertained at one time, of making a
settlement. It is hardly probable that he could have anticipated the revolution that took place long afterwards in the
condition of the country, and was then preparing to avail himself of the advantage to be derived from it.
In the United States v. Kinsgbury, 12 Pet., 476, the claimant
sought to excuse the non-performance of the condition, because "the country was in a disturbed and dangerous state,
from the date of the grant, and for a long time previous, till
the transfer of the province." The court say: "All the witnesses concur in stating there was no more danger after the
appellee petitioned for the land than there had been before
and at the date of the application. The appellee, then', cannot. be permitted to urge as an excuse in fact or in law, for not
complying with his undertaking, a danger which applies as
forcibly to repudiate the sincerity of his intenti6n " to improve
the land when he petitioned, as it does "his inability from
such danger to execute it afterwards."

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

317

United States v. Noe.

The court say: "That concessions of land upon condition
have been repeatedly confirmed by the court, and it will apply
the principles of its adjudications to all cases of a like kind.
It will, as it has done, liberally construe the performance of
conditions precedent or subsequent in such grants. It has
not nor will it apply, in the construction of such conditions in
such cases, the rules of the common law. But this court cannot say a condition wholly unperformed, without strong proof
of sufficient cause to prevent it, does not defeat all right of
property in land, under such a decree as the appellee in this
case makes the foundation of his claim."
In De Vilemont v. United States, 13 How., '261, the court
say: "The only consideration on which such a title could be
founded was inhabitation and cultivation, either by De Vilemont himself or his tenants; and having done nothing of the
kind, he had no right to a title; nor can the excuse be heard,
that he was prevented from a compliance with the conditions
by the hostility of the Indians, as he took his concession subject to that risk."
In the cases of the United States v. Fremont, 17 How., 560,
and United States v. Redding, 18 How., 1, the court have
considered the effect of the conditions usually accompanying
the grants to land in California, and how far their fulfilment
is to be exacted in determining the validity of those claims.
The court say, in the first case, "there is nothing in the language of the conditions, taking them altogether, nor in their
evident object and policy, which would justify the court in
declaring the lands forfeited to the Government, where no
other person sought to appropriate them, and their performance had not been unreasonably delayed."
In the latter case, it is shown. that the grantee displayed
good faith and reasonable diligence to perform the conditions
annexed to his grant; and all presumptions of an abandonment of his claim were repelled by affirmative and satisfactory
proof.
But, in the present instance, we find nothing to have been
done to place the claim of the applicant upon the records of
the Department; and the duty of a colonist was wholly dis-

SIUPR.EME COURT.
United Mates v. Alvso.

regarded. Within the doctrine of the cases we have cited,
the claim must be treated as one abandoned prior to the date
of the treaty of Guadalupe IHidalgo, and is not entitled to
confirmation.
Decree of the District Court reversed; cause remanded;
petition to be dismissed.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JOSE ANTONIO

ALviso.

Where proceedings for a grant of land in California were commenced by a
Mexican in 1838, and continued from time to time and the claimant ha
been in possession since 1840, and no suspicion of the truth of the claim
exists, this court will not disturb the decree in his favor made by the court
below.

Tis was an appeal from the District Court of the United

States for the northern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton for the United States, and by

Mr. Robinson and Mr. Leigh for the appellee.
The arguments upon the value of the title are omitted.
Upon the subject of possession, the counsel for the appellee
said:

In such a case as this, lapse of time may operate for, but not
against, the petitioner. As was said by the Court of Appeals
of Virginia, its weight "is thrown in favor of the party who
insists that the state of things existing during that lapse shall
not be disturbed."
Evans, &c., v. Spengin, &c., 11 Grat., 622.
In these cases the court said: "The appellees seek only to
preserve the existing state of things; they and those under
whom they claim have been in possession of the subject in
controversy, and have held it since August, 1809, at least.
They are demanding nothing at the hands of the appellants;
they -9.k to defend their long-continued actual possession by

