DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Luco et al.v. United States.

as the line that was intended by the contract of cession between the United States and Georgia. And all of us concur
in this conclusion, that by the contract of cession, Georgia
ceded to the United States all of her lands west of a line beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee river where,
the same crosses the boundary line between the United States
and Spain, running up the said Chattahoochee river and along
the western bank thereof.
'We also agree and -decide that this language implies that
there is ownership of soil and jurisdiction in Georgia in the
bed of the river Chattahoochee, and that the bed of the river
is that portion of its soil which isalternatelycovered and left bare,
as there may be an increase or diminution in the supply of water,
and which is adequate to contain it at its 'average and mean stage
during the entireyear, without reference to the extraordinaryfreshets
of the winter or spring, or the extreme droughts of the summer or
autumn.
The western line of the cession on the Chattahoochee river
must be traced on the water-line of the acclivity of the wester bank, and along that bank where that is defined; and in
such places on the river where the western bank is not defined, it must be continued up the river on the line of its bed,
as that is made by the average and mean stage of the water,
as that is expressed in the conclusion of the preceding paragraph of this opinion.
By the contract of cession, the navigation of the river is free
to both parties.

JUAN M. Luco AND JOSE LEA1DRO

Luc% APPELLANTS, V. THE

UNITED STATES."
A grant of land in California, purporting to have been made to one Jose de ]a
Rosa, dated 4th of December, 1845, and purporting to be signed by Pia.Pico
as acting Governor, and countfbigned by Jose Maria Covarrubias, secretary,
adjudged to be false and forge'd.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of Calif6rnia.

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al. v. United States.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Benham and Mr. Gushing for the appellants, and by Mr. Stanton and Mr. Della Tore for the United States.
This case was remarkable for this one thing, amongst others:
that in the trial below, Mr. Vance, a photographer, was examined, who attached to his deposition photographs of original
documents, of impressions of genuine seals, and of the signatures of Pio Pico. These were exhibited during the argument
in this court.
The counsel for the appellants contended that the evidence
of Mr. Hawes and Raphael Guirado ought to be thrown out
of the case, and then proceeded to argue the other points as
follows:
1. To show why the claim was not presented in time, referring to the proceedings of Congress.
2. To show why the archives did not contain a notice of
the claim, the reason being that the book of Toma de Razon
was lost.

3. That the reason why the journal of the Departmental
Assembly did not contain a record of the approval by that
body was, that the journal produced was only the record of
ordinary sessions, whereas the evidence shows this grant to
have been approved at an extraordinary session.
4. That the testimony clearly establishes the possession of
Rosa.
5. That the signatures were not forged. 'Upon this point
the counsel remarked as follows:
The first testimony offered to prove a forgery is that of certain persons introduced as experts.
This testimony is inadmissible. At the time it was offered,
Pio Pico had not been called to disprove his signature. He
should have been called by thd Government in the very beginning.
When the object is to disprove handwriting, the supposed
maker is the best evidence, and must be called.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

617

Lzuco et a. v Unitekd States.

1 Phil. Ev., pp. 228, 224, 225.

Ibid., p. 43, and note, 918.
2 Phil. Ev., pp. 553, and note, 423.
3 Phil. Ev., pp. 1332 el infra, 1337.
Gurney v. Langlands, 5 Barn. and Ald., p. 339.
To say the least, it argues -very ill for the conviction on the
minds of the Government agents of the forgery, that they did
not call Pio Pico.
[Then followed an examination of the testimony upon this
point.]
6. That the seal was not false.
It is said that the seal on our grant differs from that on our
certificate of approval, which latter is admitted, and proved by
the Government's own witness, to be genuine; and that, inasmuch as Covarrubias says .that he does not remember more
than one seal, the impression on our grant is false.
We do not admit that the difference claimed to exist between the impression on the grant and that on the approval
proves, by any means, that they were made by different stainps.
These stamps were very rude ; they were prepared for printing by greasing them, and holding them in the blaze of a
candle until the soot and grease made a coloring matter; they
were then applied to the-paper, not by a machine which would
give a just impression, but by the hand.
The differences visible in the two impressions consist only
of minute differences between the spaces of parts of the objects on the impressions, or of differences in the relative angles of two or three of the letters of the inscription. All these
differences are mechanical only, occasioned either by the want
of uniform density and proportion in the lanipblack and
grease with which the impression is made, or in the want of
precision or uniformity in the action of the band in applying
the stamp. There seems a greater difference as found occurring accidentally in all such impressions, and they may be
produced experimentally at will with any stamp, either employing wax, or still more employing lampblack and grease.
It will be found, however, that Covarrubias does not say
there was but one seal. It is true, he uses the words imputed

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al. v. United

States.

to him, but he is speaking of the legend of the seal, not of the
stamp or die. At the time he was examined, nobody dreamed
there was any difference be'veen the impressions. An examination of his deposition shows be was speaking of the
legend, and nothing else.
As to any deduction to be drawn from our not producing
an impression from the archives similar to the one impugned,
we protest against it. If the Government desire to predicate
an argument upon the fact, if fact it is, that the archives present no impression like the one on our grant, it should have
been proved. We do not admit that there is any ground of
suspicion in this circumstance. Until it is proved that there
was but one die, there is no reason to suspect the genuineness
of the seal at all. It has the same legend and device the others
have.
This seal is vindicated by the two other seals; they are admitted to be genuine, and the stamp that made them is proved
to have been delivered into the hands of Fremont as early as
the change of flags; the presumption is, that it has remained
in the custody of the Government ever since.
The seal was not necessary upon these papers; it was not
required by law. Covarrubias would not have put on a false
seal when none was necessary. He is the man who made the
grant. He says so, and it is in his handwriting. He ktiew
the law. He was the very man to know exactly what was required. He had been Secretary of State.
It is affirmatively proved to be genuine. Larkin and Arenas
both say it is genuine.
"After proving the seal, it will be presumed to have been
properly affixed, and it will lie on the opposite party to show
that it was affixed by a stranger."
Lord Brounker and Sir Robt. Atkyns, Skinner's Rep., p. 2,
cited in 3 Phil., 1062, n. 717.
If it be supposed we found two blank papers with the genu
ine seals on them, we ask, why did we inot write the grant
and approval on them, and the petition and marginal decree
on an unsealed one ? This theory is forbidden by the fact
that this is not the stamp seal, the habilitating seal, but it is

DECEIBER TERM, 1859.

519

Luwo et aZ. v. Unied State.

the Governor's seal put on acts in his office, to atest their
genuineness as his, not to show the paper was lawful. If it
he supposed that we had access to the genuine stamp, why not
use it on all the papers?
Or if we forged the stamp, why not make afac simile? W ,
have as fine artists in San Francisco as there are in the world,
and the seal is a very rude one.
7. That the description of Pico's office, written at the head
of the grant, was not incorrect.
8. That the character of the witnesses has not been successfully impeached.
9. That the circumstance of other grants made about the
same time not being approved till the next ordinary session
of the Departmental Assembly, was owing to De la Rosa
having so many influential friends, such as Alvarado, Castro,
and Valejo.
Mr. -P. Delca Torre, United States attorney for the northern district of California, for the United States.
This is a claim for confirmation, under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo and the acts of Congress thereon, of a tract of
land known as Ulpinas. The grant, it is alleged, was made by
Pio Pico, the last Mexican Governor of California, to one
Jose de ]a Rosa, on the 4th of December, 1845; and the case
is conducted in the name of the Lucos, purchasers from De ]a
Rosa. The grant is one of that class known as "sobrante"
grants, being for the land remaining within a certain district,
after satisfying the calls of senior grants. Its quantity is estimated*at from fifty to sixty square leagues. The claim was
not presented to the board of land commissioners within the
time limited by the act of 1851, but in 1854 the claimants
applied for and obtained a special act of Congress enabling
them to submit it for adjudication. Claimants produce a grant
in the usual form, purporting to be signed by Governor Pio
Pico,' countersigned by Jose Maria Covarrubias. and attested
by the seal of the California Department; also, from their own
possession, the original petition of Jose de la Rosa, with a
marginal decree of the Governor, and a certificate that the

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al. v. United Stales

Departmental Assembly had approved the grant. Upon these
documents, sustained by a great mass of parol testimony; they
ask a confirmation. *TheUnited States oppose the claim.
It is one of the most important cases of its class which has
yet claimed the attention of this court, both from the magnitude of the claim, and from the line of defence successfully
adopted in the court below, and here renewed. No frivolous
issue is raised; no technical rule of law is invoked, to defeat
substantial rights; no attempt is made to force rules adapted
to other circumstances into strange meanings, in order to
wrest private property from the citizens of a subjugated
province. Nothing of the sort. This grant and the papers
connected with it are denounced as false and simulated.
Forgery is the charge, and, by consequence, perjury; for how
can the two be disconnected?
And the cause will be fully argued., without any surprise to
the claimants. The charges now made are the same as those
made in the District Court. The court will observe, that such
matters as are specially intended to affect the integrity of the
grant, such as the proofs drawn from the silence of the archives, the photographic exhibits to display the forgery of the
Governmental seal of the Department of the Californias, and
the falsity of the signatures, were all put into the record below, after the strictest form of legal requirement, and the
claimants had abundant opportunity to rebut them, if they
could. Nq other record will be appealed to, except such as
the appellants have themselves brought, and very properly
brought, into the case, for the proof of historical facts, and of
such other public matters as by well-settled rules the court
oi itself would take judicial notice.
The issue before the court, then, is, whether the documents
of title now produced, under sanction of a private act of Congress to enable them to be produced, supported by an imposing array of testimony, by a crowd of witnesses, certified
and sworn to by officers formerly high in honorable position
under the Mexican Government, are or are not the result of
criminal contrivance, and the work of the criminal hand. It
would be idle to contend that the positions of the United

])ECEMIBER TERM, 1859.
Iu

.521

et al. v. MWit Mate.

States are compatible with the good fame and truth of many
of the witnesses for the claim. The court will have to weigh
the veracity of witnesses, directly, positively testifying in favor
of the claim, against facts and circumstances which sternly
and out of all doubt declare its falsity. From the painful
nature of the duty already performed in this regard; the counsel is furnished with a standard to estimate how. distasteful
may be this task; still, the case requires it to be done. But,
as the argument of these maiters of fact will take a wide
range, it is hoped that, as some compensation, it will be found
that the discussion will enable the court to lay down certain
rules, by which the validity of California land claims may in
future be certainly and readily tested.
There is an interest which in this and many other California
cases cannot be overlooked-the interest of bona fide settlers.
The Government of the United States contests these cases for the
benefit ultimately of that class. It acquires territory, not that
it may become and remain a vast land owner, but that theacquired territory may be thrown open to its citizens, for their
occupation in moderate quantity, in aid of a public policy so
well settled that this court on all proper occasions feels bound
to carry it out. And the rights of pre-emptors can be worked
out only under the guardianship and in the name of the Government, as they are not allowed to appear and defend in person. It cannot be conceded, as contended, that their rights
should be altogether ignored, nay, even their claims rebuked.
For that class of men, calling themselves settlers, who intrude
upon land in despite of law, or in speculation upon title, there
can be but one just feeling; the Government can have no care
for their imaginary interests. But vastly different is the case
with those who, as in the present instance, go upon the land
in accordance with an invitation from the Government, in
perfect good faith, not only without notice of any adverse
claim, but most, if not all of them, after active .inquiry and
full information that no private claim had ever been made or
heard of. The rights of such.men must be not only respected,
but protected by a just Government. They are the people
who have carried our laws, institutions, and all that make up

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al. v. United States.

an empire, into the wilderness, and subdued it to the purposes
of civilization ; who, to reach this spot where they were bidden by 1.w, have tempted the dangers of two oceans, or traversed vast spaces of desert, cut off from their old homes by
savage mountains and barbarous tribes. They are entitled to
regard and protection.
At the first blush of this case, two circumstances are prominent:
First. The extert of this grant, its quantity bbing so much
beyond the colonization laws, and being made to such a man
as De ]a Rosa.
Second. The late date at which it has been made known to
the public.
As to the first. The grant is for a tract of land contained
within certain boundaries. Its quantity is about sixty leagues,
whilst the granting power of the Governor was restricted to
eleven leagues, by the rules of Mexican colonization, with
which the court is so familiar that they need not be cited.
Under any circumstances, would the court respect this usurped
power? It seems to be supposed that some of the cases arising
under the treaties for the acquisition of Louisiana and Florida
furnish precedents by which, this grant may be supported.
But not so. It is true that in some of those cases the court
flied no limits to the power of the Spanish Governor in making grants. Yet the reason assigned is conclusive. The
Spanish Governors represented the royal personage, an unlimited monarch; and any exercise of authority on their part was
to be referred to, and fed by, the fulness of the powers of him
whom they represented. Their acts were done as by him, and
were valid unless abrogated by his will. Dealing with the
royal domain, if the Crown of Spain was content with its disposal, who was to complain? Hence this court, with perfect
logic, has raised every presumption allowed by law to sustain
the acts of the colonial Governors of Spain. But the case is
widely different when we come to examine the acts of a Governor of a Mexican Territory or Department. Whatever disturbances there may have been to the idea, Mexico for many
years has professed to be a constitutional republic, has so held

DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.

523

Luco et a. v. Unite& States.

herself out to the world, has been so recognised by our own
and all other Governments dealing with her, and must therefore be so regarded by this court in any judicial examination
of the system of law prevailing in any portion of her territory
prior to our acquisition of it. When the question turns upon
the validity of any acts of her officers, they must be submitted
to the same tests as those by which the acts of our own officers are tried. As with us, the great leading rule must be,
that when an officer does an act purporting to bind his Government, the first step in proof of its validity is to show his
authority to bind the Government. Until this be done, the
act is held void as to the Government. In an unlimited Government, the power may be presumed from the act; the authority, from its exercise. But in a limited Government, of
a written constitution and laws, where no power exists in
public agents save what is specially delegated, the existence
of the power must first be established aliunde, before we can
proceed to examine the effect of its exercise.
Now, we are not referred to any regulation, decree, or usage,
of Mexico, to any law, written or unwritten, by which the
Governor of a Department was authorized to grant more than
eleven leagues of land to one individual. On the contrary,
we assert, none such can be adduced.
But even disregarding the effect of the want of power in
Governor Pico to make this excessive grant, let us examine
its probability as a question of fact. Is it at all probable that
a Governor, when acting under his oath of office, with all the
sanctions that attend such position, would grant sixty leagues
of land without shadow of authority, and that, too, by an instrument in which he recites (as is done in this title) the law
of 1824 and the regulations of 1828 as conferring the power
by virtue of which he acts, whilst they in terms expressly forbid the act? Still further: is it likely he would have usurped
this power for the benefit of "Don Pepe," the household jester
of General Vallejo, who, living with the profusion and*
bounty of semi-barbaric pomp, kept such an appendage to his
establishment? For this position does the record a,3sign to
Jose de la Rosa, the alleged grantee.

524

SUPREME COURT.
Luca et al. v. United States.

Nor can it benefit the appellants, that their counsel in this
court have suggested that it was perhaps intended that the
grant should be valid for only eleven leagues. It is an ingenious after-thought, and may show the skill of counsel, but it
comes too late. The original alleged petition of De la Rosa
to Governor Pico asks for all the land within certain limits;
the "titulo" of Governor Pico grants all the land so asked;
the deed of iDe la Rosa to the Lucos conveys the same; their
petition in the court below claims the same; the cause was
urged for the whole tract; evidence was introduced to that
end; and it is in this court that. for the first time, there is any
intimation of a smaller quantity being asked.
This consideration of the antecedent improbability of such
a grant raises, to say the least, gravest doubt of its genuineness.
Next, as to its late publication.
The doubt caused by the first consideration is strengthened
and raised almost to a certainty by the next strange feature of
this case-the length of time and the circumstances under
which the fact of a grant was kept concealed. The influx of
American settlers had, from the year 1849, given great value
to these lands; had placed them in worth, as they were in extent, on an equality with a principality; yet De !a Rosa kept
the secret of his ownership. He remained a pauper and a dependant, as he had always been; and with titles to an estate
of enormous value, he is silent and content with his poverty.
Pioneer after pioneer came to his neighborhood, and inquired
after the grants and the vacant lands of the vicinage, yet no
pretence of ownership is heard of. Finally, the United States
officers, after diligent inquiry, fail to discover any claimant,
and survey the lands as vacant. It is not until the year 18.53,
when the land is covered with the abodes of those whose industry has given it its value, that this most extraordinary
grant is heard of. It is contrary to all ordinary rules of human
conduct, that De la Rosa should have acted as he did, had he
all that time been the owner of an estate of such gigantic dimension.
Taking in connection these two great improbabilities, and

9EC30EMBER TERM, 1859.

525

Luco et al. v. United Statez.

in tb o absenc of even plausible explanation, a court might
well hesitate t..i give its belief to the story told, that such a
grant was mai Ce under such circumstances.
Yet thi3 mnew is not sufficient. The United States in this,
from which iesults may be deduced affecting many othecases, intend' absolute certainty, so far as that can be predicated of the, examination of human testimony. Indeed, it is
most desirable that the charges made below may either be
entirely dissipated, and those implicated restored to their fame
and credit, or that the truth be made so plain that the court
will pronounce it proven.
It is proposed, therefore, in the order of this argument, t'
examine first the parol testimony, especially that adduced to
sustain the claim; and after showing its utter unreliability.
next to demonstrate, by proof drawn from the archives of California, that the whole fabric of the case is composed jf glaring
forgeries.
A single remark may be premised. Counsel have demanded
of the United States attorney a theory as to the time and circumstances of the forgery, if it be one. But the United States
are not bound to present or prove any such theory; it is
enough if the existence of the grant, at the time of its alleged
date, is shown to be incompatible with a state of facts demon
strated to be true. The claimant in a case like this, when all
the actors in the affair are still living-the Governor who
made the grant, his secretary who countersigned and recorded
it, the officer who recommended and the grantee who received
it-has the means of obtaining all the information on the subject, and is bound to clear up all difficulties as they arise. The
Government is a stranger to these matters. Its officers resist
these claims, either because of their insufficient or conflicting
evidence, of counter parol testimony, or, most satisfactory of
all, as in this case, from a knowledge of the history of the
country, and from a familiarity with the archives which deny
the justice of the claim. It would be difficult, if not impossible, without a disclosure made by confederates in the
plot, ever to discover the precise time and circumstances of
the contrivance ani execution of a scheme of for&-ry. But

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al.v. United States.

as truth must be consistent in itself, and with all circumstances surrounding it, the establishment of any facts inconsistent with other assertions necessarily destroys all evidence
in what is so asserted, no matter how bold or how solemn the
statements.
[Counsel then proceeded to examine in detail the parol
testimony in favor of the grant, but the argument could not
be properly reported without a reprint of the record.]
Can any court, from this confused, perplexed, tangled, and
self-destructive mass of assertions, conclude anything in favor
of the grant? Does it not all but demonstrate that the claim
is a fraud, and the evidence a fabrication? Does it not strongly impress the mind with a belief that the whole matter is a
mere contrivance? Is it not entirely lacking in those qualities
of clearness, simplicity, and coherence, which a truthful event,
simply narrated, always presents?
But the grant is now to be submitted to tests much more
satisfactory.
The testimony given by the Mexican archives exposes the
whole deformity of the case. After the experience of this
single case, the court will readily understand why the counsel
for the United States below has been forced to abandon
almost all reliance upon the parol testimony which abounds
in these cases. No fact to establish the validity of a grant
ever lacks a witness; seldom is any circumstance attested by
one person, but another is found directly to contradict it.
*Witness after witness is then produced on either side, to sustain or impeach those preceding them, until the mind rejects
all such testimny as bewildering, and seeks elsewhere for
means of attaining legal certainty. Fortunately, there is a
source whence impartial evidence can be obtained of a
satisfactory nature. ' The old Spanish and Mexican archives
now collected enable us, by proper and diligent examination,
to speak with unfailing accuracy as to the character of the
claims presented for confirmation. The counsel for Government has therefore, in the preparation of his cases below, seetfit to discard in a great measure the system of relying upon
parol testimony, and to introduce in'lieu thereof the habit of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Luco et al. v. United States.

consulting the archives, in whose disclosures he has much
more confidence. Being equally accessible to both parties in
these issues, the court has the farther assurance, that an error
or oversight committed by one, can always be readily corrected by the other.
But as the integrity and completeness of the archives have
been challenged by the other side, and as these points have
to be settled- conclusively, at some time or other, by this
tribunal, it is proper here to examine and vindicate their
authority, both as to their original accuracy and their present
condition. It can be clearly shown that the striking characteristic of the Spanish race, in its adherence to form and
profusion of records, was retained by them in California, and
pervades their public registries; and, also, that the present
condition of the archives entitles them to respect.
[Counsel entered into a minute account of the manner and
the places in which the archives of California had been formerly
kept; the forms of authentication of laws, decrees, &c.; the
mode of transmission from officer to officer, and of registration
by each; the time and manner in which the public documents
came into American possession, at and after the occupation of
the United States forces in 1846; and especially all matters
connected with the expedientes of land grants; the Toma
de Razon (or Book of Registry) for the years 1844 and
1845; the journals of the Departmental Assembly; the uses
and values of habilitated paper, and the various Government
seals, whose forgery has been charged. It is impossible to
report the argument in a compressed forr.]
Now,.to apply this test: Upon an examination of the archives, for the purposes of this case, it is shown:
1. That no expediente for this grant exists among the
archives, where it certainly would have been at one time,
had the grant been genuine. It is true that one witness,
and he the former Secretary of State, is made to say,
in an ex parte affidavit, "that it was the practice of the
office to return the petition with the grant."
Yet, in
giving his testimony, upon his cross-examination, he corrects the error, and says what is true: that when an appli-

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al. v. Uhied Ste.

cation was made for a grant of land, the petition and balance
of the expediente were always carefully archived, and never
permitted to be withdrawn. Even without this correction, the
court itself knows that this was the only course permitted by
Mexican law and usage. A close search has also shown that
every genuine grant for the year 1845 has its corresponding
expediente properly on file; this alone has none.
2. The expediente is not only missing now from the archives,
but we show that it never could have been there.
The expedientes are numbered on their covering sheets, and
the numeration follows the order of the dates of the grants.
Now, for the month of December, 1845, (the alleged date,) the
expedientes are, as usual, continuously numbered; and for
every grant (save this.) bearing date in that month, its corresponding expediente exists in the archives. Now, as there is
no expediente for this in the -archives, and no gap in the
numbering, there never could have been an expediente for it
on file. This disposes of the supposition that the expediente
might have been once archived, and afterwards lost; for, had
this been the case, a blank would have been left in the numbering.
8. No explanation is given of the fact that the claimants
have produced from their own possession papers in the usual
form of an expediente. They have no business to be there;
if they were genaine, they could not be there. It is just
where they would be, however, if the contrivers of this case
thought a manufactured expediente necessary to sustain a
simulated grant. It is to be observed that General Vallejo, who asserts that he delivered the grant to Jose. de la
Rosa, is equally confident that no other papers accompanied
the grant; how, then, did De la Rosa come by it? There is
no explanation of this damaging fact.
4. The title by which Governor Pico styles himself in making
the grant is entirely different from the one he used at the
time of its date. Standing by itself, this would be but a small
circumstance; but it weaves in with all the other circumstances making the woof of the fraud. It is just the blunder
men would be apt to make in constructing an ante-dated docu-

DECEMKBER TERM, 1859.

529

Lu;o e al. v. United Staes.

ment. It is a mistake which an officer in the daily discharge
of his functions would scarcely make.
5. There is no approval of the Departmental Assembly
found among its records. Its journal is preserved, but there
is no mention o this grant. Its evidence is not merely negative; on this point, it is positive and decisive. It shows that
at the very time that it is alleged its approval was given, the
Assembly was not even in session. A certificate, produced by
the claimants, asserts that the grant was approved by the As-.
sembly on the 11th December, 1845; but the journals show
that, on the 8th of October, 1845, the Assembly suspended its
session for the rest of the year, and did not reassemble until
the 2d of March, 1846. This shows the fabrication of the
certificate produced from the custody of the grantee. It
is suggested that perhaps an extraordinary session had been
held, at which this grant was confirmed, but of which no
minute had been taken. Passing over the strange fact, that
in such case this would be the only grant ever presented at
an extraordinary session, and that all grants made about its
date were presented at subsequent ordinary sessions, the effort
fails entirely. The witness (Botello) called to prove that there
might have been an extraordinary meeting, declined eiltirely
to prove any such action at the meeting, if there was one;
so the evidence amounts to a possible meeting and possible
approval.
6. There is no minutb or entry of this grant in the book of
Toma de Razon (or Registry of Grants) for 1844, 1845. All
other grants made within those two years are found recorded
there; and had this been genuine, it would have been entered.
The grant has the usual endorsement of "Queda Toma de
'Razon," or note that an entry had been made in this book,
but it is not therein. The reason is, that the writers of the
grant could put upon it any memorandum they pleased, but
they had .no access to the original registry, and could interpolate no entry in it.
1fow, on these several points, the archives deny the grant;
whilst, had it been genuine, upon some or all they would have
surely testified in its favor. And they are dumb throughout;
VOL. XXrI.

84

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al. v. United Ratw.

the counsel for the Government undertakes to say, from his
own knowledge of the archives, that in the whole two hundred
volumes there is no mention of or allusion to this grant.
But, even beyond all this, the whole case is more strongly
concluded by the next consideration.
The signature of Governor Pio Pico, and the seal of State
to the grant, are both forged.
To facilitate the examination by the court of this part of
the case, photographic copies of the documents were prepared
and put in evidence below. They are now exhibited to the
court, with perfect confidence that they will entirely dispose
of the case. By the employment of the beautiful art of photography, this tribunal can examine the assailed title, and contrast it with papers of undoubted genuineness, with the same
certainty as if all the originals were present, and with even
more convenience and satisfaction.
As to the signatures.
From among the archives were selected all the signatures
of Pio Pico which occur on the expedientes during the month
in which it is claimed this grant was made. These were photographed upon one sheet in the order of their dates, and are
now exhibited to the court. Their corresponding archive
numbers are placed opposite to each, and it will be observed,
as before stated, that there is no blank number, showing that
all the expedientes of this date, which were ever numbered,
are still in the archives. Upon the same sheet is photographed
the signature to the grant in question. It has no corresponding expediente in the archives, and there is no number left for
one. The court can now not only read the parol testimony
understandingly, but can for itself contrast the genuine with
the simulated signature.
[Counsel then pointed out the differences in the nature of
the handwritings, the signatures and rubrics of Governor
Pico, and contended it was physically impossible that one and
the same person could have made the genuine and disputed
signatures.]
The Government seal is forged.
There was a seal in the office of the Mexican Governor of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

531

Luco et al.v. United States.

California, with a certain device, and the legend, "Gobierno
del Dep'to. de Californias;" it was habitually used to authenticate papers issued from that office, and in the latter part of
1845 and in 1846 it was commonly applied to the sheets on
which land grants were written. It is this seal of which the
counterfeit is made. T6 exhibit this clearly, on another sheet
are photographed several impressions of the genuine seal,
grouped around a photograph of the 'assailed stamp. The
principal witness for the claim, J. M. Covarrubias, the former
Secretary of State, whose name appears in that capacity affixed
to this paper, testifies, that there was but one stamp or die
ever used in the office. And herein he is undoubtedly correct.
The court can now see for itself the essential differences between the impressions. Although, at first glance, there is a general resemblance between them, a few minutes close observation, a little patient training of the eye, -will satisfy every one,as
a plain matter of sense; that it is perfectly impossible the impression on this paper could have been made by the same
stamp or die that produced the other and genuine impressions. Of course, there is but one conclusion.
[Counsel pointed out, upon the photographic sheets, more
than twenty differences between the two classes of impressions.]
Inorder that there might be no objection to this novel mode
of preparing the case for final hearing, the court will observe
that these photographs are all matters in the record; the
originals were given in evidence below, according to the
strictest forms of law, and -the copies filed as exhibits when
parol evidence of these differences was given.
These photographs are now presented, that the members of
the court may apply the evidence to them, and observe for
themselves not only the differences pointed out, but others,
that each eye will soon detect for itself.
Throwing aside all other objections, this last examination
closes the case. Taken in connection with the examination
of the archives, the matter stands thus. An alleged grant
Is produced, of which no evidence exists in the archives now,
and which, it i4 demonstrated, never had any mention or

SUPREME COURT.
.Tw~o el dl. v. MWte Sk&&e.

record in any of those public registries, where, had- it been
genuine, it must have been found. With the signature of the
grantor forged, with the attesting seal of State forged, what can
it avail the claimants, then, that men should have been found
careless or reckless enough to swear to its genuinesss and
validity, and to speak of their own connection with it as a
cotemporaneous transaction? No matter how such evidence
may be accumulated, it fails of its purpose. Whilst it may
have the effect of shaking credence in human testimony, it
cannot carry belief to any reasoning mind. But i.t may practically have one other effect, which is now respectfully submitted on the part of the Government. And that is, that scru.
tinizing the vast mass of testimony accumulated in this record,
and its manifest refutal by incontrovertible facts, the court
may adopt, as a canon, in passing upon these grants, that the
fleeting impressions of official memory are not a safe reliance,
and that to establish their validity some evidence drawn from
the archives must be presented in their behalf.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants, Juan Manuel Luco and Jose Leandro Luco,
filed their petition with the board of commissioners for ascertaining and settling land claims in Califbrnia, on the 13th of
September, 1854. This was after the time limited by the-act
of Congress of 1851. But, on their application, Congress
passed a special act (July 17, 1854) authorizing the presentation of their claim.
They claim under a grant made to one Jose de ia Rosa,
dated 4th of December, 1845, and purporting to be signed by
Pio Pico, as acting Governor, and countersigned by Jose
Maria Covarrubias, secretary. This document was deposited
iD the surveyor general's office on the 25th of October, 1853,
aid had attached to it a paper, purporting to be a petition, by
Jose de la Rosa-to the Governor, setting forth that the Government was indebted to him in the sum of $4,650 for services
as printer, and praying for the sobrante, or lands remaining between certain ranches of Vallejo and others.
The boundaries of the land prayed for are set forth very dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

53g

.Luco d aZ. v. United tate .

tinctly, but without any limitation as to the quantity of land
contained therein. On the margin of this petition is the usual
order f~r title, purporting to be signed by Pio Pico on 8th of
November, 1845.
There is also attached a paper, purporting to be a certificate
of approval by the Departmental Assembly, certilied by the
signatures of Pio Pico and Jose M. Covarrubias, and dated
18th of December, 1845.
This grant is for land within certain boundaries, and unrestricted as to quantity. Its confirmation was vigorously opposed
by the c6unsel for the Government. They alleged that the documents produced to supportthe claim weie forgeries, supported by
perjuries of persons who had conspired to defraud the Government of an immense body of valuable land. Upon this issue
the parties went to trial before the commissioners, who found
in favor of the United States. The case went by appeal to the
District Court, where much additional testimony was taken, a
thorough investigation made, and these documents were again
adjudged to be forgeries.
,The appeal to this court compels us, however unpleasant
the task may be,_to pass upon this issue of fact, in which the
character and conduct of -others, besides the parties, will
necessarily be made the subjects of discussion.
This claim first made its public appearance in 1853, after
the lands had been surveyed by the United States. Govern-*
ment as vacant. Previous to such survey, the public offl~ers
had used every diligence to discover whether any person possessed any title or claim to these la.nds, but the inhabitants of
the district, and the owners of adjoining lands, were all ignorant of any claim, by possession, grant, or otherwise.
The lands within the boundaries of this alleged grant-amount
to 270,000 acres, or thereabouts.
The person to whom the grant purports to be made was almost a pauper, and though not actually a servant, yet a dependant of General Vallejo, residing in Sonoma, gaining a
precarious livelihood by making -and mending clothes and tin
ware, acting as alcalde, printer, gardener, surveyor, music
teacher, and attending to a grocery and billiard table for Val..

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al. v. United Sates.

lejo; and during all this time, from the date till the public
oppearance of this title, wholly unaware of his wealth and immense possessions, and always representing himself t a poor
man, while he had in his possession a title to 270,000 acres of
valuable land.
The archives of the Mexican Government furnish not the
slightest trace of any such grant; although all the other grants
made in the same year and month, and on the same day, are
carefully recorded and registered, and the expedientes found
on le.
These facts might well justify the Government officers in
questioning the authenticity of this grant, whatever the character and sfanding of the parties might be, who pretend to
establish it by tlheir testimony.
The claimants, in order to establish their title, examined
Jose M. Oovarrubias, who was secretary of the Governor, PipPico, aithe time the grant purports to have been signed- He
testifies that "it is in his handwriting, and the attestation is his
"signature; that he does not remember to have seen Pio Pico
sign it; but that his signature appears to be genuine, and he
believes he signed it."
We shall have occasion to notice the testimony of this witness more particularly hereafter. At present we only say, that
there- is .no.'reason to doubt the truth of his statement, so far
as he attests his own acts; but that be wrote and signed it on
the day ii.,bears date, needs confirmation; for, if it was so
writtey'and 'igned by him on that day, he should be able to
give, some reason why it does not appear on the register with
the other grants made on the same day. It is true, he attempts
'to.dothis by alleging that he registered it in some other book
not found in the archives, but he cannot give a reason why all
other -grants were on the book found, and this one alone in
somd unknown register. If it was so written and signed by
him on the 4th of December, 1845, it is incumbent on the
claimants to. give some. account-of it-to show why it was
kept secret till 1853- If in possession of the grantee, why it
was.mot produced and laid before the commissioners; why the
petition aud marginal order forming part of the expediente, if

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

585

Luco et a. v. Uiied State.

there was one, is found in the possession of the gantee; and
where and when the certificate of approval was: found and
kept.

These and many other questions, which demand a solution,
the claimants have not endeavored' to answer. But they endeavor to prove-ist, that this grant was seen about the timeit bears date; and 2d, that Rosa had a ranch on this tract of
land, with a stock of cattle and horses,_and resided-on it, for a
time at least, with his wife and family,.up to 1849, claiming it
as his own.
The chief witnesses-to establish these fActs, besides numerous others, called"t6 prove the possession, are Jose de la Rosa,
Mariano G. Vallojo, and his brother,. Salvador -Vallejo. More
than twenty witnesses have been called to prove .that the character for veracity of these persons is so bad that they should
not be believed on their oaths. As many testify to !heir good
character,, and especially to that Mariano G. Vallejo.
There is proof also of declarations of Rosa that Vallejo was
indebted to him or his false swearing for the property .he possesses: "That the only right way of swearing was -by the
priest, with the Catholic cross;" and that "he was not afraid
-)f the laws from the way the Americans swore witnesses."
Such testimony of admissions is 6f very little value, and
is gen.erally not worthy of regard,; and the testimony 'as to
character is so equally balanced, that we do'not feel at" liberty
to reject any portion of it for that reason.. There are many
more satisfactory tests of the truth of parol test~hiony than
that of character of the witnesses. Where the facts sworn to
are capable of contradiction,'they may be proved by others"
not to be trhe; and wheit they are not, the internal evidence
is often more convincing than any other. A shrewd witness,
who 'is swearing" falsely to something which cannot, be' disproved by direct testimony, will confine his recollection whol.
ly to that single fact, professing a want of recollection of all
the facts and circumstances attending it,. An inexperienced witness, whose willingness to oblige his friend exceeds his judgment, will endeavor to give verisimilitude to his tale by a recital of imaginary circumstances. A stringent cross-examina-

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et al. v. United States.

tion will generally involve the latter in a web of contradictions,
which will be in a measure evaded by the other, with the answer that he "does not recollect." Where many witnesses are
produced to the same facts, and they contradict one another
in material circumstances, they prove themselves unworthy of
credit.
It would be a tedious, and we believe an unnecessary task,
to examine severally the testimony of the 120 witnesses examined in this case, and test their respective credibility on the
principles we have stated. With the exception of a few remarks on the testimony of the witness already alluded to, we
shall therefore content ourselves with stating the result of our
examinatin, without an attempt to vindicate its correctness
by exhibiting the process by which it has been attained.
Jose de la Rosa was called by the claimants, and examined.
Having sold to. the claimants without general warranty, he
was a competent witness. He was the person who might elucidate and explain the many difficulties: and suspicious circumstances, connected with this transaction, if they were capable
of explanation. But, instead of it, we find his examination in
chief exen-dingly brief. He is asked to prove the signatures
of TPico and Covarrubias from his knowledge of their signatures. He is then asked if he ever had in his possession this
grant, and when and where he received it. To which he answers, that "he received it from Don Mariano G. Vallejo, in
Sonoma, in the latter part of December, 1845."
4e is then asked if he ever had in his possession .the certificate of aptroval, and 'when and where he received it. To
which he answers, that it was delivered to him by Vallejo in
the begi.nning of the year 1846.
With this nieagre statement of matters, impossible to be
contradicted .except by Vallejo himself, the claimants conclude
their examination in chief. The cross-examination fully confirms the-wise caution of the claimant's counsel in not troubling the witness with too many questions.
When asked to explain his circumstances since 1846, he answers, that "he i9 rich i that his wealth-consists in money at
present; formerly in horses, cows, oxen, houses, and land, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Luco et al. v. Unt

S"ates.

a house in Sonoma. Of mares and horses (he says) I have
probably had five hundred, but not all at one time. From
1846 to 1847, I had 500 head of cattle; that in 1846 he had
ow, all this has
four hundred upon the rancho of Julpines."
been proved by numerous witnesses to be utterly false. It
would be tedious to notice all the absurdities and contradictions of himself, to be found in this cross-examination, as to
the mode in which he has disposed of his wealth.
With regard to the existence of this grant, Mariano G. Vallejo testifies that he received it by a courier from the Governor,
in December, 1845; that he handed it to Rosa, "and he was
much pleased." That this was the only paper received by him,
and ihat is all. On cross-examination, he said he had seen the
petition before he saw it on the files of the land office, but not
the approval.
Again, in answer to another question, he denies ever having
seen any paper but the grant at the time he received it, or
afterwards, till he found the three papers connected together
in the land office. In this he contradicts not only himself,
but Rosa, who says he received the certificate of approval from
him.
This testimony, instead of solving the difficulty as to the
origin and history of this grant, leaves it in greater obscurity
than it was before.
The testimony offered to prove the possession and improvements is so contradictory as to furnish material evidence of its
untruth. One witness describes the house built by Rosa as
made of poles; another declares that it was an adobe house,
and that Rosa resided in it with his family; and as the house
was near the Sacramento road, he had frequently seen them
in it, and their cattle, horses, &c., on the land, up to the year
1849; another, that the house was more than eight leagues
from the road. One says that he lent Rosa horses to convey
his family to the raucho; another, that he took them in a boat;
while Rosa himself ignores the boat, and swears he had horses
of his own, and had no need to borrow, and that his family or
himself had never resided anywhere but in the town of Sonoma, forty miles distant from the land-sometimes visiting his

SUPREME COURT.
LImm et al. v. United ,State9.

rancho for two or three days. Another, after swearing to the
fact of residence by Rosa and family on the land, admits, on
cross-examination, that he never saw the land.
The testimony for the United States establishes beyond a
doubt that the whole of this testimony is a mere fabrication;
that Rosa never resided on the land*; that he had no cattle or
horses, but lived in the town of Sonoma, a dependant of General Vallejo; with difficulty gaining a precarious support from
his numerous avocations; always declaring to the tax assessors
that he had no real property, except a small lot in Sonoma,
and no personalty beyond a cow and a horse.
Thus far the testimony produced by the claimants, instead
of dispelling the suspicions attached to this grant, has only
increased them-forcing on our minds the conviction that a
grant attempted to be supported by peijury must necessarily
itself be false.

"

The first public appearance of this claim, therefore, cannot
be dated earlier than the 18th of March, 1853, when Jose de
la Rosa makes his conveyance to the claimants, reciting this
paper of 4th of December, 1845, for the alleged consideration
of $15,000. This deed describes the land by boundaries, and
is entirely silent as to quantity.
Now, we need not have recourse to the testimony of Rafael
Guirado of the conversation overheard in the house of Vallejo
between himand the claimants, and the alleged confessions
of Vallejo with regard to this grant. .Some doubts have been
cast upon the character of thi ,.witness for veracity, and the
testimony of such declarations afa admissions is, generally
worthy of little reliance. Nevertheless, his story has. an air
of probability when connected with otTer evidence in the case,
that forbids the conclus~on that so great a simpleton as Guirado
could ever have invented it.
The United States, in order to support this issue, are not
bound to show by whom a scheme of fraud has been concocted, or how, when, and where, it Wat executed. It will be,
sufficient if they can show facts inconsistent withthe allega.
.tion that the deed in contest existed on. the day or year of its
date. It is possible that the officers of the late Government

DEOEMBER 'TERM, 1859.
Luc et d. v. Un,

589

Rate,.

may execute grants since their power has ceased; and when
called to prove their authenticity, may forget to mention the
fact that their deeds are antedated. We regret to say that the
testimony in this case justifies and demands this assertion.
Three facts tending to prove the authenticity -of this grant
are proved by claimants: 1st, that the petition now produced in
connection with the grant was sighed by Jose de la Rosa; 2d,
that the marginal order on the same is in the handwriting of
Covarrubias, the secretary, being the only instance in which
he has been known to have acted as clerk to make. such entry;3d, the titulo and certificate of approval are in his handwriting,
and signed byhim.
Admitting these facts to be proved, we must inquire whether
there is sufficient evidence to convince us that -these documents were not executed at the time of their date, but some
seven years thereafter.
I. We have already shown that this grant made its first
public appearance in 1853, when it suddenly came forth, as is
alleged, from the chest or pocket ot Jose de la Rosa, and was
immediately transferred to the claimants.
II. That the grantee himself, examined as a witness, can
give no consistent or probable history of its origin, or why he
had always lived in ignorance of it; or, if its existence was
known to him, why he kept it a secret, or why a poor and
garrulous old man should never mention it to friend or neighbor till about the date of its public appearance; or what possible motive could be found for a millionaire living as a pauper
for so many years, and then disposing of his immense estate
for a trifle.
IEE. We have shown also that the testimony of the witnesses
called to prove a long possession and claim under this title is
a tissue of falsehoods.
These facts alone would be sufficient to condemn this grant,
and show that it had no existence before 1852; but if any
doubts should still exist, that which remains to be stated will
certainly dispel them.
IV. It is proved that the counsel to whom the claimantsIrst made application for his services to obtain a7 onfirmation

SUPREME COURT.
Luco et aL v. Unitd ,ta..

of this grant, on examination of the document presented to
him as evidence of title, refused to be so employed, because
the deed produced was a palpable forgery; that it was not the
instrument now produced; that it had the signature of the secretary, Covarrubias, forged so badly that his name was twice
misspelt in different ways, while the present is written by Covarrubias himself, and is consequently free from such blunders.
It has been argued that this testimony should be rejedted
as incompetent, because counsel has revealed the secrets of
his client. To this it is answered, that the relation never existed, the counsel having refused to stand in that relation to
the claimants. The right. of privilege from examination was
neither claimed by the counsel nor by the claimant, and the
witness being examined without objection, we are not required
to decide how far a counsellor who has been requested and refused to be a partaker with persons attempting to defraud the
Government may plead his .privilege, and refuse to answer.
-Having answered without objection, it cannot affect his credibility that he willing to expose a fraud under these circumstances. As a witness, his testimony is unimpeached and uncontradicted, and unwillingly confirmed by Covarrubias.
V. When the appllcation was made to Congress, the petition and certificateof approval do not appear to have been found,
and were not annexed to the grant till it appeared on file in
the land office.
Vf. There Is no attempt to account for the fact that the
*petition, instead of being annexed to the/expediente, is found
in the hands of claimants, and not among the archives, where
the expedientes of all the authentic grants made in that year
arefound. To account for this fact, Covarrubias, in his first
affidavit, testified "that it was the practice of the office to return the petition with the grant." But when his deposition
Was taken, with cross-examinption, he is forced to confess the
untruth of the first statement, and admits, what is a wellknown fact, that the petition formed part of the expediente
always preserved on file among the archives.
VII. No trace of this grant is to be found among the archives of the Government; it is not found on the registry of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Luco d d. v. Una

541

&te.

grants for that year, while authentic grants made in that year
and month, and day of the month, are found on the files and
registry.
VII. The seal on this paper differs from that found on
authentic grants of the same date, and Covarrubias himself
admits that there was but one seal used in the office while he
was secretary. This seal, on careful examination by persons
qualified to judge, is proved to be a forgery.
IX. The signature of Pio Pico and his rubric, when compared with a large number of his, authentic signatures found
in the archives, and those made on the same day in which the
grant in question is dated, is found to. differ in many particulars from that found on this paper. His offieial signatures are
remarkable for their uniformity. Many excellent judges have
carefully scrutinized and compared these signatures, and de.
clare the signatures in question are forgeries. Two of them
express the opinion that the person who wrote the body of
the instruments made the signatures also.
We have ourselves been able to compare these signatures
by means of photographic copies, and fully concur (from evidence "oeulis subjecta fddibus") that the seal and the signatures of Pico on this instrument are forgeries; and we are the
more confirmed in this opinion by the testimony of Pico himself, found on the record. In a brief affidavit made on the
9th of June, 1853, he swears, without hesitation, that "the
document bearing date December 4, 1845, was. signed by
him." But in his deposition taken in this cause on 27th of
February, 1857, while this issue was pending, he appears to
testify with very great caution. lie seems to have drawn out
a certain formula of words, on which it is clear that a conviction of peijury could never be sustained, whether his testimony was true or false. The answer is in these words, and
three times repeated in the very same words:
"I cannot now rem ember in regard to the original document
mentioned in said interrogatory, but the signature, as appears
in the traced copy, appears to be my signature, and I believe it
was placed there by me at the time the document bears date."
His memory appears to be much weaker than his faith, as-it

542.

SUPREME COURT.
Zuco el aZ. v. Unikd &ate.

might have beet supposed that such a sale of territory would
have attracted his attention suficiently to be remembered
forever after.
X. This certificate of approval by the Departmental Assembly bears date at a time when the public regords and minutes
if that body show that it was not in session. It is dated on
the 18th of December, 1845, and the resolution of approval
appears to have passed on the 11th of the same month.
The records of the proceedings of the Assembly at the close
of 1845, and beginning of 1846, are preserved. They show
that on the 8th October, 1845"The sessions of the Assembly were suspended for the rest
of the year, in consequence of permission having been.granted
to -the Senores deputies, who reside out of this capital, to retire to the places of their residence, in view of the injuries
they must suffer in consequence of their salaries due them
.respectively, as functionaries, not being paid."
A publication of the foregoing in all the pueblos of the.Department was ordered to be made, October 11th, 1845.
The next session of the Assembly, as shown by its journals,
was on the 2d March, 1846. The journals state that the Governor and certain deputies, who are named, had "assembled
for the purpose of reopening the.ordinary sessions, which, by
a resolution of the body, had been suspended for the balance
of last year. Whereupon the proceedings of the 8th day of
October of the last year were read and approved," &c.
It is evident that no ordinary session of the Assembly was
held on the 11th December, the day on which this grant is
certified to liave been approved.
It is contended, however, that extraordinary sessions were
held, of which no record was kept, and the testimony of several witnesses has been taken to establish the fact.
Bu.-this attempt to supplement or falsify these records has
wholly failed, and more especially as it appears that all the
other grants admitted to be genuine, and which are of a date
later than the adjourn rLent, were presented and approved after
the Assembly reassembled, onqthe 2d of March, 1846; and the
rzn of words used in the certificate of approval of this one

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Luco et d. v. UnitZ

545

,Sat.

differs from the eleven others, dated between November 22d,
1845, and December 19th, 1845.
In conclusion, we must say, that, after a careful examination
of the testimony, we entertain no doubt that the title produced
by the claimants is false and forged; and that as an inference
or corollary from the facts now brought to our notice, it may
be received as a general rule of decision, that no grant of land
purporting to have issued from the late Government of California should be received as genuine by the courts of the
United States, unless it be found noted in the registers, or the
expediente, or some part of jt, be found on file among the
archives, where other and genuine grants of the same year are
found; and that owing to the weakness.of memory with regard.
to the dates of grants signed by them, the testimony of the
late officers of that Government cannot be received to supply
or contradict the public records, or establish a title of which
there is no trace to be found in the public archives.
Let the judgment of the District Court be afirmed.

