DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
tte

505

of Aaama v. State of Georgia.

The land described in the petition was purchased by Beebe
with his own money, and the titles were made for his use to
Mrs. Blakely. Subsequently he sold them to one of the parties to the cross-suit (Mrs. Wells) for a valuable consideration,
and, as attorney in fact for- Mrs. Blakely, executed to her a
deed; and The appellees, Westbrook and Guager, claim as purchasers from this person. At the time of the execution of the deed of Mrs. Blakely,
and of her death, she was a feme covert. The appellants insist, that the conveyance to Mrs. Wells in the name of Mrs.
Blakely is void, and that they are entitled to hold the lands as
heirs at law.
We discover no material variation between the principled
applicable in this cause and that of the same appellants and
Wynant, which we have just decided. Upon the authority of
that case, we determine that the decree of the District Court
must be affirmed.

THE STATE OF .A

TLAmA
, COMPLIIAIAN,
GEORGIA.

V. TEE STATE

OF

The boundary line between the States of Georgia and Alabama depends upon
the construction of the following words of the contract of cession between the
United States and Georgia, describing the boundary of the latter, viz: "West
of a line beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee river, where the
same crosses the boundary between the United States and Spain, running up
the said river and along the western bank thereof."
It is the opinion of this court that the language implies that there is ownership
of soil and jurisdiction in Georgia, in the bed of the river Chattahoochee, and.
that the bed of the river is that portion of its soil which is alternathly covered
and left bare, as there may be an -increase or diminution in the supply of
water, and which is adequate to contain it at its average and mean stage
during the entire year, without reference to the extraordinary freshets of the
winter or spring, or the extreme drought of the summer or autumn.
The western line of the cession on the Chattahoochee river must be tracedon the
water line of the acclivity of the western bank, and along that bank where
that is defined; and in such places on the river where the western bank is not
defined, it must be continued up the river on the line of its bed, as that is
made by the average and mean stage of the water, as that is expressed in the
conclusion of the above-recited paragraph.

SUPREME COURT.
State of Alabama v. State of Georgia.
By the contract of cession, the navigation of the river is free to both parties.
See the case of Howard v. Ingersoll, 13 Howard, 381, and the correction of its
syllabus in the errata in 14 Howard in this, that "the boundary line runs
along the top of the high western bank," instead of "the boundary line runs
up the river, on and along its western bank, and the jurisdiction of Georgia in
the soil extends over to the line which is washed by the water wherever it
covers the bed of the river within its banks"

THIS was a case of original jurisdiction in the Supreme
Court, under that article in the Constitution which confers
jurisdiction over controversies between two or more States.
The State of Alabama filed her bill in this court at December term, 1855. After stating the compact of 1802 between
the United States and Georgia, the bill stated. the claim of
Alabama as follows:
The complainant further states, that this line can only be
ascertained with certainty and accuracy by a just and proper
construction of the agreement and cession aforesaid, made and
entered into as aforesaid by and between the State of Georgia
and the said United States, and that, by a just and proper construction thereof, the said line commences at a point where
the 31st degree of north latitude crosses the Chattahoochee
river, and on the western bank of said river, on that part or
portion of the said bank that reaches to or touches the water
at ordinary or common low water, and runs up said river and
along the western bank thereof, and on said portion of said
bank that touches the water at its ordinary or common height,
until said line reaches the point on said river from whence it
leaves the same in a straight direction to ]Nickajack-in
other words, that said line, so far as it runs on the bank of
the Chattahoochee river, runs upon the western bank at the
usual or common low-water mark. And as evidence that the
line as above described is the true and correct line according
to the true intent and meaning of said agreement and cession.
your complainant states, that the banks of said river over and
uponi which said line runs, though at some few places high
and steep, over which the water never passes, yet said banks
are mostly low and figt, so that when the river is high, or
when there is a usual or common freshet, the water of said

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

507

State of Alabama v. State of Georgia.

river spreads over the land at some places as much as a half
mile, at some places less, and other places more than a half
mile west from the common low-water mark. And your complainant cannot and never has believed that it was the inten-.
tion, either" of the State of Georgia or of the United States,
that said line was to be placed on what may be termed the
high-water mark of said river, at the time they entered into
the agreement and cession aforesaid, not only on account of
the uncertainty in ascertaining and locating the same, but also
for the further reason, that at some places on said river the
jurisdiction of the State of Georgia would pass far west of the
river at its ordinary height, whilst at other places, where the
banks or bluffs are high and steep, it would pass but little or
none at all beyond the line marked by the ordinary or common stage of the water.
Influenced by these reasons, as well as by the consideration
that the line of ordinary low-water mark is readily and easily
ascertained, the State of Alabama has ever claimed that said
line runs upon the bank where the water touches -the same
when the river is at its ordinary or common height-that is,
that said line runs on the western bank of said river at usual
or common low-water mark, and not on the -bank at highwater mark. And your complainant has ever claimed and
exercised jurisdiction all along and upon said bank to lowwater mark, as above described, until the line reaches that
point on the river from whence it starts directly to Nickajak.
The State of Alabama then called upon the State of Georgia
to answer the following questions:
1. Whether or not the said defendant does not claim all the
lands on the western bank of the Chattahoochee river, north
of the 31st degree of north latitude, up to the point or place
where the line that separates the State of Alabama from the
Stte of Georgia leaves the bank of said river irn a straight :direction for Nickajack, and whether she does not claim and
aisert a right to exercise jurisdiction and authority over all of
said land on the western side of the Chattahoochee river up to
high-water mark?

SUPREME COURT.
State of Alabama v. State of Georgia.

2. Whether the defendant does not claim that the jurisdiction and soil all along the bank of said river, up to high-water
mark, belong exclusively to her, the said State of Georgia, and
that the line separating the State of Alabama from the State
of Georgia is located on the western bank of said river, at
high-water mark?
3. Has not the complainant described correctly the character
of the bank of said river, and particularly that portion of the
bank commencing at the 31st degree of north latitude, and
extending sixty or seventy miles above?
4. Does not the water, at many places on the western side
of said river, and south of the point where said line leaves the
same for Nickajack, pass far beyond and west of the ordinary
low-water mark?
5. Are not the ,banks of said river, at many places north of
the 31st degree of north latitude, low and flat? and does not
the water of said river, during the usual freshets, pass over
the adjoining land, at some places as much as a half mile, at
some places less, and at other places more than a half mile
west of the ordinary low-water mark of said river?
6. Has not the complainant correctly set forth the first section of the articles of agreement and cession between the United States and the State of Georgia (and described in this bill)
so far as is necessary to ascertain the boundary line between
the States of Alabama and Georgia, and has not the complainant correctly described the titles by which the United
States acquired the Alabama territory? And, if,not, in what
particular is the description defective, and what part of the
articles of agreement and cession not set forth is material in
ascertaining said line?
At December term, 1858, the State of Georgia answered,
after reserving to herself all manner of advantage to be derived from demurrer or plea to the bill. The facts of the
case, as stated by Alabama, were admitted, as was the conclusion that the eastern boundary of Alabama was the western boundary of Georgia, wherever that might be, This
Georgia not only admitted for Alabama, but affirmed for
herself.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

509

State of Xabama v. State of Geomgi.

The claim of Georgia and answer to the interrogatories propounded were as follows:
So far as this line runs along the western bank of the Chattahoochee river, Georgia denies that it runs along the usual or
common low-water mark, but, on the contrary, she contends
that it runs along the western bank at high-water mark, using
high-water mark in the sense of the highest line of the river's
bed; or, in other words, the highest line of that bed, where
the passage of water is sufficiently frequent to be 'marked by a
difference in soil and vegetable growth.
In answer to the specific questions which are propounded
by the bill, the State of Georgia says, that so far as the Chattahoochee river is the dividing line between her and the State
of Alabama, she does claim all the lands, and a right to exercise jurisdiction over all the lands on the western bank of sai-d
river up to high-water mark, using high-water mark in the
sense just above explained. She says, in answer to the second
question, that she does claim that the jurisdiction and soil all
along the western bank of said river, up to high-water mark,
belong exclusively to her, and that the line separating the
State of Alabama from the State of Georgia is located on the
western bank of said river, at high-water mark, using the term
high-water mark in the sense before explained. To the third
question, the State of Georgia says, that while she regards the
description of the banks of the river given in the bill as being
too highly drawn, yet she admits that it is more applicable to
the southern part of the bank than to that part of it sixty or
seventy miles above the 31st degree of north latitude; and
she admits that in some places the banks are flat, but she says
that in other places, especially on the upper' and longer portion of the river, the banks are generally steep and well defined-so much so as to be familiarly known as "the bluffs
of the Ohattahoochee." To the fourth and fifth questimis,
Georgia says, that the banks of said river, at a number £f
places along the dividing line between the two States, are
low and flat; and it is true that in freshets the water passes
west of the low-water mark, as far, perhaps, as half a mile in
some places, and, in a few places, perhaps even farther. To

SUPREME COURT.
Slate of Alabama v. State of Georgia.

the sixth and fast specific question, Georgia answers, that the
first section of the articles of cession from Georgia to the United States is set forth in the bill with substantial correctness,
so far as this controversy can be affected by it, and that the
exact words of that section are as before stated in this answer.
Also, she admits that section to be the only one material to
this issue. She admits that the title of the United States to
the territory of Alabama was acquired from Georgia by the
means described in the bill, but she does not admit the intimation that the United States had acquired a previous title
from the State of South Carolina, nor can she perceive the
relevancy of such an intimation to the present issue.
The evidence in the case was all documentary. There was
filed for the complainant an argument by Mr. Darganand one
by _r. Phillips, who also argued the case orally. It was also
argued orally by ir. McDonald and Mr. Gibson. These arguments partook rather of the character of a diplomatic negotiation than a forensic dispute, and the reporter declines to attempt to abbreviate them in a law book.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered tv, opinion of the court.
This case involves a question of boundary between the
States of Alabama and Georgia.
Alabama claims that its boundary commences on the west
side of the Chattahoochee river at a point where it enters the
State of Florida; from thence up the river along the low-water
mark, on the western side thereof, to the point on Miller's
Bend, next above the place where Uchee creek empties into
such river; thence in a line to Nickajaek, on Tennessee river
Georgia denies that the line intended by the cession of her
western territory to the United States runs along the usual
low-water mark of the perennial stream of the Chattahoochee
river, but that the State of Georgia's boundary line is a linQ
lp the rivet, on and along its western bank, and that the
ownership and jurisdiction of Georgia in the soil of the river
extends over to the water-line of the fast western bank, which,
with the eastern bank of the river, make the bed of the river.

)ECEMBER TERM, 1859.

511

State of Alabama v. State of Georgia.

The difference between the two States must be decided by
the construction which this court shall give to the following
words of the contract of cession: " West of a line beginning on
the western bank of the Chattahoocheeriver, where the same crosses
the boundary between the United States and Spain, runnin# up the
said river and along the western bank thereof."
In making such construction, it is necessary to keep in
mind that there was by the contract of cession a mutual relinquishment of claims by the contracting parties, the United
States ceding to Georgia all its right, title, &c., to the territory
lying east of that line, and Georgia ceding to the United States
all its right and title to the territory west of it.
We believe that the boundary can be satisfactorily determined and run in this suit, from the pleadings of the parties.
notwithstanding their difference as to the locality and direction
of it on the Chattahoochee river.
Georgia is interrogated in certain particulars in the bill,
which the complainant thinks will produce answers illustrative of the right of Alabama to the boundary which is claimed.
Georgia answers them separately, having previously given a
correct and literal copy of the contract. It is as follows:
"The State of Georgia cedes to the United States all the right,
title, and claim, which the said State has to the jurisdiction
and soil of the lands situated within the boundaries of the
United States south of the State of Tennessee, and west of
a line beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee
river, where the same crosses the boundary line between the
United States and Spain; running thence up the said river
Chattahoochee, and along the western bank thereof, to the
great bend thereof, next above the place where a certain creek
or river called Uchee (being the first considerable stream
on the westerni side above the Oussetas and Coweta towns)
empties into the said Ohattahoochec river; thence in a direct
line to Nickajack, on the Tennessee river; thence crossing the
said last-mentioned river; and thence running up the said
Tennessee river, and along the western bank thereof, to the
riouftern boundary line of the State of Tennessee."
In answer to the first question, Georgia admits what is

SUPREME COURT.
&tateofAlabama v. State of Georgia.

alleged in the bill in relation to the definition of the boundaries of the Terri ory of Alabama by an act of Congress, passed
in eighteen hundred and seventeen, and the subsequent grant
of admission of the State of Alabama into the Union with the
same boundaries in the- year eighteen hundred and nineteen;
and the conclusion from it is, simply, that the eastern boundary line of Alabama is the western boundary line of Georgia,
but that, so far as that line runs along the western bank of
the Chattahoochee river, 6eorgia denies that it runs along the
usual or low-water mark; but, on-the contrary, Georgia contends that it runs along the western bank at high-water mark,
using high-water mark in the sense of the highest water-line
of the river's bed; or, in other words, the highest water-line
of that bed, where the passage of water is sufficiently frequent
to be marked by a difference in soil and vegetable growth.
Georgia also answers affirmatively the other interrogatory
in the bill with the same qualification, that what she claims
is a right to exercise jurisdiction over all the lands up to the
water-line of the western bank of the river's bed.
Georgia also says, that while she regards the description of
the banks of the river given in the bill as highly drawn, she
admits it to be more applicable to the southern part of the
bank than to that part of it sixty or seventy miles above the
thirty-first degree of north latitude. It is admitted that in
some places the banks are fiat, but that in other places, especially in the upper pdrtion of the river, the banks are generally
steep and well defined, so much so as to be familiarly known
as the "Bluffs of the Chattahoochee;" and that the banks of
the river in a number of plac6s along the dividing line between
the two States are low and fiat, and that in freshets the water
spreads as far as half a mile beyond the line to the west, and
in a few places further than the western line of the river's bed,
over low lands, which Georgia does not claim to be under its
jurisdiction.
These declarations and admissions upon the part of Georgia
simplify the controversy, and narrow it to the claim of the
respective parties as heretofore set forth.
The contract of cession must be interpreted by the words

DECEM.BER TERM, 1859.

513,

State of Alabama v. State of Georgia.

of it, according to their received meaning and use in the language in which it is written, as that can be collected from
judicial opinions concerning the rights of private persons
upon rivers, and the writings of publicists in reference to the
settlement of controversies between nations and States as to
their ownership and jurisdiction on the soil of rivers within
their banks and beds. Such authorities are to be found in
cases in our own country, and in those of every nation in
Europe.
Woolrych defines a river to be a body of flowing water of
no specific dimensions--larger than a brook or rivulet, less
than a sea-a running stream, pent on each side 6y walls or banks.
Grotius, ch. 2, 18, says a river thas separates two jurisdictions is not to be considered barely as watei, but as watei
confined in such and such banks, and running in such and
such channel. Hence, there is water having a bank and a
bed, over which the water flows, called its channel, meaning,
by the word channel, the place where the river flows, inclu
ding the whole breadth of the river.
Bouvier says banks of rivers contain the river in its natural
channel, where there is the greatest flow of water.
Vattel says that the bed belongs to the owner of th6 river.
It is the running water of a river that makes its bed; for it is
that, and that only, which leaves its indelible mark to. be
readily traced by the eye; and wherever that mark is left,
there is the river's bed.' It may not be there to-day, but it
was there yesterday; and when the occasion comes, it must
and will-unobstructed-again fill its own natural bed. Again,
he says, the owner of a river is entitled to its whole bed, for
the bed is a part of the river.
Mr. Justice Story, in Thomas and Hatch, 3 Sumner, 178, defines shores or flats to be the space between the margin of the
water at a low stage,, and the banks to be what contains it in
its greatest flow; Lord ilalc defines the term shore to be
synonymous with flat, and substitutes the latter for that expression. Mr. Justice Parker does the same, in 6 Mass. Re.
ports, 436, 439.
Chief Justice Marshall says the shore of a river borders on
33
VOL XXIII.

514

SUPREME COURT.
State of Alabama v. State of Georgia.

the water's edge; and the rule of law, as dclared by the
court in .5 Wheat., 379, is, that when a great river is a boundary between two nations or States, if the original property is
not in either, and there be no convention about it, each holds
to the middle of the stream.
Virginia, in her deed of cession to the ijnited States of the
territory northwest of the Ohio, fixed the boundary of that
State at low-water mark on the north side of the Ohio; and
it remains the limit of that State and Kentucky, as well as of
the States adjacent, formed out of that territpry. 3 Dana
Kentucky Reports, 278, 279; 6 Wheaton, 378; Code of Virginia, 1849, pp. 49, 34; 1 St. Ohio, 62. By compact between
Virginia and Kentucky, the navigation is free. A like com,,act exists between New York and New Jersey, as to the
Hudson river and waters of the bay of New York and adjacent waters.
Webster's definition of a bank is a steep declivity rising
from a river or lake, considered so when descending, and
called acclivity when ascending.
Doctor Johnson defines the word bank to be the earth
arising on each side of a water. We say properly the shore
of the sea and the bank of a river, brook, or small water. In
the writings of our English classics, the two words are more
frequently used in those senses; for instance, as when boats
and vessels are approaching the shore to communicate with
those who are upon the banks.
Bailey, in his edition of the Universal Latin Lexicon of
Facciolatus and Forcellinus, says that ripa, the bank of a river,
is exlremitas terrce quod aqua alluitur et proprie dicitur de iurnine;
ut litus de mare, nam hoc depressum est declive atque hurnile, ripa
altior fere est prxeruptiorj and again, ripa recte definitur id quod
flurnen continet, naturalem vigorem cursus sui tenens.
Notwithstanding that there are differences of expression in
the preceding citations, they all concur as to what a river is;
whiat its banks are; that they are distinct from the shore or
flat, and as to what constitutes its channel.
With these authorities and the pleadings of this suit in
view, all of us reject the low-water mark claimed by Alabama

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Luco et al.v. United States.

as the line that was intended by the contract of cession between the United States and Georgia. And all of us concur
in this conclusion, that by the contract of cession, Georgia
ceded to the United States all of her lands west of a line beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee river where,
the same crosses the boundary line between the United States
and Spain, running up the said Chattahoochee river and along
the western bank thereof.
'We also agree and -decide that this language implies that
there is ownership of soil and jurisdiction in Georgia in the
bed of the river Chattahoochee, and that the bed of the river
is that portion of its soil which isalternatelycovered and left bare,
as there may be an increase or diminution in the supply of water,
and which is adequate to contain it at its 'average and mean stage
during the entireyear, without reference to the extraordinaryfreshets
of the winter or spring, or the extreme droughts of the summer or
autumn.
The western line of the cession on the Chattahoochee river
must be traced on the water-line of the acclivity of the wester bank, and along that bank where that is defined; and in
such places on the river where the western bank is not defined, it must be continued up the river on the line of its bed,
as that is made by the average and mean stage of the water,
as that is expressed in the conclusion of the preceding paragraph of this opinion.
By the contract of cession, the navigation of the river is free
to both parties.

JUAN M. Luco AND JOSE LEA1DRO

Luc% APPELLANTS, V. THE

UNITED STATES."
A grant of land in California, purporting to have been made to one Jose de ]a
Rosa, dated 4th of December, 1845, and purporting to be signed by Pia.Pico
as acting Governor, and countfbigned by Jose Maria Covarrubias, secretary,
adjudged to be false and forge'd.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of Calif6rnia.

