SUPREME COURT.
Teee et al. v. Huntingdon et al.

time of granting the appeal, as required by the statute, either
as a security for costs or supersedeas of execution. 1 Stat. at
Large, pages 84, 85, secs. 22, 23, p. 404.
It iB admitted that no bond was given, but the counsel resisting the motion proposes to give one for the costs, and thus
prevent the dismissal, if consistent- with the practice of the
court. The practice has been allowed in several cases, as will
be seen by reference to 10 Wh. R., 311, 16 How., 148, and 9
Wh., 555. In the last case, time was granted within which
to give the bond, or the case be dismissed. The bond may
be taken and approved before any judge or justice authorized
to allow the appeal or writ of error.
Let the appellant have sixty days to give the bond, and file
it with the clerk, upon complying with which order the motion be dismissed; otherwise, granted.

LmvIs TRESE AND L wIs TsEsE, JuN., PLAINTITS in ERROR, V.
0. P. HUNTINGDON AND MARK HOPKINS.
Counsel fees are not a proper element for the consideration of the jury in the
estimation of damages in actions for the infringement of a patent right. This
point has been directly ruled by this court, and is no longer an open question.
By the fifteenth section of the patent act of the fourth of July, 1836, the defendant is permitted to plead the general issue and give any special matter
in evidence, provided notice in writing may have been given to the plaintiff
or his attorney thirty days before the trial.
It is not necessary that this should be served and filed by an order of the court;
and it is sufficient if it was served and filed subsequently to the time when
the depositions were taken and filed in court.
For the purpose of impeaching a witness, a question was asked of another witness, "What is the reputation of the (first) witness for moral character?"
This question was objected to, -and properly not allowed to be put by the
court below.
The elementary writers and cases upon this point examined.
Another witness was asked what was the reputation of the first witness for truth
and veracity, who replied that he had no means of knowing, not having had
any transactions with him for five years. This question was excluded by the
court, which must judge according to its discretion whether or not itapplies
to a time too remote. '

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

8

Teese et al.v. Huntingdon et al.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern distridt of California.
The history of the trial in the court below is fully set forth
in the opinion of this court.

It was argued by .Mr. Phillips for the plainfis in error, and
by Mr. Gifford for the defendants. The arguments of the
counsel upon many of the points which occurred are omitted,
and only the two following will be noticed.
With respect to impeaching the character of a witness, Mr.
Phillips said:
Evidence was offered to impeach the character of one of defendants' witnesses, by showing his "general reputation for
moral character." It was objected, that "the inquiry should
be limited to his general reputation for truth and veracity;"
and the objection was sustained.
The authorities on this point are to be found carefully collated in 21 American Law Journal, N. S., p. 145, where it
is said, that so far as the decisions in England are concerned,
"they are unanimous to the point that the true criterion of
the credit of a witness is his general character and conduct,
and not his general character for truth and veracity. The
English books will be examined in vain for a singre'authoritative case which in any respect limits the examination upon
this point to the character for truth and veracity."
Upon examination, it will be found that this rule obtains in
most of our States.
Other evidence was then offered to prove the reputation of
the witness from 1850 to 1853 for truth and veracity. To
which it was objected, that "the dates named were too rerote, and that the reputation of the witness at a period less
remote from the time of trial could be alone put in issue."
This objection also was sustained.
The judgment was rendered on the 26th October, 1857, and
the time covered by the inquiry was from 1850 to 1853, so
that the intermediate period was less than four years.

SUPREME COURT.
Teese et al. v. Huntingdon et al.

This is certainly a short statute of limitations in favor of
reputation. Whatever influence the question of time was entitled to, was for the jury to consider. The judge could not
exclude the evidence as incompetent, for there is neither com.
mon-law rule nor statute to justify it.
The view which Mr. Gifford took of these points was the
following:
The objection to the -inquiry as to Jesse Morrill's reputa.
tion for "moral character" was properly sustained.
1. It is not in any case proper to seek to impeach a witness,
by proving what was his reputation for moral character.
The inquiry should be as to his reputation for truth and
veracity. ,
-U. States v. Van Sickle, 2 McLean, 219.
Goss v. Stimpson, 2 Sumner, 610.
Gilbert v. Sheldon, 13 Barb., 623.
The People v. Rector, 19 Wend., 569.
Jackson v. Lewis, 13 John. R., 504.
The State v. Bruce, 24 Maine, 71, 72.
Phillips v. Riingfield, 1 Appl., 375.
Commonwealth v. Morse, 3 Pick., 104, 196.
Morse v. Pine, 4 Vermont R., 281.
State v. Smith, 7 Vermont R., 141.
State v. Forrest, 15 Vermont R., 435.
State v. Randolph, 24 Conn. Rep., 363.
State v. Howard, 9 N. Hampshire, 485.
Gilchrist v. McKee, 4 Watts, 380.
Chess v. Chess, 1 Penn. f., 32.
Uhl v. Commonwealth, 6 Grattan, 706.
Ward v. the State, 28 Alabama R., 53-court divided.
Ford v. Ford, 7 Humphrey, 92.
Jones v. the State, 13 Texas, 168
Perkins v. Nobley, 4 Warden's (t io State Rep., 668.
Taylor on Evidence, sec. 1083.
The testimony was properly excl, ied as to what was the
reputation of Jesse Morrill in 1852 , 1853--about five years
before the trial.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Teese et aZ. v. Huntingdon et al.

1. Because it does not appear that said Morrill was a witness called by the defendants. He is not named in the notices
of special matter of defence as one of the defendants' witnesses, and he is not named in the lists of witnesses examined
by the defendants.
It must appear by the record that he was called by the defendants, or this objection for that reason must fall.
The law requires that an authenticated transcript of the
record and an assignment of errors shall be returned with the
writ; and there can be no error cognizable by this court, unless it appear from the record.
The mere assertion of facts in the assignment of errors to
show error, cannot be substituted for the record.
Judiciary Act of 1789, sec. 22.
Conkling's Treatise, 3d ed., 689.
Stevens v. Gladding & Proud, 19 How., 64.
Parsons v. Beddford et al., 3 Peters, 433, 445.
All the information the record gives is, that this Morrill
"had, as a witness in said case, given material evidence for
the defence on said trial."
There is nothing more common than for a witness called
by one party to give "material evidence" for the other party.
This is constantly done on cross-exarginations, and often by
the party opposed to the one calling the Witness, making him
his own witness as to certain facts.
A party cannot impeach a witness called by himself, by
proving him unworthy of belief.
Graham.and Waterman on New Trials, page 953.
The court below ruled out the evidence offered to impeach
Morrill, and, except in so far as the record shows, this court
has no means of knowing why. All presumptions are in favor
of the correctness of the ruling. This court is bound to consider the determination of the court below to have been correct, on the common presumption that the judge exercised his
jurisdiction soundly, until the facts are presented showing the
contrary.
2 Graham and Waterman on New Trials, page 596 to
599, and cases.

SUPREME COURT.
Teese ed a7. v. Hunlingdone al.

2. Said testimony was properly excluded, because, if it had
appeared that this Morrill was a witness in behalf of the defendants, an attempt to impeach him by proving what his reputation was four or five years before the trial, was not admissible.
There must be a limit of time, back of which a party cannot go to prove the reputation of a witness to impeach him;
else to impeach a man on a trial to-day, it might be proved
what hiq reputation was for truth and veracity fifty years ago.
There is no specific time fixed by law, and it must be left
to the discretion of the judge at the trial.
There was no offer or suggestion in the present case, on the
part of the plaintiffs, to add anything to the proof proposed.
They called one witness who, as appears from the record,
did then know Morrill, and proposed to prove by him what
Morrill's reputation was for moral character. This being ruled
out as an improper form of question, they droppod that witness, and called another, who did not know Morrill, and had
not known him for four or five years, and then varied the
question, and put it as to his reputation for truth and veracity.
Why did they not put the question in that form to the first
witness who had the information? Obviously for the reason
that they dared not properly interrogate a witness having the
requisite knowledge, but preferred rather to weave snares to
suspend the case and bill of exceptions.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of California. According to
the transcript,.tbe declaration in this case was filed on the
eighteenth day of March, 1856. It was an action of trespass
on the case for an alleged infringement of certain letters
patent purporting to have been duly issued to the plaintiffs for
a new and useful improvement in a certain machine or implement called a sluice-fork, used for the purpose of removing
stones from sluices and sluice-boxes in washing gold. As the
foundation of the suit, the plaintiffs in their declaration set up
the letters patent, alleging that they were the original and firs4

DEOEIfBER TERMI, 1859,

7

Teese et al. v. Huntingdom et aL

inventors of the improvement therein Uescribed, and charged
that the defendants, on the second day of July, 1855, and on,
divers other days and times between that day. and the day of
the commencement of the suit, unafully and without license
vended and sold a large number of the improved forks made
in imitation of their indention. To thi s charge the defendants
pleaded the general issue, and in addition thereto, set up in
their answer to the declaration two other grounds -ofdefence.
In the first place, they denied that- the plkintiffs were the
original and first inventors of the improvement described in
the letters patent, averring that thd supposed, improvement
was known and used by divers other persons in the United
States long before the pretended invention of the plaintiffs.
They also alleged that the improvement claimed by the plaintiffs, as thei-e invention, was notthe proper subject of a patent
within the true intent and meaning of the patent law of the
United States.
By the fifteenth section of the patent act of the fourth of
July, 1836, the defendant, in actions claiming damagos for.
making, using, or selling, the thing patented,,is permitted. to
plead the general issue, and for certain defences, therein specifled, to give that act and any special matter in evidence which
is pertinent to the issue, and-of which nbtice f-*writing may
have been given to the plaintiff or his attornoy thirty days before the trial. Within that provision, and. subect to that condition, he may, under the general issue, give any"special matter in evidence tending to prove that the patentee was n6t the
original and first inventor or discoverer of the. thing patented,
or a substantial and material part thereof claimd 'as new, oi
that it had been-described in some public work anterior to the
supposed discovery by the patentee, or had been-in public use,
or on sale, with the consent and allowance of the patentee,
before his application for a patent. But whenever the defendant relies in his defence on the fact of a previous invention orknowledge or use of the thing pitented, he is required to "state
in his notice of special matter the names and places of residence
of those whom he intends to prove to havedpossessed a prior
knowledge of the thing, and where the saffie had been used."

SUPREME COURT.
Teese et al. v. Huntingdon et al.

Two written notices were accordingly given by the defend
ants of special matter to be offered in evidence by them at the
trial, in support of the first ground of defence set up in the
answer to the declaration. One was dated on the twenty.
eighth day of August, 1856, and the other on the nineteenth
day of September of the succeeding year, but they were both
duly served and filed in court more than thirty days before the
trial. Upon this state of the pleadings the parties on the
twentieth day of October, 1857; went to trial, and the jury,
uinder the rulings and instructions of the presiding justice, returned their verdict for the defendants. After the plaintiffs
had introduced evidence tending to prove the alleged infringement of their patent, they claimed that counsel fees were recoverable as damages in this action, and offered proof accordingly, in order to show what would be a reasonable charge in
that behalf.
That evidence was objected to by the defendants, upon the
ground that counsel fees were not recoverable as damages in
actions of that description, and the court sustained the objection, and excluded the evidence. To which ruling the
plaintiffs excepted. Little or no reliance was placed upon this
exception by the counsel of the plaintiffs, and in view of the
circumstances one or two remarks upon the subject will be
sufficient. Suppose it could be admitted that counsel fees
constituted a proper element for the consideration of the jury,
in the estimation of damages in cases of.this description ; still
the error of the court in excluding the evidence would furnish
no ground to reverse the judgment, for the reason that the
verdict was for the defendants. For all purposes connected
with this investigation, it must be assumed, under the finding
of the jury, that the plaintifs were not entitled to any damages whatever; and if not, then the evidence excluded by the
ruling of the court was entirely immaterial. But the evidence
was properly rejected on the ground assumed by the presiding
justice.
Counsel fees are not a proper element for the consideration
of the jury in the estimation of damages in actions for the in
fringement of a patent right. That point has been directly

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Teese et aL v. .,Huningdonet al.

ruled by this court, and is no longer an open question. Jurors
are required to find the actual damages incurred by the plaintiff at the time his suit was brought; and if, in the opinion of
the court, the defendant has not acted in good faith, or has
caused unnecessary expense and injury to the plaintiff, the
court may render judgment for a larger sum, not exceeding
three times the amount of the verdict. 5 Stat. at Large, page
123. Day v. Woodworth, 13 How., 872. To maintain the
issue on their part, the defendants offered three depositions,
each tending to prove that the plaintiffs were not the original
and first inventors of the improvement described in their letters patent.
Objection was seasonably made by the plaintiffs to "the introduction of each of these depositions on two grounds: 1.
Because the first notice of special matter to be introduced at
the trial did not accord with the proof offered, as contained
in these depositions. 2. Because the second notice of special
matter to be thus introduced was served and filed without
any order from the court, and therefore should be disregarded.
Ekceptions were duly,*taken to the respective rulings of the
court, in admitting each of these depositions; but as they all
depend upon the same general considerations, they will be
considered together.
It is conceded by the defendants that the first notice was,
to some extent, insufficient. On the other hand, it is admitted by the plaintiffs that the terms of the second notice were
sufficiently comprehensive and specific to justify the rulings
of the court, in allowing the depositions to be read to the jury.
They, however, insist upon the objection, taken at the trial,
that it was served and filed without any order of the court,
and that it was insufficient, because it was served and filed
subsequently to the time when the depositions were taken and
ified in court.
But neither of these objections can be sustained. All that
the act of Congress requires is, that notice of the special matter to be offered in evidence at the trial shall be in writing,
and be given to the plaintiff, or his attorney, more than thirty
days before the trial. By the plain terms of the law, it is a

SUPREME COURT.
Teese et al. v. Huntingdone a?.

right conferred upon the defendant; and of course he may
exercise it in the manner and upon the conditions therein
pointed out, without any leave or order from the court.
When the notice is properly drawn, and duly and seasonably
served and filed in court as a part of the pleadings, nothing
further is required to give the defendant the full and unrestricted benefit of the provision.
Such notice is required, in order to guard patentees from
being surprised at the trial by evidence of a nature which
they could not be presumed to know or be prepared to meet,
and thereby subject them either to delay or a loss of their
cause. - To prevent such consequences, the defendant is required to specify the names and places of residence of the
persons on whose prior knowledge of the alleged improvement he relies to disprove the novelty of the invention, and
the place or places where the same had been used. Wilton
v. Railroads, 1 Wall, jun., 195.
Compliance with this provision, on the part of the defendant, being a condition precedent to his right to introduce such
special matter under the general issue, it necessarily follows
that he may give the requisite notice without any leave or
order from the court; and for the same reason, if he afterwards discovers that the first notice served is defective, or not
sufficiently comprehensive to admit his defence, he may give
another, to remedy the defect or supply the deficiency, subject
to the same condition that it must be in writing, and be
served more than thirty days before the trial.
Having given the notice as required by the act of Congress,
the defendant at the trial may proceed to prove the facts
therein set forth by any legal aid competent testimony. For
that purpose, he may call and examine witnesses upon the
stand, or he may introduce any deposition which has been
legally taken in the cause. Under those circumstances, depositions taken before the notice was served, as well as those
taken afterward, are equally admissible, provided the statements of the deponents are applicable to the matters thus put
in issue between the parties.
After the defence was closed, the plaintiffi offered evidence

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Teese et al. v. Huntingdonet al.

to impeach one of the witnesses, who had given material testimony for the defendants. When called, the impeaching
witness stated that he knew the. Witness sought to be impeached, and knew other persons who were acquainted with
the witness, and that they both resided in the city of Sacramento; whereupon, the counsel of the plaintiffs put the question, "What is the reputation of the witness for moral character 1" To that question, the counsel of the defendants
objected, on the ground that the inquiry should be limited to
the general reputation of the witness for truth and veracity,
with the right to put the further inquiry whether the witness
testifying would believe the other on his oath; and the court
sustained the objection, and rejected the testimony.
No reasons were assigned by the court for the ruling; and
of course the only point presented is, whether the particular
question propounded was properly excluded.
Courts of justice differ very widely, whether the general
reputation of the witness for truth .and veracity is the true
arid sole criterion of his credit, or whether the inquiry may
--not properly be extended to his entire moral character and
estimation in society. They also differ as to the right to -inquire of the impeaching witness whether he would believe
the. other on his oath. All agree, however, that the first inquiry must be restricted either to the general reputation of
the witness for truth and veracity, or to his general character;
and-that it cannot be extended to particular facts or transactiohs, for the reason that, while every man is supposed to be
fully prepared to meet those general inquiries, it is not likely
he would be equally so without notice to answer as to particular acts.
According to the views of Mr. Greenleaf, the inquiry in all
cases should be restricted to the general reputation of the
witness for truth and veracity; and he also expresses the
opinion that the weight of authority in the 'American courts
is against allowing the question to be put to the impeaching
witness whether he would believe the other on his oath. In
the last edition of. his work on the law of evidence, he refers
to several decided cases, which appear to support these posi-

SU-PREME COURT.
Teese et al: v. Huntingdonet al.

tions; and it must be admitted that some of these decisions,
as well as others that have since been mhde to the same effect,
are enforced by reasons drawn from the analogies of the law,
to which it would be difficult to give any satisfactory answer.
1 Greenl. Ev., sec. 461; Phillips v." Kingfield, 19 Me., 375,
per Shepley, J.; Goss v. Stimpson, 2 Sum., 610; Wood v.
Mann, 2 Sum., 321; Craig v. the State, 5 Ohio N. S., 605;
Gilbert v. Sheldon, 13 Barb., 623; Jackson v. Lewis, 13
Johns. R., 504; United States v. Van Sickle, 2 McLean, 219;
State i. Bruce, 24 Me., 72; Com. v. Morse, 3 Pick., 196; Gilchrist v. McKee, 4 Watts, 380; State v. Smith, 7 Vt. R., 141;
Frye v. Bank of Illinois, 11 Ill. R., 367; Jones v. the State,
13 Texas R., 168; State v. Randolph, 24 Conn. R., 863; Uhl
v. Com., 6 Gratt., 706; Wike v. Lightner, 11 S. and R., 338;
Kemmel v. Kemmel, 3 S. and R., 338; State'v. Howard, 9 N.
H., 485; Buckner v. the State, 20 Ohio, 18; Ford v. Ford, 7
Humphr., 92; Thurman v. Virgin, 18 B. Munroe, 792;.Perkins
v. Nlobley, 4 Ohio N. S., 668; Bates v. Barber, 4 Cush., 107.
On the other hand, a recent English writer on the law of
evidence, of great repute, maintains that the inquiry in such
cases properly involves the entire moral character of the witness whose credit is thus impeached, and his estimation in
society; and that the opinion of the impeaching witness, as
to whether he is entitled to be believed on his oath, is also
admissible to the jury. 2 Taylor Ev., sees. 1082, 1083.
That learned writer insists that the regular mode of examining into the character of the witness sought to be impeached is to ask the witnesg testifying whether he knows his
general reputation; and if so, what that reputation is, and.
whether, from such knowledge, he would believe him -upon
his oath. In support of this mode of conducting the examination, he refers to several decided cases, both English and
American, which appear to sustain the views of the writer.
Rees v. Watson, 32 How. St. Tr., 496; Mawson v. Hartsink,
4 Esp. R., 104.; Rex v. Rockwood, 13 How. St. Tr., 211;
Carpenter v. Wall, 11 Ad. and El., 803; Anonymous, 1 Hill,
(S. C.,) 259; Hume v. Scott, 3 A. K. Marshall, 262; Day v.
the State, 13 Mis., 422; 3 Am. Law Jour., N. S., 145.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

13

Teee d aZ. v. HurtiWdon et a.

Both Mr. Greenleaf and Mr. Taylor agree, however, that
the impeaching witness must be able to state what is e'enerally
said of the other witness by those among whom he resides,
and with whom he is chiefly conversant, and in effect admit,
that unless he can so speak, he'is not qualified to testify upon
the subject, for the reason that it is only what is generally said
of the witness by his neighbors that constitutes his general
reputation. To that extent they concur, and so, as a general
remark, do the authorities which on the one side and the
other support these respective theories; but beyond that, the
views of these commentators, as well as the authorities, appear to be irreconcilable.
In referring to this conflict of opinion among text writers,
and judicial decisions, we have not done so because there is
anything presented in this record that makes it necessary to
choose between them, or even renders it proper that we should
attempt at the present time to lay down any general rule upon
the subject. On the contrary, our main purpose in doing so
is to bring the particular question exhibited in the bill of exceptions to the test of both theories, in order to ascertain
whether under either rule of practice it ought to have been
allowed. Under-the first mode of conducting the examination, it is admitted that it was properly rejected, and we think
it was equally improper, supposing the other rule of practice
to be correct. Whenever a witness is called to impeach the
credit of another, he must know what is generally said of the
witness whose credit is impeached by those among whom the
last-named" witness resides, in order that he may be able to
answer the inquiry either as to his general character in the
broader sense, or as to his general reputation for truth and
veracity. He is not required to speak from his own knowledge of the acts and transactions from which the character or
reputation of the witness has been derived, nor indeed is he
allowed to do so, but he must speak fiom his own knowledge
of what is generally said of him by those among whom he
resides, and with whom he is chiefly conversant; and any
question that does not call for such knowledge is an improper one, and ought to be rejected. No case has been cited

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Tucker.

authorizing such a question, or even furnishing an example
where it was put, and our researches in that direction have
not been attended with any better success. For these reasons,
we think the question was properly excluded. Some further
attempts were made by the plaintiffs to impeach this witness,
and with that view they called another witness, who testified
that he knew the one sought to be impeached, and had had
business transactions with him during the years 1852-'53 in
the city where they resided. On being asked by the counsel
of the plaintiffs what was the reputation of the witness for
truth and veracity, he replied that he had no means of knowing what it was, not having had any dealings with him since
those transactions; thereupon the same counsel repeated the
question, limiting it to that period.
Objection was made to that question by the counsel of the
defendants on the ground that the period named in the question was too remote, and the court sustained the objection and
excluded the question. To this ruling the plaintiffs excepted.
Such testimony undoubtedly may properly be excluded by the
court when it applies to a period of time so remote from the
transaction involved in the controversy, as thereby to become
entirely unsatisfactory and immaterial; and as the law cannot
fix that period of limitation, it must necessarily be left to the
discretion of the court. Considering that the witness had
already stated that he was not able to answer the question, we
do not think that the discretion of the court in this case was
unreasonably exercised. None of the exceptions can be sustained, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
affirmed with costs.

AmmxEw LAwRENCE, COMPLAINANT A"D APPELLANT, V. Em&MA
A. TUCKER.
Where a mortgage was given to secure the payment of a note for $5,500, and
such advances as there had been or might be made within two years, not to
exceed in all an indebtment of six thousand dollars, and advances were made
the mortgage was good to cover the advances and the note for $5,600.
The parties to the transaction so understood it, and acted, upon it accordlngly.

