SUPREME COUlRT.
Sun

uldual Insurance Company v. Wright e al.

Upon the whole, after the best consideration we have been
able to give to the case, we are satisfied the ruling of the court
below was erroneous, and the judgment must be reversed, and
a venire de novo.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented. For his dissenting
opinion, see the succeeding case of the Sun Mutual Insurance
Company against Wright-a case similar to the present one.

THE SUN MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
V. JOHN S. WRIGHT, USE OF MAXWELL, WRIGHT, & Co.

The principles with respect to a policy of insurance in the preceding case of the
Orient Mutual Insurance Company against Wright, reaffirmed in the present
case.
In the correspondence which took place between the insurer and the insured.
there was no waiver by the former of the right of fixing the premium, nor
was it claimed or suggested-in the communications between the parties at the
time.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
It was entirely similar to the preceding case, except that it
was contended that the insurance company had waived the
right of fixing the premium by the conduct of the agent and
correspondence between the parties.
It was argued by Mr. Cutting for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. May and Mr. Brent for the defendant.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
'States for the district of Maryland.
The suit below was upon a policy of insurance brought by
the plaintiff to recover a loss upon coffee on board the vessel
Mary W. on a voyage from Rio do Janeiro to a port in the
United States. The questions involve([ are substantially the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Sun MAutual )Isuranwee Company v. Wright et da.

same as have been examined in the case of the same plaintiff
against the Orient Mutual Insurance Company, and the decision in that governs the present one.
It was insisted in this case, on the part of the plaintiff below,
that the company had waived the question as to the premium
on the declaration or report of the Mary W., as it was bound
by the act of the agent in making the endorsement on the
policy, who added simply the words, "not to attach if the
vessel proved unseaworthy."
* The company were advised, by a letter of their agent, dated
August- 23, 1856, of the application of the plaintiff to have the
coffee in question on the Mary W. entered on his policy; and
on the 25th of the month they answered, directing the agent
to inform the plaintiff of the facts the company had previously
communicated to R. C. Wright, a brother, in relation to the
vessel, "and that they regarded her an entirely unfit vessel for
a cargo of coffee, and should not consider the policy as attach.
ing to the cargo.
The correspondence with R. 0. Wright on the subject was
under date of the 14th August, same- year, and which related
to a different shipment of coffee on the same vessel.
The plaintiff,, notwithstanding the objections of the company, insisted upon his right to have the coffee covered by the
policy, and so advised the agent, who communicated the inforiation to the company. On the 26th of the month, they,
still insisting that the vessel was unfit for such a cargo, instructed the agent to inform the plaintiff that if he claimed
the property to be covered by the policy, he must consider it
subject to the risk of the policy not attaching from the unseaworthiness of the vessel. Upon this, the agent entered the
coffee upon the policy, with the words, "not to atth ch if vessel
be proved unseaworthy," and so advised the company. They,
on receiving this advice, immediately informed the agent that
the endorsement was a practical nullity, and directed him to
inform the plaintiff that they conceded his right to be covered
by the policy, and that they had no other renfedy but to name
a premium commensurate to the risk, and fixed the premium
at ten per cent., subject to the conditions of the policy, or two

SUPREME COURT.
Sun Mutual Insurance Company v. Wright etal.

and a half per cent. upon a total loss.

In answer to this, the

plaintiff objected to the premium, insisting, if the Mary W.
rated below A 2, the company were only entitled to an equitable rate of premium; and if they and he could not agree, it
was a proper case for a reference.
The company, in answer to this, respond, that they had
reserved the-right in the policy to fix the premium in case of
vessels rating below A 2, and'that they could not consent to
its determination by a third person. The plaintiff again denied the right of the company to fix the premium, and thus
the correspondence terminated.
It is quite apparent that there was no waiver of this right
of fixing the premium on the part of the company, nor was it
claimed or suggested in the communications between the
parties at the time.
Judgment reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case; and inasmuch as the question presented is one of coisiderable importance, I think it proper to state the reasons of my dissent.
John S. Wright, the present defendant, sued the plaintiffs
in error on a policy of insurance, to recover for a total loss of
a cargo of coffeei shipped from Rio de Janeiro to New Orleans
on the schooner Mary W. As appears by the bill of lading,.
the goods were shipped at the port of departure as early as the
twelfth day of July, 1856, and the vessel sailed for New Orleans on the same day. She had stormy weather after her departure; and on.the twenty-ninth day of Augnst following she
was wrecked upon the rocks, and all her cargo was lost. Notice of the shipment was received by the plaintiff on the twenty-third day of August, 1856, and on that day he notified the
agent of the defendants, residing in Baltimore, of the same,
and requested him to enter under his policy the cargo of the
vessel, which consisted of cofie, valued at eighteen dollars
per ba.
B. the terms of the policy the 1,iai atiff was insured, "-o.
accoait of whom it may cmceri-- s payable to them.

DECE-BER TERM, 1859.

415

Sun Mutuual Isurance Company v. Wright et al.

lost or not lost-at and from Rio de Janeiro to a port of the
United States, on onE-half of five thousand bags of coffee, each
two hundred bags in running imarks and numbers, in order
of invoice, subject to separate average, upon all kinds
of lawful goods and merchandise laden on board of the
good vessel or vessels, beginning the adventure upon the said
goods and merchandises from and immediately following the
loading thereof on board the said vessel at the place of shipment as aforesaid, and §o shall continue until the said goods
and merchandise shall be safely landed at the place of destination, as aforesaid."
Another clause was, that "theaid goods and merchandise
hereby insured are valued at eighteen dollars per bag, as interest may appear."
Payment of the. consideration by the assured is expressly
acknowledged by the terms of the policy, at and after the rate
of 'one and one-half per cent.-to return one-fourth per cent.,
if direct to an Atlantic port; to add an additional premium, if
by vessels rating lower than A 2, or by foreign vessels, subjelt
to such addition or deduction as shall make the premiums conform to the. established rate at the time the return.is .nade to the company.
Some reference to the correspondence between the parties
becomes necessary, in order that the true nature of the controversy may be fully and clearly understood.
Defendants are a corporation, doing business in the city of
New York; but they have an authorized agent in Baltimore,
where the defendant resides. Their agent informed them by
letter, under date of the twenty-third of August, 1856, tha-t
the plaintiff on that day had requested him to enter this cargo
under his policy; and in the same letter stated the amount of
the goods and the name of the vessel. To that letter the defendants replied three days afterwards, saying that they considered the vessel entirely unfit for a cargo of coffee, and
should not consider their policy as attaching thereto.
That information was communicated to the plaintiff by the
agent on the followifig day; but the plailtiff insisted that the
goods were covered by the policy; and on the same day the

SUPREME COURT.
Sun Mutual Insurance Company v. Wright et at.

defendants were informed by their agent that the plaintiff did
so insist. They were also furnished by their agent at the
same time with a letter from the plaintiff, giving his reasons
for insisting that the cargo should be entered under the policy.
In that letter he stated that the sole object of open or running
poli6ies would be defeated, if the underwriters were at liberty
to decline any risk that might arise under them; and repeated,
that he considered the defendants bound, by the spirit as well
as the letter of their policy, to cover the goods at risk on this
vessel.
Each party was thus fully possessed of the views of the
other, and of all the circumstances of the case. Neither ap.
pears to have entertained a doubt as to the validity of the con.
tract, and the only matter in dispute between them was the
fitness of the vessel for such a cargo. But they had further
correspondence, which it is important to notice, in order to
understand the real nature of the controversy between the
parties. Following the order of events, the next letter is the
reply of the defendants to their agent, which is dated the
twenty-sixth day of August, 1856, three days before the loss,
and more than forty days after the vessel had departed on her
voyage. In that letter they say, after acknowledging the receipt of the one to which it was a reply, that, with regard to
the case of the schooner under the policy of the plaintiff they
can only-repeat their belief that she is an unfit vessel for such
a cargo, which makes her an unseaworthy risk, and request
their agent to say to the plaintiffs, that if he deems the property covered by the policy, he must so consider it subject to the
risk of the policy not attaching from the unseaworthiness of the
vessel.
Pursuant to that letter, the agent of the defendants two days
afterwards wrote to the plaintiff, that the president of the company "has requested me to say to you, that he will cover for
the schooner Mary W., but you must consider it subject to
the risk of the policy not attaching from the unseaworthiness
of the vessel," and made the endorsement on the policy as follows, dating it on the preceding day:
"August 27, 1856. Schooner Mary W., Rio de Janeiro to

DECEM]BEI TERM, 1859.
SZun MutuaZ Imuranco Company v. Wright et al.

New Orleans, on I /cargo, 1,830 bogs of coffee, at $18 er
bag-not to attach if vessel be proved unseaworthy-$16,470."
When that endorsement was made, in my judgment the
contract became complete, leaving tte additional premium to
be equitably adjusted between the parties, according to established rate of vessels rating under A 2; or, in jase of dispute, to
be settled, like any other controversies, by the judicial tribunals. E. Carver Co. v. Manf. Ins. Co., 6 Gray, 214.
On the following day the agent informed the defendants
that he had made the endorsement. To that letter they replied on the twenty-ninth day of the same month, saying, in
effect, that the condition inserted in the endorsement was'
practically a nullity; and as a reason for that conclugion, 'they
add, that no risk attaches if the vessel/is proven to be unsea--.
worthy, but the difficulty is, so to-prove them.. After 'some
other remarks, whie it is not important to notice, they go on
to say, that no otho± remedy remains except to name 6. prenlium commensurate with the risk, which they thereink insist A4
is their right to do. Accordingly, they fix ten per cent., subject to the conditions of the policy, or two and a half per cent.
against a total loss, and direct their agent to notify the plaintiff of their action in the premises, that he may determine on
which rate he wanted the risk entered. That notice was given
to the plaintiff by the agent on the second day of September
following. He objected to the rates named as exorbitant, but.
admitted tho right of the company to an equitable rate, and
insisted that the cargo was covered by the policy. His views
were communicated by the agent to the defendants on the
third day of September, 1856, and on the following day they
struck the risk from their books.
Evidence was introduced by the plaintiff that the premiums
specified in the body of runhing policies are nominal, and that
the true premiums to be charged are fixed by increasing or
reducing the iiominal premium when the risks are reported.
Premium notes were given by the plaintiff in this case at the
policy rate of one and one-half per cent., and were paid by
him to the defendants at their maturity, long before the loss
in this case. Sums paid for premiums on runfii ng policies,
27
VOL. XXIII.

SUPREME COURT.
Sun ffutual Insurance Cormpany v. Wright el al.

according to the custom of this company, are returned if no
risks are reported, *but with a deduction of half per cent.,
which is I'etained by the company for their services. According to the testimony of the agent, he had no power to. bind
the company from the time of the application for insurance
until the answer thereto was received from the company.
On this state of the case, the presiding justice instructed the
jury as follows: "If the jury shall find from the evidence that
the defendants executed the policy of the 27th of July, 1855,
and received from the plaintiff the premium therein mentioned, and that their duly-authorized agent in this city made the
endorsements on the policy which have been offered in evidence; and shall further find that 1,830 bags of coffee belonging to the plaintiff were shipped on the 12th day of July, 1856,
at Rio, on board of the schooner Mary W., to be carried to
New Orleans, and that when the schooner left Rio she was
seaworthy and in good condition; and'shall further find that
the vessel and cargo were subsequently on the voyage totally
lost by one of the perils insured ag~inst, and that the schooner
was rated lower in New York than A 2, then the plaintiff is
entitled to recover for one-half the value of the coffee so lost,
at $18 per bag, less such additionalpremium beyond the 13 per
cent., as in the opinion of underwriters may be deemed adequate for the increased risk to a cargo of coffee shipped in a
vessel rating below A 25 with interest from thirty days after
such time as the jury may find the defendants were furnished
by plaintiff with the preliminary proofs of his loss."
Under the instructions of the court, the jury returned their
verdict for the plaintiff, and the defendants excepted. That instruction, so far as it is necessary to consider it at the present
time, affirms that, by the true construction of the policy, the
contract between the parties under the circumstances of this
case, as disclosed in the evidence, was complete when the
shipment of the goods was reported by the plaintiff, and the
endorsement was made upon the policy by the authorized
agent of the defendants. In that view of the case I eiitirely
concur. When the report was forwarded -by the agent, the
only objection made to the risk was, that the vessel was un-

DECENIBER TERM, 1859.
Sun Mutual Insurance Comrany v. IF'ight et-a.

suitable, or that she was unseaworthy. That objection was repealed, and finally the plaintiff was told, that if he insisted upon
the endorsement, it would only be made upon the'eondition
that the policy should not attach if it turned out that the objection of the defendants was well founded. He accepted the
condition, and the endorsement was so made. After "the endorsement was mad'e, it was too. late for the defendants to reconsider the position they had voluntarily assumed. E. Carver Co. v. Manf. Ins. Co.. E Gray, 214.
Suppose they had a right, as. a condition precedent, to demand the payment of the additional premium before making
the endorsement; they did not insist upon the right, but vol.
untarily waived it. They had already received the policy rate
of one and one-half per cent., and to the present tithe have
neglected to refund the same. Pre-paynlent of the policy rate
was a sufficient consideration to uphold the contract; and certainly it will not be denied that they might waive the right to
claim pre-payment of whatever might be due to them for the
additional premium contemplated by the Policy. But their
right to demand the additional p remium as a condition precedent to the endorsement cannot be admitted. Such a construction would defeat the policy, and .therefore must be rejected, unless the language of the instrument is imperative to
that effect.. 1 Phil. Ins., sec. 438, and Kewley v. Ryan, 2 H.
Black, 343. Policy rate is not the actual rate of adjustment
between the parties in any case under this instrumeut, unless,
perchance, it happens to be the established rate -at the time
the return is made to the company. Crawford r,. Hunter, 8
Term, 16, note.
Addition or deduction from policy rate is to be made in all
cases so as to make the sum paid and received conftii'm to the
established rate. Something, therefore, remains to bb done in
respect to every risk, irrespective of the character of the vessel. In case the shipment is by a vessel rating under A 2, or
by a foreign vessel, an additional premium maybe added; but
there is no stipulation in the instrument that it shall be paid
in advance o" the endorsement; and there is nothing in the
Ihmguage of the instrument fronI which to infer that such was

SUPREME COURT.
Bliven et al. v. New England Screw Company.

the intention of the parties. That inference is wholly gratuitous, and, in my judgment, unfounded. When adjusted, the
sum to be paid must conform to the established rate at the
time the return was made to the company.
If the parties cannot agree what the established rate was at
that time, like other matters of controversy, it must be settled
by the judicial tribunals. Harman v. Kenyston, 3 Camp.,
150; 1 Arnold on Ins., 175, 177; Smith's Mer. L., 208; U.
S. v. Wilkins, 6 Whea., p. 144. Unless this be the true construction of the policy, then it is a delusion which ought to be
shunned by every business man. Loss often occurs before
the notice of the shipment. The insured cannot adjust the
additional premium until he knows by what vessel the
shipment has been made, so that, if it be true that the contract is incomplete until the additional premium is adjusted
and paid, then open or running policies for the insurance of
goods from distant ports are valueless. They are worse than
valueless, as generally understood, because they have the effect
to delude and deceive.
For these reasons, I am of the opinion that the judgment of
the Circuit Court ought to be affirmed.

CHARLES BLIVEN AND EDWARD

B.

MEAD, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR)

V. THE NEW ENGLAND SCREW COMPANY.

Where there was a company incorporated for the purpose of making screws,
and they were sued by certain persons with whom they had been in the habit
of dealing, for not supplying a sufficient quantity of the manufactured article,
according to orders which had been given and received, the defence was, that
the supply manufactured was not equal to the demand, and that the plaintiffs
knew that the articles were furnished to customers in regular order, according
to date.
Such custom was not a sufficient defence, unless it was known to the other contracting party, and formed a part of the contract.
Parol evidence of usage is generally admissible to enable the court to arrive at
the real meaning of the parties, who are naturally presumed to have contracted
in couformity with the known and established usage.
But pare] evidence of custom and usage is not admitted to contradict or vary
01prea stipulations or provisions restricting or enlarging the exercise and
enjoy" tnt of the customary right.

