SUPREME COURT.
Wiseman v. Chiappella.

the law were complied with. As suppletory proof that the testator had made the codicil, and was acquainted with the contents
of the instrument, the admission -or declaration offered as evidence was competent testimony.
Upon a review of the whole case, our opinion is, there is no
error in the record, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is
affirmed.
WILLIAM WISEMAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
PELLA.

v.

ACHILLE UHIAP-

Where the notarial protest of a bill of exchange stated that the bill had been
handed to him on the day it was due, that lie went several times to the office
of the acceptors of it in order to demand payment for the same, and that at
each time he found the doors closed, and "no person there to answer my
demand," this was a sufficient demand.
It was not necessary to call individually upon one of'the partners of the firm
who had a residence in the city, or to make any further inquiries for' the
acceptors, than the repeated calls at their office.
Cases can be found, and many of them, in which further inquiries than a call
at the place of business of a merchant acceptor have been deemed proper i
but the rulings in such cases will be found to have been made on account of
some peculiar facts in them which do not exist in this case.
In making a demand for an acceptance, the party ought, if possible, to see the
drawee personally, or some agent appointed by him, to accept i and diligent
inquiry must be made tbr him, if he shall not be found at his house or place
of' business. But a demand for payment need not be personal, and it will be
sufficient if it shall be made at one or the other place in business hours.
The cases upon these points examined.
When, upon presentment for acceptance, the drawee does not happen to be
f'ound at his house or counting-room, but is temporarily absent, and no one
is authorized to give an answer, whether the bill will be accepted or not, in
such case it would seem the holder is not bound to consider it as a refusal to
accept, but he may wait a reasonable time fbr the return of the drawee.
He may present the bill on the next day, but this delay is not allowable in a
presentment for payment. This nust be made on the day the bill falls due;
and if there be no one ready at the place to pay the bill, it should be treated
as dishonored, and protested.
Presenting a bill, under such circumstances, at the place of' business of the
acceptor, will bf. in'ima.icie evidence that it had been done at a proper time
of' the day. if that shall be denied, it must be shown by evidence.
Where a suit was brought against a notary in Louisiana for negligence in
inling a protest, lie will be protected from responsibilify by showing that
the protst was made in contormnity with the practice and law of' Louisiana,
where the bill was payable. -

DECEMBER TERM, IZ59.

369

Wiseman v. Chia~pedla.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was an action brought by Wiseman against Chiappella,
who was a notary public in New Orleans, upon the ground
that he had been negligent in protesting a bill of exchange,
and in consequence of such negligence Wiseman had lost the
money. The question therefore. was, whether or not he had
been guilty of negligence. The question of prescription was
also decided by the Circuit Court, and argued here, but it will
not be further noticed.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court decided in favor of the defendant upon
two grounds: 1st, that the protest was'sufficient; 2d, that the
action was prescribed.
It was argued in this court by Mr. Benjamin for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Janinfor the defendant.
Upon the first ground, Mr. Benjamin said:
I. The protest was insufficient. Calling at the office of the
acceptors of a bill, and finding it closed, is not such due diligence as will excuse the want of presentmbnt a-ad demand.
There should have been inquiry, and effort should have beer.
used to discover the dwelling, and demand made there, if
found.
The necessity for' due diligence is not questioned, but .ases
are cited, in the opinion of the court, to show that'the action
of the notary was sufficient to constitute due diligence. These
cases seem to us not to warrant the inference drawn by the
court, but rather to establish the reverse.
In the case of*the Union Bank v. Foulkes, 2 Sneed Tenn
Rep., the court held, that want of presentment and demand
was excused, because the place of business was open, but no
one had been left there to answer; the court expressly stating
that if it had been closed, further diligence would have been
necessary.
In the case of Shed v. Brett, 1 Pick., 41q the court held
that, plaintiff must be nonsuited, if the demand at the place
24
voL. xxi .

SUPREME COURT.
Miseman v. Chiappdlla.

of business was not proven to have been made in business
hours; the protest in the present case does not allege any visit
in business hours.
In the case of the Branch Bank at Decatur v. Hodges, 17
Ala. Rep., 42, there was actual presentment and demand of
the book-keeper of the acceptors at their counting-room.
In the case of Brown v. Turner, 15 Ala. Rep., 832, there
was actual demand of the agent of one partner, both partners
being absent.
In Watson v. Templeton, 11 Annual Rep., 137, the 'court
held, that as against a partnership, the want of demand was
excused where the bill was presented at the commorcial domicil, within the usual business hours, but reserved its opinion
ab to cases where a person does business alone, and has a
dwelling as well as a place of business which is found closed.
In support of this distinction between bills accepted by a firm
and those accepted by individuals, the court cites Story on
Promissory Notes, sec. 235; but we have sought in vain in
the authority referred to, and elsewhere, for anything to sustain this distinction, which seems to be quite a novel doctrine
in the law of bills and notes.
In Williams v. Bank of United States, 2 Peters, 96, and the
case of Goldsmith and Bland thcrein cited and approved, there
was, in the former case, further inquiry and information
received, that the party and his family had left town on a
visit; and in the latter there was no person in the countinghouse in the ordinary hours of business, but the countinghouse is not stated to have been closed, the implication being,
on the contrary, that it was open.
The foregoing are all the authorities cited in the opinion
of the Circuit Court, no one of which goes the length required
to sustain the validity of the protest now in dispute.
The authorities to show its insufficiency are very numerous.
In McGruder v. Bank of Washington, 9 Wheaton, 601,
there was no decision directly on the point; but the court
said, in its reasoning, that the notary might, "had the house
been shut up, with equal correctnes have returned that he

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Ww-eman v. C)iap.pella.

-

had not found him, (the drawer,) and yet that clearly would
not have excused the demand, unless followed by reasonable
inquiries.
In Granite Bank v. Ayres, 16 Pick., 892, demand was made
at the'last place of business, and notary was informed that the
parties had failed and gone out of town. They had in fact
failed, and given up their place of business, but one of them
lived in town. Held, diligence insufficient, no further inquiry
.having been made by notary.
In Ellis v. Commercial Bank of lNatchez, 7 Howard's Mississippi Rep., 294, held, that further inquiry must be made
when the place of business is found shut, in order to excuse
want of presentment and demand.
In Follain v. Dupre, 11 Rob., 470, held, that going to the
counting-house during the usual business hou's, waiting a
short time, and, no one being there, coming awayt, is not sufficient to excuse presentment for acceptance, ana doubtful if
sufficient to excuse want of presentment for payment.
In Collins v. Butler, 2 Strange, 1087, held, that when place
of business is found closed, further inquiry for the drawer of
a note or an attempt to tind him must be shown, in order to
excuse want of demand.
The rule as laid down by all the text writers is, that if the
acceptors have absconded, and cannot be found, presentment
and demand being impossible, the want of them is excused;
but even where the acceptor has become bankrupt, or has
removed to another place within the same State, or is absent
on ajourney, yet, if he has a dwelling, demand must be made
there, in order to hold the other parties.
Story on-Promissory Notes, sees. 237, 238.
Story on Bills, sees. 351, 352.
Byles on Bills, pp. 141, 159.
Chitty on Bills,, pp. 355, 883.
The only cases where want of inquiry and effort to find
party have been excused, are those where a place of payment
is designated in the bill or note.
Hine v. Alleby, 4 B. and Ad., 624.
Buxton v. Jones, 1 Man. and Gran., 83.

SUPREME COURT.
Wiseman v. Chiaplela.

Mr. Janin referred to the following cases quoted by the Circuit Court, namely:
Union Bank v. Foulkes, 2 Smead Tenn., 555.
Shed v. Brett Trustees, 1 Pick., 413.
Br. Bank at Decatur v. Hodges, 17 Ala. Rep., 42.
Brown v. Turner, 15 Ala. Rep., 832.
Burbank v. Beach, 15 Bak., 326.
The Louisiana case referred to by the Circuit Court, but
not quoted, is the case of Watson v. Templeton, 11 Ann. Rep.,
137.
Again, in Nott's Ex'r v. Beard, La. Rep., 308, the notary
certified, that "at the request of the holder of the origna.
draft, whereof a true copy is on the reverse hereof written, I
demanded payment of said draft at the counting-ouse"
The counsel for the defendant contended that the .protest
should say that the bill was presented, and payment thereof
demanded. The court held that this was not necessary, and
said: '"We are disposed to give such meaning to terms used
by public officers as will be understood by the mass of mankind."
"The act of the Legislature, passed in 1827, vests notaries
with certain powers in relation to these matters, and gives
more authenticity to their acts than to private individuals.
They are public officers, and the presumption of law is that
they do their duty."
The following English cases support the same doctrine:
In Burton v. Jones, 1 Mah. and Gr., 89, C. J. Tindal said:
"This bill drawn upon Epworth is addressed to him as Mr.
Frederick Epworth, Ilnito St., Baal-Zepher St. Bennondsey.
The. drawee accepts generally, thereby adopting the description of his residence, as stated at the foot of the bill. When
the bill becomes due, a messenger is sent to demand payment.
The messenger inquires for Epworth of a person who must be
taken to be an inmate, and from that person he receives an
answer, which is true. It was not necessary to present the
bill to Epworth personally. If he chose to remove from the
house pointed out by the bill as his place of residence, he was
bound to leave sufficient funds on the premises. In Hine v

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

373

wseman v. Okiafppe..

Alleby, (4 B. and Adol., 624,) the holder went to the place at
which the bill was addressed, and found the house shut up.
This was held to be sufficient evidence of presentment."
In Hine v. Alleby, (4B. and Ado]., 627, and 24 Eng], Common Law :Rep., 127,) it was shown that on the day when the
bill became due, it was taken to the place of payment, but the
house was shut up, and no further presentment could be made.
The court held that there was a presentment. The case of
Burbridge v. Mariners, 3 Campbell, 183, was cited, and it was
'urged that there Lord Ellenborough said: "I think the note
was dishonored as soon as the malker had refused payment on
the day when it became due;" and that here (that is, in
Hine v. Alleby) the holder only concluded that the bill would
not be paid, from finding no one at the house, and that there
had been no refusal."
But, per curiam: "It is the same if the house is shut up and
no one there. The case is in point."
The counsel for the plaintiff, indeed, endeavors to distinguish
these cases from the one before the court, because the number
of the acceptor's residence was there stated on the face of the
bill. But while the courts evidently speak of well-known
places where the presentment is to be made, they lay no stress
upon the manner in which they became known. The proper
place to present a bill to a firm is, undoubtedly, their counting-house; and whether that be known to the notary by the
number of the house stated in the bill , or in any other positive
manner, the reason of the thing and the conclusion must be
the same. Here the notary knew the counting-house so well,
and so positively, that he weilt to it several times.
Mr. Justice WAYNE deliveredthe opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in this action alleges that he is the holder and'
oWner of a certain bill of exchange for two thousand and fortyfive dollars forty-five cents, dated at Vicksburg, in the State
of Mississippi, May 13th, 1855, and payable on the 23d November, 1855, which'had been drawn by John A. Durden.and
A. Durden on William Langton & Co., of New -)rleans, and
accepted by them, payable to the order of Langton, Sears,

SUPREME COURT.
Wiseman v. Chiappeffa.

Co., and by that firm endorsed in blank. He further declares
that the bill, when it became due, was intrusted to the defendant, Achille Chiappella, a commissiQned notary public for the
city of New Orleans, to demand payment of it from the acceptors, and to protest the same for non-payment, should the
acceptors dishonor it; and that, from his carelessness in not
making a legal demand of the acceptors, and from not having
expressed it in the protest, that the endorexs of the bill had
been discharged from their obligation to pay it, by a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Mississippi. He further alleges that the acceptors, payees, and endorsers, were insolvent, and that, from
the insufficiency of the demand for payment to bind the
drawers of the bill, the defendant had become indebted to him
for its am ouni, with interest at the rate of five per cent. from
the day that it became due, the 23d November, 1855.
The defendant certifies in his notarial protest that the bill
had been -handed to him on the day it was due; that he went
several times to the office of the acceptors of it, in Gravier
street, in order to demand payment for the same, and he found
the doors cl9sed, and "no person there to answer my demand."
t also appeared-that one of the firm by which the bill had
been accepted had a residence in New Orleans; that no demand for payment had been made individually upon lim;
and that-no further inquiry had been-made for the acceptors
than the repeated calls which the notary states he had niade
at their office.
We think, under the circumstances, that such repeated calls
at the office of the acceptors was a sufficient demand; that
further inquiry for them was not required by the custom of
merchants; and that the protest, extended as it had been, is in
confbrmity with what is now generally considered to be the
established practice in such matters in England and the United States. We say, under the circumstances, for, as there is
no fixed mode for making such a demand in all cases, each
case as it occurs must-be decided on its own facts.
We have not been able to find a case, either in -our own or
in the English reports, in which it has been axpressly raled

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

376

W'.seman v. Uhiapdl.

that a merchant, acceptor of a foreign bill of exehaLge, having
a notorious place 6f business, has been permitted to close
it up during the business hours of the day, thus avoiding
the obligation of his acceptance on the day of its maturity,
and then that he was allowed to claim that the bill ought to
have been presented to him for payment elsewhere than at his
place of business. Though such conduct is not absconding,
in the legal sense of that word, to avoid the payment of creditors, it must appear, wien unexplained, to be an artifice inconsistent with the obligations of an acceptor, from which the
law will presume that he does n6t intend to pay the bill on the
day when it has become due.
The plaintiff in this case does not deny that the offiee of the
acceptors was closed, as the" notary states it to have been.
The only fact- upon which' he relies to charge thedefenaant
with neglect is, that one of the firm of Langton, Sears, & Co.
resided in New Orleans, and that it was the duty of the notary
to have made inquiry for him at his residence. No presumption, under such circumstances, can be made, that the acceptors
had removed*to another place of business, or that they were
not intentionally absent from it on the day that they knew the
bill was payable. This case, then, must be determined on the
fact of the designed absence of the acceptors on that day; and
that inference is strengthened by no one having been.left there
to represent them.
All merchants register their acceptances in a bill book. It
cannot be presumed that they will be unmindful of the days
when they are matured.' Should their counting-rooms be
closed on such days, the la,& will presume that it has.been
done intentionally, to avoid payment, and, on that account,
that further inquiries need not be made foi them before a protest can be made for no~-payment.
Cases can be found, and many of them, in which further inquiries than a call at the place of business of a merchant acceptor has been deemed proper, and. in which such inquiries
not having been made, has been declared to be a want of due
diligence in making a demand for payment; bat the rulings
in such cases will be found to have been made on acdount of

7UPREME

COURT.

Wiseman v. Ohiappella.

some peculiar facts in them which do not exist in this case.
And in the same class of cases it has been ruled that the protest should contain a declaration by the notary that his call to
present a bill for payment bad been made in the business
hours of the day; but in no case has the latter ever been presumed in favor of an acceptor, whose place of business has
been so closed that a demand'for payment could not be made
there bpon himself or upon some one left there to attend to
his business.
Lord Ellenborough said, idi the case of Cross v. Smith, 1 M
and S., 545: "'The counting-house is a place where all appointments respecting business and all notices should be addressed; and it is the duty of the merchant to take care that
proper-persons shall be in attendance." It was also ruled in
that case, that a verbal message, imparting the dishonor of a
bill, sent to the counting-house of the drawer during the hours
of business, on two successive days, the messenger knocking
there, and making a noise sufficient to be heard within, and
no one coming, was sufficient notice..
In-this case the facts were, that Fea & Co. had a counting-house
at Hull; where they were merchants, and one lived within one
mile and the other within ten miles of Hull. The Monday
dter Smith & Co. received the bill, their. clerk went to give
noiice, anti called at the counting-house of Fea & Co. about
half after ten o'clock. -He found the outer door open ; the inner
,one locked. He knocked so that he must have been heard,
had any one been there, waited two or three minutes, and
went away; and on his return from the counting-room be saw
Fea & Co.'s attorney, and'told him: The next -Monday he
went again at the same hour, but with no better success. No
written notice was left, nor was any notice sent to the residence of'either of the parties. The court took time to consider, and then held, without any reference to the clerk having called at the counting-house two successive days, that going to the counting-house at a time it should have been open
was sufficient, and that it was not necessary to-leave a written
notice, or to send to the residence of either of the parties.
In Bancroft and Hall, Holt, 476, the plaintiff received notice

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

377

Wisman v. Ckiappella.

of the bill's dishonor at Manchester, 24th May. The same
day he sent a letter by a private hand to his agent at Liverpool, to give defendant notice. The agent called at the defendant's counting-house about six or seven P. M.; but the
counting-house was shut up, and the defendant did not receive notice of the dishonor of the bill until the morning of
the 27th-Monday. Two points were ruled: 1st. That sending by a private hand to an agent to give notice was sufficient;
2d. That it was sufficient for the agent to take the ordinary
mode to give notice-the ordinary 'time of shutting up was
eight or nine. Where the endorser of a note shut up his
house in town soon after the note was made, and before it became due, and retired to his house iii the country, intending,
however, only a temporary residence in the country, it was
held that a notic left at his house, by having been put into
the key-hole, was sufficient to charge him. Stewart v. Eden,
2 Can. R., 121.
This court leld, in Williams v. the Bank- of the United
States, 2 Peters, that sufficient diligence had been shown on the
part of the holder of a note to charge the endorser, under the
following circumstances: A notary public employed for the
purpose called at the house-of the endorser Of a note, to give
him notice of its dishonor; and finding the house shut and
ocked, ascertained from the nearest resident that the endorser
and his'family had left town on a visit. He made-no further.
inquiry where the endorser had gone, or how long he was expected to be absent, and made no attempt to ascertain NThether
he had lqft any person in town to attend to his business;-but
he left a notice of the dishonor of the note at an -adjoining
house, requesting the occupant to give it to the endorser upon
his return.
In making a demand for an acceptance, the party ought, if
possible, to see the drawee personally, or some agent appointed
by him to accept; and diligent inquiry must be made for him,
if he shall not be found at his house or place of business; but
a demand for payment need not be perdonal, and it. will be
sufficient if it shall be made at one or tie other plave, in business
hours. Chitty;-274, 367.

SUPREME COURT.
Wisemazn v. (TiajfpeZla.

It was formerly the practice, if the house of the acceptor
was shut up when the holder called there to present the bill
for payment, and no person was there to represent him, and
it appeared that he had removed, that the holder was bound to
make efforts to find out to what place he had removed, and
there make a payment. Such, however, is-no longer the practice either in England or in the United States, nor has it been
in the United States for many years. It is now sufficient if
the bill shall be taken to the residence of the acceptors, as
that may be stated in the bill, for the purpose of demanding
payment, and to show that the house was shut up, and that no
one was there. Hiue v. Alleby, 4 B. and Adol., 624. It has
been decided by the Supreme Court in Tennessee, that the
protest of a foreign bill of exchange, drawn upon a firm in
New Orleans, with no place of payment designated, where it
appeared that the deputy of a regularly commissioned notary
lad called several times at the office of the acceptors to make
demand of payment, but found no one there of whom the demand could be made, was sufficient to excuse a demand, and
to fix the liability of the endorsers to whom notice had been
given. Union Bank v. Jeptha Fowikes et al., 555. The Supreme Court of Louisiana, in Watson v. Templeton, 11 Annual, 187, declares "that a demand made within the usual
hours of business. at the commercial domicil of a partnership,
for the payment of a note or bill due by the firm, isa sufficient
presentment; that it'was not necessary to make a further demand at the private residences of individual persons. The
place of business is the domicil of the firm, and it is their duty
to have suitable persons there to receive and answer all demands of business made at that place." Going with a promissory note, to demand payment, to the place of.business of the
notary, in business hours, and finding it shut, is using due dili
gence. 1 Pick., Shed v. Brett, 413.
In the case of the B. B. at Decatur v. Hodges, the Supreme
Court of Alabama say: "The court below excluded the pro.
test for non-payment, because the presentment is stated thereon to have been made of the book-keeper of the drawees in
their counting-room, they being absent. This was erroneous.

JJECEMBER TERM, 1859.

379

Wiseman v. Chiappela.

The bill was presented at the place of business of the firm, at
their counting-room. If they had intended to pay the bill, it
was their duty to have been present on the day of payment, or
to have left means for making such payment in charge of some
pne authorized to make it. The notary finding them absent
from their -place of business, and their -boQk-keeper there,
might well make protest of the dishonor of the bill for nonpayment upon presentment to and refusal by him." When,
upon presentment for acceptance, the drawee does not happen
to be found at his house or counting-room, but is temporarily
absent, and no one is authorized to giie an answer whether
the bill will be accepted or not, in, such case it would seem
the holder is not bound to consider it'as a refusal to accept, but
he may wait a reasonable time for the return of the drawee.
He may present the bill on the next day, but this delay is not
all6wable in a presentment for payment. This must be made
on the day the bill falls due; and if there be no one ready at
the place to pay the bill, it should be treated as dishonored,
and protested. Story on Bills, sec. 250; Chitty ofi Bills, 9
Ed., 400. The Supreme Court of New York has ruled that
where a notary's entry case states that presentment and'
demand were made at the maturity of a bill, at the office of 0.
& S., the acceptors, this language imports that the officd was
their place of business, and it will be presumed in favor of the
notary, that the time -in
the day was proper. Burbank, President of Eagle Bank of Rochester, v. Beach and others; 15.
Barbour, 326.
The preceding citation is in conformity with what the Su-preme Court of New York had ruled thirteen years before, in
the case of the Cayuga Bank v. Hart, 2 Hill, 635. Its language
is, that where a notarial ceruncate of a protest of a bill of
exchange stated a presentment for payment at the office of an
gcceptor, on the proper day, and that the officl was closed,
lit was silont as to the hour of the day of doing the act, that it was
sufflient, and that regularityin that particularshould be presumed.
We infer, from all the cases in our books, notwithstanding
many of them are contradictory to subsequent decisions, that
the practice now, both in England and the United States, does

SUPREME COURT.
Wiseman v. Chiappella.

not require more to be done, in the presentment of a bill of
exchange to an acceptor for payment, than that the demand
should be made of a merchant acceptor at his counting-room
or place of business; and -if that be closed, so in fact that a
demand cannot be made, or that the acceptor is not to be
found at his place of business, and has left no one there to pay
it, that further inquiry f6r him is not necessary, and will be
considered as due diligence; and that presenting a bill under
such circumstances at the place of business of the acceptor
will be prima facie evidence that it had been done at a proper
time of the day. If that shall be denied, it must le shown by
evidence.
. But whatever may have been the differences betweei case3
upon this subject, both in England and the United States,
there has always been a requirement in both countries, and
everywhere acknowledged in the United States, which .protects the defendant in this suit from any responsibility to the'
plaintiff. The requirement is this: that the protest was made
,.n this case in conformity with the practice and law of Louisi.rma, where the bill was payable. Rothschild v. Caine, 1 Adol.
and Ell., 43; 11 Smedes and Marshall, 182.
We are aware of the contrariety of opinion which prevailed
fbr many years in regard to what should be considered due
diligence in making a presentment of a bill of exchange for
payment to an acceptor of it, under such circumstances as are
certified to by the notary in this case. We have carefully examined most of them, from the case of Cotton v. Butler, in
Strange, 1086, to the year 1856, and we have adopted those of
later years as our best guide, and as having a better foundation in reason for the practice and the commercial law of the
present day, and because we think it has mostly prevailed in
the United States for thirty years.
As the view which we have taken of this case disposes of it
in favor of the defendant, we shall not notice another point
made in the argument in his behalf, which was, that the plaintiff's right of action, if he ever had one against the defendant,
was excluded by the Louisiana law of prescription.
We direct the affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court.

