DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

321

Unted -Staee v..Pico e at.

The plaintifi in error were sued on a promissqry note executed by them. They did not pretend to have any defence.
They entered a false pjea, which was o.verruled on demurrer.
They refused to plead in bar. Judgment was entered against
them in due form, for want of a plea.
They do not pretend to allege any error ;n the proceedings.
The judgment is therefore affirmed, with ten per cent. damages.
Tm UNIED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. FRANCISCO PICO AND
OTHERS.
Where the archives of California show that a petition for land was presented to
the justice of the peace and military commandant at New Helvetia in 1846 ;
that a favorable report was made on the 1st May, 1846; that the prefect certified, on the 18th May, 1846, that the land was vacant; that the Governor,
on the l1th of June, 1846, made an order for a titulo in form, and the claimaut produced from his custody a titulo dated at Los Angeles on the 20th of
July, 1846, there is a departure from the regular and usual mode for securinglands under the colonization laws.
The titulo bears date on the 20th of July, and the 7th of July, 1846, is the epoch
established by the act of Congress of 1851 and the decisions of this court, at
which the power of the Governor of California, under the authority of Mexico,
to alienate the public domain, terminated.
The evidence that the claimant occupied the land in 1847 is not satisfactory, or
that he made any assertion of claim or title until the presentation of the claim
in 1853 to the board of commissioners.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The nature of the claim is stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Stanton for the United States,
and by Mr. Gilet for the appellee, upon a brief filed by himself, and adopting also a printed argument by Messrs. Stanly
and King.
The points made by Mr. Stanton were the following:
1. There was no petition to the Governor soliciting the lar'
agreeably to the regulations of 1828.
VOL. XXI

21

SUPREME COURT.
United Sates v. Pico et aZ.

2. The marginal decree made by Pico upon the 11th of
June, 1846, was not a grant, and does not profess to be a
grant.
3. The grant itself, which is dated on the 20th July, 1846,
was after the conquest of the country by the American arms,
and when the Mexican authorities had been entirely displaced
and expelled.
4. There being no record evidence of the grant, there could
be no legal title in the grantee.
Upon the third point, Mr. Stanton said that the Governor
had no power over this land when the grant purports to have
been made. It was fifty miles north of Monterey, where his
power was destroyed.
Senate Documents, vol. 1, page 653, of 2d session Twentyninth Congress.
On the 9th of July, the flag of the United States was flying
at Sonoma, and on the 11th, at every place north of Los Angeles. Suppose Pico had transferred a county to England.
There is a grant of two hundred square league& conferred by
the Departmental Assembly on 24th July. There was no
more power in the one case than in the other.
Mr. Gillet made many points with regard to the title, which
there is not room to insert. With respect to the date of it, he
contended that it became operative on the 11th of June, when
an equitable title was vested in the grantee. His tenth point
was as follows:
10. If the paper dated the 20th of July, 1846, at Los Angeles, is held to be the origin of the title, such title is valid,
and no way affected by the American forces taking possession
of Monterey only thirteen days previous thereto.
Monterey is on the Pacific coast, from one to two hundred
miles southerly of San Francisco, and near that distance
southwest of the grant in question, and about four hundred
miles northerly of Los Angeles. The Costa mountains are
between Monterey and Los Calaveras; the latter being to the
northeast of the great marshes on the San Joaquin, and near
the Sierra Nevada. On the 20th of July, 1846, the American

-

DECEM1BER TERM; 1859.

82a

United States v. Pico et aZ.

forces hadpossession of no portion of California east of the
Costa mountains nor south of Monterey. In neither was the
authority of the United States exerted or recognised. The
people and those in authority had not even heard of the war,
and both might and doubtless did think it a re-enactment of
the Commodore Jones affair, long years since, at Monterey,
which was not approved by our Government. The only war
that they knew of was a civil war, which had been carried on
a couple of months, under the '5bear flag" on one side, and
Castro on the other. The California Government was going
on as usual, without the least apprehension of a conflict of
arms with the United States. All branches of the Government were performing their usual functions, both at the capital, at Los Angeles, and elsewhere, except at Monterey and
the bay of San Francisco, -where there were vessels of war.
There is no evidence that there was a soldier in the field at
the time, when a limited number of marines and sailors
constituted the whole force, prior to the arrival of General
Kearney from New Mexico, long afterwards. There was no
order from Sloat or his successors, suspending the functions
of the Mexican officials, or notifying them that their acts
would not be recognised. They were not apprized that a
conquest was contemplated, or a purchase desired or intended;,
and there is no evidence that the United States contemplated
such conquest.
Under su6h circumstances, the acts of the Mexican authorities, at a distance from the places occupied by the American
forces, and at points wherer they did not attempt to control,
must be as valid and effectual as-at any anterior period. The
former laws remained in force, and these authorized the
Governor to make grants. These laws were not ahnulled
nor others made ih their place; the former officials were not
removed, nor others substituted. If the old laws were changed,
by whom, when, and how, were they changed? Except at the
points where the American forces were in actual possession,
everything remained as theretofore. Justice was administered
by Mexican officials in all parts of the TerritQry, except in the
few places where the American's actually occupied the place,

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Pico et al.

and appointed others to perform that duty. And it has not
been shown that one such appointment was made, and notice
thereof given, before the 20th of July.
Under these circumstances, both the Mexican officials,-and
those doing business with them, bad a right to believe that
the powers of the one and the rights of the other remained
the same. The attempt to change -eithei without giving
formal notice, so that both could understand, would be springing upon them a law or rule of action of which they had no
knowledge, and no means of acquiring it, and for the reason
that the law or rule was made after the occurrence to ivhicb
it applied.
The political branch of the Government having fixed the
date of the acquisition of California, this court cannot alter it,
or fix one for itself. That branch fixed the date of the American acquisition on the 2d of February, 1$48, and agreed to
protect those who had previously acquired rights under Mexico, not excepting those dated after the 7th of July, 1846.
The title of the United States to lands in California dates,
not from the commencement of hostilities, but from the date
of the treaty by which we acquired them.
[The argument upon this point is omitted for want of room.]
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, a Mexican by birth, obtained a decree of confirmation in the District Court for a pareel of land, known as
Las Calaveras, containing eight square legutws, and situated
in Tuolumne county, in California.
His testimony is an expediente, existing in the archives, in
the custody of the surveyor general, from which it appears
that the claimant presented, to the justice of the peace and
military commandant at New Helvetia, a petition, representing
that he desired to obtain a grant for the land described in his
diseno; and, to expedite his purpose, he requested a favorable
report. One was made, bearing date'the 1st of May, 1846.
A similar representation was made to the same officer in the
district of Yerba Buena. who declined to act, because the
place was not within his jurisdictiott. The prefect of that

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

325

United States v. Pico et al.

portion of the Department certifies, on the 18th of May, 1846,
to the capacity of the claimant, and that the land was vacant.
The Governor, on the 11th of June, 1846, made an order for
the issue of a titulo in form.
Here the expediente terminates; but the claimant produces
from his custody a titulo, bearing date at Los Angeles, the
20th July, 1846.
To strengthen his case, he adduces the testimony of a
witness, to the effect that the witness had built a house upon
the land in 1847, and had occupied it as tenant from that
date; that there were people who inhabited and cultivated the
land for the claimant, and that before 1847 the disturbances
in the country hindered any improvement or settlement.
This testimony is contradicted by a witness produced on the
part of the United States, who testifies -with precision, and
seems to have had every opportunity of acquiring exact information. He says that he came to reside in the vicinity of the
land in 1848, and that there bad been no improvement or
occupation of it, and that the cattle seen upon the land did not
belong to the claimant; that he had never heard of a claim
by the petitioner until 1853.
There are grave objections to the allowance of this claim.
There is a departure from the regular and usual mode for
securing lands under the colonization laws. There is some
reason to believe that the Governor was not at Los Angeles
at the date of the order; and there is a failure to show, in any
satisfactory manner, any assertion of claim or title under it,
until the presentation of the claim, in 1853; to the board of
commissioners. The claimant is a kinsman of the Governor,
and we should expect to find on the part of the Governor the
most exact attention to the laws prescribing rules for his
guidance under such circumstances. Besides, the titulo bears
date of a day when the conquest of Upper California had been
completed by the. military ocempation of Monterey, Sonoma,
Bodega, Yerba Buena, and the region of the Sacramento and
American rivers, by the forces of the United States.
The commandant -in that portion of the Department was
making a rapid retreat to Lower California, leaving the coun-

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Gomez.

try to the control of tho United States. From the capture of
Monterey, on the 7th July, 1846, till the surrender of Los
Angeles and the organization of a Territorial Government by
Commodore Stockton, under the United States, there was
scarcely six weeks. The Californian Government, for all
practical purposes, was subverted by the capture of Monterey
and the country north of it.
In the act of Congress of 1851, and the decisions of this
court, that day is referred to as the epoch at which the power
of the Governor of California, under the authority of Mexico,
to alienate the public domain, terminated. Previously to that
date, the claimant did not acquire a title to the land, nor has
he acquired an equitable claim te it by any act done upon the
land in the fulfilment of the colonization policy of the State.
Upon the whole case, our opinion is, that the appellee has
not sustained the validity of his claim, and that the decree in
his favor must be ieversed, and his petition dismissed.

THE

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. VIOENTE

P. GoMEz.

When this court is satisfied, from the evidence before it, that no appeal to it had
been granted- by the court below, and that the cause was not before it when
an order was passed, at the, instance of the ppellee, to docket and dismiss the
case, it will rescind and annul the decree of dismissal, and revoke and cancel
the mandate issued thereupon.
A motion to docket and dismiss a case from the failure of the appellant to file
the record within the time required by the rule of this court, when granted, is
not an affirmance of the judgment of the court below. It remits the case to the
cour, to have proceedings to carry that judgment into effect, if in tje condition of the case there is nothing to prevent it. That is for the consideration
of the judge in the court below, with which this court has nothing to do, unless his denial of such a motion gives to the party concerned a right to the
writ of mandamus.
In the present aspect of this case, such a motion is not to be considered.
Cases cited to sustain the above principles.

Tuis was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the southern district of California.

