DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

469

Fery v. Watkins.

one' of the islands from its operation, and the disposal of it in
another way, should be notified to'the Assembly as well as to
the Governor. They were accordingly directed pot to proceed
to make adjudications under that order until the assignment
of the title to this claimant was perfected, but they were not
required to make the assignment or to cause it to be made.
To accomplish that purpose, and carry into effect the command of the President, two things only were necessary to be
done: one was to be performed by the claimant, and the other
was a mere ministerial act. It was the claimant who was to
make the selection; and if it was a proper one, near the place
where he was-stationed with his troops, nothing remained to be
done but to make the assignment as described in the dispatch.
Emanating as the dispatch did from the supreme power of the
nation, it operated of itself to adjudicate the title to the claimant, leaving no discretion to be exercised by the authorities
of the Department. Neither the Governor nor the Assembly,
nor both combined, could withhold the grant, after a proper

selection, without disobeying the express command of the supreme Government. Nothing therefore remained to be done,
after the selection by the claimant, but to issue the title papers,
and that was the proper duty of the Governor, as the executive organ of the Department. Nb doubt appears to have been
entertained of the justice of the claim, either by the commisBioners or the District. Court; and in view of all the-circumstances, we think their iespective decisions were correct. The
decree of the District Court is therefore affirmed.

MARTIN VERY, PLAINTI

IN ERRoR, V. GEORGE C. WATKINS.

Where a surety upon a bond is sued, a conversation between his co-surety (now
dead) and a third person is not admissible in evidence for the purpose of fixing a liability upon the defendant: The co-surety, if alive, would not himself
have been a good witness.
A paper in the handwriting of the co-surety, offered to impeach the testimony
of two witnesses, was not admissible.
Where a levy is made upon goods and chattels under a fi. fa., the officer may con.
fide them to another, for safe keeping; until there has been a settlement of the

SUPREME COURT.
Very v. Watkins.
judgment and payment of all costs. He may, therefore, leave them in the
hands of a receiver appointed by the court.
Where the receiver had the custody of goods, and the complainant was ordered
to select such a portion of these goods as would pay his claim by a decree of
the court below, which was affirmed by this court, and which he refused to do,
and this portion was accordingly set apart, the receiver became from that
time a trustee for the complainant.
The receiver was entitled to hold this property, as trustee, until a demand was
made upon him in proper form by the complainant to surrender it. This
proper form should have been under a c6irtified copy of that part of the decree
which permitted the complainant to demand the property, and which required
the receiver to surrender it with the complainant's acknowledg'nent of its receipt. These papers should then be filed in court, for the protection of the
trustee.

THIS ease was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the eastern district of Arkansas.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was subiitted on printed arguments by Mr. Stillwell for
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Watkins for the defendant.
The arguments of the counsel were so connected with the
facts of the case, that it would be difficult to give a faithful
account of them without an extensive statement of the facts.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 3d March, 1841, at Little Rock, Arkansas, one James
Levy gave his obligation with a mortgage for $4,000, with intetest, due six years after date, to one Darwin Lindsley, who
soon after assigned the obligation to Martin Very, the plaintiff
in error. In March, 1843, Levy paid to Very $2,000, and at
the same time executed a promise, in writing, to pay the residue of the debt in jewelry and other wares, which Very agreed to
receive in payment, to be s-lected within a year from that time,
from Levy's stock of goods. Very refused to perform the agreemenf, and in 1848 brought an action on the original obligation,
to which Levy pleaded the agreement by way of accord and
s.isfaction, with an offer to perform on his tart. The Supremq .Courtof Arkansas, on an appeal, held it to be in equity

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

47]

Very v. lfatki8.

a clear accord and satisfaction, upon a good consideration, be
cause the creditor by that arrangement received payment of
nearly half of the debt in advance, and because the residue
was to be paid almost four years before the debt'became due.
In the mean time, Very brought a bill to foreclose the mortgage in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district
of Arkansas, to which Levy set up the same defence by way
of answer. In April term, 1860, the court sustained the defence of Levy, and decided !hat Very should select from the
stock of goods in question a sufficient amount according to
their value, on the 3d March, 1844, to satisfy the rest of the
debt. It then became necessary to appoint a receiver in the
cause. John M.. Ross was appointed receiver, and gave a
bond, with E. Cummins and George C. Watkins as securities,
in the penal sum of $5,000, with the condiiion that he would
faithfully discharge his duties as receiver, with respe6t to such'
goods as might be brought into court, and that he would carefully keep and dispose'of them in conformity with such order
and decree as the court might make in that suit.
In consequence of Very's refusal to abide by his agreement,
Levy was obliged to keep his stock of goods on hand to tender
them to Very, according to the agreement. But Levy had
other creditors, who seized upon the same goods in execution,
and they were in possession of the sheriff when Ross Was
made receiver, and from the sheriff he received them. The
next step was an order from the district judge, directing Very
to select from a box of jewelry in the hands of the' receiver
such an amount, according to the value of the goods in March,
1843, as would be sufficient 'to discharge the balance of the
debt due to him. This he refused to do, and then the clerk
of the Supreme Court of Arkansas was directed, with the assistance of two skilful and disinterested persons, to make a
selection from the goods for Very.
It was done. A report was made, that the value of the
goods in March, 1844, had been $5,777, and that according to
that value a selection had been made to the amount of
$2,002.59, to pay Very's claim upon Levy, and that the goods
had been set apart for that purpose, with an inventory. A

SUPREME COURT.
Tre77 v. Matkins.

final decree was then made, authorizing Levy to withdraw the
remainder of the goods from the hands of the receiver, adjudging also that Very should take the selected goods in payment of the residue still due upon the bond and mortgage,
and that Ross, the receiver, should deliver them to him on demand. Very refused to abide by that decree, and prosecuted
an appeal to this court. Here the decree of the court below
was affirmed. On its return, Very refused to pay the costs.
Levy had to pay them in order to get a mandate from this
court to carry its decree into execution. Under these circumstances, Levy sued out a writ of execution, and directed it to
be levied on the goods belonging to Very, still in the hands
of Ross. The receiver and the marshal returned it without
further action on the wirt. A venditioni exponas was then
issued, and the goods were sold by the marshal for $260, the
fall value of them at that time, in their then condition. Three
years and six months passed, and then Very, having acquiesced
all of that time in what had been done, commenced this suit
to recover from Watkins, as the security of Ross, damages for
a breach of his bond, alleging that he had carelessly kept the
jewelry which had been in his possession as receiver, and for
not having surrendered it to him when he demanded it, as
under the decree of the court he had a right to do.
Watkins filed three pleas to this action. The first is a detailed narrative of the proceedings in the suit between Very
and Levy to the appointment of Ross as receiver, and showing that, by the decree, Very had been required to receive, in
satisfaction of the debt due to him by Levy, jewelry to the
-amount of $2,002.59 ; and that from that decree they had appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States, where the
decree of the court below had been affirmed with costs. Very
v. Levy, 13 How., 345. And further stating, that Levy had
paid the costs of the suit in the Supreme Court, and that the
jewelry, still being in the hands of Ross, had been levied upon
and sold by the marshal, and that the proceeds of it were applied to the repayment of Levy of the costs, which Very was
bound to pay by the decree.
Watkins, in his second plea, denied that the jewelry had

DEOEM1BER TERM, 1859.
Feni v. Watkins.

been injured from the careless keeping of Ross; and his third
plea is a denial that Very had ever demanded it from Ross.
Upon the trial of the case, the plaintiff excepted to the
rulings of the court, as well for excluding as Bo, admitting
testimony.
We have examined with some pains the plaintiff's assignments of error, without finding cause for sustaining either of
them. The first is, that the court refused to permit a witness
to testify to a conversation between himself and Cummins,
the co-surety of Watkins, for the purpose of fixing upon the
latter a liability in this action to the plaintiff. It seems that
Watkins was not present at that conVersation. Whatever it
may have been, it was inadmissible; and had Cummins been
alive, and had been called as a witness to narrate it, he would
not have been a competent witness to fix upon his co-surety
a separate liability for an alleged breach of the bond by
their principal, for which they had made themselves mutually
responsible. The argument of the counsel for the defendant
in error is unanswerable upon this point.
The second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth assignments of
error are complaints because the court admitted evidence
directly pertinent to the issues which had been made by the
pleadings, and defensive as to the imputed negligence of Ross
in keeping the goods committed to him as receiver, and as to
their condition, quality, and value, when they were turned
over to him under the order of the court; and as to their condition when it was levied upon by the marshal to pay the
costs of the Supreme Court.
The seventh assignment of'error was the refusal of the court
to admit a paper in the handwriting of Cummins, the deceased co-surety of the defendant, to show that the. testimony
of the other witnesses, Dort and Kirk, was not consistent with
the appraisementwhich they bad made, pursuant to the order
of the court. It was clearly inadmissible.
The eighth and ninth assignments of error relate to the levy
upon the jewelry by the deputy marshal; and the court is
asked to instruct the jury: "If the levy was n'ade without
seeing the jewelry and taking it into possession, they should

SUPREME COURT.
Fiery v. Watkimn.

disregard it as any evidence of any levy; as, in law, a levy
upon personal property-which jewelry is-cannot be made
without having a sight of it, and taking possession thereof."
The court refused the instruction as asked; liut said to the
jury, that to make a valid levy on goods and chattels on a
writ of fi. fa., if the officer charged with the duty has a view
of them, and they are in his power, and he declares that he
makes a levy or seizure of them in execution, such is a valid
levy, without taking them into his possession.
The objection to this instruction seems to be, that there had
been an insufficient seizure, because the officer did not take
manual possession of the box containing the jewelry, but left
it in the keeping of Ross, who had pointed it out to him when
he came to make the levy. But the evidence establishes that
a levy was made by the officer, and that he returned the execution to the marshal, for further proceedings upon it.
It cannot be implied that the levy was incomplete, on account of the box having been left where it was when the levy
was made,.where it had been kept by Ross whilst he continued
to be receiver, and Where it remained afterwards, from Very
not having demanded it, as he had a right to do and should
have-done.
After a levy has been made with a fi. fa. upon goods and
chattels, the officer may confide them to another person for
safe keeping, until there has been a settlement of the judgment'and payment of all costs.
The court, in giving.this instruction to the jui, went further than it was necessary to do, without, however, having
interfered with the right of the jury to find from the evidence
whether or not a levy had been made.
The tenth assignment of error relates to the instruction of
the court, that by the decree of the court below in August,
1850, and- the affirmance of it by this court in 1851, Ross
ceasedto act as receiver, and from thenceforth held the jewelry in question only as the trustee of Very. That decree put
an end to the controversy, excepting to what remained to be
done under the mandate of the court for the execution of its
decree. It is true that Ross, as receiver, had not been dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

475

ery v. Watk-ins.

charged by a formal order upon motion when the decreelwas
made; but it is also, true that the jewelry, by the decree, Fwas/
made the property of Very, and that he could have demanded
it from Ross, and that he could not justifiably have refused to
deliver it. It was the property of Ver for all purposes, as aiy
other that he owned, or which:could have been conveyed to
him by any kind of title. It was, as such, lial~le for his debts.
It seems to have been considered by the counsel of Very- as
liable for the costs of appeal in the Supreme Court, which
Very had neglected to pay. Levy, however, paid them, andobtained an execution against Very for his reimbursement,
vhich was as well leviable upon this property still in the possession of Ross as upon any other. 'It was allowed by him
voluntarily to remain where the law had- placed it, without
having made any proper demand for it under the decree. We
do not consider the application for it by Mr. Fowler, as the
attorney of Very, a proper demand. Mr. Fowler's relation to
him was not that special attorneyship which authorized him
to demand it in the manner that he did. No doubt that both
Mr. Cummins himself and Mr. Fowler thought themselves
empowered, as attorneys in the, suit, ,to withdraw it from Ross,
to make a. private sale of it for the payment of the costs duo
by Very.
But Ross had'responsibilities in the matter under the decree, which gave him the right to withhold it from the counsel
of one of the parties, until a demand was made upori him,
according to what the cpurse -of equity practice requires to be
done under such decrees. It matters not what causes he may.
have assigned to Mr. Fowler for not delivering the jewelry to
him, for, in a controversy to make the security, of Ross liable
for an allegedjbreach of his bon4, the former is-'entitled to
have the benefit of any i regularity which his principal could
have resisted. According to the practice in equity, under
such a decree as this is, authorizing Very to demand the
jewelry, the demand slhould have been made under a certified
copy of that part of the decree, at least, permitting Very to
demand the property,-and requiring Ross to surrender it, with
a receipt upon ii4 either by Very or by his attorney, that- the

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Furphy. United States v. -Pratt.

goods were surrendered by Ross. Upon the return of such
a certificate, the court would have directed it to be put on file
with the other papers in the suit, as a voucher for the protection of Ross from further responsibility to the parties, and as
evidence that its decree in that particular had been executed.
Such a course is not merely a form, to be followed or not, as
parties to such a decree may please, but it is a cautionary
requirement, to prevent further litigation, by exactness in the
performance of a decree in equity. Iad it been observed in
this instance, this suit would not have been brought.
The instruction as given is in conformity with the decree.
Having examined every assignment of error, we shall direct
the judgment of the court below to be affirmed.

THE UNITED

STATES,

APPELLANTS, V. JAMES MURPHY.

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

v.

THE

EMANUEL PRATT.

This court again decides that a claim to land in California, founded upon
",Sutter's general title," is net valid.

THESE two cases were appeals from the District Court of
the United States for the northern district of California.
The cases are stated in the opinion of the court.

They were argued by Mr. Stanton for the appellants.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees in these suits were respectively confirmed in
their claims to land inthe valley of the Sacramento river.
Thqir' applications were made to Mi~heltorena in 1844; and
upon a reference, 4CiJptain Sutter reported that the land was
vacant. Upon the advice of the, secretary, further action was
deferred until the Governor could visit that portion of the
Department, and leave was given to the petitioner to occupy

the land until that time.
In December of that year, the "general title" to Sutter was
issued, and in 1845 or 1846, after the deposition of Michelto-

