THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

ANsox, BANs, & Co.,

V. THE BLuE RIDGE RAILROAD COMPANY.

Where a motion was made to dismiss an appeal, upon the ground that no ap.
peal bond had been given, time was allowed the appellants within which to
file the bond. If they complied with the order, the appeal wa's to stand;
otherwise, to be dismissed.
The appeal bo)ad must be taken and approved by any judge or justice author.
ized to allow the appeal or writ of error.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of Georgia.

A motion was made by Mr. Phillips,on behalf of the appellees, to dismiss the appeal, upon the ground that no -appeal
bond was given at the time of granting the appeal, as required
by the statute, either as a security.for costs or supersedeas of
execution
31r. Jolnson opposed the motion and offered to give a bond
for costs, and thus prevent the dismissal, if consistent with the
practice of the court.
After argument by these two counsel. Mr. Justice NELSON
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a motion to dismiss the appeal, on the part of the appellee, upon the ground that no appeal bond was given at the
. . OL. XX=I.
1

SUPREME COURT.
Teee et al. v. Huntingdon et al.

time of granting the appeal, as required by the statute, either
as a security for costs or supersedeas of execution. 1 Stat. at
Large, pages 84, 85, secs. 22, 23, p. 404.
It iB admitted that no bond was given, but the counsel resisting the motion proposes to give one for the costs, and thus
prevent the dismissal, if consistent- with the practice of the
court. The practice has been allowed in several cases, as will
be seen by reference to 10 Wh. R., 311, 16 How., 148, and 9
Wh., 555. In the last case, time was granted within which
to give the bond, or the case be dismissed. The bond may
be taken and approved before any judge or justice authorized
to allow the appeal or writ of error.
Let the appellant have sixty days to give the bond, and file
it with the clerk, upon complying with which order the motion be dismissed; otherwise, granted.

LmvIs TRESE AND L wIs TsEsE, JuN., PLAINTITS in ERROR, V.
0. P. HUNTINGDON AND MARK HOPKINS.
Counsel fees are not a proper element for the consideration of the jury in the
estimation of damages in actions for the infringement of a patent right. This
point has been directly ruled by this court, and is no longer an open question.
By the fifteenth section of the patent act of the fourth of July, 1836, the defendant is permitted to plead the general issue and give any special matter
in evidence, provided notice in writing may have been given to the plaintiff
or his attorney thirty days before the trial.
It is not necessary that this should be served and filed by an order of the court;
and it is sufficient if it was served and filed subsequently to the time when
the depositions were taken and filed in court.
For the purpose of impeaching a witness, a question was asked of another witness, "What is the reputation of the (first) witness for moral character?"
This question was objected to, -and properly not allowed to be put by the
court below.
The elementary writers and cases upon this point examined.
Another witness was asked what was the reputation of the first witness for truth
and veracity, who replied that he had no means of knowing, not having had
any transactions with him for five years. This question was excluded by the
court, which must judge according to its discretion whether or not itapplies
to a time too remote. '

