220 -

SUPREME COURT.
Dermott v. Jones.

There was evidence to support the decree; and we can see
no manifest error into which the court below has fallen. Appellants ought not to expect that this court will reverse a decree, merely upon a doubt created by conflicting testimony.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with uosts.

ANN R. DERMOTT,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ZEPRENIAH JONES.

Where there was a special contract to build a house by a certain day, which
was not fulfilled, owing to various circumstances, and thQcontrctor brought
a suit setting forth the special contract and averring performance. it was erroneous in the court to instruct the jury to find for the plaintiff, as the work
was not finished by the appointed day, though it was completed after the time
with the knowledge and approbation of the defendant.
By the terms of the contract, the performance of the work was a conditiun precedent to the payment of the money sued for.
The general rule of law is, that whilst a special contract remains open, that i,
unperformed, the party whose part of it has not been done cannot sue in indebitatus assumpsit, to recover a compensation for what he has done, untl the
whole shall be completed. But the exceptions from that rule are in cases in
which something has been do~e under a special contract, but not in strict
accordance with it; but if the other party derives any benefit from the labor
done, the law implies a promise on his part to pay such a remuneration as
the work ia worth, and to recover it an action of indebitatus assumpsit is
maintainable.
The case must be remanded-to the Circuit Court, to be tried upon such counts
as are in the original declaration, which charges the defendant in the sum of
$5,000 for work and labor done, for materials furnished and used by the
defendant in the erection and finishing certain stor~s and buildings in the
city of Washington; and upon the money counts for a like sum paid by the
plaintiff for the defendant; for a like sum had and received, and for a like
sum paid, laid out, and expended, by the plaintiff, for the use of the defendant,
at her request. And in such action the defendant may recoup the damages
which she has sustained from the imperfect execution of the work.

Tis case was brought up by writ of error from the Cirouit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
It was an action of debt brought by Jones against Ann R.
Dermott for the sum of five thousand dollars. The declaration
contained four counts, viz:

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

22J

Dermott v. Jones.

1. That the defendant, on the first day of July, 1852, was
indebted to the plaintiff, in the sum of five thousand dollars,
for work and labor done and materials furnished to th defendant by plaintiff, and used by her in and about the erection
of certain buildings, and finishing and completing certain
stores in said buildings, in the city of Washington.
2. For a like sum paid by plaintiff for defendant.
3. For a like sum had and received.
4. For a like'sum paid,, laid out, and expended by plaintiff,
for defendant, and at her request.
The plaintiff below had also filed a bill on the equity side
of the court, which was pending; whereupon the defendant
moved for a rule opon him to elect between his said action
of debt, pending on the common-law side of this court against
this defendant, and his said bill pending on the equity side of
this court against the said defendant, as to the sum of money,
to wit: $14,000, with interest, for which a decree is prayed
against said defendant by plaintiff in his said bill.
Whereupon the plaintiff says he elects to recover in this
action only the $5,000 mentioned in his said bill in equity, to
be paid by defendant on the completion of the said stores and
warehouse in said bill mentioned, and claimed on the 1st
October, 1851, with interest, and hereby disclaims all and
every right or pretension in this cause to recover any portion
of said $14,000.
Whereupbn the court made the following order, to wit:
The plaintiff having made his election under the said order
or rule made at March term, 1854, as aforesaid, to prosecute
this action of debt for the recovery of the said sum of $5,000:
It is further ordered by the court, that the said bill in
chancery be dismissed, and the same is dismissed accordingly,
quoad the said $5,000.
The reporter will not carry the reader through the following process of pleading, the mention of which will be sufficient.
It has been already stated that the declaration contained
four counts. The defendant pleaded specially to the declaration setting up the special agreement, &c. Whereupon the

SUPREME COURT.
Dermoit v Jones.

plaintiff amended his narr., adding special counts upon the
contract. The amended narr. was objected to. Objection
overruled, and exception taken. The amended narr. contained
the following counts:
1. On the contract alleging performance, and that $5,000
was due, stating the time mentioned in the contract, (1st
October,) under a videlicet.
2. Treating the time (1st October) as material, averring that
the plaintiff had performed his part, but that the defendant
departed from the contract.
3 and 4. The common counts in debt for the extra work.
The pleas wereTo the first count, nil debetnon-performance generally, and
non-performance specially, in not completing the stores and
warehouse on or before the 1st of October.
To the second, third, and fourth, demurrers.
To the plea of non-performance, in not completing the work
on the 1st of October, the plaintiff demurred, and judgment
for the demurrer.
Upon the demurrers of the defendant to the second, third,
and fourth counts, demurrers overruled, and judgments for
the plaintiff.
Verdict for the plaintiff on the first count, and inquisitions,
with nominal damages, on the second and third counts, and
for the value of the extra work on the fourth count. Judgment accordingly.
From this account of the pleadings, the reader will readily

perceive the points of law which came up to this court. But
in order to make it-more cleai, the.prayers to the court by the
defendant (none being offered by the plaintiff) are inserted.
There were five prayers, the ohly one of which was granted was
the fourth. Numbers one and three were grant ed with a qualification;, numbers two and five were refused.
Fourth Prayer. If the jury find, from the evidence aforesaid,
that the plhintiff -so negligently and unfaithfully executed the
work specified in the- contract and specifications aforesaid,
that, from insufficient drainage, bad workmanship, departure
from the written specifications, orother acts or omissions of

DECELBER TERM, 1859
Dermott v. ATnes.

the plaintiff, in so negligently and unfaithfully executing said
work, the three stores and warehouse aforesaid were damaged
and injured, as stated in the evidence, then the defendant is
entitled to recoup or deduct from the amount claimed in this
action all damages sustained by the defehdant, and resulting
from said injury. Granted.
Fifth Prayer. That, under the issues joined on the first
count of the amended declaration, the defendant is entitled to
the verdict, unless the jury shall find, from the evidence, that
the plaintiff did finish and deliver over to the defendant the
three stores and warehouse described in said written contract,
ready for use and occuiation, on or before the 1st day of
October, A. D. 1851. Rejected.
Second Prayer. That, by the true intent and meaning of the
written contract and specifications read in evidence, the said
Zepheniah Jones undertook and obliged himself to finish the
three stores and warehouse therein described, and deliver them
over to the defendant, fitting for use and occupation, on or
before the 1st day of October, 1851; and the said Jones also
undertook and obliged himself to procure and supply all and
singular the materials, implements, fixtures, matters and
things requisite and proper for the execution of said , and
for the complete finishing and fitting for use and occupation
of said warehouse and stores. And if the jury find that the
said warehouse and stores, when delivered over by said Jones
to the defendant, were not fitting for use and occupation, but
the same were defective, 'unsafe, alid untenantable, by reason of
the cracking of parts of the walls and the settlement of portions of the store walls, or otherwise; and if the jury further
find that it was possible for said Jones to have constructed
said warehouse and stores, and to have delivered the same to
the defendant fitting for use and occupation, by his furnishing
additional labor, materials, matters and things, (not named in
said written specifications,) in and about the fitting of the
same for use and occupation, then the said .Jones did not
perform and discharge the obligation of his said contract,
although the jury may believe that the said warehouse and
three stores were erected and constructed in strict conformity

SUPREME COURT.
Dermott v. Jones.

to the specifications made a part of said contract; and although
the cracking of said walls and settlement, of said foundations
may have resulted from causes wholly unforeseen by either
party at the time of executing said contract and constructing
said foundations and walls; and although the said cracking
and settlement may have been caused by the weight placed
on said walls and foundations, or some part thereof, according
to the requirements of such specifications, or of additional
weight placed on the same or some part thereof by said Jones,
at the request of said defendant, and which additional weight
was not called for in said specifications; but the court further
instructs the jury that the plaintiff is entitled to recover nominal damages at all events. Refused.
DEFENDANT'S FIRST AND THIRD PRAYERS, WITH THE QUALIFICATION.

FirstPrayer. And thereupon the defendant prayed the court
to instruct the jury, as follows:
If the three stores and warehouse in the contract mentioned
were not executed and finished, fit for use and occupation,
and so delivered to defendant, either on the said 1st day of
October, 1851, in the said contract mentioned, nor at any
other time, but were, *at the time the same were delivered,
wholly unfit and unsafe for use and occupation, with walls,
or some of them, sunken out of plumb and cracked, and in
danger of falling, so as to be utterly untenantable and unfit
for use and occupation, then the plaintiff was 'not entitled to
demand and recover in this action the said sum of five thousand dollars, as the stipulated instalment which the said contract purports to make payable ond the-said 1st October, on
the terms and conditions therein mentioned, but the plaintiff
is entitled to recover the value of his said work, after deducting the cost and expense incurred by the defendant in repairing said stores and warehouse, and rendering them fit for use
and occupation, but the plaintiff'is entitld to nominal damages at all events.
Third Prayer. If the defendant did not, at any time or times
whatever,, execute, finish, ready for use and occupation, and
in that state and condition deliver over to the defendant the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

225

Dermott v. Jona.

said stores and warehouse mentioned, but deliverEd the same
over to the defendant in a state wholly unsafe ard unfit for
use and occupation, and untenantable, with walls sunken,
cracked, and out of plumb, and in danger of falling into ruin,
whereby the defendant was greatly injured and suffered great
loss, by having to reconstruct the said walls in part, and repair
the dilapidated condition of the building, and fit it for use
and occupation at her own costs and charges, then the defendant may recoup or deduct said losses, costs, and charges,
against the plaintiff's claim for the said instalment of five
thousand dollars, claimed in this suit, or the value of the work
done by said plaintiff in and about. said stores and warehouse,
but the plaintiff is entitled to recover nominal damages at all
events; which instructions the court refused to grant without
the following qualification, that is to say:
Qualification. But, if the jury shall find, from the evidence,
that the said Jones hath executed the said work according to
the specifications forming a part of the said contract, and ina skilful, diligent, and careful and workmanlike manner, or
that his execution thereof was with the knowledge and'approbation of the defendant, then they are to find for the
plaintiff the said sum of $5,000, with interest from the date
of the delivery of the said stores and warehouse.
To the granting of which instructions the plaintiff excepts,
and prays the court to sign and seal this his bill of exceptions,
which is abcordingly done, this eleventh day of November,
[SEAL.] "
JAMES S. MORSELL.
1857.
WILLIAM M. MERRICK. [SEAL.]
To the refusal of which instructions, as prayed by the
defendant, to the granting of the qualification annexed thereto,
the defendant, by her counsel, excepts, and claims the same
benefit of exception as if the refusal of the court to grant each of
said instructions as prayed, and the granting of the same with'
the qualification thereto attached, were each separately excepted
to; and thereupon this, her bill of exceptions, is signed, sealed,
and enrolled, this eleventh day of November, 1857.
[sEAL.]
'JAMES S. MORSELL.
WILLIAM M. MERRIOK. [sEAL.]
VOL. XXIII

15

SUPREME COURT.
Dermott v. Jones.

The case was argued by Mr. Brent and Mr. Poe for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Bradley and Mr. Carlisle, upon
a brief by the latter gentleman and Mr. Badger, for the defendant.
The arguments of the counsel were so interwoven with the
dates and facts of the case, that it is thought best to omit
them entirely.
Mr. Justice WAYNE deli'rered the opinion of the court.
This record shows .that the 'plainti.ff and the defendant entered into a building contract, under seal, with specifications
annexed, on the 22d April, 1851. It was agreed between
them, that Jones, the plaintiff, should do in a good, substantial, and workmanlike manner, the houses, buildings, and
work of every sort and kind described in a schedule annexed
to the contract, of whicl. :G was a part; that he should procure
and supply all th- materials, implements, and fixtures, requisite for executing the work in all its parts and details; and

that the stores froniting on Market Space,.and the warehouse
on Seventh street, should be finished and ready for use
and occupation, and be delivered over to the defendant,
on the first day of October after the date of the contract,
and all .the rest of the work on the first day of December afterward. The defendant agreed, upon her p-.rt, to
pay the plaintiff for the performance of th work, and for the
materials furnished, twenty-four thousand dollars by instalments:, five thousand dollars on the first day of July, 1851;
five thousand dollars on the first day of October following; it
being expressed in their contract, that the stores and warehouse
were then to be ddlivered to t,,e defendant readqfor use and occupation; .and that the residue of the twenty-four thousand dollars
was to be paid to the plaintiff on the first day of January,
1860, with interest upon four thousand of it from the first day
of May, 1851, and with interest on ten thousand dollars from
the first day of December, 1851. We do not deem it necessary to .notice the other covenants of the contract, as they
have no bearing upon the case as we shall treat it.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.

227

Dermott v. Jones.

The suit as originally brought is an action of debt for the
recovery from the defendant of the second instalment of five
thousand dollars, and for the value of certain extra work done
and materials furnished by the plaintiff for the defendant's use.
The original declaration contains four counts: first, charges
the defendant in the sum of five thousand dollars for work and
labor done, and materials furnished and used by her in the
erection and finishing certain stores and buildings in the city
of Washington; second, for a like sum paid by the plaintiff
for the defendant; third, for a like sum had and received;
and fourth, for a like sum paid, laid .out, and expended by
the plaintiff for defendant at her request. The defendant
pleaded to the declaration four.pleas: first, that she was not
indebted as alleged; second, a special plea setting out in detail a contract under seal, with the plaintiff, for the erection
of such buildings as are mentioned in it, and for tle comple.
tion of them-protesting that the plaiiitiff had not complied
with the terms of the same, and declaring that the sum of five
thousand dollars claimed by the plaintiff was the second instalment, which, by the contract, was to be due and payable
to the plaintiff on the first day of October, 1851, and denying
that the buildings were done by that day, or that any claim
for the five thousand dollars had accrued before the bringing
of the suit, by reason of any contract or agreement different
from the special contract, or for any consideration other than
the five thousand dollars claimed in the declaration. In the
third plea, the identity of the sum sued for with the second
instalment is reaffirmed, payable on the 1st of October, 1851,
upon condition that the buildings and stores should be completed and ready for use by that- day--averring performance
on her part of the conditions and covenants of the contract,
and non-performance on the part of the plaintiff, especially
his failure to complete and have ready for use the, warehouse
and stores by the time specified. The fourth plea refers to the
special contract, avers performance on her part, non-performance on the part of the plaintiff, and especially, that he had
not finished and completed the buildings and stores by tte
(lay specified in the contract, or at any time, either before or

SUP EMIE CO UIBT.
Dermott v. Jones.

after that day. At this point of the pleading the plaintiff applied to be permitted to amend his declaration, and added to
it four counts. The first sets out in detail the special contract
referred to in the defendant's second, third, and fourth pleas;
avers performance generally, on his part, and non-performance
on the part of the defendant. The second count is the same
as the first, down to the averment of performance by plaintiff
inclusive, and then it avers that the defendant departed from
the stipulations of the contract, and required the plaintiff to
do additional work, and to furnish additional materials, whereby the defendant delayed the plaintiff, and prevented him
from completing the buildings by the time agreed, which thc,
plaintiff would otherwise have done. It is then averred that;
notwithstanding the additional labor, the plaintiff had completed the work in a reasonable time after the first day of
October, 1851, to wit: on the 4th December following, and
that the defendant then accepted the same, whereby the seeond instalment of $5,000 became payable. The third count
is substantially a repetition of the original declaration, and
the fourth claims $10,000 for work and labor done, and for a
like sum laid out by the plaintiff for the defendant, from all
of which his right of actionhad accrued before it was instituted.
The defendant filed three pleas to the first count of the amended declaration: 1st, that she was not indebted as was alleged;
2d, that the plaintiff had not performed the special agreement;
and 3d, that he had not performed the condition precedent of
the contract, to complete the building, which he had agieed t,)
do by the first day of October, 1851. To the rest of the 'count
the defendant demurred. As the verdict of the jury and th
judgment rentdered for the plaintiff are upon the first amended
count, contrary to instructions asked of the court by the defendant, we shall not notice the subsequent pleadings and proceedings in the case, and will confine ourselves to what we
consider to have been the legal rights of the parties under the
original declaration and the first amended count. The evidence shows that the three stores and the warehouse were not
finished by the 1st of October, 1.851. It is also proved' that

h)ECKMBER TERM, 1859.
Dermot v. Jones.

the special contract had buen departed from in the course of
its execution; that the defendant insisted that alterations and
additions should be made in the buildings after they were begun, contrary to the specifications of the special contract, and
that the plaintiff had yielded to her requirements. It may
have delayed the completion of the stores and warehouse, as
it increased the work to be done; but it having been assented
to by the plaintiff without any stipulation that the time for
performance of the whole was to be delayed, it must be presumed to have been undertaken by the plaintiff to be done, as
to time, according to the original contract. The sinking of
the wall probably caused the delay, but that cannot give to
the plaintiff any exemption from his obligation to finish the
stores and warehouse on the 1st of October, without further
proof as to the cause it; nor could it in any event entitle him
to an instruction from the court that he might recover under
a count or a special contract, in which he avers that the work
had been completed by him on the 1st of October in conformity
with it. The defendant in the court below, plaintiff in error
here, to maintain the issues on her part, and to reduce the
damages claimed by the plaintiff, introduced witnesses to show
that the work, though it had been done, bh~d not been so in a
skilful and workmanlike manner, and that the materials used
for it were of an inferior kind, especially in the construction
of the store wall, and that it was so deficient in other particulars that she had been put to a large expense to make the
buildings fit for use and occupation, which amounted to ten
thousand dollars. The plaintiff gave rebutting testimony, and
then the defendant prayed the court to intruct the jury, "that
if the three stores and warehouse were not finished fit for use
and occupation, and delivered to her on the 1st of October,
1851, but" were at the time when they were delivered wholly
unfit and unsafe for occupation, with the walls of some of
them sunken out of plumb, and cracked, and in danger of
falling, so as to be utterly untenantable, then the plaintiff was
not entitled to demand and recover in this order the said sum
of $5,000, as the stipulated instalment which the special contract purports to make payable on the 1st October, 1851, bul

SUPREME COURT.
Dermolt v. Jones.

that the plaintiff was entitled to recover only the value of his work,
after deducting the cost and expense incurred by the defendant in r,pairing the stores and warehouse, to render them fit for occupation,
but that the plaintiff, as claimant, was entitled only to nominal
damages.
Also, if the defendant did not, at any time whatever, execute and finish, -ready for use and occupation, and deliver in that
state and condition to the defendant, the stores and warehouse, but had delivered them over to the defendant in a state
wholly unsafe and unfit for use, and untenantable, &c., &c.,
and that the defendant had been obliged to reconstruct the walls, and
to refix the buildings, so as to fit them for use and occupation, at her
own cost and charges, then that the defendant may recoup or deduct
the same against the plaintiff's claim for the said instalment of five
thousand dollars claimed in the suit, or the value of the work done
by the plaintiff upon the stores and warehouse; but that, in all
events, the plaintiff could only recover nominal damages.
These instructions the court refused to give, without the
following qualifications:

"If the jury shall find from the evidence that the plaintiff,
Jones, has executed the work according to the specifications
forming a part of the contract, in a skilful, diligent, and careful and workmanlike manner, and that his performance of. it
was with the knowledge and approbation of the defendant,
then they should find for the plaintiff the said sum of five
thousand dollars, with interest from the date of the delivery
of the stores and warehouse to the defendant."
The defendant excepted to the refusal of the instructions as
they had been prayed for, and to the qualifications of them as
they were given to the jury.
There is error in this instruction. The count and the plea
of the defendant, and the instruction asked, raised the construction of the special contract, whether or not the right
of the plaintiff to recover the second instalment did. not depend upon the completion of the stores and warehouse by
the 1st of October, 1851; whether that was not a condition
precedent, or a case in which the parties had agreed-one
to deliver the buildings finished, according to the special

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

231

Dermott v. Jones.

contract, and the other to pay the second instalment concurrently, if they were then so delivered. A failure by the
plaintiff to finish and deliver on that day is fatal to a recovery
upon the special contract. The plaintiff in the first amended
count declares upon it as such, avers his performance accordingly, and the proof is that he had not so performed. We infer, from the whole contract, that it was the intention of the
parties that the performance of the work was to be a condition
precedent to the payment of the second instalment. There is
no word in the contract to make that doubtful.
The plaintiff undertook to furnish the materials and to construct the buildings, according to specifications. Part of them
were to be finished, and to be delivered to the defendant, on
the 1st of October, 1851, and the residue on the 1st December
afterwards. For the whole, the defendant was to pay $24,000$5,000 on the 1st of July, 1851; $5,000 on the 1st of October,
1851, if the stores and warehouse were then finished for use
and occupation, and delivered over on that day to the defendant; and if that was done, then the balance of the $24,000 was
to be paid on the 1st of January, 1860, with the interest, as
mentioned in the special contract.
The words of the contract for payment are, "in consideration of the covenants, and their due peiformance." Such
words import a condition. It is difficult at all tihes to distinguish whether contracts are dependent or independent; but
there are rules collected from judicial decisions, by which it
may be determined. We have tested the correctness of them
by an examination of several authorities. "
"When the agreements go to the whole of the consideration
on both sides, the promises are dependent, and one of them is
a condition precedent to the other." Such is the case withthe special contract with which we are now dealing. "If the
agreements go to a part only of the considerationon both sides, the
promises are so far independent. If money is to be paid on a
day certain, in consideration of a thing to be performed at art
earlier day, the performance of that thing is a condition precedent to'the payment; and if money is to be paid by instalments, some before a thing shall be done and some when it is

SUPREME

COURT.

Dermott v. Tones.

done, the doing of the thing is not a condition precedent to
the former payments, but is so to the latter. And if there be a
day for the payment of money, and that comes before the day
for the doing of the thing, or before the time when the thing
from its nature can be performed, then the payment is obligatory, and an action may be brought for it, independently of
the act to be done. Concurrent promises are those where the
acts to be performed are simultaneous; and either party may
sue the other for a breach of the contract, on showing, either
that he was able, ready, and willing to do his act at a proper
time and in a proper way, or that he was prevented by the act
or default of the other contracting party." 2 Parsons on Contracts, ch. 3, 189.
The first instalment was to be paid on an appointed day, in
consideration of the work to be begun; and the second instalment was to be paid on a subsequent day, if the work should
then be finished and delivered over to the defendant, ready
and fit for use and occupation. Before that day it could not
have been demanded; on that day, the work having been performed, it might have been. The evidence shows that the
work had not been done on the 1st of October, 1851, and was
not finished until the 1st of December.
The plaintiff avers in his first amended count that he had,
)n his part, complied with his undertaking in the special contract. The issue upon it is, that he had not done so, and he
gave no proof to sustain the averment.
The evidence entitled the defendant to a verdict on that
count; but the court, without regard to the time fixed upon
for the work to be finished, instructed the jury, that if the
work had been done according to the specifications forming a
part of the contract, in a skilful and workmanlike manner, or
if his execution of it was with the knowledge and approbation
of the defendant, then they were to find for the plaintiff the
sum of five thousand dollars, with interest from the date of
the delivery of the stores and warehouse. It must be obvious
that this instruction makes between the parties a different
contract from that into which they had entered, and one dit
ferent from that the plaintiff had declared upon.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

28S

Dermott v. ones.

The plaintiff gave no evidence to support the count; but
there was evidence showing the reverse of performance on his
part. For, this error in the court's instruction to the jury upon
the first amended count, we shall remand the case for another,
trial upon the plaintiff's original declaration in debt with the
common counts, as in indebitatus assumpsit.
We do not consider that the plaintiff's right to recover upon
that declaration was in any way affected by the extra work
which was done upon the requisition of the defendant,*or by
the increase of materials which he furnished for that purpose;
or that the sinking of the foundation of the buildings excused
him from finishing the work by the time specified; or that
the acceptance of the buildings by the defendant as they had
been constructed by the plaintiff was any release of the plaintiff from his undertaking to finish them in the time specified
in the contract. But after that time had passed, the plaintiff
continued, with the knowledge and permission of the defend-ant, and also with the knowledge of her superintending architect, to do the work specified in the contract, and also to do
the extra work, and .tofurnish the materials necessary for
both. And when the work was done by the plaintiff, however imperfectly that may have been, the defendant accepted it.
The law in such a case implies, that the work done and the
materials furnished were to be paid for. The general rule of
law is, that while a special contract remains open-that is, unperformed-the party whose part of it has not been done cannot sue in indebitatus assumpsit to recover a compensation
for what he has done, until the whole shall be completed.
This principle is afirmed and acted upon in Cutter v. Powell,
6 Term Reports, 820; also in Hulle v. Heightman, 2 East.,
245, and in several other cases.
But the exceptions from that rule are in cases in which
something has been done under a special contract, but not in
strict accordance with that contract. In such a case, the party
cannot recover the remuneration stipulated for in the contract,
because he has not done that which was to-be the consideration of it. Still, if the otherparty has derived any benefit
from the labor done, it would be unjust to allow him to retain

284

SUPREME COURT.
Der-nott v. Jones.

that without paying anything. The law, therefore, implies a
promise on his part to pay such a remuneration as ihe benefit
conferred is really worth; and to recover it, an action of indebitatus assumpsit is maintainable.
Such is the law now in England and in the United States,
notwithstanding many cases are to be found in the reports of
both countries at variance with it. It was recognised by this
court to be the existing rule in the case of Slater v. Emerson, 19 Howard, 224, 239.
The difference between the rule now and in earlier times, it
is believed, has caused much of the difficulty in the establishment of the present rule. Formerly it was held, that whenever anything was dbne under a special contract not in conformity with it, the party for whom it was done was obliged
to pay the stipulated price; but that he might resort to a crossaction, to indemnify himself for the deficiency in the consideration. Blair v. Davis, 1794, cited in 7 East., 470. See
Smith's L. Cases, in the notes following the case of Cutter
and Powell, 2d vol., for a full description, historical and
chronological, of the rule as it now prevails and as it formerly
was.

The rule as it now exists has been recently discussed and
affirmed in the Queen's Bench, in the case of Munroe v. Phelps
and Bell, 8 Ellis and Blackburn, 739; 92 English Common
Law.
It has been the rule in the courts of New York for more
than thirty years. In the case of Jewell et al. v. Schroepnell,
4 Cowan, 564, it was decided, that if there be a special contract under seal to do work, and it be not done pursuant to
the agreement, whether in point of time or in other respects,
the party who did the work may recover, upon the common

counts in assnmpsit, for work and labor done. If, when the
time arrives for performance, the party goes on to complete
the work, with the knowledge of his employer, it was evidence
of a promise to pay for the work. So if the employer does
not object.
This rule prevails, also, in Massachusetts, in Pennsy vania,
and in several of the other States. Also in Alabama, as may

DECEMBER TERM, 1859

239

Hooiper et al. v. &lzeimer.

be seen in the case of McVoy v. Wheeler, 6 Porter, 201. It
is discussed, with a very accurate discrimination of its application, in the 2d vol. of Professor Parsons upon Contracts.
In the trial of such an action, where the defence is not presented as a matter of set-off, arising on an independent contract, but for the purpose of reducing the plaintiff's damages,
because he had not complied with his cross obligations arising
on the same contract, the defendant may be allowed a recoupment from the damages claimed by the plaintiff for such loss
as she shall have sustained from the negligence of the plaintiff. Such evidence is allowed to prevent circuity of action,
and to prevent further litigation upou the same matter. It
may be well to say, that the court allowed a recoupment in
Green and Biddle, 8 Wheat., 1, to a disseizor, who was a
bona fide occupant of land, for the improvement made by him
upon it, against the plaintiff's damages. But such recoupment cannot be claimed unless the defendant shall file a definite statement of his claims, with notice of it to the plaintiff,
sufficiently in time before the trial term of the case to enable
the latter to meet the matter with proof on his side.
We have pursued the case in hand further than may have
been necessary; but it was thought best to do so, as the points
now here ruled have not before been expressly under the consideration of this court.
The judgment given in the court below is reversed; and we
shall order that the case shall be remanded to it, with directions for its trial again, pursuant to our rulngs in this
opinion.

NIATHAN E. HOOPER, LOUISA T. HOOPER, AND AMANDA E. HoopER, MiNORS, BY ABSALOM FOWLER, THEIR NEXT FRIEND, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JACOB SCHEIMER.
Rt is the settled doctrine of this court, that no action of ejectment will lie on an
entry made with the register and receiver of the land office, such being merely
an equitable title, notwithstanding a State Legislature may have provided
otherwise by statute.

