SUPREME COURT.
Richardsonet al. v. Goddardet al.

We affirm the decree of the Circuit Court in this case, and
shall remand it there for execution.

CHARLES RICHARDSON AND OTHERS, CLAImANTS OF THE BARQuE
TANGIER, APPELLANTS, V. DAVID GODDARD AND OTHERS.
The general rules which regulate the delivery of goods by a carrier, by land or
water, explained.
Where the master of a vessel delivered the goods at the ptace chosen by the consignees, at which they agreed to receive them, and did receive a large portion
of them after full and fair notice, and the master deposited them for the consignees in proper order and condition at mid-day, on a week day, in good
weather, it was a good delivery according to the general usages of the commercial and maritime law.
The fact that the Governor of the State had appointed a day as a general fast
day, did not abrogate the right of the master to continue the delivery of the
goods on that day. Holiday is a privilege, not a duty.
There was neither a law of the State forbidding the transaction of business onthat day nor a general usage engrafted into the commercial and maritime
law, forbidding the unlading of vessels on the day set apart for a church festival, fast, or holiday; nor a special custom in the port,forbidding a carrier from
unloading his vessel on such a day.
In the absence of these legal restrictions, the master had a right to continue the
delivery of the goods on the wharf on a fast day.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States. for the district of Massachusetts.
It was the case of a libel filed in the District Court by Goddard & Pritchard, against the barque Tangier, f6r the non-delivery of 6ertain bales of cotton shipped at the port of Apalachicola. The barque arrived'at Boston, and the cotton was
lost tnder the circumstances mentioned in the opinion of the
court. The District Court dismissed the libel, but this decree
was reversed by the Circuit Court, and the vessel ordered-to
pay the amount reported by the assessor. The claimants of
the vessel appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Shepley for the appellants, and
by Mr. Gushing for the appellees.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

29

.izardson et al. v. Goddard et al.

Mr. Shepley said that the question involved might be presented under two aspects.
First. Assuming Thursday, April 10, to have been an ordinary working day, can'the libel be maintained?
Second. If not, then does the fact that Thursday was a fast
day maintain it?
I. Upon the first assumption, that Thursday is to be deemed
an ordinary working day, the respondents establish a full defence upon this proposition-that before the destruction of the
cotton by accidental fire, and before one o'clock, on Thursday,
April 10, they had unladen it upon a suitable wharf, and one
selected 'by the libellants, and made it ready for delivery
under a full and reasonable notice to the libellants, thus legally tendering a delivery.
Upon the first of these.two propositions, Mr. Shepley contended .that the unlading which was shown to have taken
place in this case was such a delivery as terminated the lia
bility of the carrier as carrier, and cited the following au
thorities:
Story on Bailments, sec. 545.
2 Kent's Coin., (6th ed.,) 604, and cases in note.
1 Gray's Rep. 271, Norway Plains Company v. Boston
and Maine R. R. Co.
Cope v. Cordova, 1 Rawle Rep., 203.
Goold v. Chapin, 10 Barb.. Supreme Court, 612.
Garsidd v. Trent and Mersey Navigation Company, 4
Term Rep., 389.
10 Met., 472.
Fisk v. Newton, 1 Denio.
-Powell v. Myers, 26 Wend., 591.
Angell on Carriers, sec. 313.
With respect to the nature of the delivery, Mr. Shepley laid
down the following propositions, each of which was sustained
by references to the evidence.
I. the place of delivery was-a proper one. It was on a
wharf usual, and selected by the libellants.
Z. The notices given were sufficient for all, and for unlading
on Thursday as well as on previous days.

SUPREME COURT.
Richardson et al. v. Goddardet al.

I. Before the fire, the cotton was all unladen, and that of
the'libellants was separated and so accessibly placed as to
make it the duty of the consignee to take charge of it.
The next question is, whether the fact that Thursday was
fast day, rendered the act of unlading under notice ineffectual
to terminate the carrier's liability.
To show this, it must be made to appear, upon the whole
evidence-that is, upon the evidence which the court judicially
possesses or notices, and upon the evidence given at the trialthat it is the universal usage in the port of Boston not to unlade goods, not liable to injury by weather, upon the forenoon
of fast day, from a vessel whose unlading had begun and been
interrupted by the neglect of consignees.
The argument upon which this position is maintained is
this1. Thursday, April 10, 1856, was prima fronte a day proper
for the discharge of cargo. The fact that the Governor of
Massachusetts recommends it to be observed as a day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer, cannot be judicially known to
this court to render it per se a day improper for the unlading
of a half-discharged vessel.
Prima fronte that is a mere recommendation addressed to
each man's free will, and which the respondents were legally
.at liberty to disregard; and as they did disregard it, all their
rights remain unaffected under the general law.
The fact that it has been usual for the Governors to make a
similar recommendation on other days, for many years, or for
two hundred, on or about the same time in the year, does not
advance or change the case. Each and all were mere recommendatious addressed to each man's free will, which he was
at liberty to disregard, and disregarding which, his rights
would all remain under the general law.
2. It must appear then to the court, upon the whole evidence, that there is a usage to do no work like this under circumstances like these, to wit, the discharging of a half-discharged cargo under such circumstances as these, so universal
as to bind the respondents.
The sources of this evidence are said to be-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

81

Richardson et al. v. Goddardd a2.

1.The judicial knowledge of the coart.
2. The proofs in the cause.
(Upon each of these points, Mr. Shepley adduced various.
illustrations, and contended that they had a legal right to unlade on a fast day, as no law prohibited it.- To strike from
the week one of its'working days, and compel us to a fast or a
rest, to which law does not, a universal usage is demanded.
I Duer on Ins., 258, 261, 262, 265.
The Paragon, Ware's Rep., 822.)
The proof, so far from establishing such ausage not to unlade, establishes the universal usage to unlade.
The following points of fact are established by numerous
witnesses (to whom .Mr. Shepley referred.)
1. That the discharge of vessels begun to be unladen before
fast day continues on that day.
2. Cargoes are moved on that day from the wharf.
3. Labor is generally done on that day by all to whom it is
necessary or highly convenient to do it.
4. Expresses, freight and passenger trains, go on that day.
5. It is a working day in all charter-parties.
6. Public worship is not observed.
The proof of the usage respecting fast day is not sufficietly.
broad to deprive the naster, who has before commenced unlading, of the right to continue it with all the rights he would
have had if it had not been fast day. To that extent the unsuitableness of the day fails to be established by the usage,
and the master's rights cannot be destroyed by simple proof
that it is not usual to receive goods on that day. That, usage
not to receive does not affect both parties, does not act upon
both, and does not deprive the master of the right, under such
circumstances, to regard the day as a suitable day for discharging. The master cannot be affected by any usage prevailing among others, which does not reach and cvntrol his
conduct. Past day is a suitable day to unlade, unless there be
full proof of a usage to prevent it. The usage must be broad
enough to affect the conduct of both parties. The established
usage, to complete on fast day an unlading commenced before,
breaks in upon the usage attempted to -be established so far

SUPREME COURT.
Richardson et al.v. Goddardet al.

as to leave the ship-master in the full possession of his rights
on that day to act precisely as on any other day.
The practice to unlade on that day, and the custom not to
receive, are inconsistent with each other to this extent-that
the custom not to receive must fail to be established, so far as
it is inconsistent with the right to complete an unlading on
fast day, or else such right of unlading is of no "ffect.
If such a usage as is contended for by ' , ellants be established, it is one which may be waived. It was waived by
Solis, the clerk, who had full power to represent the consignees respecting the unlading and delivery as their agent,
and he waived all objection. to a delivery on fast day.
It is the duty of consignees to remove goods from the
place where landed so soon as not to occasion delay, and this
they engaged to do in this case, by Solis, their clerk. They
neglected to do so, and thereby made it necessary to complete
unlading on fast day. They cannot have damages occasioned
by fire which would not have injured their property if they
had not been guilty of neglect which subjected it to that
injury.
Mr. Cashing commenced his argument by stating the following general law points:
1. The bills of lading in this case import one full and complete obligation to deliver as well as to carry.
Such is the general law of carriers by sea or land.
Angell on Carriers, sec. 322.
And such is the special law of carriage by sea.
Flanders on Shipping, secs. 507, 513.
See, also, Stevens v. Boston and Maine Railroad. I Gray,
277.
Parsons on Merc. Law, 202, 207.
Miller v. Steam Navigation Co., 13 Bar., 361.
2. The only exception to this rule, in marine carriage, is of
perils of the sea.
Fire on the wharf after landing is not within the exception.
Oliver v. Memphis Ins. Co., 18 How., 312.
Airey v. Merril, 2 Curtis C. C. R. S.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

33

Richardsonet al. v. Goddard et W.

8. Delivery is either actual or constructive.
Actual delivery is to the consignee, or his authorized agent,
the deliveree receiving the goods in fact.
G3nstructive delivery consists of notice, tender, readiness,
and present ability to deliver according t6 the contract, all
such conditions being reasonable as to time and place, and so
constituting duty to receive.
Addison on Contracts, 798.
Flanders on Shipping, sec. 811.
Angell on Carriers, see. 323.
4. Unlading and delivery are, or may be, distinct facts, as
well in constructive as in actual delivery.,
Thus, the fact of landing on a wharf is not necessarily thb
fact of delivery.
Addison on Contracts, 811, 812.
Flanders on Shipping, 279.
Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumner, 589.
Ostrander v. Brown, 15 Johnson, 39.
Gibson v. Culver, 17 Wendell, 805.
Fisk v; Newton, 1 Denio, 45.
Angell on Carriers, sec. 300.
5. Separation of the goods to be delivered from others is of
the essence of the question of the readiness to deliver, and the
duty to receive, so as to establish constructive delivery.
Brittan v. Barnaby, 21 How., 532.
6. Tender of delivery in such quantitie.s, relatively to time,
as may make reception and removal for storage practicable,
is of the essence of constructive delivery.
Angell on Carriers, sees. 287, 313.
Brittan v. Barnaby, 21 How., 532.
Parsons Mere. Law, 208.
Price v. Powell, 3 Corns. App., 322.
Benson v. Blunt, 1 A. and Ellis, N. S., 270.
7. Due relation of notice of delivery to the time or times of
delivery, so as to impose on the consignees no unreasonable
conknmption of time in the reception of the goods, is of the
essence of constructive delivery.
Gatliff v. Bourne, 4 Bing. N. C., 321.
VOL. Xxm.

R

SUPREME COURT.
Baardso e al. v. Goddard et aZ.

8. Proffer of delivery on and for a lawful day is of the essence of constructive delivery.
Ex. gr. The 'Lord's day is a statute holiday, on which unnecessary labor is forbidden in most of the countries of Chris-tendom.
Soj.notice on the Lord's day and landing next morning are
bad.
Bourne v. Gatliff, 11 C1. and F., 49.
Generally, dies festi (corrupted into feast or fast, acrording
to taste or occasion)-holidays (days of amusement, or days
9 f sanctity, as the case may be, for 'the term covers both)-are
not days for the execution of contracts.
' Chitty on Contracts, (7th Am. ed.,) 721, note.
As to such feast, fast, holy, or holi, days, the following
things are to be noted, viz: -(a.) In common contracts not negotiable, if day of performance falls due on a holiday, it is performable the next day.
Chitty on Contracts, ut sup.;
Chitty on Bills, (11th Am.. ed.,) 277, note.
Sutton v. Burt, 20 Wendell, 205.
Staples v. Franklin, 1 Met., 47.
(b.) In negotiable contracts, br with grace, the day before.
Story on Prom. Notes, see. 219.
Chitty on Bills, (11th Am. ed.,) 877 a, note.
(c.) National or local usages as to holidays have the same
effect as statutes.
Story's Prom. Notes, see. 222.
Chitty on Bills, (11th Am. ed.,) 878 a, note.
City Bank v. Cutler, 3 Pick., 414.
9. In constructive delivery, the conditions of reasonableness
are affected, and sometimes determined, by the usage of business, which usage is a question of fact, regulated, however,
by legal doctrines.
10. Until such delivery, actual or constructive, the ship'%
liability under the bill of lading continues.
Story on Bailments, see. 538.
8 Kent's Corn , 163-167.
Price v. Powell 3 Com. App., 822.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

35

Richzardson et at. v. Goddard et at.

Miller v. Steam Nav. Co., 13 Bar., 361.
Hill v.
tumpnreys, 5 Watts and S., 123.
Harmon v. Clark. 4 Camp.. 159.
Goold v. Chapin, 10 Bar., 612.
"Gatliffv. Bourne, 4 Bingham's N. C., 314.
S. C., 3 Man. and Gr., 648.
S: C., 11 Clark and F., 45.
Fisk v. Newton, 1 Denio, 45.
Thomas v. Bos. and Prov. R., 10 Mit., 432.
Lewis v. Western Railroad, 11 Mit., 314.
Norway Plains v. Bos. and Maine R., 1 Gray, 263.
II. ParticularPoints.-I. It appears proved in the present
case, that, so far as any usage exists, to supply the elements
of reasonableness in the evidence of constructive delivery, it
is, to haul up to some suitable wharf, and land the goods to
be received there.
That is conceded to be a lawful usage.
Gatliffv. Bourne, 4 Bing. N. C., 814.
In all other respects the general rules remain, as to notice
and othe'ircumstances, as already hereinhefore argued, exemap. 3ratia.
(a.) Due notice to the consignee or his authorized. ageilt
(b.) Separation of the goods.
(c.) Practicabilitkj of reception and removal.
(d.) Due relation of notice and time or times of delivery.
(e.) A lawful day.
2. It appears in the present case conclusively that the libellants used all due diligence to take away their goods as soon
as the landing commenced, and so long as it continued prior
to Thursday.
(a.) Libellants' agents and servants worked on Monday, and
on Tuesday so long as they could find any cotton.
(b.) So far as regards men and teams, and storage, they
could have removed all their cotton on Wednesday.
(Three witnesses.)
(e.) But the parcels were not separated or set apart -by the
ship on being landed, and were not according to law made by
the master ready for delivery, and so there could be no con.

SUPREME COURT.
Richardsonet al. v. Goddard et al.

structive delivery, beyond the actual amount received in part
and receipted for by libellants' agent.
See the tesitmony of the same witnesses.
This consideration applies to so much of the cotton burned,
if any,-as was landed before Wednesday.
8. Fast day by proclamation is a lawful holiday in Massachusetts, on which libellants were not bound to receive, and
therefore all goods landed that day remained at the risk of the
ship.
(a.) Statutes of Massachusetts, act of 1838, ch. 182, make
bills of exchange falling due on fast day payable the day before, with notice of protest the day after.
Act of 1856, oh. 113, (April 15, 1856,) forbids courts and
public-offices to be open on fast day.
(b.) Itis a dies non by immemorial usage in Massachusetts.
(Six witnesses.)
It is a much stronger case of dies non by usage than that in
City Bank v. Cutler, 3 Pick., 414, which was of commencement day at Harvard College.
(c.) The custom-house is closed.
(One witness.)
(d.) To make out a case of constructive delivery on fast day,
there must have been specific notice of intention to tender
delivery that day, and special agreement to receive on that
day. None of which appears, but the contrary is in proof.
(e.) There was no waiver by libellants of their right of holiday on fast day.
Solis, reception clerk of libellants, gave notica to the officers
of the Tangier that he should not receive on fast day.
(Four witnesses.)
If it had been otherwise, he would have exceeded his authority, and his acts would not have bound his principal.
4. The limitation', by act of Congress, of the liability of
ships, does not apply here.
Limitation is only in case of fire on board the ship.
Compare act of Parliament, 26 Geo. M, c. 86, with act of
Congress of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. at Large, 635.
And see Morewood v. Pollok, 18 Eng. L. and Eq., 341.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Ricuzrdon et

37

. v. Goddard et al.

IV. Gonclwuon. 1. There was no actual delivery in this case.
2. The goods were destroyed before the time of lawful
reception arrived, and there was no constructive delivery.
8. The ship is therefore liable for the goods.
4. And to the full value.
And the decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinionf of the court.
The barque "Tangier; a foreign vessel in the port of Boston'" is charged in the libel with a failure to deliver certain
bales of cotton, according to her contrae of affreightment.
The answer admits the contract, and alleges a full compliance
with it, by a delivery of the cargo on the wharf; and that after
such delivery, a part of the cargo was consumed by fire, before
it was removed by the consignees.
The libellants amended their libel, admitting the receipt of
168 bales, and setting forth, as a reason for not receiving and
taking away from the wharf that portion of the cargo which
was unladen on Thursday, "that, by the appointment of the
Governor of Massachusetts, that day was kept and regarded
by the citizens as 'a day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer,'
and that from time immemorial it has been the usage and custom to abstain from all secular work on that day ;" and consequently, that the libellants were not bound to receive the
cargo on that day; and that such a delivery, without their
consent or agreement, is not a delivery or offer to deliver in
compliance with the terms of the bill of lading.
Three questions of law'were raised on the trial of this case
below:
1. Whether the master is exempted from liability for a loss
occasioned by accidental fire, after the goods are deposited on
the wharf, by the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851.
2. Whether the. master is liable, under the circumstaices
of th;s case, for the loss of the cotton, on the general principles of the maritime law, excluding the fact of fast day.
3. If not, whether the right of the carrier to continue the
discharge of his cargo is affected by the fact that the Governor
had appointed that day as a general fast day.

SUPREME COURT.
Richardson et aL.v. Goddard et aZ.

As our decision of the second and third of these points will
dispose of this case, we do not think it necessary to express
any opinion on the first.
We will first inquire whether there was such a delivery of
cargo in this case as should discharge the carrier under this
contract of affreightment, irrespective of the peculiar character
of the day.
The facts in evidence, so far as they are material to the correct decision of this point, are briefly as follows:
The barque Tangier arrived in the port of Boston on the
8th of April, with a cargo of cotton, intending to discharge at
Battery wharf; but at the request of the consignees, and for
their convenience, she "hauled up" at Lewis's wharf. She
commenced the discharge of her cargo on Monday, the seventh,
and on the same day the master gave notice to the consignees
of his readiness to deliver the goods.- The unlading was commenced in the afternoon, and was continued through the forenoon of Tuesday, when, the cotton not being removed, the
wharf became so full that the work was suspended. Notice
was again given to the consignees; and they still neglecting
to remove their cotton, a thirl notice was added on Wednesday morning. On the afternoon of that day, all the cotton
which had been unladen on Monday and Tuesday was removed, excepting 325 bales, which remained on the wharf
over night. On Thursday morning, the wharf was so far cleared
that the unlading was completed by one o'clock P. M. On that
day, the libellants took away about five bales, and postponed
taking the rest till the next day, giving as a reason that it was
fast day. About three o'clock of this day, the cotton remaining
on the wharf was consumed or damaged by an accidental
fire.
The contract of the carrier, in this case, is "to deliver, in
like good order and condition, at the port of Boston, unto
Goddard & Pritchard."
What constitutes a good delivery, to satisfy the exigency of
such a contract, will depend on the known and established
usages of the particular trade, and the well-knowr usages of
the port in which the delivery is to be made.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
ichardsonet aZ. v. Goddardeta.

A carrier by wagon may be bound to deliver his freight at
the warehouse of the consignee; carriers by railroad and canal
usually deliver at warehouses belonging to themselves or
others. Where the contract is to carry by sea, from port to
port, an actual or manual tradition of the goods into the possession of the consignee; or at his warehouse, is not required
in order to discharge the carrier from his liability as such.
,There is no allegation of a particular custom as to the mode
and place of delivery, peculiar to the city of Boston, which
the carrier has not complied with. The general usages of the
commercial and maritime law, as settled by judicial decisions,
must therefore be applied to the case. By these, it is well
settled that the carrier by water shall carry from port to port,
or from wharf to wharf. He is not bound to deliver at the
warehouse of the consignee;. it is the duty of the consignee to
receive the goods out of the ship or on the wharf. But to
constitute a valid delivery on the wharf, the carrier should
give due and reasonable notice to the consignee, so as to afford
him a fair opportunity of providing suitable means to remove
the goods, or put them under proper care and custody.
Such a delivery, to be effectual, should not only be at the
proper place, which is usually the wharf, but at a proper time.
A carrier who would deposit goods on a wharf at night or on
Sunday, and abandon~them without a proper custodian, before
the consignee had proper time and opportunity to take them
into his possession and care, would not fulfil the obligation of
his contract. - When goods are not accepted by the consignee,
the carrier should put them in a place of safety; and when he
has so done, he is no longer liable on his contract of affreightment.
Applying these principles to the facts of this case, it is clear
that (saving the question as to the day) the respondents are
not liablh on their contract of affreightment for the loss of the
goods in question. They delivered the goods, at the place
chosen by the consignees, and where they agreed to receive
them, and did receive a large portion of them, after full and
fair notice.
The goods were deposited for the consignees in proper order

SUPREME COURT..
Riclardgon et al. v. Goddard et al.

and condition, at mid-day, on a week day, in good weathet
This undoubtedly constituted a good delivery; and the barriers are clearly not liable on their contract of affreightment,
unless, by reason of the fact next to be noticed, they were restrained from unladin; their *7essel and tendering delivery on
that day.
HI. This inquiry involves the right of the carrier to labor on
that day, and discharge cargo, and not the right of the consignee to keep a voluntary holiday, and to postpone the removal of the goods to his warehouse to a more convenient
season. The policy of the law holds the carrier to a rigorous
liability; and in the discharge of it, he is not bound to await
the convenience or accommodate himself to the caprice or
conscientious scruples of the consignee. The master of a ship
usually has a certain number of lay-days. He is bound to
expedite the unlading of his vessel, in order to relieve the
owners from the expense of demurrage, and to liberate the
ship from the onerous liability of the contract of affreightment
as soon as possible. He has six days of the week in which to
perform this task, and has a right to demand the acceptance
of his freight by the consigned. The consignee may think it
proper to keep Saturday as his Sabbath, and to observe Friday
as a fast day, or other church festival, or he may postpone the
removal of the goods because his warehouse is not in order to
receive them; but he cannot exercise his rights at the expense
of others, and compel the carrier to stand as insurer of his
property, to suit his convenience or his conscience.
Let us inquire, then, first, whether there is any law of the
State of Massachusetts which forbids the transaction of'business on the day in question; 2dly. If not, is there any ger-eral
custom or usage engrafted into the commercial or maritime
law, and making a part thereof, which forbids the unlading of
vessels and a tender of freight to the consignee on the day set
apart for a church festival, fast, or holiday; and 8dly. If not,
;s there any special custom in the port of Boston which prohibits the carrier from unlading his vessel on such a day, and
compels him to observe it as a holiday.
1. There is no statute of Massachusetts which forbids the

DECEIvBER TERM, 1859.
Richardson et al. v. Goddard et al.

citizen to labor and pursue his worldly business on any day
of the week, except on the Lord's day, usually called Sunday.
In the case of Farnum v. Fowle, (12 Mass. Rep., 94,) it is saik
by Chief Justice Parker: "There are no fixed and established
holidays in Massachusetts, in which all business is suspended,"
except Sunday.
2. The observance of Sunday as a Sabbath or day of ceremonial rest was first enjoined by the Emperor Constantine as
a civil regulation, in conformity with the practice of the Christian church. Hence it is a maxim of the civil law, "Diebus
dominicis mereari,judiearivetjurarinon debet." This day, with
others soon after added by ecclesiastical authority, (such as
1Dies natalis," or Christmas, and "Pase/a," or Easter, were
called " .Diesfesti," or "Feri," which we call festivals, saints'
-days, holy days, or holidays. In the thirteenth century, the
number of these festivals enjoined by the church was so increased that they exceeded the number of Sundays in the
year. The multiplication of them by the church had its origin in a spirit of kindness and Christian philanthropy. Their
policy was to alleviate the hardships and misery of predial
slaves and the poor laborers on the soil who were compelled
to labor for their feudal lords. But afterwards, when these
vassals were enfranchised and tilled the earth for themselves,
they complained that "they were ruined" by the number of
church festivals or compulsory holidays. In 1695, the French
King forbid the establishment of any new holidays, unless by
royal authority; and the church went further, and suppressed
a large number of them, or transferred their observance to the
next Sunday. (See ,Dalloz, iol. 29, Tit. "J 'ou r ferie," and 2d
Campeaux droit.civil, page 168.)
The same observance of these festivals was required by the
ecclesiastical authorities as that which was due to Sunday.
Men were forbiddenrto labor or to follow their usual busineso
or employments. But to this rule there were many exceptions
of persons and trades, who were not subjected to such observance.
Without enumerating all the exceptions, we may mention
that, by the canon law, the observance of these days -did not

SUPREME COURT.
Richardson et al. v. Goddard et al.

extend "to those who sold provisions; to posts or public conveyances; to travellers; to carriers by land or water; to .he
lading and unlading of ships engaged in maritime commerce."
Thus we see that in -those countries where these holidays
had their origin, and -the sanction both of Church and State,
they were not allowed to interfere with the necessities of cQmmerce, or to extend to ships, or those who navigate them.
And it would certainly present a strange anomaly, if this
country, in the nineteenth century, should be found re-establishing the superstitious observances of the dark ages with
increasedrigor, which both priest and sovereign in the seventeenth have been compelled to abolish as nuisances.
In England and other Protestant countries, while a more
strict observance of the Lord's day is enforced by statute, the
other fasts and festivals enjoined by the church have never
been treated as coming within the category of compulsory
holidays. Every man is left free to follow the dictates of his
conscience in regard to them. Formerly their courts sat even
on Sunday; nor were contracts made on that day considered
illegal or void till the statute of 29 Charles 2d, c. 27, was enacted, whereby "no person whatever is allowed to do or exercise any worldly labor or work of their callings on the Lord'E
day." But this prohibition was never extended, either by
statute or usage, to other church fasts, festivals, or holidays.
It is true that there are three days in the year, to wit, "Candlemas, Ascension, and St. John the Baptist," in which the
courts do not sit, and the officers are allowed a holiday. But
there is no trace of any decision by their courts that worldly
labor was prohibited on those days, or any usage that ships
should not be unladen and freight delivered and received on
such days. These saints' days and church fasts or festivals
are treated as voluntary holidays, not as Sabbaths of compulsory rest.
In the case of Figgins v. Willie, (3 Blackstone, 1186,) where
a tI 2blic officer claimed Aright of holiday on- the feast day of
St. Barnabas, Chief Justice De Grey says: "I by no means
approve of these self-made holidays; the offices ought to be
open." And in Sparrow v. Cooper, (2 Blackstone, 1315,) the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bkhardson et a. v. Goddard et a7

same judge observes, in reference to the same day: "There
is no prescriptive right to keep this as holiday. 'It is not established by any act of Parliament. The boards of revenue,
custom-house, and excise, may act as they please, and pay such
compliment to their officers and servants as they shall judge
expedient by remittting more frequently the hard labor of
their clerks, but they are no examples for the court." And
the Justices Gould, and Blackstone severally observe: "My
obje~tion
extends to all holidays, as well as St. Barnabas
'
day."

It may be observed, in passing, that there, as well as here,
the class of persons most anxious to multiply holidays were
the public officers, apprentices, clerks, and others receiving
yearly salaries.
It is matter of history that the State of Massachusetts was
colonized by men who fled from ecclesiastical oppression, that
they might enjoy liberty of conscience, and that while they
enforced the most rigid observance of the Lord's day as a Sabbath, or day of ceremonial rest, they repudiated with abhorrence all saints' days and festivals observed by the. churches
of Rome or of England. They "did not desire to be again
brought in bondage, to observe days and months, and times
and years." And while they piously named a day in every
year which they recommended that Christians should spend
in fasting and prayer, they imposed it on no man's conscience
to abstain from his worldly occupations on such day, much
less did they anticipate that it would .be perverted into an idle
holiday. The proclamation of the Governor is but a recommendation. It has not the force of law, nor was it so intended.
The duties of fasting and prayer are voluntary, and not of compulsion, and holiday is.a privilege, not a duty. In almost every
State in the Union a day of thanksgiving is appointed in the
fall of the year by the Governor, because there is no ecclesiastical authorit.y whicli would be acknowledged by the various
denominations. 'It is an excellent custom, but it binds no
man's conscience or requires him to abstain from labor. Nor
is it necessary to a literal compliance with the recommended
fast day that all labor should cease, and the day be observed

SUPREME COURT.
Richardsonet al. v. Goddard et al.

as a Sabbath, or as a holiday. It is not so treated by those
who conscientiously observe every Friday as a fast day.
ilI. Does the testimony in this case show that from time
immemorial there has been a well-known usage, having the
force and effect of law in Boston, which requires all men to
cease from labor, and compels vessels engaged in foreign commerce to cease from discharging their cargoes, and hinders
consignees from receiving them ?
We do not know this fact judicially, for (except in this case)
there is no judicial decision, or course of decisions, in Massa.husetts, which establishes the doctrine that carriers must
-ease to discharge cargo on this day in the port of Boston,
but rather the contrary. And after a careful examination of
the testimony, we are compelled to say that we find no sufficient evidence of such a peculiar custom in Boston, differing
from that of all other commercial cities in the world.
The testimony shows this, and no more: That some persons
go to church on that day; some close the windows of their
warehouses and shops, and either abstain from work or do it
privately; some work half the day, and some not at all.
Public officers, school-boys, apprentices, clerks, and others
who live on salaries, or prefer pleasure to business, claim the
privilege of holiday, while those who depend on their daily
labor for their daily bread, and cannot afford to be idle, pursue
their occupations as usual. The libellants appear to have had
no conscientious scruples on the subject, as they received
goods from other ships, and some from this. But the testimony is clear, that however great the number may be who
choose to convert the day into a voluntary holiday for idleness
or amusement, it never has been the custom that*vessels discharging cargo on the wharves of Boston ceased on that day;
that like the canon law regarding church festivals and holidays of other countries and former ages, the custom of Boston
(if it amount to anything more than that every man might do
as he pleased on that day) did not extend to vessels engaged
in foreign commerce, or forbid the carrier to continue the delivery of freight on that day.
On the whole, we are of opinion that the barque Tangier

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
liddldon r. He Grew.

has made good delivery of her cargo to the consignees according to the exigency of her bill of lading, and that the decree
of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and the libel dismissed with costs.

REUBEN
m

IDDLETON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAm

MoGRE .

The alien heirs of a colonist in Texas who died intestate in 1835, cannot ifherit his landed property there. The courts of Texas have so decided, and
this court adopts their decisions.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas.
It was an action of trespass to try title brought by Middleton, a citizen and resident of the State of Missouri, to recover
a tract of land in the county of Refugio, in the southern and
western margins of the San Antonio and Guadalupe rivers,
being the same land which was granted to a certain Joshua
Davis, by the proper authorities of the State of Coahuila and
Texas, in the colony of Power and Hewetson, and bounded
as follows, to wit: on the north by the rivers San Antonio
and Guadalupe, on the south by vacant lands, 6n the east by
the league of land 'granted to P. Hines, and on the west by
the league granted to Dofa Josefa Galan, widow of
Hernandez, deceased, having a front, when reduced to a
straight line, on said river, of about eight thousand eight
hundred and eighty-seven varas, and running back about
fourteen thousand and sixty varas, and containing five and
one-fourth leagues.
The anfended answer of the. defendant, McGrew, said that
the plaintiff ought not to have and maintain his action herein,
because he says that the said Joshua Davis, in the petition
named, under whom the plaintiff claimed, died in the year
1835. That his next of kin and pretended heirs, under whom
the plaintiff claims, were, at the date of his death, aliens to
the Republic of Mexico, being citizens of the United States
of America, residing in the State of Missouri, aw4 thencefor-

