SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et al. v. Beaubien et al.

If the defendants had supposed that the instructions given
were either indefinite or not sufficiently comprehonsive, they
might well have asked that further and more explicit instructions should be given; and if they had done so, and the prayer
had bgen refused, this objection would be entitled to more,
weight.
But another answer may be given to this objection, which
is entirely conclusive against it. On recurring to the transcript, we find that the court, before the instructions excepted
to were given, explained to the jury the nature and character
of the charge, describing substantially the two forms in which
it was presented in the several counts of the declaration; and
in effect instructed them that it must be proved in the one or
the other of those forms, in order to entitle the plaintiff to a
verdict in his favor. Those explanations immediately preceded the instructions embraced in the exceptions, and, in fact,
may be regarded as a part of the same. Beyond question, the
instructions excepted to must be considered in connection with
those explanations; and when so considered, it is obvious that
this objection cannot be sustained.
In view of the whole case, we think the defendants have no
just cause of complaint, and that there is no error in the record.
The judgment of the Circuit Court therefore is affirmed, with
costs.

JOHN

BAPTISTE BEAUBIEN AND OTHERS, COMPLAINANTS AND

Ay-

PELLANTS, V. ANTOINE BEAUBIEN AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS.
Where a bill in chancery was filed by persons residing in Canada, claiming
title to property in Detroit which had been in the exclusive possession of the
defendants and those claiming under them since 1793, without, as far as appears, any right being set up by the complainants or by those claiming under
them to the title or the possession of the premises until the filing of the bill,
or any claim to the rents and profits or to an account as tenants in common,
or for partition, or to be admitted to the enjoyment of any right as co-heirs,
the case is one resting upon the enforcement of an implied trust, where courts
of equity follow the courts of law in applying the statute of limitations.
The averments of concealment and fraud on the part of the defendants, Whicb

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

191

Beaubien et al. v. Beaubien et al.
are made in the bill for the purpose of withdrawing the case from the operation of the statute, are too general and indefinite to have that effect.
No acts of fraud or concealment are stated; and the time when even an intention to defraud, which is all that is averred, was discovered, was some fifty
years after the exclusive possession of the defendants and those under whom
.they claim had commenced; and this, although the parties lived in the neighborhood and almost'in sight of the city which has, in-the mean time, grown
up on the premises..

•THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Michigan.
It was a bill filed on the equity side of the court, by John
Baptiste Beaubien and twenty-one others, aliens and residents
of Canada, against Antoine Beaubien and one hundred and
tweuty-seven others, thirteen of whom were citizens of Michigan and residents of Detroit. The rest of the defendants were
admitted to be parties by order of the court.
The complainants began the history of their title as early as
1745, when the Governor and Intendant of the Territory gave
to their ancestor, Beaubien, a concession of land of three arpens
in front on Lake Erie, by forty arpens in depth; and afterwards, in 1747, the same persons granted to one Barois a concession of two.arpens in front by forty arpens in depth adjoining the above. They then traced the title'down, as stated
in the opinion of the court.
Some of the defendants demurred to the bill, and the rest
pleaded that they were bona fide purchasers, without notice.
In 1857, the court passed the following decree:
"This cause having been brought on to be heard on the demurrer of the above defendants and others, to the amended
bill of complaint, and the plea of the Right Reverend Peter
Paul Le Fevre and Theodore Williams, claiming to be bona
fide purchasers for a valuable consideration, without notice,
of the lands and premises owned and claimed bv them on the
Antoine Bedubien and Lambert Beaubien farms, described ii,
the bill of complaint and in said plea, and the said demurrer
and plea having been argued by G. T. Sheldon, solicitor and
counsel, and W. H. Emmons, counsel for said defendants, anI
Messrs. Burt and Maynard, counsel for the complainants, and

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et aZ. v. Beaubien e al.

the arguments of counsel having been duly considered, i
is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the demurrer hereto
fore filed of the above defendants, Theodore Williams and th
Right Reverend Peter Paul Le Fevre and others, claiming a
portion of the lands and premises in the bill of complaint mentioned, as heirs,'donees, or otherwise, without valuable consideration, be, and is hereby, sustained; and the said plea of
the said defendants, Right Reverend Peter Paul Le Fevre and
Theodore Williams, claiming other portions of said lands and
premises in their said plea mentioned, as bona fide purchasers
for a valuable consideration, without notice, having been argued by the respective counsel, and the arguments of counsel
having 'been. duly, considered, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said plea of the said defendants, Peter Paul Le
Fevre and Theodore Williams, be, and is hereby, sustained;
and that the said bill of complaint of the complainants, as to all
said land and premises described and set forth in said plea, be,
and is hereb5'; dismissed. '
From this decree, the complainants appealed to this court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Plait Smith
for the appellants, and Mr. Carlisle-for the -appellees, upon a
brief filed by himself, Mr. EL'rnions, and Mr. -ussell.
After .3r.Smith had argued that the bill set forth a ubmplete titk, and that the facts charged were admitted by the
pleading,, he proceeded to notice the question of the lapse of
time.
Lapse of time is not fnade a question by the pleadings; the
court will not presume for the defendants what they do not
claim for themselves.
Anthony Bledsoe was killed by the Indians, 20th July, 1788;
he made a will, devising "my estate to be equally divided
amongst my children; to each of my daughters a small tract
of land." He left five sons and six daughters. There were
6,280 acres of land in Tennessee; the executors assigned 320
acrei to each of the girls, and made deeds. Polly,
eighth
rhe
child, in 1799 being then a minor, married Wea herhead,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Beaubien et aZ. v. Beauien

19

a.

she and her husband took possession of the 820 acres that bad
been assigned to her. In 1801, the residue of the lands was
divided among the sons. In 1818, Polly Weatherhead and
hel- husbaDd sold the 320 acres that had been assigned to her,
and they removed to Mississippi. In 1843, Mr. Weatherhead
died. In 1846, Polly Weatherhead brought suit for her portion of the whole tract. The boys and their grantees had
made valuable improvements, built brick houses, &c. The
suit was brought fifty-eight years after the death of the ancestor, fifty-three years after the partition among the girls,
forty-five years after that among the boys. She maintained
her suit.
Weatherhead's Lessee v. Baskerville et al., 11 Howard,
829, 359, 360.
In Stackpole v. Davoren, an account of rents and profits of
an estate was decreed, after an adverse possession of fifty
years.
1 Bro. P. 0., 9, referred to in Hill on Trustees, 265.
In a recent case, Sir C. Pepys, M. R., set aside a purchase
by a steward at an undervalue after an interval of forty-seven
years.
2d June, 1885, affirmed 110 1. and F., 714.
Hill on Trustees, 265, where .reference is given to many
other cases of like tendency.
A case is reported in 5 Sim., 640. There the defendants
had been in possession for seventy years; and to a- bill filed
by the remainder man to recover the estate, a plea was put in,
stating that adverse possession of the property had been held
during the whole time; and that the rents and profits had
been received. The vice chancellor overruled the plea, and,
on an appeal taken, his decision was affirmed by Chancellor
Brougham.
Mylne and Keen, 738, cited in 16 Pet., 468.
In 1747, Edward Charlton, under whom plaintiffs claimed,
being indebted to John Rooke by a judgment, it was agreed
between them that Rooke should be put into possession of the
rents and profits of the estate in question, until the debt
should be satisfied, which agreement was carried into effect,
VOL. XXIU.

13

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et al. v. Beaubien et al.

and Rooke entered into and remained in possession till 1752.
Edward Charlton, being at that time indebted to Sohn Reed,
under whom defendants claimed, Reed made an agreement
with Rooke, for an assignment of what remained due by
Charlton to Rooke; under this agreement, Reed entered into
possession, and he and his family continued in possession up
to 1821. Edward Charlton died in 1767, leaving a widow and
a son, then under age. The son married in 1778, and died
in 1797, lea~ing a son, an infant. The question was, whether,
under the circumstances, a conveyance either from Edward
Charlton or William Charlton to the Reed family might be
presumed. Uuder the instruction of Bayley, J., the jury found.
for the plaintiff. Abbot, C. J., says: "I am clearly of opinion that the direction was according to law. in cases where
the original possession cannot be accounted for, and would be
unlawful unless there had been a grant, the rule may perhaps
be different; and all of the cases cited are of that description.
Here the original possession is accounted for, and is consistent
with the fact of there having been no conveyance." Bayley,
J., says: "The deeds of 1747 and 1752 were both produced,
and if there had been a conveyance, it would probably have
been produced also." Holroyd, J., says: "Here the original
enjoyment was consistent with the fact of there hiving been
no conveyance, for it was in satisfaction of a debt. The true
question was presented to the jury.
Doe, d. Fenwick v. Reed, 5 Barn. and Ald., 232.
7 English Common Law, 79.
Both parties claim by desceht from John Ormsby, sen., who
died in Pennsylvania in 1805. The deceased had a son,
Oliver, who survived him, and who administered on his estate;
and a daughter, Sidney, who married Isaac Gregg. He had
also a son, called John Ormsby, jun., who married in the
Mississippi country, and died in 1795. Mary Swayze, the
wife of the plaintiff, is the daughter of this son, and was an
infant at his decease. In 1807, Oliver Ormsby gave bond as
administrator of his father's estate; he never settled the administration account. In 1826, as administrator, he confessed
a judgment for 467 dollars in favor of Messrs. Penns. He

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Beauben et al. v. Beaubien et al.

allowed the lands of his father to be sold on execution on this
judgment; they were bid off by Mr. Ross, the attorney for the
Misrs. Penns, at the sum of three thousand dollars, Mr. Ross
declaring that neither he nor his clients wanted the ]auds,.but
that he should allow them to be redeemed for the amount of
the judgment and the costs. In 1831, four years after the
sheriff's sale, Oliver Ormsby paid Ross 523 dollars, and took
a deed from him of the lands; he receipted to the sheriff, as
administrator, for the three thousand dollars, after deducting
what he had paid to Ross. Mrs. Swayze brought suit in 1833,
and recovered; the court held that the sheriff's deed to Ross,
and the deed from, Ross to Oliver Ormsby, did not stand in
her way.
Swayze v. Burke, 12 -Peters, 11.
"The executor of an officer in the Virginia line on the continental establishment obtained a certificate from the Executive Council of Virginia, as executor, for four thousand acres
of land, in the Virginia reserve, in the State of Ohio, and
afterwards sold and assigned the same. Entries were made,
and warrants issued in favor of the assignees, and a survey
was made, under one of the warrants, in favor of one of the
assignees, a bona fide purchaser, who obtained a patent from
the United States for the land. It appeared that the executor
had no right, under the will, to sell the land to which the
testator was entitled. The patent was granted in 1818, and
the patentee had been in possession of the land from 1808.
The heirs of the officer entitled*to the land for -military services, in 1839, some of them being minors, filed a bill to compel the patentee to convey the land held by him to them.
Held that the patentee. was a purchaser, with notice of the
prior title of heirs, and that he was bound to make the conveyance asked from him." " No principle is better established
than that a purchaser must look to every .part of the title
which is essential to its validity."
Brush v. Ware, 15 Peters, 93.
The plea is no bar to the matters set up in the bll. The plea of a purchaser for valuable consideration, without

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et al. v. Beaubien et al.

notice, should aver that the person from whom he purchased
had such an interest in the property as entitled him to -convey
it to the defendant.
2 Daniels Ch. Pr., 687.
Head v. Edgerton, 3 P. Williams, 281.
Daniels v. Davison, 16 Ves., 252.
Craig v. Leiper, 2 Yerger, 196.
The plea traces title from the United-States. But this is
not- enough, for a pre-existing title is distinctly averred and
set forth in the bill; and it has been repeatedly held that a
patent from the United States does not affect a pre-existing
title in a third person.
City of New Orleans v. Armas and Cucullu, 9 Pet., 286.
United States v. Arredondo, 6 -Pet., 738.
The bill charges that this patent was obtained by the fraud
of Antoine Beaubien, the patentee; that the patent was based
on the French titles under which plaintiffs claim; which patent,
so far as it purports to convey anything to said Antoine, is
fraudulent and void as against complainants; the bill also
charges that defendants or some of them have possession of
the documents of the original title. The plea does not undertake to deny the fraud, or that the patent was obtained on
the claim founded on the original French titles, or that the
defendants have not the original title papers; all these should
be negatived by averment in the plea.
2 Daniels Ch. Pr., 691.
Possession to be adverse, must be in good faith, and not a
precarious possession, such as a possessiofratris,or a fraudulent
possession. Domat.
"And it has been held, that if a widow remains in possession
of land after her husband's death, and marries again, and she
and her husband continue in possession for more than the
time limited for the right of entry, neither she nor he can
set up the statute against an ejectment by the children of
the first husband. [Cook v. Nicholas, 2 Watts and S., 27.]
There was a very rigid application of the law, in this respect,
in a very modern case, in the Court of King's Bench in Ireland, in which it was held, that where, on the death -of a

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
.Beauben et al. v. Beaubien et al.

father intestate, seized of lands in fee, his second son enters
without title, such entry is deemed for the use of the eldest
son; and the statute, therefore, does not run against such
eldest son, the possession of the second son being his possession. [D'owdall r. Byrne, Batt. (Irish) R., 373.] The
real principle, to be extracted from. all the cases, the court
said, is, that the possession of the younger brother, so entering, is the possession of the heir, who, therefore, cannot be
affected by length of time, upon the supposition of a possession-adverse to him.; and, on this principle, the court found
an answer to the argument that-the circumstances or motives
of the party taking possession ought to be left to the jury,
because the question is, not why the one person took posses
sion, but why the other submitted to it, and in the absence
of any proof to the contrary, it must be intended that he did
so because (as the law intends) it was taken for him."
Angell on Limitations, p. 402.
The points made by the counsel for the appellees will be
given, although the argument is inserted upon those 'only
which were decided by the court.
I. The claim of the complainants is barred by the acts of
Congress and the action under thein, by which Antoine
Beaubien obtained a patent.
II.The claim in this case is barred by the statute of limitations.
That this defence, as well-as lapse of time generally, may be
taken by demurrer.
Petro v. Massachusetts, 15 Peters, 233.
Story Eq. Pleading, secs. 503, 506, 761.
4 Wash., 631, 632; 2 Sch. and Lef., 637.
6 Sims, 51; 4 Johns. Ch., 299.
2 Ves., jun., 94; 1 Johns. Ch., 46.
1 Bald., 418; 19 Vesey, 180.
7 Paige, 195; 11 Eng. Ch., 68.
The bill in this case contains no sufficient averment to avoid
the application of the statute, as we shall suggest more fully
hereafter.

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et al. v. Beaubien et al.

The two acts of May 15, 1820, (R. Laws of Mich. 1833, p.
570, see. 6,) and of Nov. 15, 1829, (R. Laws 1833, p. 408,) and
especially the latter, bar all claim in this case.
R. Laws 1833, p. 408, act of 1829, provides that "No writ
of right or other real action, no action of ejectment or other
possessory action, of whatever name or nature, shall hereafter
be sued, prosecuted, or maintained, for the recovery of any
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, if the cause of action has
now accrued, unless the same be brought within ten years
after the passing of this act, any law, usage, or custom, to the
contrary notwithstanding."
For the application of this statute to past causes of action,
see laws of Michigan 1843, p. 43, declaring that all causes
shall be determined by the law applicable to it, when the Rev.
Stat. of 1838 were passed. See, also, judicially so holding,
Douglass Mich. Rep., 307, Lesley v. Cramer.
We need not explain the causes which called for this subsequent legislation and .decision. It is now clear the law of
1829 is that which controls the right to sue in this case.
It is ha, lly necessary to cite the following cases to show,
that where the statute commences to run, no subsequent disability will arrest it.
15 Johns., 169.
Adams on Eq., 69, note, (1.)
1 Sugdeu on Vendors, 389.
8 Brod. and Bing., 217.
3 Johns. Oh., 140, and cases cited,.
Plowden, 353; 4 Mass., 282.
C. and Hill, notes, 320.
And most particularly do we ask attention to the decisive
fact that in this statute of 1829 there is no saving clause. The
bar is general and universal. The non-resident is bound
equally with the resident, the infant with the adult, and we
therefore need not stop to discuss the particular circumstances
of each complaint.
That where the Legislature have made no exceptions, the
courts can make none.
1 Sugden on Vendors, 389.

DEOEMBIPIR TERM, 1859.

199

Beaubim et aZ. v. Beaubienet al.

4 Tenn., 307, per Shippen arguendo.
And many other cases cited elsewhere in this argument.
This court has repeatedly recognised this rule.
Bank of the State of Alabama v. Delton, 9 How., 522.
McIver v. Ragan, 2 Wheat., 25.
Baron v. Howard, 20.Howard, 25.
If,
then, this action may be said to have arisen at any timebefore 1828, it was barred November IC, 1839.
When, within the meaning of this rule, did it arise?
The bill says Antoine Beaubien wrs in possession with his
brother before 1800. That he pres ted a sole claim before
the board in 1804, and did not succeed, because he failed in
his attempt to prove a conveyance to himself under the French
title. See Schedule A, of the bill. He then, in 1804, claimed
sole ownership; attempted to prove it. This was open and
notorious. A public yecord is made of it. All had notice of
it. There is no denial that all the co-heirs had such notice;.
and there is no pretence that he agreed expressly to take in
trust for them. This, then, was a hostile sole claim. But the
bill further says, that again, in 1807, he presented another
claim as sole occupant and improver. He procured witnesses
to swear he was such. It was judicially determined he was
such in a proceeding in rem, which impleaded all the world.
Not only is there no averment that he agreed to hold for the
other heirs, but there is not one fact or circumstance stated.
which could lead them to believe so. The naked, meagre,
.and unlawyer-iike expression is used, that they "supposed"
he would so hold. Our citations hereafter will show how
fully insufficient this is, in order to save any statute of limitations, even under the English rule, and much less to avoid
this one. Indeed he could not, without the aid of perjury,
have proved in his own name, if he were not the sole occupant.
1 Harrington Mich. Rep., 130, Barnard v. Bougard.
These facts are abundant to show a hostile, adverse holding.
But further still, he conveys the half to Lambert's heirs in
1818. This surely is an exercise of ownership. There is no
denial of full knowledge of all these facts by all the co-heirs

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et al. v. Beaubien et aL.

at the time they took place. They all lived together within
the area of a mile. The court will take judicial notice that
the town in Canada, where some of them reside, adjoins the
town of Detroit, where Antoine and Lambert lived.
In 1840, the bill admitted they knew the fraud. Even under
a loose rule, which would give them ten years from this discovery, the legal bar would be complete in 1850, five years
before this bill was filed. But there is no such rule. They
must be prompt in filing the bill after discovery. Under a
twenty years' statute they cannot, because there is fraud, de.
lay forty years, if there is twenty years before the discovery.
But fraud is an excuse only where they are diligent the moment they discover the fraud; otherwise, their rights are
barred.
But, what is controlling here is, the bill concedes all the
original heirs knew the facts. Numerous decisions show this
is sufficient for our protection. There is no concealment, no
agreement, no act to mislead, imputed to Antoine Beaubien.
The naked case is stated, of a right in six heirs, who
live in the neighborhood of their brother, having equal
intelligence and means, having full knowledge of his open
claims, his procuration of title, his sales, his exclusive occupancy without one word of claim on their part, or. concession
of right on his, from 1800 down to 1840, when, for the first
time in forty years, the great-grandchildren of the original
heirs began to "suspect" that the grandchildren (and their
grantees) of the co-heir of their ancestors intend to claim this
land as their own ! Such a bill is but a delusion. It is demurable. It contains no sufficient reasons to avoid the application
of the statute.
We submit the act of 1829 is a complete bar.
But the act of May 15, 1820, is equally a bar. In the circumstances of this case, the disabilities of non-residence, infancy, and coverture, are wholly immaterial. There can be no
successive disabilities, either in the same person, or set up in
succeeding heirs. If the disabilities of the first takers are
removed, the heirs must sue within ten years or twenty years,
(according to the statute thereafter.) Thus, if A, an heir, be a

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

201

.Beaubien et al. v. Beaub"ie et al.

non-resident, and dies, and his heir is also a non-resident, the
disability of the latter cannot be added to that of his ancestor,
but he must sue within the time limited after the death of the
first taker; otherwise, statutes of limitation would be perpetual.
The act of 1820 limits the right of action to twenty years,
and the saving section is as follows:
"This act shall not extend to bar any infant, person imprisoned, beyond seas, &c., &c., from bringing either of the actions
before mentioned within the term before set and limited for
bringing such actions, calculating from the time such impediment shall be removed."
In 10 Ohio, 513, Whitney v. Webb:
Plaintiff resided out of, and had never been within the State
of Ohio, and his ancestor, and those under whom the ancestor
claimed, had in their lifetime been in the same situation; and
the question was, whether the exception in the law (which
was like ours) saved the rights of the plaintiff, who and whose
ancestors had been successively and continually under the
technical disability of non-residence.
The court cites and analyzes Plowrd., 358; 6 East, 80; 4
Miss., 182; 2 Conn., 27; and 3 Johns. Ch., 129-which is
an elaborate review of all the old cases-and hold that
the action was barred immediately on the death of the
ancestor or first taker, provided twenty years had then
elapsed. That as the statute provided for no period after
that for the heir to sue, and saved the rights only of the person to whom the right accrued, there was no mode iii which
by mere construction the heir could be allowed any time after
the lapse of twenty years. That the person to whom the right
accrued might have sued within twenty years after his disability removed. But this right did not accrue to the heir.
Page 517 says, successive disabilities cannot be set up where
they exist in the same person, any more than when one man
attempts to protect himself by one in himself after the removal
of one in his ancestor.
The doctrine wa!s strictly applied in a case in equity in the,
same volume, 10 Ohio, 524, Ridley v. Wethman, where a

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et al. v. Beaubien et al.

bill was dismissed on the plea of the statute of limitations, when it appeared that the complainants sought to
avail themselves of successive disabilities of non-residence.
The court, in 16 Howard, 247, Thorp v. Raymond, held
that where L right of entry accrued to a person who was
under disability, and so continued until his death, the statute
began to run immediately upon his death, although the heir
was under disability. This under New York statute similar
to ours.
The non-residence of the complainants is immaterial, even
if the act of 1829 contained any exceptions, which it does not;
under this principle, the law of 1820 equally bars the whole
action.
The court will not fail to perceive the disgraceful vagueness
and studied evasion with which the bill is drawn.
It makes no averment that these complainants have been
continuously out of the Territory and the State of Michigan.
Such it is notorious is not the fact. They all reside within
half a mile of Detroit, and, though in Canada, are and have
for years, as have all their ancestors, been weekly there. Hence
the statement that they have " resided" in Canada.
This may be true, and still, if they have been within the
State, the running of the statutes will be conceded. No
authority need be cited for this. The bill should have averred
that the complainants had not been within the State. See the
common precedents of pleading the old exception of "beyond
seas."
This, then, answers the pretence that some of the complainants are within the exceptions of the statute of 1820.
Still, we repeat, that of 1829 has no exceptions.
That our holding is adverse, so as to start the running of
the statute, whether it be said there is a trust or a tenancy in
common, we cite a few decisions. They show equally what
we cannot take time distinctly to argue, that this is a case
where the preslumption of a grant is full and clear.
Still, the main object is to show an adverse holding within
the statute of limitations.
4 Mason, 326, Prescott v. Nevens.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Beaubien et al.v. Beauben et al.

2 Smith's Leading Cases, 450.
Notes to Taylor v. Horde, in 1 Burr, 60.
Kessun v. Doe, in 1 M. and W., 910.
If a party holds in a character incompatible with the idea o f
a freehold in another, his holding is adverse. In order to
ascertain the character of the holding, courts will look at the
parties' conduct while in possession.- The cases are very fully
cited in 5 Bing. N. C., 161; Eig. Com. Law Rep., 65, Davis
v. Lowndes; see per Tindal, Oh. J., page 71; also, pages 7-2,
73, 74. For the evidence in the case, see page 66.That a patent from the Government invests the patentee
with seizure in law, so that he is considered in actual possession until an ouster by a third person.
2 Smith's Leading Cases, 469.
The patentee's conveyance transfers a like possession to his
grantee.
4 Wheat, 215, Burr v. Grottz's Heirs.
2 Smith's Leading Cases, 469.
There need not be an assertion of any previous title, but an
assumption of ownership at the time of the entry and during
the occupancy, and this is what is meant by its being made
"under claim or color of right."
Page 472 cites the cases fully, to show that one tenant in
common, by claiming to hold as owner of the whole, will constitute an ouster of his co-tenant.
In 24 Wendell, 601, 602, Humbert v. Trinity Church, on
page cited, it is said: "Although a man may hold possession rightfully as a tenant in common; afd the presumption
is that he does-so, still the contrary may be.shown; and if his
conduct be such, as to satisfy the mind that he means to hold
out his co-tenants, and he does in fact exclude them, this is an
ouster, his possession is adveise, and the statute will apply as
fully as if he never had any right to claim as a tenant in common." See the preceding pages, where the facts evincing the
c:laim of title of the defen'dant are commented on. They are
no more decisive than the averments in the present bill.
It. The statute, of limitations of Michigan reliod on in this
ease is b6roader than the English statute, and it iz oq"uay a

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien el al. v. Beaub"e et al.

bar in a court of equity as at law. This court under this
qtatute can make no exception in cases of undiscovered fraud.
The English statutes of limitations simply bar certain enumerated legal actions, and none of them therefore apply in
terms to proceedings in equity. Hence courts, acting simply from analogy, felt at liberty to make exceptions in cases
when conscience demanded it. And as we pass over the cases
under the following divisions, the truth of our averment will
abundantly appear, that the only reason why courts have
made such exceptions, is that there were no words in the statute which literally could be extended to courts of equity.
That the courts can make no exceptions when the statute
makes none, see ante. That infants, feme coverts, and persons
beyond seas, are all concluded when not expressly excepted.
See Humbert v. Trinty Oh., 24 Wendell, ante, and the cases
cited, to show that when the statute applies ex direclu, then even
fraud makes no difference, and that case goes the length of
saying that in cases of concurrent jurisdiction, fraud is no excuse, even in equity, under a statute which in terms did not
apply to a court of equity.
But it is not necessary for us to go thus far here. Our statute does apply equally to a court of equity as to that of law.
Its language is, " no real or possessory action, of whatever
name or nature," shall be sustained after ten years from 1829.
So is the act also of 1820.
Farmer v. Brooks, 9 Pick., 242; Johnson v. Ames, 11 Pick,
182, are directly in point, holding that a statute like this
bound, ex directu, both courts of equity and law alike.
We claim this statute has no exceptions, express or implied,
at law or in equity. That the court can engraft none upon it,
growing out of the ignorance, infancy, or non-residence of the
complainant, or the alleged frauds of the defendants; see anthorites cited under II.
Very many decisions fully set forth the reasons of the equity
rule in England, as we have stated it. This grows out of the
words of their statute, and when one like ours comes up as
in 17 Ves., they apply it as they would in an ejectment.
IV. If it is held that this act is to receive the same construe.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

205

Beaubien et al. v. Beaubienet al.

tion as those which simply bar specifically enumerated legal
actions, and that this court will therefore admit the same exceptions to its applications, such as trust and undiscovered
fraud, then we say the bill does not set up facts to bring the
case within these exceptions, and the remedy is barred by the
statute under the general principle applicable to all statutes
of limitations.
V. If the complainants contend there was a complete legal
title under the French grant, this wholly answers the argument that the statute of limitations does not apply, because
the defendants hold in trust, and the complainants were igno.rant of the fraud.
VI. The bill does not show a legal title under the French
grant.
VII. The plea of bona fide purchasers is a good plea, both
in form and substance, and constitutes a perfect bar to the
matters set up in the bill.
VIIT. The bill does not show or state the citizenship of the
several defendants brought in by the amendment thereto, and
is therefore fatally defective.
Mr, Justice ITELSONf delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of the State of Michigan.
The bill was filed by the plaintiffs against the defendants,
claiming to be tenants in common with them in a tract of land
now lying in the eity of Detroit, each party deriving title from
a common ancestor, who -made the settlement as early as the
year 1745, under a concession from the French Government.
The tract contained five arpens in front on Lake Erie, and
eighty arpens back. The ancestor, John Baptiste Beaubien,
died in 1793, having had the uninterrupted possession of the
property from the time of the concession in 1745, leaving a
widow and several children. Two of the sons, Antoine and
Lambert, resided with their father at the time of his death,
and continued in the possession and occupation with theiz
mother till her death, in 1809.
In 1804, Antoine, one of the heirs in possession, applied-to

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubier et al. v. Beaubien et al.

the board of commissioners to adjust land claims, under the
-act of Congress of 1804, to confirm his claim to the land; and
which was confirmed accordingly and a patent issued in 1812.
Acts of Congress, 26th March, 1804; 3d March, 1805; 3d
March, 1807.
Lambert, the other brother, continued in the joint occupation of the tract till his death, in 1815, and subsequently, in
1818, Antoine conveyed to the heirs of Lambert a moiety of
the premises; and the present occupants and defendants are
the descendants of the two brothers, or purchasers from them
under this title.
The tract constitutes a portion of the city of Detroit, and is
averred in the bill to have been worth, at the time of the filing
of it in 1855, from half a million to a million of dollars, exclusive of the improvements.
The case was presented to the court below on demurrer to
the bill, and on pleas by some of the defendants, as bona fide
purchasers for valuable consideration, without notice.
The plaintiffs aver in the bill, in addition to the facts already
stated, that they are the descendants of the brothers and sisters
of Antoine and Lambert, from whom the title of the defendants is derived, and that Antoine and Lambert and their descendants possessed and occupied the tract in subordination
to the right and title of their co-tenants, and that they were
permitted to possess and occupy the same in confidence, that
they so held the premises for the common benefit of all parties
interested. They further aver, that they verily believed that
the brothers, Antoine and Lambert, and their legal representatives, were acting in good faith in this respect, until about
the year 1840 they discovered, after examination and inquiry
into the facts and circumstances, that they intended to cheat
and defraud them, and those under whom they claim, of their
just rights in the premises.
The bill further states that Antoine, in his lifetime, and his
son, who is one of the defendants, and the heirs of Lambert,
have conveyed to divers individuals rights in the said tracti
that, in some instances, they made -donations without consideration; in others, conveyances for a pretended consideration;

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Beaubien e al. v. Beaublen et al.

and that there now are in possession, as heirs, donees, and
purchasers of different portions of the premises, several hundred persons, most of whose names are unknown to the plaintiffs, which persons set up claims and pretended rights and
interests therein. And further, that neither Antoine nor Lambert's heirs, down to the year 1834, committed any open or
notorious act, inconsistent with the rights of the plaintiffs, or
in any way disavowed the trust and relation as co-tenant, or
of brothers or co-heirs, nor in any manner asserted any title
to the land, to the exclusion of their rights.
The court decreed upon the demurrer to the bill, and also
upon the pleas, in favor of the defendants.
The case comes before us on an appeal from this decree.
Antoine and Lambert, the two sons of J. B. Beaubien, the
common ancestor, and those claiming under them, have been
in the exclusive possession of the premises in question since
1793, a period of sixty-two years before the commencement of
this-suit.• The plaintiffs and those under whom they claim,
during all this time, as averred in the bill, resided in Canada,
and, as appears, most of them in the county of Essex, in the
neighborhood of the premises. The four hundred arpens
which, in 1793, were worth some six or seven ihousand dollars, now embrace a portion of the city of Detroit, and are
worth, with the improvements, over a millibn of dollars; and,
for aught that is averred in tlje bill or appears in the case, hu
right has been set up by them, or by those under whom they
claim, to the title or the possession of the premises, until the
filing of the bill; no claim to the rents and profits, or to an
account as tenants in common, or for partition, or to be admitted to tlie enjoyment of ank right as co-heirs.
The case is one, so far as the title of the .plaintiffs is concerned, which depends upon the establishment of ant implied
trust to be raised by the evidence, and hence falls within that
class of cases in which courts of equity follow the courts of
law, in applying the statute of limitations. (Kane v. Bloodgood,
7 John. Oh. R., 91; Hovenden v. Anfiesly, 2 Sch. and Lef., 607.)
There. are two acts of limitation in the State of Michigan,
either of which bars the claim of the plaintiffs;

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et al. v. Beaubiernet al.

1. The act of May 15, 1820, which limits the right of action
to twenty years after the same has accrued; and
2. The act of November 15, 1829, which limits the right of
entry to ten years, if the cause of acti6n has then accrued.
The language is: "No writ of rigbt or other real action, no
ejectment or other possessory action, &c., shall hereafter be
sued, &c., if the cause of action has now accrued, unless the
same be brought within ten years after the passage of this act,
any law, usage, or custom, to the contrary notwithstanding."
There-is no saving clause inthis as to infants, feme coverts,
or residence beyond seas.
The pleader has sought to avoid the operation of the limitation, by an averment of concealment and fraud on the part of
the defendants, and those under whom they claim. The plaintiffs aver," that, until within the last few years, your orators and
oratrixes, and those under whom they claim, verily believed
and supposed that the said brothers, Antoine and Lambert,
and their legal representatives, were acting in good faith towards them, but that, about the year 1840, they discovered by
information, after examination and inquiry into the facts and
circumstances of the case, that the said brothers, Antoine and
Lambert, and their legal representatives, intended to cheat
and defraud them, and those under whom they claim, of their
just rights in the premises."
This averment is too general and indefinite to have the effect
to avoid the operation of the statute. The particular acts of
fraud or concealment should have been set forth by distinct
averments, as well as the time when discovered, so that the
court may see whether, by the exercise of ordinary diligence,
the discovery might not have been before made. (Stearns v.
Page, 7 Howard, 819; Moore v. Greene, 19 ib., 69.)
Here, no acts of fraud or concealment are stated; and the
time when even an intention to defraud, which is all that is
averred, was discovered, was some fifty years after the exclu
sive possession of the defendants and those under whom they
claim had commenced; and this, although the parties lived in
the neighborhood, and almost in sight of the ity, which has,
in the mean time, grown up on the premises.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

209

P~la., Wil., and Balt. R. Co. v. Phil. and Havre de Grace Steam Towbe, t Co.

We think the statute of limitation applies, and tha the
decree of the court below should be affirmed.

THE PHILADELPHIA, WILMINGTON, AND BALTIMORE RAIL tOAD

COMPANY, APPELLANITS, V. THE PHILADELPHIA AND HAVY E DE
GRACE STEAM TOWBOAT COMPANY.,
The jurisdiction of courts of admiralty in torts depends entirely on localit' , and
this court have heretofore decided that it extends to places within the br dy of
a county. The term "torts" includes wrongs suffered in consequence ,if the
negligence or malfeasance of others, where the remedy af common law is by
an action on the case.
Hence, where a railroad company employed contractors to build a bridge, and
for that purpose to drive piles in a riier, and, owing to the abandonment of
the contract, the piles were left in the river, in such a condition as to injure a
vessel when sailing on her course, the railroad company were responsible for
the injury.
That the vessel so injured was prosecuting her voyage on Sunday, is no defence
for the railroad company. The statute of Maryland and the cases upon this
point examined.
Where there was conflicting testimony in the court below upon the amount of
damages sustained, and there was evidence to sustain the decree, this court
will not reverse the decree merely upon a doubt created by conflicting testimony.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland, sitting in admiralty.
It was a libel filed by one corporation against another corporation in the District Court of Maryland, under the circumstances stated in the opinion of the court. The District Court
decreed in favor of the libellants, the appellees, and awarded
damages to the amount of $7,000.96. The Circuit Court, on
appeal, affirmed the decree, and the railroad company appealed to this court.
It wasargued by Mr. Scidey and "Mr.Donaldson for the ap.
pellants, and by Hr. Dobbin for the appellees.
The counsel for the appellants made the following points:
VdL.

XXIII.

14

