SUPREME COURT.
Irvine et a. v. Redfid.

ify as to opinions on matters peculiar to their art or trade,
there is usually some conflict in their testimony. What was
a full cargo for this ship to carry with safety was not a fact
which could be settled by any rule of law or mathematical
computation, and the court must necessarily rely upon the
opinions of those who have experience, skill, and judgment, in
such matters. At least three competent witnesses of this
character testify that the ship was loaded as deep as prudence
would permit, under all the circumstances. Both the District
and Circuit Court were of the same opinion, and we do not
find in the evidence anything to convince us that they have
erred.
Let the decree of the Circuit Court be affirmed with costs.

SAMUEL IRVINE AND PETER FORBES, PLAINTIMFS, V. HERLMAN J.
REDFIELD, LATE COLLECTOR OF THE CUSTOMS OF THE UNITED

STATES AT THE PORT OF NEW YORK.
The duties upon foreign merchandise are to be computed on their value on the
day of the sailing of the vessel from the foreign porL (See 20 Howard, 571.)

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, upon a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action of assumpsit on the money counts brought
by the plaintiffs against the defendant as collector. Upon the
trial, the division in opinion between the judges occurred,
which is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on the record, no counsel appearing for
either party.
Mi. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the core
This case comes to tlis court under a certificate of division
of opinion from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of the State of New York.

-DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

171 .

trvine el al. v. Redfidd.

The point made is, "whether, by the period of exportation of
merchandise from a foreign country to the United States, as used in
the act of Congress entitled, ' An act to amend the acts regu.ating the
appraisementof imported merchandise, and for other purposes,' approved the 3d March, 1851, was to be taken to mean the time when
the merchandise had been laden aboarda general ship, and the bill.
of lading therefor given in the foreign port, or at the time when said
ship actualy departed from said foreign port, destined to the United
States."
The facts in the record are, that the ship Henry Buck was
a gef'eral ship at the port of Glasgow, in Scotland, in the
month of May, 1855, destined for the port of New York, in
the United States. That the plaintiff, on the 9th May, 1855,
bought three hundred tons of Coltness pig iron, at the then
wholesale market price of sixty-four shillings sterling per ton,
and immediately commenced to load the same aboard the ship,
and that the iron was all laden and bills of lading given for it
on the 22d May, 1855, on which day the market price"of such
iron had risen to sixty-nine shillings per ton; that the ship
remained in port, and sailed from Glasgow on the fourth of
June, 1855, on which day the market price of such iron had
risen to seventy-four shillings and sixpence sterling per ton;
and that, on the arrival of the ship in the United States, the
iron was appraised at the custom-house at the market price of
twenty-four shillings and sixpence sterling per ton. On that
valuation the defendant collected duty, and twenty per cent.
on such value, in conformity with the 8th section of the act

of Congress entitled, "An act reducing the duty on imports,
and for other purposes," approved the 30th July, 1846.
This court considered two years since in the case of Sampson v. Peaslee, 20 Howard, 571, the meaning the acts of Cougress of the 80th July, 1846, and that of the 3d March, 1851,
for the collection of duties upon imported goods, and when
and upon what twenty per centum should be charged upon an
under-valuation made by an importer in his entry of merchandise. It announced then, that if the appraised value of imports which have actually been purchased shall exceed by ten
per centum or more the value of them declared upon the en-.

SUPREME COURT.
Castle et al. v. Bullard.

try, then, in addition to the duties imposed by law upon the
value of the same, there shall be levied, collected, and paid, a
duty of twenty per centum ad valorem on such appraised value.
That the additional value of twenty per ceutum could only be
levied upon the appraised value, and not upon charges and
commissions added to it. Also, that the day of the sailing of
a vessel from a foreign port is the true period of exportation
of the goods; and that the Secretary of the Treasury had
given a proper interpretation of the statute, in directing it to
be done on the market value of the goods imported on the
day of the sailing of the vessel, and that he was authorized by
law to give such a direction.
We see no cause now for a different interpretation of the
statute, and direct that the question certified to this court be
answered, "that the duties upon foreign merchandise are to
be computed on their value on the day of the sailing of the
vessel from the foreign port, and that the value for the compution is the wholesale market price there on such day."

EDWARD

I. CASTLE, ELIHU

GRANGER, AND J. P. PIrLLIPs, suR-

VIVORS OF JOSEPH FILKINS, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERR6R,

v. EDWARD

F. BULLARD.

The Circuit Courts of the United States have no power to grant a peremptory
nonsuit against the will of the plaintiff.
And where there are several defendants, against whom the charge is joint and
several, there cannot be, at common law, a nonsuit as to one and verdict
against the others, although the yerdict may be against one and in favor of
the others.
And besides, in thL case, there was evidence for the jury to say whether the
party, in whose favor the nonsuit was prayed, was guilty or not.
Where several defendants are joined in an action of trespass, a verdict of acquittal against one, in order to make him a witness, can only be demanded
where there is no evidence against him. The cases upon this point examined.
Where the cause of action against the defendants was, that they had fraudulently sold the goods of the plaintiff, evidence was admissible that they bad
committed similar fraudulent acts at or about the same time, with a view to

