DECEM3ER TERM, 1859.
Gridlqy et aZ. v.

503

estlroolk t al.

gality of the consideration on which their mother became the
trustee for Beebe. The trust has not only been constituted,
but carried into execution. The appellee is not a mere volunteer seeking to enforce its terms, nor does his equity depend
upon the validity of the trust for its support. He has an, independent equity, arising from his purchase from persons professing to hold a legal relation to each other and to the subject
of the contract, and to enforce his right there is no need for
any inquiry into the consideration or motives that o'erated
upon these parties to assume their relation of trustee and
cestui que trust. In such a case, equity does not refuse to
lend its assistance. McBlair v. Gibbes, 17 How., 232.
The objection that Beebe is a necessary party to the bill
cannot be supported. Beebe has not claimed adversely to
the title of the appellee. The legal title has never been invested in him, nor do the appellants recognise any privity or
connection with him. They claim the property discharged of
any equity either in his favor or that of the appellee.
Upon the whole case, the opinion of the court is in favor of
the appellee, and the decree of the District Court is affirmed.

RUEL GRIDLEY, CLARISSA H. BEEBE, SARAH P. SNYDER, AND
CHARLES SNYDER, AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS, V. EDWIN S.
"WESTBROoK and JAmEs

P.

GUAGER.

Where proceedings are instituted in the State court of Iowa under certain articles of their code; and then removed into the United States court, although
these proceedings do not conform to the mode prescribed for chancery proceedings in the courts of the United States, yet, if the pleadings and proofs
show the matter in dispute between the parties, this court will adjudicate the
questions which they present.
The principle adopted in the preceding case respecting the execution of a deed
by a married woman as trustee, is equally applicable to a deed executed under
a power of attorney granted by her.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of Iowa.
It arose out of the same circumstances nearly as the pre-

SUPREME COURT.
Gridley et al. v. Westbrook et al.

ceding case, fis will be evident from the statement in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Grantfor the appellants, and by Mr.
Wilson for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was commenced in the District Court of Jackson
county, Iowa, by the appellees, under articles 2025 and 2026
of the code of Iowa, to quiet their title and possession to certain lands in that county against the impending and adverse
claim of the appellants, the heirs at law of Sarah A. Blakely,
deceased.
The appellants appeared, and answered the petition, and
procured the removal of the cause to the District Court of the
United States for Iowa, under the 12th section of the judiciary
act of September, 1789. After the removal of the suit to the
District Court, the appellants commenced a cross-suit, asserting therein their own title to the lands in controversy, and
praying for a decree of delivery of the possession to them, and
an account of the mesne profits. The original and cross-suit
were "consolidated" on the motion of the appellants, and
were heard as one suit.
The proceedings in these causes seem to have been framed
upon the course of practice prevailing under the code of Iowa;
and we have found some difficulty in entertaining the suit, as
not conforming to the mode of proceeding prescribed for
courts of the United States in chancery proceedings; but as
we are enabled to ascertain, from the pleadings and proofs,
the matter in dispute between the parties, we shall prozeed to
adjudicate the questions they present.
The facts disclosed by the proofs show that William. B. Beebe,
an insolvent debtor, in order to carry on business without interruption, made purchases and sales of property on his own
account, in Iowa; but under the shelter of the name of Sarah A.
Blakely, the mother of his wife, a resident of Missouri. To
enable him to do so -with facility, he procured from her powers
of attorney, whieh conferred authority for that purpose.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
tte

505

of Aaama v. State of Georgia.

The land described in the petition was purchased by Beebe
with his own money, and the titles were made for his use to
Mrs. Blakely. Subsequently he sold them to one of the parties to the cross-suit (Mrs. Wells) for a valuable consideration,
and, as attorney in fact for- Mrs. Blakely, executed to her a
deed; and The appellees, Westbrook and Guager, claim as purchasers from this person. At the time of the execution of the deed of Mrs. Blakely,
and of her death, she was a feme covert. The appellants insist, that the conveyance to Mrs. Wells in the name of Mrs.
Blakely is void, and that they are entitled to hold the lands as
heirs at law.
We discover no material variation between the principled
applicable in this cause and that of the same appellants and
Wynant, which we have just decided. Upon the authority of
that case, we determine that the decree of the District Court
must be affirmed.

THE STATE OF .A

TLAmA
, COMPLIIAIAN,
GEORGIA.

V. TEE STATE

OF

The boundary line between the States of Georgia and Alabama depends upon
the construction of the following words of the contract of cession between the
United States and Georgia, describing the boundary of the latter, viz: "West
of a line beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee river, where the
same crosses the boundary between the United States and Spain, running up
the said river and along the western bank thereof."
It is the opinion of this court that the language implies that there is ownership
of soil and jurisdiction in Georgia, in the bed of the river Chattahoochee, and.
that the bed of the river is that portion of its soil which is alternathly covered
and left bare, as there may be an -increase or diminution in the supply of
water, and which is adequate to contain it at its average and mean stage
during the entire year, without reference to the extraordinary freshets of the
winter or spring, or the extreme drought of the summer or autumn.
The western line of the cession on the Chattahoochee river must be tracedon the
water line of the acclivity of the western bank, and along that bank where
that is defined; and in such places on the river where the western bank is not
defined, it must be continued up the river on the line of its bed, as that is
made by the average and mean stage of the water, as that is expressed in the
conclusion of the above-recited paragraph.

