DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Osio.

Governor to the applicant to make a temporary occupation,
until he could inform himself, so as to act considerately or
intelligently, we think, cannot be treated as conferring a
property in the land.
We have examined these cases with unusual care, in consequence of the number of parties in interest and the amount
of property involved. Upon the most liberal estimate of the
powers of the Governor, and the most indulgent view of the
claims of the petitioners, we are unable to determine that they
are valid.
Judgment of the District Court reversed, and cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the petition.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

vJ.

ANTONIO MARIA OsIo.

Where an island in the bay of San Francisco, in California, was claimed, not
under the colonization law of 1824, or-the regulations of 1828, but under certain special orders issued to the Governor by the Mexican Government, and
the Governor was alleged to have issued a grant in 1838, the petitioner never
took possession or exercised acts of ownership of the island under that decree,
which therefore affords no foundation for his claim.
In 1839, a petition was addressed to the Governor, praying for .a new title of
possession, and it was alleged that a grant was issued, but it does not appear
that it was recorded according to law, nor is the testimony satisfactory to
show that it was signed by the Governor.
Where no record evidence is exhibited, the mere proof of handwriting by third
persons, who did not subscribe the instrument as witnesses, or see it executed,
is not sufficient in this class of cases to establish the validity of the claim
without some other confirmatory evidence.
The special orders above mentioned were contained in a despatch from the
Mexican Government, giving the power to the Governor, in concurrence with
the Departmental Assembly.
This provision differs essentially from the regulations of 1828, under which the"
action of the Assembly was separate and independent, and subsequent to the
action of the Governor. But the power conferred by this despatch could not
be exercised by the Governor without the concurrence of the Departmental
Assembly. Both must participite in the adjudication of the title; and as the
Assembly did not concur in this grant, it is simply void.

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
18
xIxI.
XoI,.

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Osio.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton for the United States, and by
Mr. Gillet for the appellee.
Mr. Gillet made the following points:
1. No form of grant is required by the order of the Supreme
Government, authorizing the grant of the islands, nor required
by the colonization law or regulations.
2. Meritorious, useful, and patriotic services, were good
considerations for a grant.
3. Confirmation by the Departmental Assembly is not
necessary in order to confirm a California grant made by a
Governor. That it was the duty of the Government, and not
of the grantee, to present it for confirmation.
4. When an equitable right has once vested under a California grant by the Governor, it cannot be divested, except by
the denouncement of a third person legally made.
5. The question of the bona fides of this grant cannot now
be raised, as it was not raised below.
6. Conditions subsequent, if not complied with, do not render the grant void, nor authorize the Government to forfeit the
grantee's rights to its own use.
7. When an officer of the Mexian Government, who had
the legal power to make grants of land, exercises that power
in a manner to create a reasonable beliet, in the mind of an
applicant for a grant, that the instrument given is a grant, and
he takes possession, occupies the same, and makes improvements thereon in good faith, such grant, if not in strict legal
form, creates an equitable right, which entitles the grantee to
a confirmation thereof.
8. By the laws, usages, and customs of Mexico, this claim
would have' been confirmed, and therefore this court must
confirm it.
9. It is a well-settled rule, that equity cannot be resorted to
for the purpose of enforcing forfeitures, but only to avoid
them.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

DECEMBER TERM. 1859.
United States v. Osio.

This-is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of the.
United States for the northern district of California, affirming
a decree of the commissioners appointed under the act of the
third of March, 1851, to adjudicate private land claims. Every
person claiming laud in California, by virtue of any right or'title
derived from the Spanish or Mexican Government, is required
by the eighth section of that act to present his claim, together
with the evidence in support of the same, to the commissioners
in the first instance, for their adjudication.
Pursuant to that requirement, the appellee in this case presented his petition to that tribunal, claiming title to the island
of Los Angeles, situated near the entrance of the bay of San
Francisco, and praying that his claim to the same might be
confirmed. As the foundation of his title, lie set up a certain
instrument or document, purporting to be a grant of the island
to him by Governor Alvarado. It bears date at Monterey, on
the eleventh day of June, 1839; and the claimant alleged in
his petition to the commissioners that the grant was made
under certain special orders issued to the Governor by the
Mexican Government. He obtained a decree in his favor before the commissioners, and the District Court, on appeal,
affirmed that decree; whereupon an appeal was taken, in behalf of the United States, to this court; and the question now
is, whether the claim, upon the evidence exhibited, is valid,
within the principles prescribed as the rule of decision in the
eleventh section of the act requiring the adjudication to be
made.
Unlike what is usual in cases of this description, it will be
noticed that none of the documentary evidences of title
introduced in support of the claim purport to be founded
upon the colonization law of 1824,- or the regulations of
1828; and for that reason we shall refer to these documents with some degree of particularity, in order that their
precise import and effect may be clearly understood.
On the seventh day of October, 1837, the present claimant
presented a petition to Governor Alvarado, praying for a grant
of the island in question, "to build a house thereon, and breed
horses and mules;" representing, in his petition, that as early

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Osio.

as 1830 he had made a similar request, and expressing the
hope that the grant might be made.
Some further delay occurred in the contemplated enterprise
of the petitioner, as appears from the fact that no action was
taken on his second petition until the first day of February,
1838, when the Governor, by an order appearing in the margin
of the petition, referred it, not to the alcalde of the district,
but to the military commandancy north of San Francisco, for
a report. That office was filled at the time by Mariano G.
Vallejo, who accordingly reported, on the seventh day of the
same month, that the island might be granted to the petitioner;
but suggested that it would be well to made an exception in
the grant, to the effect that, whenever the Government might
desire or find it convenient to build a fort on the principal
height thereof; it should not be hindered from so doing. With
that report before him, the Governor, on the nineteenth day
of February, 1838, made a decree, wherein he states that he
had concluded to grant to the petitioner the occupation of the
island in question, "to the end that he may make such use of
it as he may deem most suitable, to build a house, raise stock,
and do everything that may concern the advancement of the
mercantile and agricultural branches-upon the condition that,
whenever it may be convenient, the, Government may estab.
lish a fort thereon."
Direction was given to the petitioner, by the terms of the instrument, to present himself, with the decree, not to the office
where land adjudications under the colonization laws were
usually recorded, but to the military commandancy, that an
entry thereof might be made, for the due verification of the
same.
No.such note of the proceeding was ever made in the office
of the military comandante, or in any book containing the
adjudications of land titles. But the several documents are
duly certified copies of unrecorded originals which were found
in the Mexican archives. Their genuineness is controverted
by the counsel for the appellants; but we do not think it necessary to consider that question on this branch of the case, for
the reason that the petitioner never took possession of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Osio.

island under that decree, and does not claim title under it-in
the petition which he presented to the land commissioners.
All that the decree purports to grant to the petitioner, in
any view which can be taken of it, is the right or license to
occupy the island for the purposes therein described, subject
to the right of the Government to enter at any time and appropriate the premises as a site for a military fort; and inasmuch as the petitioner never availed himself of the license
granted, or made any improvements on the island under the
decree, it is quite clear that he had acquired no interest in the
land, by virtue of that proceeding, at the date of the cession
to the United States, which the Mexican Government was
bound to respect.
Four other documents were introduced by the petitioner,
before the commissioners, in support of his claim: 1. A despatch from the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of
Mexico, addressed to Governor Alvarado. 2. A petition from
the appellee to the same. 3.A duplicate copy of the grant
set.up in his petition to the commissioners, which is without
any signatures. 4. The original grant of the island in question, which purports to be signed by the Governor, and to be,
countersigned by the secretary. Of these, the first three are
duly-certified copies of unrecorded originals which were found
-in the Mexican archives.
As exhibited in the transcript, the despatch bears date at
Mexico, on the twentieth day of July, 1838. By that despatch
the Governor was informed that "the President, desiring on
the one part to protect the settlement of the desert islands
adjacent to that Department,'which are a part of the national
territory, and on the othdr to check the many foreign adventurers who -may avail themselves of those considerable portions,
from which they may do great damage to our fishery, commerce, and interests, has been pleased to resolve that your Excellency, in concurrence with the Departmental junta, proceed,
with activity and prudence, to grant and distribute the lands
on said islands to the citizens of the nation who may solicit
the same."
In addition to what is here stated, two persons, Antonio

278

SUPREME COURT
United States y. O io.

and Carlos Carrillo, are named in the communication, to
whom, on account of their useful and patriotic services, preferpnce was to be given in making the grants, to the extent of
allowing them to select one exclusively for their benefit.
Such is the substance of the despatch, so far as it is material
to consider it in this investigation.
On the fifteenth day of February, 1889, the present claimant
presented to Governor Alvarado. another petition, wherein,
after referring to the fact that the island in question had been
granted to him during the preceding year, for the breeding of
horses, he prays that a new title of possession may be given
to him, in accordance with the superior decree, which, as he
assumes, empowered the Governor to grant, for purposes of
colonization, the islands near b', on -the coast.
Some idea of the situatiori of the island, and of the importance which was attached to it in a military point of view, may
be gathered from the exposition of the military comandante,
made to the Governor on the seventeenth day of August, 1837.
One of the purposes of that-report was to recommend that the
custom-house established at Monterey should be transferred
to the port of San Francisco. Various reasons were assigned
for the change; and among others, it was stated that the latter
port was impregnable, by reason of its truly military position.
After describing the port, and e-patiating upon the advan-

tages which would flow from the transfer, the report goes 6n to
state, that near its entrance and within the gulf are several
islands, where are found water and a variety of timber most
suitable for a fortification; adding, that it contaims safe anchorages and suitable, coves for landing'goods and for storehouses, particularly the island of Los Angeles, which is one
league in circumference, lying at the entrance of the gulf, and
forming two straits with their points-giving their names-so
that it is the key of the whole bf it, inasmuch as from this very
place the coming in or going out of vessels can be prevented
with the utmost facility.
Suffice it to say, without repeating any -moreof its details,
that the whole report is of a character to afbrd the most convincing proof that the public authorities of the Territory, as

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Osio.

early as August, 1837, fully appreciated the importance of the
island, as a necessary site to be retained by the Government
for the purposes of national defence. Arch. Exh., p. 5.
Grants under the colonization laws were usually issued in
duplicates-one copy being designed for the party to whom it
was made, and the other to remain in the archives, to be transmitted, with, the expediente, to the Departmental Assembly
for its approval. They were in all respects the same, except
that the copy left in the office, sometimes called the duplicate
copy, was not always signed by the Governor and secretary,
and did not usually contain the order directing a note of the
grant to be entered in the office where land adjudications were
required to.be recorded.
In this case there is no expediente, other than the one presented with the first-named petition, which i§ not necessarily
or even properly connected with the grant set up by the claimant. Two copies of this grant were produced by the petitioner, both bearing date at Monterey, on the eleventh day of
June, 1839, nearly two years after the Governor received the
before-mentioned exposition of the military comandante, showing the importance of the island totthe Government as a site
for works of defence. They are of the same tenor and effect,
and both purport to -be absolute grants, without any of the
conditions usually to be found in the concessions issued under
the colonization laws. - As before remarked, the copy not
signed, together with the petition, were found in the Mexican
archives; but the original, properly so called, was produced
from the custody of the party.
Adjudications of land titles were required by the Mexican
law to be recorded. That requirement, however, .was regarded
as fulfilled, according to the practice in the Department of California, when a short entry was made in a book kept, for the
purpose, specifying the number of the expediente, the date of
th6 grant, a brief description of-the land granted, and the name
of the person to whom the grant was issued. In this case
there is a ceitficate appearing at the bottom of the instruaent
to the effect that such an entry had been made, but it is wholly
,nsupported by proof of the existence of any such record.

-

SUPREME COURT.
United Stdtes v. Osio.

An attempt was made before the commissioners, or in the
District Court, to aceount for the absence of such record evidence, by showing that a book of Spanish records, of the description mentioned, was consumed by fire, at San Francisco,
in 1851; but the recollections of the witness called for the
purpose are so indistinct, and his knowledge of the contents
of the book so slight, that the evidence is not entitled to much
weight. Jimeno, who signed the certificate, was not called,
and, in view of all the circumstances, there does not appear
to be any ground to conclude that any such record was ever
made.
Colonization grants were usually made, subject to the approval of the Departmental Assembly, and the regulations of
1828 expressly declare that grants to individuals and families
shall not be held to be definitively valid without the previous
consent of that deputation. No.such approval was ever obtained in this case; and it does not appear that the despatch,
or order, as it is denominated by the Governor, was ever communicated by him to the Departmental. Assembly, until the
twenty-seventh day of February, 1840. His message communicating the despatch, though brief, clearly indicates that
the members of the Assembly had no previous knowledge
upon the subject.
A document, purporting to be an uffsigned copy of the
giant, and the petition, are all the papers that were found in
the archives, except those connected with the first proceeding
under whfch the license to occupy the island was granted.
They were loose papers, not recorded, or even numbered, and,
in view of all the circumstances, add little or nothing to the
probability in favorof the integrity of the transaction. Two
witnesses were examined by the claimant to prove the authenticity of the grant.. Governor Alvarado testified that his signature to the -grant was genuine, and that he gave it at the
time of its date. In effect the other witness testified that he
was acquainted with the handwriting of the Governor, and
also with that of the Secretary, aud that they were genuine.
Where no record evidence is exhibited, the mere proof of
handNriting by third persons, who did 'not subscribe the in.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.
Unied States v. Osio.

trument as witnesses, or see it executed, is not sufficient in
this class of cases to establish the validity of the claim, without
some other confirmatory evidence. But the testimony of Governor Alvarado stands upon a somewhat different footing.
His statements purport to be founded upon knovledge of what
he affirms, and if not true, they must be wilfully false, or the
result of an imperfect or greatly impaired and deceived recollection. Resting as the claim does in a great measure, so far
as the genuineness of the grant is concerned, upon the testimony of this witness, we have examined his deposition with
care, and think proper to remark that it discloses facts and
circumstances which to some extent affect the credit of the
witness. By his manner of testifying, as there disclosed, he
evinces a strong bias in favor of the party calling him, as is
manifested throughout the deposition. Some of his answers
are evasive; others, when compared with preceding statements in the same deposition, are contradictory; and in
several instances he refused altogether to answer the questions propounded on cross-examination. Suffice it to say,
without entering more into detail, that we would not think his
testimony sufficient without some corroboration to entitle the
petitioner to a confirmation of his claim.
On the part of the United States the confirmation of the•
claim is resisted chiefly upon two grounds. A is'insisted, in
the first place, that'the evidence introduced by the claimant to
establish the authenticity of the grant is not sufficent to entitle
him to a confivrmation, and that in point of fact the granf was
fabricated, after our conquest of the territory. Secondly, if is
cQntended that the grant, even if it be shown that it is genuine,*.was issued by the Governbr without authority of law.
In support of the first proppsition, various suggestions were
made at the argument, in addition to those which have already
been "the subject of remark. Most of them were based upon
the state -and condition of the title papers, the circumstances
.of the transaction, and the conduct of the parties, as tending
to show the improbability that any such grant was ever made.
Much stress was laid upon the fact that the grant was never
approved by the Departmental Assembly, or any note of it

SUPREME OOURT.
United States v. Oso.

entered in the office where the adjudications of land titles were
required to be recorded. Attention was also drawn to the
fact that the paper produced as the expediente is without any
number, which circumstance, it was insisted, furnished strong
evidence Ahat they were fabricated, or at least that they had
never been completed. To support that theory, an index, prepared by the secretary, and found in the Mexican archives, was
exhibited, containing a schedule of expedientes numbered consecutively from one to four hundred and forty-three, covering
the period from the tenth day of May, 1833, to the twentyfourth day of December, 1844, and including in the list onie in
favor of this petitioner for another parcel of land granted on
the seventh day of NTovember, 1844. IReliance was also placed
upon the omission of the appellee to call and examine the
secretary who prepared thatindex, and whose name purports
to be signed to the grant set up in the petition. Another
suggestion was, that, from the nature of the property, it was
highly improbable that dny private person should desire such
a grant in a Department where there were vast tracts of fertile
land to be obtained for the asking, and that it was past belief
that the Governor would have been induced to make the grant,
especially after the receipt of the exposition of the military
comandante, except upon the same conditions as those inserted
in the decree of the preceding year. Every one of these suggestions is entitled to *eight, and when taken together and
considered in connection with the unsatisfact6ry character of
the parol proof introduced by the petitioner, they are sufficient
to create well-founded doubts as to the integrity of, the transaction. But it is unnecessary to determine the point, as we
are all of the opinion that the'second Qbjection to the confirmation is well taken, and must be sustained.
Xothing can be plainer than.tbat the'Governor, in making
the grant in question did not assume to act under the colonization law of 1824, or the regulations of 1828. Were-anything
wanting beyond what appears in the terms of the grant to
establish that proposition,-it would be found in the deposition
of the Governor himself, in his answer to the fourth interrogatory propounded by the claimant. His answer was, that he

DECEM1BER TERM, 1859.

283

Unie, States v. Osio.

made the grant by an express order in writing from the General Government. He further states, that his predecessors had
applied} to the General Government for such autho. ,ty,-.ut
without success. On coming into office, he renewed the ap:
plication, and, after considerable delay, he says he received
the before-mentioned despatch by the hands of a courier.
Nhfeither side, in this controversy, disputes the authority of
the Mexican President to issue the order contained in the despatch. From its date, it appears to have been issued during
the administration of General Anastasio Bustaniente. He
succeeded to the Presidency, for the second time, on the nineteenth day of April, 1837, after the capture of Santa Anna in
Texas, and remained in office until the sixth day of October,
1841, when he was driven from the capital by the partisans of
his predecessor.
At the beginning of his administration, he professed to be
guided by the principles of the Constitution; and from the
well-known antecedents of his Cabinet, he could hardly have
expected to adopt any different policy, His Cabinet, however,
shortly resigned, and'a new one was formed, believed to have
had much less respect for the fundamental law. On the ninth
day of March, 1838, the Minister of the Interior of the new Cabinet resigned, when ,oaquin Pesado, whose name is affixed to
this despatch, was appointed in.his place.
After the new Cabinet was brganized, the policy of the administration was changed; and it cannot be doubted but that,
at the date of this despatch, the President had assumed extraordinary powers, and was in point of fact, to a considerable
extent, in .he exercise of the, legislative as well as the executive powers of the Government.
Assuming that the despatch was issued in pursuance of competent authority, it must be considered as conferring a special
power, to be exercised only in the manner therein prescribed.
In this view of the subject, it is immaterial whether the power
to grant the islands on the coast was vested in the Governor
before or not, or in what manner, if the power did exist, it was
required to be exercised, as the effect of this order, emanating
frcm the supreme power of the nation, was to repeal the pre-'

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Osio.

vions regulations upon the subject, and to substitute a new
one in their place.
Strong doubts are entertained whether the islands situated
immediately in the bay of San Francisco are either witliin the
words of the despatch or the declared purpose for which the
power was conferred; but it is unnecessary to determine that
point in this investigation.
Waiving that point at the present time, we come to consider the question whether, upon the proofs exhibited, the
power was e:ercised in this case in a manner to give validity
to the grant; and that inquiry necessarily involves the construction of the despatch.
Omitting the formal parts, its effect was to authorize the
Governor, in concurrence with the Departmental Assembly,'
to grant and distribute the lauds on the desert islands adjacent
to the Department to the citizens of the nation who might
solicit the same. By the terms of the despatch, the power to
grant and distribute such lands was to be exkercised by the
Governor, in concurrence with the Departmental Assembly;
by which we understand, that the Assembly was to participate
in the adjudication of the grant. Whenever a petition was
presented, the first question to be determined was, whether
the grant should be made and the title-papers issued; and, by
the plain terms of the despatch, an affirmative adjudication
could not be legally made, without the consent of the Departmental Assembly. Whether a subsequent ratification of the
act by the Assembly might not be equivalent to a previous
consent, is not a question that arises in this case, for the reason that no such ratification ever Oool place.
All we mean to decide, in this connection, is, that by the
true construction of the despatch,.the act of adjudication can-not be held to be valid without the concurrence of the Departmental Assembly, 'as well as that of the Governor.
In this respect, the provision differs essentially from that
contained in the regulations of 1828, under which the approval of the Assembly was an act to -be performed after the
expediente had been perfected, and aftef -the incipient title-"
papers had been issued by the Governor. His action pre-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Un i

285

States v. Osio.

ceded that of the Assembly, and in contemplation of law was
separate and independent. After the grant was made and executed by the Governor, and countersigned by the Secretary,
it was the duty of the Governor to transmit it to the Departmental Assembly, for its approval; and if it was not so transmitted, it was the fault of the officer, and not of the party.
Other differences betweeh the regulations of 1828 and the
provisions of that despatch might be pointed out; but we
think.it unnecessary, as those already mentioned are deemed
.to be sufficient to show that the decisions of this court, made
in cases arising under those regulations, have no proper application to the question under consideration.
From the words of the despatch, we think it is clear that the
power conferred was to be exercised by the Gbvernor in concurrence with the Departmental Assembly; and, consequently,
that a grant made by the Governor without such concurrence
was simply void. This view of the question finds support in
the Mexican law defining the functions and prescribing the
duties of the Governor, and thoss of the Departmental Assembly. That law was enacted on the twentieth lay of March,
1837, and continued in force during the administration under
which this despatch was issued. 1 Arrillago Recop., vol. 1,
pp. 202 and 210. Many duties were devolved, by that law,
upon the Governor, and also upon the Departmental Assembly, where each was required to act independently of the
other. But other duties were prescribed, in the performance
of which the Governor and the Assembly were required to act
in concurrence. In the latter class, the Governor could not
act separately, though in some instances it was competent for
the Assembly to act in his absence.
Concurrent duties, it seems, were usually performed in open
session, in which the Governor, when present, presided; but
he had no vote, except when, from absence or otherwisc, the
members present were equally divided. The Assembly consisted of seven members, chosen by the electors qualified .to
,'ote for deputies to the general Congress.
Those in charge of the Supreme Government, or some of
them, had been much in public life, and it must be presumed

SUPREME COURT.
United

latesr Osio.

that the despatch under consideration was hodframed without
some reference to that law. On examining the words employed in the lacw, to express and define concurrent action,
and comparing them with the words of the despatch translated "as in concurrence with," we find they are the same in
the original language. Further support to the construction here
adopted is derived from the declared purpose of the despatch,
as appears in its recitals. Mexican authorities bad long
dreaded the approach of foreigners to her western coast, and
the language of the despatch shows that its great and controlling purpose was to promote the settlement of the unoccupied
islands by trustworthy citizens of the nation, with a view to
ward off that apprehended danger. They feared that those
islands, especially those further south and nearer to the track
of commerce into the Pacific ocean, might become the resort
of military adventurers, and be selected by those desirous of
invading that remote Department as places of rendezvous or
shelter; and in the hope of averting that danger, or, in case of
its approach, of supplying the means of timely information,
they desired that their own citizens might preoccupy those
exposed positions. In this view of the subject, the President,
no doubt, regarded the power to be exercised un-ler the despatch as one of importance and delicacy, and might well have
desired to prescribe some check upon the action of the Governor; and if so, it would have been difficult to have devised
one more consonant with the then existing laws upon the general subject, or better suited to the attainment of the object in
view, than the one chosen in this despatch.
For these reasons, we are of the opinion that the Governor,
under the circumstances of this case, had no authority, without thQ concurrence of the Departmental 'Assembly, to make
this grant. Whether the persons specially designated in the
despatch as the fit subjeets for the bounty of the Government
stand in any better situation or not, is not a question in this
case. Having come to the conclusion that the grant is void,
it does not become necessary to consider the evidence offered
to prove possession. On that point, it will be sufficient to
say, it is conflicting and unsatisfactory; and if true, is not-of a

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

2V'

Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam Packe Company.

character to show any right or title in the land under the
Mexican Government, or any equity in the claimant, under
the act of Nongress requiring the adjudications to be made.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the petition.

BENJAMIN HANEY,
LIBELLANTS

AND

CHARLES

OGDEN, AND

APPELLANTS,

V.

JOHN TRENCHARD,

THE BALTIMORE

STEAM

PACKET COMPANY, OWNERS OF THE STEAMER LOUISIANA, AND

GEORGE W RUSSELL.
In a collision which took place in the Chesapeake oay between a steamer and
a sailing vessel, the steamer was in fault.
It was the captain's watch, and his duty to be on deck, which he was not.
rhe only man on deck, acting as pilbt, lookout) and officer of the deck, was not
in the proper place for a lookout to be.
A.former decision of this court referred to, indicating the proper place for a lookout.
When the collision was impending, the order on the steamer was to starboard
the helm instead of porting it, the schooner having previously kept on her
course, as the rules of navigation required her to do.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland, sitting in admiralty
It was a case of collision occurring in the Chesapeake bay,
between the steamer Louisiana and the schooner William K.
Perrn, by which the schooner was sunk.
The libel was in rem, filed by the appeljants against the
steamer, and George W Russell, master thereof. The Baltimore Steam Packet Company intervened and answered as the
owner of the steamer.
The evidence in the case is so fully commented upon in the
opinion of the court and in the dissenting opinion of Mr.
Chief Justice TANEY, that any repetition of it is unnecessary
The District Court decreed in favor of the libellants in the
sum of seventeen 'hundred dollars, and of Charles Ogden, the
master of the schooner, the additional sum of $173 and costs.
On an appeal to the Circuit Court, addition al evidence was

