DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

117

Pennock et al. v. Coe.

of Chancery of Tennessee, upon sufficient proof, has declared
that the surety had been "lulled into security" by the delusive
promises of his creditor, and that he has been the victim of
artifice an, circumvention; that the judgment against him
was obtained in contempt of the injunction of the court, and
that the assertion of any right under it would be fraudulent.
This decree remains in full force and effect.
These circumstances furnish additional motives for the intervention of the equitable powers of the court for the relief
of the appellants.
It is the opinion of thid court, that the decree of the Circuit
Court is erroneous, and must be reversed. The cause is remanded, with directions to the Circuit Court to enter a decree
perpetuating the injunction.

JOSEPH PENNOCK AND NATHAN F. HART, APPELLANTS, v. GEORGE
S. CO.E, TRUSTEE OF THE CLEVELAND, ZiNESVILLE, AND CIIioINNADI RAILROAD COMPANY.
.railroad company authorized to borrow money and issue their bonds, to ena
ble themselves to finish and stock the road, may mortgage as security-nol
only the then-acquired property, but such as may be acquired in future.
A.lthough the maxim is true, that a person cannot grant what he has not got, yet,
in this case, a grant can take effect upon the property when it is brought into
existence, and belongs to the grantor in fulfilment of an express e greement,
founded on a good and valid consideration, wlen no rule of law is infringed
or rights of a third party prejudiced. The -mortgage"attached to the Tuturre
acquisitions as described in it, from the time they g'ame into existence, and
were placed on the road.
Hence, where second mortgagees and holders of bonds of a second issue brought
suit upon those bonds, recovred udgment, issued execution, and levied it
upon a part of the rolling stock, which was not in existence when the first
mortgage was given, the judgment creditors must be postponed to the claims
of the first mortgagees.
In the present case, a reasonable interpretation of the statutes creating the corporation would justify it in making the road where it was made.
A bondholder. of a class covered by a mortgage to secure the class of bonds
issued in case of*insolvency of the obligors cannot, by getting judgment at
law, be permitted to sell a portion of the property devoted to the common
security, as this would disturb the pro rata distribution among the bondhold
ers, to which they are equitably entitled.

SUPREME COURT.
Pennock et al. v. Coe.

THIs was. an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of Ohio.
The bill was filed in the Circuit Court by Coe, mortgagee
of the road of the railroad company in trust, for securing the
payment of its bonds, to- enjoin the execution of a judgment
recovered at law against the company by Pennock and Hart,
two of the defendants.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
After the case was ready for a hearing, at September term,
1857, the Circuit Court passed the following decree:
"This cause came ol to be heard upon the bill of the complainant, the joint answer of Joseph Pennock and Nathan F.
Hart, the separate answer of the Cleveland; Zanesville, and
Cincinnati Railroad Company, the replication to said answer,
the exhibits and testimony. and the motion of said Pennock
and Hart to dissolve the injunction heretofore allowed in this
case, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
the court do overrule said motion; and the entire facts in the
case being before the court, and the arguments of the counsel
upon the motion to dissolve said injunction embracing the
entire merits of the case, the court do order, adjudge, and decree, that said injunction be made perpetual, and that the said
Pennock and Hart be forever restrained from selling, or
causing to be sold, by the marshal, the locomotives, tenders,
and cars, mentioned -in said bill, to satisfy the judgment recovered by them against said railroad company therein described."
From this decree, Pennock and Hart appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton for the appellant, upon which
side there was also a brief filed by Mr. Spalding and Mr. Parsons, and by Mr. Otis for the appellee.
The arguments upon the question whether the mortgage
was void, on the ground of uncertainty as to the property
described or attempted to be described therein, and conveyed
to the mortgagee, are omitted from this report, inasmuch as
thc court did not think it necessary to decide that point. Upon

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Penniock et al. v. Coe.

the other and principal branch of the case, viz: whether the
mortgage was good as conveying subsequently-acquired property, the views of the respective counsel were as follows, as
also upon the point whether the railroad company were
authorized to make the road which they did make.
The counsel for the appellants stated the law which governed the case to be the following:
The laws of Ohio authorizing railroad companies to borrow
money and secure the payment of the same, are found in the
"act regulating railroad companies," passed February 11,
1848, sec. 18, and in the "act to provide for the creation of
incorporated companies in the State of Ohio," passed May 1, 1852, sec. 14.
See Swan's Revised Statutes of Ohio, pages 199 and 203.
To secure the payment of money borrowed, they "may
pledge the property and income of such company."
The act to revive and amend an act to incorporate the Cleveland and Pittsburgh Railroad Company, passed March 11th,
1845, which is claimed to be the charter of the Cleveland,
Zanesville, and Cincinnati Railroad Company, provides, in.
section six, that "the said company, by its proper officers,
duly authorized by the directors, is hereby authorized and
empowered to mortgage, hypothecate, or pledge, all or any
part of said railroad, or of any other real or personal property
belonging to said company, or of any portion of the tolls and
revenues of said company which may thereafter accrue, for the
purpose of raising money to construct said railroad, or to pay
debts incurred in the construction thereof."
Local Laws of Ohio, vol. 43, page 401.
It is insisted, on the part of the appellants, that so much
of the indenture, made between the Akron branch of the'
Cleveland and Pittsburgh Railroad Company and George S.
Coe, trustee, on the first day of April, 1852, as purports to put
in pledge or mortgage "future acquisitions," is inoperative
and void.
Yelverton v. Yelverton, Croke Elizabeth, 401.
Comyns Digest, Grant D., vol. 4, page 310.

^t20

SUPREME COURT.
Penwck et (d. v. Coe.

Mogg v. Baker, 3 Mces. and Welsb., 195.
Jones v. Richardson, 10 Metcalf, 481.
Moody v. Wright, 13 Metcalf, 17.
Otis v. Sill, 8 Barbour S. C. Rep., 102.
Rose v. Bevan, 10 Md., 466.
The railroad company had no authority, as a corporate
body, to make a railway from "Hudson to Millersburg," and,
as a necessary consequence, had no power to borrow money
for that purpose. The charter only authorizes the construction of a railroad from Hudson, in Summit county, to Wooster, in Wayne county, or some other point in the Ohio and
Pennsylvania railroad between Massillon and Wooster.
See Ohio Local Laws, vol. 49, page 468.
As the road is located, the southern terminus, according te
the charter, would be Orville, in Wayne county, which is a
point in the Ohio and Pennsylvania railroad between Massilion and Wooster, distant thirty-eight miles from Hudson.
Money was borrowed to make the road to Millersburg, in
Holmes county, which is twenty-three miles south of Orville,
where the road should. have stopped under the charter.
"Corporate powers are never to be created by implication
nor extended by construction."
Penn. Railroad Company v. the Canal Commissioners, 21
Penn. State Rep., 9.
Stormfeltz" v. the Manor Turnpike Co., 13 Penn. State
Rep., 555.
East Anglian Railway Co. v. Eastern Counties Railway
Co., 7 Eng. Law and Eq., 505.
Act regulating Railroad Mortgages in Ohio, Swan's Rev.
Statutes, 241.
Coleman v. the Eastern Counties Railway Co., 4 Eng.
Railway Cases, 382.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co., 9 Howard's Rep., 172:
Inhabitants of Springfield v. Connecticut River Railroad
Co., 4 Cushing, 63.
Logan v. Earl Courtown, 13 Beav., 22..
Green et al. v. Seymour et al., 3 Sandford's Chan. R., 285.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

121

Pennock et a7. v. Coe.

The Penn. &c. Co. v. Dandridge, &Gill and Johns., 248.
"Notes given by-a corporatiofi in violation of law are void."
Mr. Justice McLean in Root v. Goddard, 3 McLean Rep.,
102.
McGintry v. Reeves, 10 Ala., 137.
Commonwealth v. the Erie and Northeast R. R. Co., 27
Penn. State Rep., 339.
Peavey v. the Calais R. R. Co., 30 Maine Rep., 498.
A right cannot be claimed by a corporation under ambiguous terms.
Mr. Justice McLean in Charles River Bridge Case, 11
Peters, 559.
With respect to that point of the case which related to the
power of the company to make the road in question, Mr. Otis,
counsel for the appellees, cited and commented on the follow,
ing statutes of Ohio:
1836, March 14; 1845, March 11.
1851, February 19; 1850, February 21.
1846, February 26; 1846, March 2.
1848, February 18; 1848, February 24;
1847, February 8; 1849, March 12.
It would occupy too much room to follow him through the
examination of them all.
With respect to the other point, his argument' was as folI
lows:
That the mortgage to Coe is a lien upon the machinery
and cars levied upon, though the same were not in. existence
at the time said mortgage wag executed, and though the same
did not become a part of'the.road, by accession, when placed
upon it.

For the purpose of this argument, I am willing to admit a
to be the general rule of the common law, that nothing can be
mortgaged which is not in existence and does not belong to
the. mortgagor at the time the mortgage Is exec~ited.
This proposition is fully established by thb following, authorities.
Winslow v. Merchants' Ins. Co., 4 Met., 306.

SUPREME COURT.
Pennock et al. v. Coe.

Jones v. Richardson, 10 Met., 481.
Lunn v. Thornton, 1 M. G. and S., 379.
Otis v. Sill, 8 Barb., 102.
But these very authorities also establish the fact that this
rule is founded solely upon a'technicality. A mortgage is a
sale upon condition ; and, as before stated, by the rule of the
common law there can be no sale of a thing not in existence,
and which is not at the time the property of the seller.
The rule of the civil law is the very reverse of that of the
common law in this particular, and is thus stated by Domat:
"Those who bind themselves by any engagement whatsoever may, for the security of their performance of the engagement on their part, appropriate and mortgage, not only the
estate they are masters of at the time of contracting, but likewise all the estate which they shall be afterwards seized or
possessed of. And this mortgage extends to all the things
which they shall afterwards acquire, that are capable of being
mortgaged, by what title soever it be that they acquire them,
and even to those which are not in being when the obligation
is contracted; so that the fruits which shall grow upon the
lands will be comprehended in the mortgage of an estate to
come."
1 Domat, (Cushing's ed.,) 649, art. 5.
"Although the mortgage be restrained to certain things, yet
it will nevertheless extend to all that shall arise or proceed
from that thing which is mortgaged, or that shall augment it
and make part of it. Thus, the fruits which grow on the lands
that are mortgaged are subjgct to the mortgage while they
continue unseparated from the ground. Thus, when a stud of
horses, a herd of cattle, or a flock of sheep, is put in pawn into
the creditor's hands, the foals, the lambs, and other beasts
which they bring forth, and which augment their number, are
likewise engaged for the creditor's security. And if the whole
herd or flock be entirely changed, the heads which have reaewed it are engaged in the same manner as the old stock.
Thus, when the bounds of a piece of ground that is mortgaged
happen to be enlarged by that which the course of a river may
add to it, the mortgage extends to that which has augmented

DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.

123

Pennock el al. v. Coe.

the ground. Thus, a house that is built on a ground which
is mortgaged, is subject likewise to the mortgage. And if, on
the contrary, a house be mortgaged, and it perishes by fire, or
falls through decay, the mortgage will subsist on the ground
where the house stood. Thus, when a debtor mortgages a
piece of ground of which he had only the bare property, another
enjoying the usufruct of it, when the said right to the usufruct
comes to be extinct, the mortgage will comprehend the ground
with the fruits."
lb., 650, art. T.
There is, therefore, no inherent difficulty in making a mortgage which shall extend to after-acquired property, or property
not in esse. And courts of equity which are not trammelled by
the technical rules of the common law in the administration
of justice, both in England and in this country, uphold such
mortgages, in pursuance 6f the rule of the civil law, when necessary to carry into effect the honest and just contracts of
parties according to their real intentions.
Fonblanque, B. 1, ch. 4, see. 2.
b., ch. 5, see. 8.
1 Powell on Mort., 190.
Coote on Mort. Law, 1ib. ed., 185.
Noel v. Burley, 3 Simons, 103.
Metcalf v. Archbishop of York, 1 Myl. and Cr., 558.
Langton v. Horton, 1 Hare, 539.
Matter of Howe, 1 Paige, 125, 129.
White v. Carpenter, 2 Paige, 217, 266.
Abbot v. Gordon, 7 Shepley, 408.
Foreman v. Proctor, 9 B. Mon., 124.
Jenke's Adm. v. Goffe, 1 R. L Rep., 511.
Field v. the Mayor of New York, 2 Seld., 179, 186.
Winslow v. Mitchell, 2 Story, 630.
Story Eq. Jur., sees. 1040, 1040 b, 1055.
On page 644 of the case of Winslow'v. Mitchell, above cited,
Judge Story states the rule to be, "that wherever the parties,
oy their contract, intended to create 'a positive lien or charge,
either upon roal or upon, personal property, whether then
owned by the assignor or contractor or -not, or if personal

SUPREME COURT.
Pennock etal. v. Coe.

property, whether it is then in being or not, it attaches in
equity as a lien or charge upon the particular property, as soon,
as the assignor or contractor acquires a title thereto, against
the latter, and all persons asserting a claim thereto, under
him, either voluntarily or with notice, or in bankruptcy."
And the particular question raised in this case has been determined in the following cases.
Willinck v. the Morris Canal Co., 3 Green's Chy., 377.
Pierce v. Emery, 32 N. H. Rep., 484.
Seymour v. Canandaigua and Niagara Falls R. R. Co., 25
Barb., 286.
Farmers' Loan and Trust Co. v. Hendrickson, ib., 484.
Philips & .Jordon v. Winslow, Trustee, &c., (Kentucky
Court of Appeals,) 2 Weekly Law Gazette, 4.
Ludlow v. Hurd et al., (Superior Court of Cincinnati,) 6
.,Am. Law Reg., 493.
I also refer to the opinion of Judge McLEA., pronounced
in the case at bar, in the Circuit Court, reported in 6 Am.
Law Reg., 27.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the northern district of Ohio.
Th bill was filed in the court below, by Coe, mortgagee of
the road of the railroad company, in trust, for securing the payment of its bonds, to enjoin the execution of a judgment recovered at law against the company, by Pennock and Hart,
two of the defendants.
The facts of the case are these: The Cleveland, Zanesville,
and Cincinnati Railroad Co., created a body politic and corpora .by the laws of Ohio, to make a railroad between certain
termini in that State, in pursuance of authority conferred by
law, issued bonds to the amount of $500,000, payable ten
years from date, with interest at the rate of seven per cent.,
payable semi-annually, on the first day of April and October
in each year, and, to secure the payment of the same, executed
a mortgage of the railroad and its equipments to the complaingin, in trust for the bondholders, the description of which is

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
J'ennouk di al. v. Coe.

-

in the words following: "All the present and future to be ac.
quired property of the parties of the first part; that is to say,
their road, made or to be made, including the right of way,
and the land occupied thereby, together with the superstructure
and tracks thereon, and all rails and other materials used therein, or procured therefor, with the above-described bonds, or
the money obtained therefor, bridges, viaducts, culverts, fences,
depots, grounds and buildings thereon, engines, tenders, cars,
tools, machinery, naterials, contracts, and all other personal
property, right thereto, or interest therein, together with the
tolls, rents, or income, to be had or levied therefrom, and all
franchises, lights, and privileges, of the parties of the first part,
ii, to, or concerning the same.". At the time of the issuing
of these bonds, and the execution of fhe mortgage, the railroad was in the course of construction, but only a small por-.
tion of it finished. It was constructed and equipped almost
entirely by means of the funds raised from these, bonds, together with a second issue to the amount of $700,000. The
road cost upwards of $1,500,000. The stock subsdribed and
paid in, amounted only to 'some $369,000.
The mortgage securing the payment of the second issue
bears date the first of November, 1854, and -#as made to one
George Mygatt, in trust for the bonaholders, and the property
described in and covered by it is the same as that described
in the first mortgage. The road was fitlished to Millersburg,
its present 'terminus south, in Mfay, 1854, and the whole of
the rolling stock was placed on it previous to the date of the
second mortgage. This stock was purchased and placed on
the road from time to time, as the locomotives and cars were
needed in the progress of its construction.
The mortgage to the complainant contained a covenant ol
the part of the company, that the money borrowed for the construction and equipment of the road should'be faithfully applied to that object, and that the work should be carried on
with due diligence until the. same should be finished.
In case of default in the payment of the principal or interest of the bonds, the trustee was empowered to enter upon
and take possession of the road, or, at the election of a moiety

SUPREME COURT.
Pennock et al. v. Coe.

of the bondholders, to sell the same af public auction, and apply the proceeds to the payment of the bonds.
The defendants, Pennock and Hart, being the holders of
sixteen of the bonds isstied under the second mortgage, recovered a judgment on the same, May, 1856, against the railroad
company issued execution, and levied on a portion of the rolling stock of the road, and caused the same to be advertised
for sale.
This bill was filed to enjoin the sale, and a decree was rendered perpetually enjoining it in the court below, which is now
before us on appeal.
The first two grounds of objection taken to this decree may
be considered together. They are: 1, that the mortgage to
the trustee of the 1st April, 1852, is void or inoperative, as respects the locomotives and cars which were levied on under
the execution of the defendants, inasmuch as they were not in
existence at the date of it, but were constructed and placed
on the road afterwards, being subsequently-acquired property
of the company. And, 2, that the mortgage is void, du the
ground of uncertainty as to the property described or attempted to be described therein and conveyed to the mortgagee.
The description begins by conveying "all the following present and future acquired property of the said parties of the first
part;" and after specifying the road and the several parts of
it, together with the rolling stock, there is added, "an'd all
other personal property, right thereto, and iuterest therein."
This clause, probably, from the connection in which it Js
found, was intended to refer to property appurtenant to the
road, and employed in its operation, and which had not been
enumerated; and if so, the better opinion, perhaps, is, that it
would be bound by the mortgage even as against judgment
creditors.
But it is unimportant to express any opinion upon the question, as the property. in this case (the locomotives and cars)
levied on are articles specifically enumerated; and the only
uncertainty existing in respect to them arises out of their nonexistence at the date of the mortgage. An uncertainty of this
character need not be separately examined, as it will be

DECEMfBER TERM, 1859

127

Pennock et a. v. Coe.

resolved by a consideration of the first question, which is,
whether or not the after-acquired rolling stock of the company
placed upon the road attaches, in equity, to the mortgage, if
within the description, from the time it is placed there, so as
to protect it against the judgment creditors of the railroad
company ?
If we are at liberty to determine this question by the terms
and clear intent of the agreement of the parties, it will be
found a very plain one. The company have agreed with the
bondholders, (for the mortgagee represents them,) that if they
will advance their money to build the road, and equip it, the
road and equipments thus constructed, and as fast as constructed, shall be pledged as a security for the loan. This is
the simple contract, when stripped of form and verbiage; and,
in order to carry out this intent mopt' effectually, and with as
little hazard as possible to the lender, the company specially
stipulate that the money thus borrowed shall be ftithfully
applied in the constretion and equipment of the road. And
in further fulfilment of the intent, the company agree, that in
case of default in the payment of principal or interest, the
bondholders may enter upon and take possession of the road,
and run it themselves, by their agents, applying the net proceeds to the payment of the debt.
The bondholders have fulfilled their part of the agreementthey have advanced the money on the faith of the. security;
the company have also fulfilled theirs-they have made the
road and equipped it; it has been partially in operation since
January, 1852, and in operation upon the whole line since
May, 1854. The road, therefore, as described in the mortgage, from Hudson to Millersburg, and which was in the
course of construction at the date of the instrument, has been
finished, and the rolling stock, locomotives, tender§, and cars,
also described in it, and which were to be afterwards acquired,
have been brought into existence, and placed upon it-all in
conformity with the agreement of the parties; and the questiou is, whether there is any rule of law or principle of equity
that denies effect to such an agreement.
The main argument urged against it is founded upon th6

SUPREME COURT.
.Pea-occet al. v. Coe.

maxim, that "a person cannot grant a thing which he has
not:" ile non habet, non dat; and many authorities are referred
to at law to prove the proposition, and many more might have
been added from cases in equity, for equity no more than law
can deny it. The thing itself is an impossibility. It may, at
once, therefore, be admitted, whenever a party undertakes, by
deed or mortgage, to grant property, real or personal, in presenti, which does not belong to him or has no existence, The
deed or mortgage, as the case may be, is inoperative and void,
and this either in a court of law or equity.
13ut the principle has no application to the case before us.
The mortgage here does not undertake to grant, in presenti,
property of the company not belonging to them or not in existence at the date of it, but carefully distinguishes between
present property and that to be afteirwards acquired. Portions
of the road had been acquired and finished, and were in operation, when the mortgage was given, upon which it is conceded it took effect; other portions were acquired afterwards,
and especially the iron and other fixtures, besides the greater
part of the rolling stock.
The terms of the grant or conveyance are: "all present and
future to be acquired property of the parties of the first part;
that is to say, "their road, made or to be made, and all rails
and other materials, &c-., including iron rails and equipments,
procured or to be procured," &c. We have no occasion, therefore, of calling in question, much less denying, the soundness
of the maxim, so strongly urged against the effect of the mortgage upon the property in question, as its force and operation
depend upon a different state of facts, and to which different
principles are applicable. The inquiry here is, not whether
a pei'son can grant in presenti property not belonging to him,
and not itt existence, but whether the law will permit the
grant or conveyance to take effect upon the property when it
is brough-t into existence, and belongs to the grantor, in fulfilment of an express agreement, founded on a good and valuable consideration; and this, when no rule of law is infringed
or rights o& a third party prejudiced? The locomotives and
e' r weC, all placed upon the road as early as.February, 1854,

DECEMIBER TERM, 1859.
Pennock et al. v. Coe.

when, at the furthest, the mortgage attached to those in question, according to its.terms, if at all, and the judgment of the
defendants was not recovered till May, 1856.
We tbink it very clear, if the company, after having received the money upon the bonds and given the mortgage
security, had undertaken to divert the fund from the purpose
to which it was devoted, namely, the construction of the road
and its equipment, and upon which the security mainly depended, a court of equity would have interposed, and enforced
a specific petformance. One of the covenants was, tlat the
money.should be faithfully applied to the building and equipment of the road; or if, after the road was put in op6ration,
the company had undertaken to divert the rolling stock from
the use of the road, a like interpositiohn might have been invoked, and this in order to protect the security of the bondholders. And if a court of equity would thus have compelled
a specific performance of the contract, we may certainly with
confidence conclude that it would sanction the voluntary performance of it by the parties themselves, and give effect to the
security as soon as the property is brought into existence.
The case of Langton v. Hasten (1 Hare's Oh. R., 549) supports this view, The mortgage security in that case was the
assignment of the ship Foxhound, then on her voyage to the
South seas,'togethdr with all and .singular her masts, &e4,
"and all oil and head matter, and other cargo, which might be
caught or brought home on the said ship, on and from her then
present voyage." The cargo was levied on by a judgment creditor on the arrival of the ship at home. Abill was filed to
have the mortgage declared a good and valid security for the
moneys advancdd, and that the complainants be entitled to
the benefit of the security, in preference to the judgment
creditor.
The vice chancellor, in giving his opinion, observed: "Is
it true that a subject to be acquired after the date of a con.
tract cannot, in equity, be claimed by a purchaser for valua
under that contract ?"
And, in answer to the question, he said: "It is impossible
to doubt, for some purposes at least, that by contract an inVOL. xxIMn

9

SUPREME COURT.
Pennock-et al. v. Coe.

terest in a thing not in existence at the time of the contract
may, in equity, become the property of the purchaser for
value." And, after reviewing the cases in the books, he concludes: "I cannot, without. going in opposition to many
authorities which have been cited, throw any doubt upon the
point that Bixie, the contracting party, would be bound by
the assignment to the plaintiffs."
There are many cases in this country confirming this doctrine, and which have led to the practice extensively of giving
this sort of security, especially in railroad and other similar
great and important enterprises of the day. (2 Selden R.,
179; 3 Green Oh. R., 377; 32 N. H. Rep., 484; 25 Barb.,
286 ; ib., 284; 18 B. Munro, 431; Redfield on Railways, 590,
and note; 2 Story R., 630; 7 Jurist, 771; Tapfield v. Hillman.)
In the case of Tapfield v. Hillman, Tindall, Ch. J., seems
inclined to the opinion that, even at law, a mortgage security
of future acquisitions might have effect given to it, if the terms
indicated an intent to comprehend them.
The counsel for the appellee referred to the case of Chapman
v. Weimer & Steinbacker, (4 Ohio R., 481,) as denying effect
to a mortgage upon after-acquired property. But that was a
case at law; and even there the court held that the mortgage
attached after the property was acquired, from the time the
right was asserted by the mortgagee.
In conclusion upon this point, we are satisfied that the mortgage attached to the future acquisitions, as described in it,
from the time they came into existence. As to the claim of
the judgment creditors, there are several answers to it.
In the first place, the mortgage being a valid and effective
security for the bondholders of prior date, they present the
superior equity to have the property in question applied to the
discharge of the bonds. It is true, if the property covered by
the mortgage constituted a fund more than sufficient to pay
their demands, the court might compel the prior encumbrancer
to satisfy the execution, or, on a refusal, the mortgage having
become forfeited, oompel a fireclosure and satisfaction of the
bond debt, so as to enable the judgment creditor to reach the

DEOEMBER TER M, 1859.
Pennock et al. v. Coe.

surplus. Or the court might, upon any unreasonable resistance of the claim of the execution creditor, or inequitable in..
terposition for delay, and to binder and defeat the execution.
pqrmit a sale of the rolling stock sufficient to satisfy it. But
no such ground has been presented, or could be sustained
upon the facts before us. On the contrary, it cannot be denied
bat that the whole of the property mortgaged is insufficient to
satisfy the bondholders under the first mortgage, much less
when those under the second are included. To permit any
Jiterference, therefore, on the part of the judgment creditors,
0ith a view to the satisfaction of their debt, consistent with
the superior equity-of-the bondholders, would work only inconvenience and harm to the latter, without any benefit to the
former. (3 Hare's Oh. R., 416; 9 Georgia R., 377; liedfield
on Railw., 506; 5 Ohio R., 92.)
In the second place, the judgment sought to be enforced by
the defendants was recovered upon bonds of the second issue,
-and secured, in common with all the bonds of that issue, upon
this property, by virtue of the second mortgage. These bondholders have a common interest in this security, and are ill
equally entitled to the benefit of it; and in case of a deficiency
of the fuid to satisfy the whole of the debtjin equity, a distribution is made among the holders pro rata. The payment
of the bonds of the secoud issue are also postponed until satis..
faction of the issue comprehended within the first mortgage,
as the second was taken with a full knowledge of the first. To
permit, therefore, one of the bondholders under the second
mortgage to proceed at law in the collection of his debt upon
execution would not only disturb the pro rata distribution in
case of a deficiency, and give him an inequitable preference
over his associates, but also have the effect to prejudice the superior equity of the bondholders under the first mortgage,
which possesses the prior lien.
As the judgment creditors can have no interest inthe management orr disposition of the property, except as bondholders,on account of the deficiency of the fund, it is unimportaut't0
inquire whether or not tle court was right in refusing d re.
ceiver, or to direct a sale of the road with a Yiew to a distri.

SUPREME COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

bution of the proceeds. For aught that appears, the road has
been managed, under its present directors, with prudence and
fidelity, and to the satisfaction of the bondholders, the parties
exclusively interested.
Another objection taken to the validity of the mortgage is,
the want of power under the charter to construct the road
from Hudson to Millersburg, and consequently to borrow
money and pledge the road for this purpose. There is certainly some obscurity in the statutes creating this corporatidi.
as to the extent of the line of its road; but we agree with tli;
court below, that, upon a reasonable interpretation of thel..
the power is to be found in their charter. They were authorized to construct the road from some convenient point on the
Cleveland and Pittsburgh road, in Hudson, Summit county,
through Cuyahoga Falls, and Akron, to Wooster, or some
point on the Ohio and Pennsylvania railroad,.between Massillon and Wooster, and to connect with said Ohio and Pennsylvania road, and any other railroad running in the direction of
Columbus. It was clearly not limited, in its southern terminus,
to its connection with the Ohio and Pennsylvania road, for
there is added, "and any other railroad running in the direction of Colhmbus." The extension of the road to the Ohio
Central road at Zanesville, or at some other point on this road.
comes fairly within the description.
We have not referred particularly to the authority of the
company, under the statute laws of Ohio, to borrow money
and pledge the road for the security of the payment, as no such
question is presented in the brief or was made on the argument. Indeed, the-authority seems to be full and explicit.
IDeeree below affirmed.
CHARLES FLOWERS, SURVIVOR OF ALIoE FLOWERS, PLAINTIFF IN
EnRROR, v. FRANCIS FOREMAN, SURVIVING PARTNER OF CHRIS-

TIAN KELLER, DEFENDANT.
Where a party residing ,iMaryland sold land in Louisiana with a general warranty to a resident of Louisiana, who was afterwards evicted from a part uf i,
and obtained a judgment against his warrantor, whom he had vouched in.

