SUPREME COURT.
Uhited States v. Rose et al.

he Governor so ordered, authorizing the applicant to take
provisional possession, until he could make his visit. The
suit of the claimant was submitted to the board of commissioners on this testimoniy, and it was rejected, as invalid.
Upon appeal to the District Court, the claimant proved that
he was a soldier in the war of Micheltorena, and an officer in
one of the companies of Sutter. That. the Governor acknovledged his services in that war, and verbally recognised the
validity of his claim for the land specified, and that it would
be perfected by means of the "general title" of Sutter. The
claimant also proved, that in March, 1845, two persons went
upon the land, to make improvements under his claim. That
one of them shortly after retreated, from fear of the Indians;
that the other (Julien) made some impirovement and cultivation, and occupied the land twelve or fifteen months, when
he was killed by them. In the case of the United States v.
Reading, 18 How., 1, it was proved that Julien occupied the
land of that claimant.
The merits of the claims arising under the general title of
Sutter have been discussed in the cases of Nye and Bassett,
reported in 21 How. R., 408, 412. This claim is in all respects
similar; and, for the reasons assigned in those cases, is invalid.
Decree reversed. Cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the petition.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN ROSE AND GEORGE
KINLOCK.
Sutter's general title to lands in California again examined, together with the
historical events which preceded and attended it. The court again decides
that claims under this title are not valid.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Rose et aL

It was argued by 1Th. Stanton for the United States, and by
Mr. CHttenden and Mr. Benjamin for the appellees.
One of the objects of the counsel for the appellees was to induce the court to reconsider the decision in the cases of Bassett and Nye, reported in 21 Howard; and another, to show
that if the judgment in those cases were to stand, the present
case did not fall within it.
Mr. Cr'ttenden reviewed the facts of the case, and contended
that the grant was within the power of the Governor; that it
was an exercise of political power, binding on all concerned;
that it proceeded from the highest executive authority charged
to do that very act; that it rested upon the same principles as
the case of Chisolm v. the State of Georgia'; that we had no
right to inquire into the motives of the Governor. He was
besieged, and made a speech to the people, whom he wished to
induce to support his authority; that the transaction resembled our revolutionary promises, when Congress appealed to
the people to sustain the war of independence; that the Governor conferred a present right, in which there was no ambiguity; that the coultt appeared to think, in th~e former decision, that the Governor only promised a grant, whereas it took
effect at once; that it was a valid act of political power, no
matter what the motives were; that one construction impeached
the motives of the Governor and the integrity of the people,
and the other only confirmed an act of justice.
With respect to the circumstances which distinguished this
case from Nfye's, Mr. Crittendon referred to the following:
John Smith was one of the class entitled under the general
grant of the 22d December, 1844. It is proved that before
that date, in the year 1844, he had presented to the Governor,
Micheltorena, his petition, with i map or diseno, for the six
leagues of land in question-called or marked on the map,
"Rancho de Yuba," and '4bounded on the north by the river
Yuba, on the west by Sutter's claim, on. the south by Johnson's
ranch, and extends eastwardly so as to contaidnsix square
leagues;" and that he had also obtained the favorable report

SUPREIE COURT.
United States v. Rose et al.

of Satter, to whom his petition had been referred, in the usual
course.
It is further proved that Sutter recognised Smith as one of
the persons entitled, and gave him a copy of the "general
title" as evidence of his right.
It is fuither proved that Smith lost all his title paperstheir loss, their authenticity, and their contents, are all clearly
proved.
Smith was pht in possession by Sutter, and within twelve
months after the date of the "general title," he was in the occupation of the land, "made improvements, and built an adobe
house, and had upon the said land about 400 head of cattle,
with some horses."
Bidwell's testimony is, that Smith settled on the land in the
fall of 1844, or early in 1845, and continued to live upon it
till he sold in 1848.1 He had previously lived on adjoining
land, which he had purchased of Sutter:
Smith's petition for the land in question, and the favorable
report thereon by Sutter, were made to the Governor in September, 1844; and in that year, according to his own testimony, he not only made improvements, but "had about six
hundred cattle and a few horses on this land." He was a
Canadian by birth, was naturalized as a Mexican,. and had
been in California since 1835.
It does not appear that he was ever engaged in the military
service, or that the grant was made to him otherwise than in
the due administration of the colonization laws of Mexico.
These latter circumstances distinguish the present case from
those of Nye and Bassett, reported in 21 Howard, 408, et seq.
Mr. Benjamin reviewed the facts of the case, and said the
claimant had been put into possession, and the only way to
get him out was to drive him from the soil. HIe the4 reviewed the preceding decisions in California cases, and contended that the rules established in Fremont's and subsequent
cases were reversed in that of Nye. The Louisiana and Florida cases were applicable. Where there was permission to
settle and possession taken, it constituted an equitable title.
True, there was an uprising of the people and a stump speech;

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

266

United States v. Rose et al.

but the political power was there, and ready to act. Had not
the Governor power to confirm these grants, one by one?- Yqu
confirmed Larkin's title, issued from the same place, because
it was to one person only. The Governor was sent there, and
had extraordinary powers, (for which Mr. Benj:nin referred
to 3 Archives, in U. S. v. Limantour, page 5.)
Mr. Stanton, in reply to these arguments, said that the only
question was, whether or not this was public domain. Sympathy was out of the case. The possession of the claimant
was doubtful; but if true, what right did that give? Sovereignty was always in possession, and could not be ousted.
The court cannot confirm this claim without obliterating all
previous decisions. There are no new facts proved. The
court held in Cambuston's case (20 Howard, 59) that they
.would inquire into the motives of the grant, and all the circircumstances attending it. The Louisiana and Florida cases
were not like these; the difference is pointed out by the court
in Cambuston's case, (20 Howard, 63.) The instructions to
Micheltorena were before the court in a former case. 'Whataver power he might have proclaimed to the people that he
possessed, when his instructions were produced they did not
justify him. A change in political government did not
authorize the Chief or President to change the law. Santa
Anna, in his instructions to Micheltorena, did not attempt to
change the law; he made a difference between foreigners and
natives, and said that "foreigners ought to be prevented from
taking part in domestic quarrels." If those people had no
claim upon the Mexican Government, they have none on ours.
The Mexican laws give them no claim. The cases referred to
by the counsel on the other side as being confirmed, were all
genuine grants, made strictly within the colonization laws.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees were confirmed in a tract of land in Yuba
county, California, containing six square leagues, bounded
north by the Yuba river, -westby the eastern line of Captain
Sutter's land, south by Johnson's rancho, and easterly for
juautity.

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Rose et al.

The original claimant is John Smith. He was examined as
a witness, and testifies that he was a naturalized citizen of
Mexico. That in September, 1844, he petitioned the Governor of California for the land, and obtained a favorable
report from Captain Sutter, and in 1845 received from the
latter a copy of the "general title," which the Governor had
authorized him to give. That in 1844 he built a house upon
the land, planted an orchard of fruit trees, and in that and the
following year enclosed a field by ditches, and cultivated it,
and that he had there a stock of cattle. He says he resided
on the land until 1848, when he sold it to persons under whom
the claimants derive their claim.
To account for the non-production of any documentary evidence, he says that the petition and report, with a copy of the
general title, were lost in the Sacramento river in 1845; that
subsequently he obtained another copy, and this, with his naturalization papers, was sent to Monterey, to be laid before the
Departmental Assembly, but that they were never returned to
him. Bidwell testifies that he prepared a petition for Smith
to Sutter, representing the loss of his papers, and askitg for
another copy of the title, and that Sutter admitted the claim.
He testifies that Smith cultivated the land.
The two depositions of Sutter show that he recognised the
claim of Smith to have the benefit of the general title, and that
he gave him copies, as stated by the other witnesses. Other
testimony in the record disproves the statements of these witnesses in reference to the improvement of the land, and %hows
satisfactorily that they were made on a different tract of land,
and in no connection with this claim.
The "general title of Sutter" was considered by the court
at its last term, and its operation declared in the cases of the
United States v. iye and the United States v. Bassett, reported
in 21 How. R., 408, 412. The opinion of the court, in those
cases has been examined in the argument at the bar, and has
been re:examined by the court.
The testimony of Sutter in the case of Nye was, that the
general title was enclosed to him in a letter by Micheltorena,
the Governor, by his request.

That the Governor was hlock-

DECEMBEIR TERM, 1859.

261

United States v. Rose et aL

aded at Monterey, and was in need of military aid, .and the
general title was sent to him upon his advice. That he executed the trust conferred upon him, by giving copies of the
title to those "who had rendered meritorious services to the
country, and who applied to him." The general title was
issued before his men marched from New Helvetid to join
Micheltorena, and, in some cases, copies were given before
and some after his return from the expedition, "but only to
such as he thought deserved it." Governor Micheltorena
made a speech to the soldiers, and promised to deliver grants.
to all "whom he should recommend," "referring as well to
those to whom copies had been delivered as to those to whom
he should deliver them."
In the cases of Nye and Bassett, it was proved that the
claimants were soldiers in the war of Micheltorena, and had
taken possession of the land within their claim under a temporary license from the Governor. There is no evidence of
the kind in this case. The statement of facts in this testimony,
and the inferences drawn from it by the court, are corrobo-.
rated by public documents existing in the archives of California. These show that, in the autumn of 1844, there was an
insurrection against the authority of Micheltorena, which terminated in a compact signed at Santa Teresa, the 1st December of that year, by the contending chiefs. Micheltorena
agreed to disband and send away a battalion of infantry, (presidiarios,) "with some vicious officers," within three months,
and should himself retire to Monterey; that the headquarters
of the opposing forces should be at San Yose, and that their
expenses should be charged to the Department. In that
month, both par.ties recommenced preparations for renewing
hostilities. On the 24th of December, Alvarado asked Sutter
for explanations "in relation to the assembling of men " at his
fort, and charged him with the design of "invading the Californias."
He transmitted to Micheltorena a copy of this letter, and
arraigned Sutter "for preparing to attack the forces of the
north, under the pretext of placing himself in the defence of
Micheltorena's Government, claiming to have relations with

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Rose et al.

him for this purpose." He says: "Considering the movement
of Sutter and his conduct as an arbitrary act of his own, unauthorized by the Government, and knowing positively that
he is organizing a force, composed of adventurers and Indians,
to attack this garrison, I assure your Excellency that I am in
a condition to make a defence, and to attack him as soon as
he marches against this place, to carry out his dark designs."
On the 28th December, Micheltorena replied to a letter from
Sutter, in which he says: "I approve in its whole what you
say to me in your last. What you may do, I approve; what
you may promise, I will fulfil; what you may spend, I will
pay. * * * The country calls for our services; our personal security requires it, and the Government will know how
to recompense all. * * * If you have not left, owing to
some event, without the necessity of a new order, when you
learn that I am moving from Monterey to San Juan, you will
move at once; for I will have well calculated the time to act
against them."
On the 12th January, 1845, he addressed a letter to an
officer, in which he says: "All which is said to you under
this date by Senor Don Sutter, who is now, with arms in
hand, defending the rights of the nation, and, supporting the
Departmental Government that I exercise, will be duly obeyed

by you."
Sutter, under these orders, reached Santa .Barbara in the
early part of February, with two companies, and placed them
under the command of Micheltorena.
On the other hand, Alvarado and Castro, in January, 1845,
denounced the Governor to the Departmental Assembly,
"that lie appointed as commander of armed adventurers the
same Sutter, of whom tl1e6e is sufficient evidence that lie
seeks to possess himself of the Department, attacking the
national integrity; a proof that the country is in danger; and
the presumption is, that Governor Micheltorena does not
deserve the public confidence." They arraign him, because
he had called "to promote civil war in the country the foreigner, (Sutter,) accused before the Supreme Government of
the country as a conspirator against the.national integrity, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

269

United States v. Rose et al.

because united.to more than one hundred adventurous hunt
ers, proceeding from the United States, without more fortune
than the muzzles of their rifles, he has increased his files, and
causing devastation," &c. They asserted to the Departmental
Assembly, as the only legal authority which they and their
party recognised, "that General Micheltorena is a traitor to
his country, and as such he ought to be presented to the
tribunals of the Republic, to be judged in accordance with the
laws. 2d. That the Assembly shuld in the interim regulate
all the branches of the administration. 3d. That they should
transmit the charges against the Governor to Mexico, by a
commission, and ask that the Government of the Department
may be committed to its natives and residents, of sufficient
capacity and knowledge for its management.
This communication was referred to a committee of the
Assembly, who reported that the Governor had repudiated
the compact of Santa Teresa, and prepared himself to chastise
those who had demanded its conditions; that his connection
with Sutter was dangerous to the safety of the Department,
and had deprived him of the support of the citizens, "for
there is not a single individual therein," they say, "who, at
seeing Don John Auguste Sutter commence a campaign in
California, that dbes not remember that this gentleman has
expressed his fatal design of subduing the country."
On the 15th February, the Departmental Assembly disavowed the authority of the Governor, pronounced his office
vacant, and called upon Pio Pico, the first member of the
Assembly, to take charge of the Departmental Government
in the interim.
On the 22d February, 1845, a treaty was concluded between
the commissioners of the Assembl- and of the Governor,
which was sanctioned by the respective chiefs, in which it was
stipulated "that, from this date, the political conimand of the
Department isdelivered to the first member of the most excellent Departmental Assembly, because it was so disposed by
said body, agreeably to the laws; for which purpose, his
Excellency General Micheltorena will deliver a circular ordei
in the hands of the chief of the division of the opponents, that

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Rose et al.

the same be published throughout the limits of the Department."
It is acknowledged that the Governor "could no longer
contend, with his small forces and scanty resources, against
the general outbreak of the country;" and therefore he obligates himself to march to San Pedro, thence to be conveyed
to Monterey, and thence to some port in the Republic of
Mexico.
Sutter remained a prisoner in the hands of his enemies.
On the 26th of the month, (February,) he addressed a letter
to Pio Pico, as Governor, in which he speaks of his detention
in the city, and attributes it to his connections with Micheltorena. He refers to his relations and duties as an officer.
protests that he was ignorant, and deceived as to the cause of
the insurrection against Micheltorena, and that he was then
convinced of his delusion, and repented of his credulity. He
promises obedience to the authorities, offers to place his fort.
at the disposal of the Government, and prays for his release.
It does not appear that he was able to return home until the
first of April, about which time Micheltorena sailed froni
Monterey.
Pio Pico remained in charge of the Government, as senior
member of the Assembly, until the 15th day of April, 1846,
when he was installed as constitutional Governor of the
Department, pursuant to an -appointment made in consequence
of the memorial of the Assembly on the 27th of June of the
previous year.
We have entered into this minute statement of the relations
of Sutter to the authorities of Mexico, and especially those in
the Department of California, in order to estimate with exactness the import of his acts, under the power conferred by
Micheltorena, and how far they imposed an obligation upon
the public faith of those Governments, and upon this Government, as their successor.
The authority of Micheltorena to distribute the lands of the
Department arises in the colonization laws of 1824 and 1828.
The object of those laws was to secure for the Republic a
population composed of industrious, obedient, and loyal

DECEMBER TERM, 1839.

'271

idted States v.I Rose et al.

citizens, who .might contribute to its strength and toros
perity.
In the distribution of the public domain for this purpose,
the political chief was directed to inform himself particularly
of the circumstances and condition of every applicant for
land; and that his power of selection should not be inconsiderately or corruptly used, he was required to preserve a record
of his acts of administration, and to submit reports to the
Departmental Assembly and the Supreme Government, th6
approval of one or the other being necessary for their definitive validity.
The claims presented to the land commission of the United
States in California:, and to this court on appeal by the claimants, under the "general title of Sutter," exhibit a wide divergence from the essential rules prescribed in the colonization
laws. The petition is not preserved in the archives, but was
retained by the applicant. The Governor declined to act,
until he could examine the country of which the colonization is
proposed. In the absence of the petition, and without the
desired information, under a "supreme pressure of business,"
he decides suddenly to send to a subordinate and suspected
officer the authority to determine the most serious question
of administration confided to his care-that of selecting persons
who should own and occupy the soil of the Department. He
does not preserve a record of this act, nor a copy of the paper
he issues, nor did he present it to the Departmental Assembly for its ratification.
We are compelled to seek an explanation of this anomalous
exercise of authority, and to examine the conditions attached
to this unusual mode of administration; to inquire of the
relation which the proposed objects of the favor occupied and
were to occupy to the Department and its authorities, and the
consequences contemplated by the Governor and his agent to
ensue from their use of this title, to ascertain its signification.
We have no doubt that the court 'nay employ this medium of
proof for this purpose.
We learn- that the treaty concluded at Santa Teresa was an
armistice merely, and that Miohltorena. immediately after,

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Rose et al.

concluded to use the agency aid influence of Sutter to punist
his enemies and sustain his power; and, to increase that influ
ence, issued this "general title." Their alliance was regarded by the Departmental Assembly as treasonable, and
justifying the deposition and expulsion of the Governor from
the Department. Sutter became their prisoner, and was compelled to renounce his connection with his chief to make his
peace. His companies were regarded as public enemies, and
were disbanded and dispersed. The Supreme Government
acquiesced in the decisions of the Assembly, and recognised
and commissioned the Gover'or of their appointment.
No indemnity was granted to the adherents of Micheltorena,
nor provision made for the fulfilment of his promises to them;
nor have we discovered an instance in which their accomplishment was demanded of the succeeding Government. Our
opinion consequently is, that these acts and promises were
riot considered in California or Mexico as valid obligations,
binding the conscience of the Republic; and therefore they
are not valid claims under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
In some of the instances, Micheltorena granted a permission
to the applicant to occupy the land provisionally, until he
could visit that portion of the Department to act upon their
petition. It is contended that this license is so far a recognition of the merit of the application, as to impose upon the
United States the obligation to accede to it; that it confirmed
an interest in the land, that they should perpetuate by a grant.
We agree that evem, species of title that originated in the
rightful exercise of legitimate authority, and existed under the
safeguard of Mexican laws at the date of the acquisition of
California by the United States, is protected by the treaty of
cession. The change of the Government does not alter the
relations of the inhabitants in this particular. This court is
charged with the duty, in the last resort, to recognise the
validity of all such claims. But it is the duty of the court to
distinguish between rights acquired under the laws and usages

of Mexico, and claims depending upon the mere pleasure of
those who were in power-between the vested estate and the
hope or expectation of favor or bounty. The license of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Osio.

Governor to the applicant to make a temporary occupation,
until he could inform himself, so as to act considerately or
intelligently, we think, cannot be treated as conferring a
property in the land.
We have examined these cases with unusual care, in consequence of the number of parties in interest and the amount
of property involved. Upon the most liberal estimate of the
powers of the Governor, and the most indulgent view of the
claims of the petitioners, we are unable to determine that they
are valid.
Judgment of the District Court reversed, and cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the petition.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

vJ.

ANTONIO MARIA OsIo.

Where an island in the bay of San Francisco, in California, was claimed, not
under the colonization law of 1824, or-the regulations of 1828, but under certain special orders issued to the Governor by the Mexican Government, and
the Governor was alleged to have issued a grant in 1838, the petitioner never
took possession or exercised acts of ownership of the island under that decree,
which therefore affords no foundation for his claim.
In 1839, a petition was addressed to the Governor, praying for .a new title of
possession, and it was alleged that a grant was issued, but it does not appear
that it was recorded according to law, nor is the testimony satisfactory to
show that it was signed by the Governor.
Where no record evidence is exhibited, the mere proof of handwriting by third
persons, who did not subscribe the instrument as witnesses, or see it executed,
is not sufficient in this class of cases to establish the validity of the claim
without some other confirmatory evidence.
The special orders above mentioned were contained in a despatch from the
Mexican Government, giving the power to the Governor, in concurrence with
the Departmental Assembly.
This provision differs essentially from the regulations of 1828, under which the"
action of the Assembly was separate and independent, and subsequent to the
action of the Governor. But the power conferred by this despatch could not
be exercised by the Governor without the concurrence of the Departmental
Assembly. Both must participite in the adjudication of the title; and as the
Assembly did not concur in this grant, it is simply void.

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
18
xIxI.
XoI,.

