DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

209

P~la., Wil., and Balt. R. Co. v. Phil. and Havre de Grace Steam Towbe, t Co.

We think the statute of limitation applies, and tha the
decree of the court below should be affirmed.

THE PHILADELPHIA, WILMINGTON, AND BALTIMORE RAIL tOAD

COMPANY, APPELLANITS, V. THE PHILADELPHIA AND HAVY E DE
GRACE STEAM TOWBOAT COMPANY.,
The jurisdiction of courts of admiralty in torts depends entirely on localit' , and
this court have heretofore decided that it extends to places within the br dy of
a county. The term "torts" includes wrongs suffered in consequence ,if the
negligence or malfeasance of others, where the remedy af common law is by
an action on the case.
Hence, where a railroad company employed contractors to build a bridge, and
for that purpose to drive piles in a riier, and, owing to the abandonment of
the contract, the piles were left in the river, in such a condition as to injure a
vessel when sailing on her course, the railroad company were responsible for
the injury.
That the vessel so injured was prosecuting her voyage on Sunday, is no defence
for the railroad company. The statute of Maryland and the cases upon this
point examined.
Where there was conflicting testimony in the court below upon the amount of
damages sustained, and there was evidence to sustain the decree, this court
will not reverse the decree merely upon a doubt created by conflicting testimony.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland, sitting in admiralty.
It was a libel filed by one corporation against another corporation in the District Court of Maryland, under the circumstances stated in the opinion of the court. The District Court
decreed in favor of the libellants, the appellees, and awarded
damages to the amount of $7,000.96. The Circuit Court, on
appeal, affirmed the decree, and the railroad company appealed to this court.
It wasargued by Mr. Scidey and "Mr.Donaldson for the ap.
pellants, and by Hr. Dobbin for the appellees.
The counsel for the appellants made the following points:
VdL.

XXIII.

14

SUPREME COURT.
Phila., Wil., and Balt. R. Co. v. Phil. and Hfavre de Grace Steam Towboat Co.

1. That the District Court of the United States has no jurisdiction in a case like the present.
The cases show that "marine torts," over which courts of
admiralty have jurisdiction, are trespasses done and committed
on navigable waters, as in the case of a collision between two
vessels; and a main ground on which such cases have been
put is the power in rem possessed by those courts, but not by
courts of common law.
The placing and leaving the pile in the bed of the Susquehanna, and within the body of a county, was a nuisance at
common law, and the appellee's remedy was in the State
courts, in an action on the case for particular damage caused
by that nuisance. Indeed, the ordinary rules of an admiralty
court in apportioning damages could not be made applicable
to such. a case.
The question is not one of mere locality. The subject matter itself is not within the admiralty jurisdiction; and it is believed that none of the decisions of this court have gone to an
extent which would include it.
Conkling, 21, 24.
Thomas v. Lane, 2 Sumn., 9, 10.
Cutler v. Rae, 7 How., 737.
Schooner Tilton, 5 Mason, 465.
Waring v. Clark, 5 How., 467.
Angell on Tide Waters, 113.
Hancock v. York NS.and B. R. W. Co., 70 E. 0. L. Rep.,
347.
Abbott on Shipping, 233.
9 Stat. at Large, 1851.
2. That the appellees could not recover in this case, because
they were engaged in an unlawful act at the time when the
accident occurred, which caused the injury complained of.
The steamer Superior left her wharf at Havre de Grace, with
a fleet of canal boats, on Sunday, the 11th May, 1856, and
while engaged in towing the boats down the Susquehanna on
that day, struck the pile which disabled her.
It is the law of Maryland, that no person whatever shall
work or do any bodily labor, or willingly suffer any of his ser-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

211

Phila., 1il., and Bali. R. Co. v. PlI.and Hfavre de Grace Steam Towboat Co.

vants to do any manner of work or labor, on the Lord's day,
works of necessity and charity excepted; and a penalty is prescribed for the breach of the law.
There is nothing in this provision inconsistent with any of
the laws of the United States regulating commerce, and the
Federal courts would therefore take notice of and conform to
the law of the State.
Act of Assembly of Md., 1723, c. 16, sec. 10.
Bank of U. S. v. Owens, 2 Pet., 527.
Bosworth v. Inhabitants of Swansea, 10 Metc., 863.
Robeson v. French, 12 Mete., 24.
Phillips v. Innes, 4 Clark and Fin., 234.
Smith on Contracts, 171.
8. That even if the appellees could in the present case re.
cover in admiralty against any party, they still had no cause
of action against the appellants; the act of negligence which
.caused the injury not having been the act of the appellants or
of its servants.
The evidence shows that the Superior struck upoii a sightpile driven by the servants of Messrs. Goss, Cooke, & Co.,
who had contracted for a stipulated compensation to build the
piles of the bridge across, the Susquehanna.
By the second sentence of the 9th section of that contract,
the contractors were "to furnish (and remove when done
with) all scaffolding and piles that may be used while building; ' which terms, according to the testimony of engineers
and experts, included the sight-piles, which were necessary to
the proper construction of the bridge. It was the duty of the
contractors to remove these sight-piles when done with; and
the act of the contractors, or of their servants, in sawing off
those piles below the surface, and leaving them so as to obstruct the navigation, was in no sense the act of the appellant.
There is nothing to show that the appellant ever had knowledge of the fact that these piles were sawed off instead of being removed, as the contract required; and the termination of
the contract could not make the appellants liable for the con:
sequences of a previous wiongful act of the contractors, the

SUPREME COURT.
Phila., Wil., and Bal. R. Co. v. Phil. and Havre de Grace Steam Towboat Co.

appellants not consenting either to making or continuing the
uuisance.
Allen v. Hayward, 53 E. 0. L., 974.
Reedie v. London and 1. W. R. W. Co., 4 W., H., and
G., 244, 245.
Knight v. Fox, 5 Exch., 721.
Steel v. S. E. R. W. Co., 82 E. C. L., 366.
Overton v. Freeman, 73 E. L. and E. Rep., 866.
Peachey v. Rowland, 13 C. B., 182, (76 E. 0. L. Rep.)
Blake v. Ferris, 1 Seld., 48.
Hilliard v. Richardson, 3 Gray, 354.
Rapson v. Cubitt, 9 M. and W., 710.
Milligan v. Wedge, 40 E. C. L., 177.
Burgess v. Gray, 1 C. B., 578, (1 Man., Grang., and Scott.)
4. That the sinking of the Superior after striking upon the
sight-pile was owing to the mismanagement of her captain,
and the appellees cannot be entitled to recover the damages
consequent upon her Ainking, for the cost of raising her, or
the loss of time while she was under water.
The testimony of a number of steamboat captains, and of
persons well acquainted with the river near Havre de Grace,
shows that the true course for the captain to have pursued,
after the vessel struck, was to run her upon the flats indicated
on the illustrative map by the letters C, B, D; and that if he
had done so, she would not have sunk.
Even if there was no error in returning to the wharf, the
evidence shows great want of care in the omission properly to
secure the vessel to the wharf and in other particulars.
5. That the amount of the decree is greater than the actual
loss 'which naturally or necessarily resulted from the injury;
and greater, indeed, than the total value of the injured
boat.
Mr. Dobbin, for the appellees, made the following points:
1. That the steamer "Superior," the subject of the injury,
being, at the time of the wrong committed, a licensed vessel,
sailing in her lawful business, on waters within the ebb and
flow of the tide, a court of admiralty has jurisdiction to redress

DECEM1BER TERM, 1859

1- 213

PhiZa., Wl., and Balt. . Co. v. Phil.and Havre de Grace Steam Towboat Co.

any trespass upon her, notwithstanding an action at law might
have been maintained for the same injury.
3 Story on Con., 530.
2 Brown's Civil and Ad. Law, 110, 203.
Thomas v. Lane, 2 Sumner, 9.
The Ruckers, 4 Rob. Ad. R., 73.
Steele v. Thatcher, Ware's Rep., 98.
Thackery v. the Farmer, Gilp. R., 529.
Waring v., Clark, 5 How., 464.
New Jersey S. B. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 Howy., 431,
432.
Manro v. Almieda, 10 Wheat., 473.
Plummer v. Webb, 4 Mason, 383.
Chamberlain v. Chandler, 3 Mason, 242.
Bees Ad. R., 369.
Angell on T. W., 119.
The Volant, 1 W. Robinson, 387.
Zouch, 117, 122.
Com. Dig. "Admiralty" E., 13.
Sir Leoline Jenkins, 2 Brown's C. and Ad. L., 475.'
De Lovio v. Boit, -2 Gall., 437.
Judge Winchester, 1 Pet. Ad. Dec., 234.
2. That the act of Assembly of Maryland did not contemplate a restraint on the sailing of vessels engaged In foreign
commerce, or in the coasting trade, and that, if it did, such
restraint is repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the
United States; and that the "Superior," being a veosel duly
enrolled and licensed, in the district of Philadelphia, for the
coasting trade, had a right to pursue such trade without any
restraint thereon by the laws of the State of Maryland, in respect to the time within which such -coasting trade might be
prosecuted.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat., 240.
Brown v. State of Marylaun, 12 Wheat., 448.
Brown v. Jones, 2 Gall., 477.
Willard v. Dorr, 9 Mason, 93.
3. That the railroad company, and not the contractors under
them, are responsible for the injury:

SUPREME COURT.
Phila., Wil., and Ball. R. Co. v. Phil. and Havre de Grace Steam Towboat Co.

First-because the whole work was done under the direction and superintendence of the company, the contractors undertaking to do only as directed by the company's engineers;
and there being no proof that the contractors violated their
instructions, the presumption is that all that was done was by
order of the company's superintendent.
Second-because the pile upon which the steamer raft was
not such an one as is contemplatect by the contract, where it
speaks of " scaffolding and piles that may be used while building," the proof being that this was one of a group erected away
from the line of the bridge, for the exclusive use of the company's engineers employed in performing the duty of superintendence, which the company had reserved to itself..
Third-because, at the time of the accident, th&-company
had discharged the contractors, and taken possession of all
that was built of the bridge, in its then unfinished condition;
and they are responsible for any damage which might arise
from their leaving the work in a position to inflict injury upon
vessels navigating the Susquehanna.
4. That the captain of the steamer exercised the utmost
prudence, skill, and judgment, after the accident, as the record
abundantly shows; but even if this were less apparent as a
question of fact, it having undergone full examination in the
District Court, and in the Circuit Court on appeal, this court
will not disturb the decree, unless in a clear case of mistake.
Walsh v. Rogers, 13 How., 284.
5. That the sum decreed against the appellant is less than
the proof shows to have resulted from the injury.
Williamson v. Barrett, 13 How., 110.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
A brief statement of the facts of this case will be sufficient
to show the relevancy of the questions to be decided.
The appellants were authorized by a statute of Maryland to
construct a railvvay bridge over the mouth of the Susquehanuia
river, at Havre de Grace. They entered intb an agreement
with certain contractors, to prepare the foundations and erect
the piers. In pursuance of their contract, these persons drve

DECEMIBER TERM, 1859.

215

Phila., Wil., and Balt. B. Co.v. Phil. and Havre de Grace Steam Towboat Go.

piles into the channel of the river, under the direction of the
engineers employed by the appellants. Before the completion
of the contract, the appellants abandoned their purpose of
building the bridge, and discharged the contractors. During
the progress of the work, the contractors had driven certain
piles, called sight-piles, into the channel of the river, which
were not removed or cut off level with the bottom, but were
cut a few feet under the surface of the water, so that they
became a hidden and dangerons nuisance. The steamboat
Superior, engaged in towing boats between Philadelphia and
Havre de Grace, left a port in Maryland on Sunday morning,
and soon after came into forcible collision with one or more
of these piles; in consequence whereof she suffered great damage, and for which this libel was filed.
The appellants have, in this court, insisted chiefly on three
points of defence to the charges of the libel:
L It is contended that the "marine torts," over which
courts of admiralty have jurisdiction, are trespasses done and
committed with force on the sea and navigable waters, such
as collision of vessels, assaults, &c., and that the placing and
leaving the piles in the be4 of the river, and within the body
of a county, is a nuisance at common law, and the remedy of
the appellees should have been by an action on the case.
The jurisdiction of courts of admiralty, in matters of contract, depends upon the nature and character of the contract;
but in torts, it depends entirely on locality. If the wrongs be
committed on the high seas, or within the ebb and flow of the
tide, it has never been disputed that they come within the
jurisdiction of that court. Even Lord Coke (4 Inst., 134) declares, "that of contracts, pleas, and querels, made upon the
sea or any part thereof, which is not within any county, the
admiial hath and ought to have jurisdiction."
Since the case of Waring v. Clark, (5 How., 464,) tfle exception of "iinfra corpus comitatus" is no longer allowed to prevail. In such cases, the party may have his remedy either in
the common-law courts or in the admiralty. Nor is the definition of the term "torts," when used in reference to admiralty jurisdiction, confined to wrongs or injuries committed.-

SUPREME COURT.
Phia., Wil., and Balt. R. Co. v. Phil. and Havre de Grace Steam Towboat Cc.

by direct ?'orce. It includes, also, wrongs suffered in consequence of the negligence or malfeasance of others; where the
remedy at common law is by an action on the case. It is a
rule of maritime law, from the earliest times, "that if a ship
run foul of an anchor left without a buoy, the person who
placed it there shall respond in damages." (See Emerigon,
vol. 1, page 417; Consulat de ]a Mer., chap. 243; and Cleirac,
70.)
In the resolution of the twelve judges, in 1632, it was determined in England, "that the courts of admiralty may inquire
of and redress all annoyances and obstructions that are or may
be any impediment to navigation, &c., and injuries done there
which concern navigation on the sea."'
Hence, "the impinging on an anchor or other injurious impediment negligently left in the way," has always been considered
as.coming within the category of maritime torts, having their
remedy in the courts of admiralty. (See 2 Brown Civ. and
Adm., 203.)
The objection to the jurisdiction of the court is therefore
not sustained,
II. The testimony showed that the injury to the steamer
was caused by -her coming in contact with one of the sightpiles, driven into the channel by the contractors, and left in
the situation already stated.
This contract is set-forth at length. It showed that the contractors were bound to "provide all necessary machinery, &c.,
and to furnish (and remove, when done with) all scaffolding
and piles that may be used while building."
It is contended by the appellants that they are not liable
for the negligence which caused this injury, because the piles
were not placed in the channel by their servants, but by those
of the contractors; and that the case was not altered by the
fact that the contractors were directed to do so by the engineers, who were the servants of appellants.
If the contractors had proceeded to complete their contract,
and left the piles in the condition complained of, this defence
to the action might have availed the appellants. But as the
driving the piles for the legitimate purpose of the erection was

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Phila., W.

and Bait. ?. Co. v. P74l. and Havre de Grace Steam Towboat Co.

by authority of the law and in pursuance of the contract, the
contractors bad done no wrong in placing them there. The
nuisance was the result of the negligence in .cutting off the"
piles, not at the bottom of the river, but a few feet under the
surface of the water. This the contractors were bound to do,
after the piles had served their legitimate purpose inthe construction of the bridge, and after they had completed their
contract. But before this, the railroad company determined
to discontinue the erection of the bridge. They dismissed the
contractors from the further fulfilment of their contract. 'Under
such circumstances, it became the duty of the appellants to
take care that all the obstructions to the navigation, which
had been placed in the channel by their orders, and for the
purpose of their intended erection, should be removed. The
nuisance which resulted from leaving the piles in this dangerous condition was the consequence of their own negligence or
that of their servants, and not of the contractors.
III. The appellants urge, as a further ground of defence,
that this collision took place on Sunday, shortly after the
steamboat had commenced her voyage from a wharf, "parcel
of the territory of iHarford county, in the State of Maryland;
that the boat was used and employed by her owners in towing
canal boats; and that, when entering on her voyage, those
who had her control and management were engaged in their
usual and ordinary work and labor-the same not being a
work of necessity or charity-contrary to the laws of the State
of Maryland."
A statute of Maryland forbids persons "to work or do any
bodily labor, or to willingly suffer any of their servants to do
any manner of work or labor, on the Lord's day-works of
necessity and charity excepted;" and a penalty is prescribed
for a breach of the law.
It has been urged, that there was nothing in this provision
inconsistent with any of the laws regulating commerce, and
that the Federal courts should therefore take notice of and conform to the laws of the'State."
But assuming this proposition to be true, the inference from.
itwill not follow as a "egitimate conclusion; for, if we admit

218

SUPREME COURT.

Phila., Wil.. and Balt. R. Co. v. Phil. and Ilavre de Grace Steam Towboat Co.

that the master and mariner of a ship or steamboat are liable
to the penalty of the act for commencing their voyage from a
port in 'Maryland on Sunday, it by no means follows that the
appellants can protect themselves from responding to the
owners of the vessel for the damages suffered in consequence
of the nuisance.
The law relating to the observance of Sunday defines a duty
of .a citizen to the State, and to the State only. For a breach
of this duty lie is liable to the fine or penalty imposed by the
statute, and nothing more. Courts of justice have no power
to add to this penalty the loss of a ship, by the tortious conduct of another, against whom the owner has committed no
offence. It is true, that in England, after the statute of 29,
ch. 2d, forbidding labor on the Lord's day, they have, by a
course of decision perhaps too obsequiously followed in this
country, undertaken to add to the penalty, by declaring void
contracts made on that day; but this was only in case of executory contracts, which the courts were invoked to execute.
It is true, that cases may be found in the State of Massachu.
setts, (see 10 Metcalf, 363, and 4 Cushing, 322,) which, on a
superficial view, might seem to favor this doctrine of set-off
in cases of tort. But those decisions depend on the peculiar
legislation and customs of that State, more than on any general principles of justice or law. (See the case of Woodman
v. Hubbard, 5 Foster,-67.)
We would refer, also, to a case very similar in its circumstances to the present, in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
in which this subject is very fully examined by the learned
chief justice of that court; and we concur in his conclusion:
"That we should work a confusion of relations, and lend a
very doubtful assistance to morality, if we should allow one
offender against the law, to the injury of another, to set off
against the plaintiff that he too is a public offender." (See
Mohney v. Cook, 26 Penn. Reps., 342.)
We do not feel justified, therefore, on any principles of
'justice, equity, or of public policy, in inflicting an additional
penalty of seven thousand dollars on the libellants, by way
of set-off, because their servants may have been subject

DECEMEBER TERM, 18154.

219

Psla., J.,and Bait. R. Co. v. Phil. and Havre de Grace Steam Towboat C6.

to a penalty of twenty shillings each for breach of the stat.
ute.
Moreover, the steamboat in this case was sailing on a public
river, within the ebb and flow of the tide; she had a coasting
license, and was proceeding from a port in one State to a port
in another. Has it ever been decided that a vessel leaving a
port on Sunday infringes the State laws with regard to the
observance of that day?
We have shown, in an opinion delivered at this term, that
in other Christian countries, where the observance of Sundays
and other holidays-is enforced by both Church and State, the
sailing of vessels engaged in commerce, and even theirilading
and unlading, were classed among the works of necessity,
which are excepted from the operation of such-laws. This
may be said to be confirmed by the usage of all nations, so far,
at least, as it concerns commencing a voyage on 'that day.
Vessels engaged in commerce. on the sea must take the advantage of favorable winds and weather; and it is well known
that sailors (for peculiar reasons.-of their own- give a preference to that day of the week over all others for commencing
a voyage.
In the case of TUary v. the Washington, (Crabbe, 208,)
where a sailor justified his departure from a ship in port, because he was compelled to work on Sunday, Judge Hopkinson decided, " that, by the maritime law, sailors could not refuse to work on Sunday-the nature of the service requires
that they should do so."
We have thus disposed of the questions of law raised in this
case, and concur with the District and Circuit Court in their
decision of them.
Some objections have been urged to the assessment of damages, and their amount.
On this subject there was much contradictory testimeny, as
usually happens when experts- are examined as to matters of
professional opinion. The judges of the courts where this
question was tried can tetterjudge of the relative -,alueof such
conflicting testimony, from their knowledge of places and perions, and they may examine witnesses ore lenus, if they see fit.

220 -

SUPREME COURT.
Dermott v. Jones.

There was evidence to support the decree; and we can see
no manifest error into which the court below has fallen. Appellants ought not to expect that this court will reverse a decree, merely upon a doubt created by conflicting testimony.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with uosts.

ANN R. DERMOTT,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ZEPRENIAH JONES.

Where there was a special contract to build a house by a certain day, which
was not fulfilled, owing to various circumstances, and thQcontrctor brought
a suit setting forth the special contract and averring performance. it was erroneous in the court to instruct the jury to find for the plaintiff, as the work
was not finished by the appointed day, though it was completed after the time
with the knowledge and approbation of the defendant.
By the terms of the contract, the performance of the work was a conditiun precedent to the payment of the money sued for.
The general rule of law is, that whilst a special contract remains open, that i,
unperformed, the party whose part of it has not been done cannot sue in indebitatus assumpsit, to recover a compensation for what he has done, untl the
whole shall be completed. But the exceptions from that rule are in cases in
which something has been do~e under a special contract, but not in strict
accordance with it; but if the other party derives any benefit from the labor
done, the law implies a promise on his part to pay such a remuneration as
the work ia worth, and to recover it an action of indebitatus assumpsit is
maintainable.
The case must be remanded-to the Circuit Court, to be tried upon such counts
as are in the original declaration, which charges the defendant in the sum of
$5,000 for work and labor done, for materials furnished and used by the
defendant in the erection and finishing certain stor~s and buildings in the
city of Washington; and upon the money counts for a like sum paid by the
plaintiff for the defendant; for a like sum had and received, and for a like
sum paid, laid out, and expended, by the plaintiff, for the use of the defendant,
at her request. And in such action the defendant may recoup the damages
which she has sustained from the imperfect execution of the work.

Tis case was brought up by writ of error from the Cirouit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
It was an action of debt brought by Jones against Ann R.
Dermott for the sum of five thousand dollars. The declaration
contained four counts, viz:

