DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

455

- eJenns e aL.v. Banning.

without which she will have to answver in damages. Sibille
-de Abordage, sec. 249.
We are not aware that the precise .question presented in this
case has been ruled by any of the Federal courts. Remarks
are certainly to be found in the opinion'of the court in the case
of the Clement, 17 Law Rep., 444, which are inconsistent v'ith
the proposition here laid down. That case *as appealed to
•the Circuit Court, and was there affirmed. But the re'marks
to which we -refer were not necessary to the decision of the
cause, and we.think they must be received with.some qualification.' The Clement, 2 Cur. C. C., 368, sec. 1; Pars. Mar.
Law, p. 197, note 2.
Without further. discussion of the general principle at the
present time, it will be sufficient to say, that we are satisfied
that the rule assumed in this case is one well calculated to
prevent collisions, and that it is one which ought to be constantly observed and enforced in all cases where it is applicable. That exceptional cases may arise is not ht all improb7
able; but it will be the proper time to consider them when
they are presented for decision. For these reasons, we ai6 of
the opinion that the vessel of the respondents Was wholly in
fault. Objection was made to the damages as excessive, on
the ground that the vessel might have been raised from where
she was sunk-. After a careful examination of the testimony,
we think the objection cannot be sustained.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs

CHARLES E. JENKINS, MOSES KNEELAND, AND JAcKsoN HADLEy,
PLAINTIFFs IN ERROR, V. WiLLAm S. BANNING.
Where a case is brought up to this court, and the writ of error appears to have
been sued out for delay, the judgment will be affirmod with costs and ten per
cent. damages.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District

Court of the United, States for the district of Wisconsin.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

SUPREME COURT.
.Tenkins e at. v. Banning.

It was argued by Mr. Gillet for the defendant in error, no
counsel appearing for the plaintiffi.
Mr. Gillet said that the practice of an inferior court is not
the subject of review upon a writ of error; and the amendments permitted to be made to the plaintiff's declaration were
within the discretion of the court below, and cannot be reviewed or reversed on error.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to the
District Court of the United States for the district of Wisconsin. It was an action of debt upon a judgment recovered by
the present defendant against the plaintiffs in error, in the
District Court of the United States for the second judicial
district of the Territory of Minnesota. As originally framed,
the declaration did not contain any caption specifying the
term of the court when it was filed, or the return day of the
process on which it was founded. In point of fact, it was filed
on the thirtieth day of December, 1857, and the process was
regularly returnable to the succeeding January term of the
District Court, to which this writ of error issued. Service of
the summons upon the defendants was duly made on the following day, and the record shows that they subsequently appeared and demurred to the declaration, showing for cause the
formal defects before mentioned. On the eighteenth day of
January, 1858, the plaintiff, by leave of the court, amended
his declaration, obviating the defects shown by the demurrer.
No exceptions were taken to the order of the court granting
leave to amend, and, for aught that appears to the contrary,
the amendment was made without objection.
After the amendment was allowed, the court overruled the
demurrer, and the defendants refusing or neglecting to plead

to the merits of the case, they were'defaulted. Whereupon
the plaintiff moved for judgment, and filed a duly-certified
copy of the former judgment on which the suit was founded.
Reference was then made of the cause to the clerk to compute
the interest, and on his report being made in writing, judg

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

457

Doe d aZ.v. Wison.

ment was given in favor of the plaintiff for the amount of the
former judgment, together with interest on the same.
On this state of the record, the defendants sued out a writ
of error, and removed the cause into this court, but have failed
to appear and prosecute their writ of error. They did not except to the ruling of the District Court, and have not assigned
error in this court, and it is obvious, from an inspection of the
transcript, that there is -no error-n the proceeding. Motions.
to amend mere formal defects inthe pleadings are always addressed to the discretion of the court, and are usually granted
as a matter of course, and their allowance is never the subject
of error. That point' has been so frequently decided, that we
do not think it necessary to cite authorities in its support.
Under these circumstances, the counsel for the defendant in
error moves that the judgment be affirmed with ten per cent.
damages. By the twenty-third rule of this court, if is provided
that in 'all cases where a writ of error shall delay the proceedings on the judgment of the inferior court, and shall appear
to have been sued out for delay, damages shall be awarded at
the rate of ten per centum per annum on the amount of the
judgment, and the said damages shall be calculated from the
date of the judgment in the court below, until the money is
paid.
That rule is applicable to this case, and the judgment is accordingly affirmed, with costs and ten per cent. damages.

JOHN DOE, EX DEM. CURTIS MAN AND DOLPHUS E]ANNAH,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM WILSON.
In a treaty made with the Pottawatomie" Indians in 1832, there were reservations
to individual Indians, wich should be selected under the direction of the
Presideit of the United States, "after the land shall have been surveyed, and
the boundaries shall correspond with the public surveys."
Before this was done, one of these reservees made a conveyance by a deed in fee
simple, with a clause of general warranty. In 1837, patents were issued for
the reservations.
This deed vested the title of the reservee in the grantee. The former was a
tenant in common with the United States, and could sell his :eserved interest-

