DECEMBER TERM, i859.
Orient HfutuaZ In.urance Company v. Wright et al.

careful adherence to truth in their dealings with mankind;
and cannot, by their representations or silence, involve others
in onerous engagements, and then defeat the calculations and
claims their own conduct had superinduced. The opinion of
the court is, that the injunction granted upon the bill of the
appellant wad improvidently granted, and that he -is not entitled to the relief he has sought; and that the decree of the
Circuit Court dissolving the injunction and dismissing the
bill is correct, and must be affirmed.
THE ORIENT MUTUAL INSURANOE COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
V. JOHN S. WRIGHT, USE OF AAXWELL, WRIGHT% & COMPANY.
An open or running policy of insurance upon L coffee laden or to be laden on
board the good vessel or vessels from Rio Janeiro to any port in the United
States, to add an additional premium if by vessels lower than A 2, or by for.
eign vessels," contained also the following clause, viz: "Having been paid the
consideration for this insurince by the assured or his assigns, at and after
the rate of one and one-half per cent., the premiums on risks to be fixed at
the time of endorsement, and such clauses to apply as the company may
insert, as the risks are successively reported."
"
This is different from an ordinary running policy, in which the rate of premium
to be paid is ascertained and inserted in the body of the policy at its execu.
tion, and in which species of-policy the contract becomes complete, and the
policy attaches upon the goods from the time they are laden on board the
vessel, as soon as the ship is declared or reported, provided the shipment
comes within the description in the policy.
The rules explained which govern this class of policies.
But in the policy in question there is something more to be done, in, order to
make the contract complete, than merely to declare the ship. The assured
must pay or secure the additional premium, which the underwriter has reserved the right to fix at the time of the declaration of the risk in, case the
,vessel rates lower than A 2.
Unless the assured paid or secured this additional premium fixed by the underwriter, the contract of insurance, in respect to the particular shipment, did
not become complete or binding.
Hence, the instruction of the court below was erroneous, which held that the
contract was complete and binding as soon as the vessel was reported; and
that, if the parties could not agree as to the additional premium, the question
was one for the courts to settle.
The parties stipulated that the additional premium should be fixed when the
risk was made known.
The cases upon this point cited.

VOL. xxm.

26

SUPREME COURT.
Orient Mutual Insurance Company v. Wright et al.

THis case was brought up by writ of error fiom the.Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Marylana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by- Mr.: fEdmilton and Mr. Guting for the
plaintiff in error, and by .Mr. Brent and Mr. May for the
defendant.
The arguments chiefly turned upon the point when under
this policy the risk commenced. The counsel for the plaintiff
in error contended, that it did not attach until the assured
paid such premium as should be in good faith named by the
insurer as an adequate compensation for the risk to be assumed.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended, that the contract was irrevocable the moment the premium and extension
was reported and approved.
1 Parsons Contracts, 406, 407, note 1K.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Insurance Company, 9 How., 390.
The contract is not the less complete, because an increased
premium was left open for subsequent agreement.*
,This was decided in United States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheat.,
135, and not overruled, as supposed, in 17 Ohio, 192.
But here is an express obligation to pay an increased premium, and that is itself as good as if the increased premium
had been paid at the time-promise for promise is a good consideration.
1 Parsons Contracts, 373-876.
19 Howard, 323.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
The suit was brought by the plaintiff below upon a policy
of insurance covering a quantity of coffee laden or to be laden
on board the "good vessel or vessels" from Rio de Janeiro to
any port in the United States, "to add an additionalpremium, if
by vessels lower than A 2, or by foreign vessels."
The policy contained the following clause in respect to pre-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

403

Orient Hutuad Inurance Company v. Wright et aL

miums: "Having been paid the consideration for this insu
rance by the assured, or his assigns, at and after the rate of
one and one-half per cent., the premiums on risks to be fixed at
the time of endorsement, and such clauses to apply as the company
may insert, as the risks are successively" reported." The policy
bears date 27th July, 1855. The company subscribed at the
execution $22,500 as the amount insured.
On the 30th July, 1855, the policy was altered by agreement
of parties by striking out the words, "vessels not rating lower
than A 2," as it originally stood, and inserting the words now
in the instrument, namely, "an additional premium, if by
vessels lower than A 2, or by foreign vessels."
On the 4th January, 1856, the company subscribed an ad"ditional sum of $15,000, and on the 19th April following the
sum of $25,000.
Premium notes were given at the time the different sums
were subscribed, at the rate of premium mentioned in the
body of the policy.
The agent of the company at Baltimore, who negotiated
this insurance, the defendants being a New York company,
states that when applications are made to enter risks on running polioies, they are endorsed at once by him, and the report
of such endorsement transmitted to the company in New
York, v hich names the premium, and this is communicated
to the assured; that the premiums specified in the body of
the policies are nominal, and the true premiums to be charged'
are fixed by increasing or reducing the nominal premiums.
when the risks are reported; and that the nominal premiums
taken on the delivery of a running policy are returned, if no
risks are reported.
In the latter part of August,. 1856, the plaintiff applied to
the agent at Baltimore for an endorsement on the policy of
the coffee in question, laden or to be laden on board a vessel
called the Mary W., from Rio de Janeiro to New Orleans,
which application was communicated to the company, in order
that they might fix the premium. The company at first declined to acknowledge the vessel as coming within the description in the policy, on account of her alleged inferior character.

SUPREME COURT.
Orient fuhtual Insurance Company v.

i-Right et al.

and unfitness for the voyage; but the plaintiff insisting upon
the seaworthiness of the vessel, and his right to ,the insurance
within the terms of the policy, the company fixed the premium
at ten per cent., subject to the conditions of the policy, or two
and one-half per cent., as against a total loss. This rate of
premium the plaintiff refused to pay.
The coffee was shipped on the Mary W. at Rio de Janeiro
for New Orleans, on the 12th July, 1856, at which period she
started on her voyage, and was lost ou the 29th of the month
upon rocks, the master being some beventy miles out of his
reckoning at the time.
Evidence was given on the trial, on the part of the company,
tending to prove that the Mary W. was rated below A 2, and
even that she was unfit for a sea voyage, being originally intended, when built, in 1846, as a coasting vessel, and prayed
the court to instruct the jury, that if they find from the evidence the vessel, at the time of the application for the endorsement of her cargo upon the policy, was rated in the office of
the company and other offices of underwriters in New York
lower than A 2, and being so rated, the company offered to
make the endorsement at the premium fixed by them, and
that on the premium being communicated to the plaintiff he
refused to pay it or assent thereto, then he is not entitled to
recover, which prayer was refused; and the court thereupon
instructed the jury, substantially, that the plaintiff was entitled
to recover for the loss, so far as the rate of premium was concerned, upon deducting such additional premium to the one
and one-half per cent., as in the opinion of underwriters may
be deemed adequate to theincreased risk of thq coffee shipped
in a vessel rating below A 2.
The jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiff.
The material question presented in the case is, whether or
not the company were under a contract, within any of the
terms and conditions of the policy, to insure this particular
cargc of coffee on board of the vessel Mary W. at the time the
loss occurred; for, unless the contract is found there, none
existed between the parties, as it is admitted none was entered
into at the time the vessel was repofted and the risk declared.

'DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.

405"*

Orient MAutual Insurance Company v. Wright et aZ.

The plaintiff has assumed the affirmative of this question, and
insists that the c6mpany was bound by.the terms of the policy
to cover the coffee from the time it was laden -on board the
vessel at Rio as soon as the risk was declared, and this whether
the vessel rated below A. 2 oe not. This is necessarily .the
result of the position claimed, as it denies to the company the
right to fix an additional premium, even if -itshould happen
that the vessel rated below A 2; that then, or in that event,
it is contended, the additional premium'becomes a question of
mutual adjustment between the parties, and if they disagree,
to be determined by the courts. "On the part of the compapy,
it is insisted that, according to the special provisions in the
policy, in case the vessel reported rites below A 2, the contract is inchoate and incomplete until the payment or security
by the assured of the additional premium to be fixed at the
time by the company.
The contract of insurance in this case arises out of an open
or running policy; which enables'the merchant to insure his
goods shipped at a distant port when it is impbssible for him
to be advised of the particular ship upon which the goods are,
laden, and therefore cannot name it in the policy.
A relaxation in this respect has been permitted by the laws
and practice of commercial countries; and the party effecting
the insurance is allowed to insure the cargo "on board ship
or ships," on condition of declaring the ship upon the policy
and giving notice to the underwriter as soon as known, and
if possible before the loss on board of which the goods have
been laden. The underwriter, who consents to' insure upon
policies of this description, of course, has nc opportunity to
inquire into the character or condition. of- the vessel, and
agrees that the -policy shall attach, if she be seaworthy, how.ever low may be her relative capacity to perform the voyage;
and for the additional risks he may thus incur, he finds his
compensation in an increase of the premium. A higher premium is. always demanded where the vessels to which. the
insurance relates are not known.
The ship, indeed, must be seaworthy, or the policy will not
attach. but the degrees of seaworthiness or of the capacity of

SUPREME COURT.
Orient Mutual Insurancc Company v. Wright et al.

a ship to perform a given voyage are exceedingly various; and
it is well known that the rates of premium are varied by the
underwriters according to the different estimate they form of
the character and qualities of the vessels to which they relate.
In the case of an insurance of goods shipped from and to
port or ports designated, or on a voyage particularly specified,
the ship to be afterwards declared, and the rate of premium to
be paid is ascertained, and inserted in the body of the policy
at its executioii, the contract becomes complete, and the policy
attaches upon the goods from the time they are laden on board
the vessel, as soon as the ship is declared or reported, provided
the shipment comes within the description in the policy. But
until the declaration is made by the assured, it is inchoate and
incomplete; and, if not made at all, the risk is regarded as not
having commenced, and the assured is entitled to a return of
his premium.
The principles of law and rules of construction governing policies of this description appear to be well settled, as may be seen
by a reference to the authorities collected in the text-writers.
(1 Arnould, ch. 7, sec. 2, pp. 174-179, Perkins's ed.; 1 Phillips,
ch. 5, sec. 2, pp. 174-177; 2 Parsons, ch. 1, sec. 2 pp. 34, 35,
and ch. 6, pp. 198, 199; 3 Kent's 0., p. 256; Hurlst. and Normand R ,2 Exch., p. 549; Entwisle v. Ellis, 1857; 4 Taunton,
329; Langhorn v. Cologan, 6 Gray, 214; E. Carver Co. v.
Manf.Ins. Co.)
But the policy before us is materially different from the
class of open or running policies adopted in England and upon
the continent at an early day, and which appear to be generally
if 'not universally in use at the present time. Instead of determining the amount of prenium, and inserting it in the
policy at the time of its execution upon the shipments to be
afterwards declared, as in the case of the policies we have b-eenf
considering, the parties here agree, that in respect to a certain
class of vessels, namely, those" rating lower thati A 2, the preThiums.on the risks shall be fixed-at the time they are declred
or reported; when thus fixed, and the premium paid or se
cured, the policy attaches upon the goods from the time they
are laden on board the vessel. The mere declaration of the

DECEM1BER TERM, 1859.

407

Orient futual Insurance Company v. W-ig(ht et al.

ship-on board of which the goods are laden is not sufficient to
complete the contract, as something more is to be done by the
assured to bring the subject within the special stipulations in
the policy: he must pay or secure the additional premium
which the underwriter has reserved the right to fix, at the
time of the declaration of the risk.
The premium specified in the body of the policy are nominal; and the tru6 premiums to be charged are fixed by increasing or reducing the nominal premiums when the risks
are reported. , This,it was proved, was the established custom
of this company, and of which the assured is chargeable with
notice. Indeed, this cuitom appears to have been acted upon
in connection. with this'policy, and *ith thp dealings of the
parties under'it.
On the 18th August is endorsed on it: Brig Windward, from
Rio de Janeiro to Baltimore-value of shipment $4,750, at 11
per cent. premium; and on the 20th 1November: Brig T.
Walters, from same place to Philadelphia-value of shipment
$2,375, at 11 per cent. premium. The premiums for insurance
of these two shipments are I per cent. less than the rate in the
body of the policy.
We have said, that where the vessels to which the insurance
relates are not known to the underwriter, a higher premium
is always demanded, as he has no opportunity to inquire into
the character or capacity of the vessel for the *voyage; which
information is readily accessible where the ship is known, by
reference to the book of the register of vessels kept by the underwriters, in which the name, master, rate, and present condition, are entered.
NZow, the change made in this policy, and in others of the
class, in the time of fixing the premium, from that of the execution of the policy to the time when the risk is reported,
places the underwriters, in respect to fixing the premiums, on
the footing of insurance of goods to be shipped on board a vessel named, the underwriters possessing all the information
possessed in that case, in respect to the character of the vessel.
As the effect, therefore, of this change in the terms of the
policy is to- reduce the rate of premium, it is as beneficial to

SUPREME COURT
Orient Hutual Insurance Company v. Wright et al.

the assured as to the underwriter-which, doubtless, led to
his assent to this mode of insurance. It is true, that in respect
to vessels to be afterwards declared, and the premiums on the
risks to be fixed at the time declared or reported, the parties
stand on the footing of original contractors, the underwriter
having the right to fix the premium, and the applicant the
right to assent or not, as he sees fit; and, undoubtedly, mutual confidence must exist, in order to the successful working
of the system. On the one side, the underwriter might be unreasonable in the amount of the premium claimed; and on"
the other, the applicant, who is presumed to have the earliest
advices of the ship on which his goods are laden, might conceal her condition when reported, and impose upon the underwriter. Injustice might be practiced in this way by both
parties, if this mode of dealing with each other may be assumed.
-But this would hardly be just as to either party, and especially when the interest of both is concerned to deal justly
and honorably with each other. The business of the underwriter depends essentially upon the good faith with which he
deals with-his customers; and this motive, as well as the great
competition that exists in the business, may be well relied on
to prevent any unreasonable advantage. But, at worst, the
applicant is not bound to pay the premium, if unreas6nable:
and may at once be insured in any other office, and claim a
return of p -emium, if any, advanced. The evidence in the
present case tarnishes no ground for apprehension, as the premium charged was not unreasonable, but the contrary.
But, be the argument.ever so.strong in respect to the opportunities to deal unjustly with each -other, it is quite clear,
upon the fair if not necessary construction of the terms of the
policy, both parties have agreed to submit to them, for the
sake of the better means furnished to ascertain the true character of the risks, and thus reduce the rate of premium below
that which was charged under the old system, where it was
fixed in the absence o-Eknowledge on the subject; and the
period of time these policies with this ebange of the terms has
1een in use, for augh tbt appears, without complaint or dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

409

Orient AfutuaZ Insurance Comam
J v. FWight e al.

satisfaction, affords evidence that all apprehensions of unfair
dealing are imaginary.
We have said that, according to the true construction ofthe
terms of this policy, where the vessel declared or reported by
thecl sured was rated below A 2, the company had reserved
the right to fix at the time the additional premium; and unless
assented to by the assured, and the premium paid or secured,
the contract of insurance, in respect to the particular shipment,
did not become complete or binding. The court below held
the contrary, the instruction to the jury maintaining that the
contract was complete and binding as soon as the vessel was
reported; and that, if the parties could not agree as to the additional premium, the question was one for the courts to settle; thus placing this policy upon the footing of those where
the full premium was fixed, and paid or secured, at the time
of the execution, and in which no special provisions concerning the premium are inserted.
These special clauses are very explicit, and are inserted in
this policy for the benefit of the company. We think,
independently of the usage and practice of the company under
these policies, the import of the language used cannot well be
mistaken.
The right is expressly reserved to charge an additional
premium upon all vessels reported rating below A 2; and,
aga in,the premiums on risks are to be fixed at the time
of endorsement-that is, when the vessels are reported to be
noted on the policy. If the construction rested alofie upon
the right to add additional premiums upon a given rate of
vessels, there might be some ground for the argument that the
time fo axing them was open; and if the parties could not
agree, he "lav must determine the question. But when the
parties themselves stipulated, not only that in the particular
case additional premium shall be charged, but that it shall be
fixed at the time the risk is made known, there would seem to
be no room for doubt or dispute in the matter. In the present
case, there is also the additional special provision, nanjely,
"and such clauses to apply as the compauy may.insert as the
risks are successively reported," thus providing for any un-

SUPREME COURT.
Orient Mutual Insuranee Company v. Wrighd et al.

foreseen or extraordinay risks that might be claimed under
the policy.
Even if an arbitrator had been agreed upon to fix the additional premium, and he had refused, the contract woul4 have
been at an end, as the courts could not appoint one. (3-Mer.
R., p. 507, Wilks v. Davis; 14 Ves., 400, Milner v. Geary;
Code Napoleon, 1591, 1592; 1 Troplong de vwjte, nos. 146,
160;) and certainly they could not fix the premium in this
case, on the disagreement of the partigs, without assuming the
right to make a contract for them. The premiums were to be
settled when the risks were reported, not at any other period.
In the case of policies on goods "in ship or ships," to be
afterwards declared, and where the full premium is paid or
secured at the execution, the policy, even in that case, is a
mere outline of the contract, to be completed on making the
declaration; but if not made within the terms of the policy,
the contract is at an end as respects the particular shipment.
In Entwisle v. Ellis, (2 Hurlst. and Norm., Exch. R. P.,
549, 556, 1857,) ChanneJl, B., observed, speaking of a policy
6f this description, at the time of the making of the policy,
certain particulars were agreed upon-others were left to be
settled. The policy was to be on rice, to be warranted free
from particular average, to be sent "in ship or ships." Something more was wanting to make a binding contract. The
parties can only fill up such particulars as are left in blank so
as to be consistent with the policy.
Applying this principle to the policy in the present case regarding the special clauses therein, something more is required
to make a binding contract than the declaration of'a ship rating
lower than A 2 to bring the subject within the policy; the
additional premium fixed by the company was to be paid or
secured.
We have found very few cases in the books upon the peculiar-class of policies before us, and no mention of thmemii in the
text-writers on the subject of insuhance. The case bearing
more directly than any other upon the point in question is
Dounville v. the.Sun Insurance Company. (12 Louis. Ann.
R. P., 259.)

DECEMBER TERM,. 1859.

411

Orient Mutual Insurance Company v. Wright et al.

The contract of insurance there was in an open or running
policy of the class in which the full premium was paid or secured at the execution. But a modificat-on was afterwards
made, by which "it was agreed that this policy shall cover
merchandise to the address of the assured from European ports
to New Orleans, via Boston or New York, subject to additional
prenmum as per tariff."
The court held that by the terms of the policy, the party
desiring to be insured upon any particular shipment of merchandise was bound to present -to the company an invoice of
the goods, (tlis had been provided for in the policy,) and pay
or secure the premium; that the party was not bound to
report any shipment except at his election, nor could the
company demand premium on the samd, unless presented for
insurance; and that, on a policy of the class before the court,
there must necessarily exist as many contracts of insurance as
there are endorsements on the policy of separate shipments.
We have examined this case more at large, from the novelty
of the questions involved, as they do not seem to have been
the subject of consideration by the courts or text-writers, than
from any difficulty we have felt in the view'to be taken of
them; aud from the examination we have given. to-the peculiar features of the policy, we entertain no doubt but that the
changes made, and which have been particularly referred to,
will be found in practice beneficial both to the insured and
insurer.
The only defect, perhaps, existing, is the want of a provision for the case, which may happen, where the declaration
or report of the ship is not made until the loss is knownthat -is, where the ship and the loss are reported together.
According to the old form of the policy, the, full premium
being ascertained and fixed at the date of it, it is well settled
that, though the declaration is not made till the loss is known,
if made with due diligence after advices of the ship, the underwriter is -liable. There may be some difficulty in applying
that rule to the class of policies before us. It was rejected in
the case of-Dounville v. the Sun Insurance Company, abovo
refefred to.

SUPREME COUlRT.
Sun

uldual Insurance Company v. Wright e al.

Upon the whole, after the best consideration we have been
able to give to the case, we are satisfied the ruling of the court
below was erroneous, and the judgment must be reversed, and
a venire de novo.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented. For his dissenting
opinion, see the succeeding case of the Sun Mutual Insurance
Company against Wright-a case similar to the present one.

THE SUN MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
V. JOHN S. WRIGHT, USE OF MAXWELL, WRIGHT, & Co.

The principles with respect to a policy of insurance in the preceding case of the
Orient Mutual Insurance Company against Wright, reaffirmed in the present
case.
In the correspondence which took place between the insurer and the insured.
there was no waiver by the former of the right of fixing the premium, nor
was it claimed or suggested-in the communications between the parties at the
time.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
It was entirely similar to the preceding case, except that it
was contended that the insurance company had waived the
right of fixing the premium by the conduct of the agent and
correspondence between the parties.
It was argued by Mr. Cutting for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. May and Mr. Brent for the defendant.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
'States for the district of Maryland.
The suit below was upon a policy of insurance brought by
the plaintiff to recover a loss upon coffee on board the vessel
Mary W. on a voyage from Rio do Janeiro to a port in the
United States. The questions involve([ are substantially the

