SUPREME COURT.
Castro v. Hendricks.

that neither the one nor the other is found in the grant to the
plaintiff, nor in the circumstances connected with it.
As the town of Oakland had no power, according to the
above construction of the charter, to establish an exclusive
right of ferries within its limits, it follows that it did not possess the power to confer upon others an exclusive privilege to
establish them.
The power conferred is to make (meaning to establish) and
regulate ferries, or to authorize the construction (meaning the
establishment) of the same.
We think the court below was right, and that the decree
must be affirmed.

SALVADOR CASTRO, APPELLANT, V. THOMAS

A.

HEtDRICKS, COM-

MISSIONER OF THE GENERAL LAND OFFICE.
Where there were *two separate claimants of land in California, both claiming
under one original grant, and the surveyor, in running out their lines, disregarded the limits of the original grant, and included within one of the surveys
a large portion of Government land, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office was right in refusing to issue a patent founded on such erroneous
survey.

THIS was al appeal from the Circuit Court bf the United
States for the District of Columbia.
It was a petitioh to the Circuit Court for a mandamus to
Hendricks, commanding him to prepare a patent for some
land in California; secondly, to cause said patent, when ready
for the requisite signatures of the appropriate officers, to be
presented to the recorder of the land office and the President
of the United States, or other proper officers of the Government, for their respective signatures; thirdly, to deliver the
patent so prepared and duly subscribed to the petitioner.
A rule was laid upon the Commissioner to show cause why
a mandamus should not issue as prayed. On the 10th of June,
1858, he filed his answer and exhibits. Whereupon the court
adjudged that the cause shown was sufficient, and dismissed
.the petition. The petitioner appealed to this court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

4439-

Casro v. H ndrics.

In 1889, there was a grant of land to Antonio Buelna, of
the.extent of four square leagues, a little more or less. In 1849,
the widow of Buelna and her then hiusband sold to Castro one
league of land in the location known by the name of San Gregorio, situated on the coast to the north of Santa Cruz, and
which land, consisting of four leagues, was the property of
Antonio Buelna.
In 1852, another deed was made for more definite boundaries, which contained certain courses and distances. Three
leagues of this land were confirmed to the widow of Buelna,
(then Madame Rodrigues,) and surveyed for her, giving her
that quantity. About this there was no controversy.
Castro petitioned for his confirmation, and in January, 1856,
the District Court decreed in his favor, referring.to the description substantially the same as that contained- in the second deed, above mentioned, adding these words: "The tract
hereby confirmed, containing by estimation one square league,
and being the same land described in the conveyance to claimant, filed before said .board, and constituting a part of the record in this cause."
After the confirmation, a survey was made on behalf of the
petitioner, under the authority of the surveyor general of California,.who signed it on the 19th of November, 1857. Being
approved by him, it was returned to the General Land Office.
The Commissioner examined the survey in connection with
the grant to Buelna, the two deeds, and the decree of confirmation, and came to the conclusion that the lines of the survey
ran out of the grant to. Buelna into the Government land, and
gave to Castro two leagues and a half more land than he ought
to have, the surplus being taken from the lands of the United
States.
- On the 8d of February, 1858, the Commissioner signed,
with a view to transmission, instructions to the surveyor gen -r
eral to the effect that he should cause a further and careful
examination to be made in the whole matter, and report the
result, with his decision as to the true boundaries of the league
confirmed to Castro, and the three leagues to Madame Rod.
•igues.

SUPREME COURT.
Castro v. Hed ricks.

The petitioner appealed to the Secretary of the Interior,
who affirmed the decision of the Commissioner of the Land
Office, who refused to issue a patent founded upon what he
considered to be an erroneous survey.
In May, 1858, the petitioner applied to the Circuit Court
for a mandamus, as before stated.
The case was argued in this court by Mr. HepbWr4, upon a
brief filed by himself and Mr. Brent, for the appellant, and by
Mr. Black (Attorney General) for the appellee.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant petitioned .the Circuit Court for a writ of
mandamus, to be directed to the Hon. Thomas A. Hendricks,
Commissioner of the Land Office, commanding him to prepare
and provide a patent to the appellant for a parcel of land in
California, which had been confirmed to him by the decree of
the District Court for the northern district of California, and
is described in a survey approved by the surveyor general of
that State.
It appears from the petition and answer, and the papers filed
in the Circuit Court, and forming a part of the record, that
in the yeai 1889 the Governor of California granted to Antonio Buelna a tract of land known as San Gregorio, of the
extenat of four square leagues, a little more or less, as is shown
in the sketch attached to the expediente. In 1849, the representatives of Buelna (his widow and her husband) sold to the
appellant one.league of land in the location of San Gregorio;
and in 1852 they executed a deed, conveying the same .land,
by the description of one league of land, in the place known
by the name of San Gregorio, on the coast north of Santa
-Cruz, being part of a tract of land offour leagues, granted by
the Government to Antonio Buelna, and the same is declared
to be situate and bounded as follows, and containing one
league, more or less: commencing at a stake marked A, in
the Canada de los Tunis, where the Arroyo de los Tunis comes
out of the mountains; thence running southerly with the ridge
of the mountains to the stake marked B, in the Arroyo

DECEMfBER TERM, 1859.

441

Casto v. Hendricks.

Hondo; thence following said Arroyo Hondo until it meets
the Arroyo de San Gregorio; thence, following the Arroyo de
San Gregorio, to a stake marked C on a white rock in the
mountain, situate 'on the wesf side of said arroyo; thence
northwardly, about two ri iles, to a high conical .peak of the
mountain, on which is placed stake marked. D; thence easterly to the place of beginning.
Separate claims were presented by the widow of Buelna and
Salvador Castro for their respective portions of the rancho San
'Gregorio, and separate decrees of confirmation were made in
the District Court. The decree in favor of Madame Buelna
is for three square leagues of the land within the boundaries
described in the plan attached to the expediente, and referred
to in the original grant, copies of which are on file in the
cause. Salvador Castro was confirmed to the tract of land
described in the deed by the metes and bounds before mentioned, with the addition, "being portion of the four leagues.
granted April 16, 1839, by J. B. Alvarado to Antonio Buelna,
and known as San Gregorio, the tract hereby confirmed con-.
taining, by estimate, one square league, and being the same
land described in the conveyance to the claimant." The two
decrees were communicated to the surveyor general of California in 1857, and his returns are filed as testimony in the
cause. He has laid off to Madame Buelna the three square
leagues confirmed to her, and has surveyed for the appellant'
a tract within the specific calls of the deed and decree of
fifteen thousand seven hundred and 54-100 acres. It is apparent, from this statement, that the surveyor general has entirely disregarded the limits of the rancho San Gregorio, and
the restrictions as to quantity in the grant of Alvarado, Governor of California, of April, 1839. But these, for the object
before the court, were the controlling calls in the deed, as-well
as in the decree. The primary object of the act, "To ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of California," approved 3d March, 1851, was to distinguish ihe vacant
and public lands from those that were private property.; and
for this purpose, an inquiry into pre-existing titles became
necessary. To accompilish this, every person claiming lands

SUPREME COURT.
Castro v. Hendriks.

in California, by virtue of any right or title derived from the
Spanish or.Mexican Government, was required to present the
same to a board of commissioners.. The mesne conveyances
were also required, but not for any aim of submitting their
operation and validity to the board, but simply to enable the
board to determine if there was a bona fide claimant before it
under a Mexican grant; and so this court have repeatedly declared that the Government had no interest in the contests
between persons claiming ex post facto the grant. United
States v. Sutter, 21 How. S. C. R., 170.
The authentic evidence of what is private property is to be
found in the grants of the Government of California, and not
in the mesne conveyances. Nor is this Government charged
to decide between claimants in the condition of those interested in the rancho San Gregorio. It was entirely competent
for the District Court to connect the claims arising under the
same grant, and it will be its duty, in superintending the execution of the decrees of that court in such cases, to look to the
evidence furnished by the grant itself as overruling in determining questions of boundary and location.
In the case of the United States v. Fossatt, 21 How., 445,
this court had occasion to refer to the limits of the authority
of the courts of the United States under the act of the 3d
March, 1851, before cited. We-stated in that ease, that if
questions-of a judicial nature arose in the settlement of the
location and boundary of the grants confirmed to individuals,
the District Court was empowered to settle those questions
upon a proper case being submitted to it .before the issue of
the patent; and in -such ' case,.the judgment may properly
extend to the confirm ation of the survey, and an order for a
patent to issue. But it was not the expectation of this court
that the surveyor general should make returns to the District

Court in every case, nor did they imply that the validity of a
survey depended on the recognition of that court, or its incorporation into a decree of the court. The surveyor general of
California was charged with the duty to cause all private
claims which shall be finally confirmed to be accurately surveyed, and to furnish plats for the same;, and in the location

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bdt v, Corporation of ic7burg.

of the said claims, he was invested with such power and
authority as are conferred on the register of the, land office
and receiver of the public moneys of Louisiana, in the sixth
section of the "Act to create the office of surveyor of the public lands for the State of Louisiana," approved 3d March,
1831. 4 Statutes at Large, 492. Under this act, the surveyor
general exercises a quasi judicial power; and the claimant,
with an authentic certificate of the decree of confirmation, and
a plat or survey of the land, duly certified and approved by
the surveyor general, is entitled to a patent. But, then, the
Commissioner of the Land Office, by virtue of enabling acts
of Congress, exercises a supervision and control over the acts
of the subordinate officers charged with making surveys; knd
it is his duty to see that the location and survey made by that
officer under the decree of the court, and which has not had
the final sanction of the judicial tribunals, is in accordance
with the decree. The refusal of the Commissioner of the
Land Office to issue a patent upon this survey was an appropriate exercise of the functions of his office, and the decree of
the Circuit Court refusing a mandamus is affirmed with costs.

THOMAS BELL, PILAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VICKSBURG
The statutes of Mississippi provide that no plea of non est factun shall be admitted or received, unless the truth thereof shall be proved by oath or affirma.
tion.
A plea of that kind was filed without the affidavit, and demurred to by the plain.

tiff.
Although, upon the general principles of pleading, a demurrer only calls in
question the sufficiency of what appears on the face of the pleading, and does
not reach the preliminary steps necessary to be taken to put it upon file, yet,
as the State courts where such a statute exists have held that the plea of non
est factum is demurrable if there be no affidavit and the course of practice
in the Circuit Court conforms to the State practice, this court also holds.that
such a plea is demurrable.

This case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

