DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

445'

Frederickson d aL v. SWtat ofLouisiana.

Johnston v. Beard, 7 S. and 19., 214.
Bancroft v. Paine, 15 Ala., 834; 4 Ala., 198.
We do not question the power of the Circuit Court to maintain the rules of pleading in the manner of applying the statutes of a State, or it may adopt the usual practice in the State,
if not contrary to an act of Congress.
We learn that the course of practice in the Circuit Court
conforms to the Statepractice. We suppose that it would be
a surprise upon the plaintiff and might work injustice, if we
were to sustain the plea under such circumstances.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded.

FREDERICK

FREDERICKSON,

AGFNT

voR

CAROLINE,

WIDOW

PLAEFFLIN, AND OTHiERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERmOR, V. THE STATE
or LouISIANA.

The following is an article of a treaty concluded between the King of Wurtemberg and the United States in 1844, (8 Stat. at L., 588.)
"The citizens or subjects of each of the contracting parties shail have power to
dispose of their personal property within the States of the other, by testament,
donation, or otherwise; and their heirs, legatees, and donees, being citizens or
subjects of the other contractinj party, shall succeed to their said personal
property, and may take possession thereof, either by themselves, or by others
acting for them, and alispose of the same at their pleasure, paying such duties
only as the inhabitants of the country where said property lies shall be liable
to pay in like cases."
This article does not include the case of a citizen of the United States dying at
home, and disposing of property within the State of which he was a citizen,-and
in which he died.
Consequently, where the State of Louisiana claimed, under a statute, a tax of ten
per cent. on the amount of certain legacies left by one of her citizens to certain
subjects of the King of Wurtemberg, the statute was not in conflict with the
treaty, and the claim must be allowed.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
It involved the construction of an article of a treaty between
the United States and the Kingdom of Wurtemberg,concfuded

446

SUPREME COURT.
.Fedeickson et al. v. State of Louisiana.

on the 10th of April, 1844, (8 Stat. at L., page 588 ) The article is quoted in the syllabus, and need not be repeated. It
was admitted upon the record that Fink was a naturalized
citizen of the United States at the time of his death, and residing in the city of New Orleans; also, that the legatees reside
in the Kingdom of Wurtemberg, and are subjects of the King
of Wurtemberg.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana decided in favor of the
validity of the tax, and the legatees brought the case up to
this court.
It was argued by Mr Taylor for the- appellants, and by Mr.
Benjamin for the appellee.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error made opposition to the account filed
in the settlement of the succession of John David Fink, deceased, in the second District Court of New Orleans, because
the executor did not place on the tableau ten per cent. upon
the amounts respectively allowed to certain legatees, who are
subjects of the King of Wurtemberg. By a statute of Louisiana, it is provided that "each and every person, not being
domiciliated in this State, and not being a citizen of any other
State or Territory in the Union, who shall be entitled, whether
as heirs, legatee, or donee, to the whole or any part of the succession o a person deceased, whether such person shall have
died in this State, or elsewhere, shall pay a tax of ten per cent
on all sums, or on the value of all property which he may
have actually received from said succession, or so much there.
of as is situated in this State, after deducting all debts due by
the succession." -The claim of the State of Louisiana was resisted in the District. Court, on the ground that it is contrary
to the provisions of the third article of the convention between
the United States of America and his Majesty the King of Wurtemberg, of the 10th April, 1844. That article is, that "The
citizens or subjects of each of the contracting parties shall
have power to dispose of their persotal property within the
8tates of the other, by testament, donation, or otherwise; and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

447

Fredirckson et aZ. v. State of Louisiana.

their heirs,' legatees, and donees, being citizens or subjects of
the other coiitracting party, shall succeed to their said persona'
property, .and may take possession thereof, either by themselves, or by others acting for them, and dispose of the same
at their pleasure, paying such duties only as the inhabitants
of the country where the said property lies shall be liable to
pay in like cases." This court, in Mager v. Grima, 8 How. S.
C. R.,490, decided that the act of the Legislature of Louisiana
was nothing more than the exercise of the power which every
State or sovereignty possesses of regulating the manner and
terms upon which property, real and personal, within its dominion, may b&transmitted by last will and testament or by
inheritance, and of prescribing who shall and who shall not be
capable of taking it. The case before the District Court in
Louisiana concerned the distribution of the succession of a
citizen of that State, and of property situated there. The act
of.the Legislature under review does not make any discrimination between citizens of the State and aliens in the same circumstances. A citizen of Louisiana domiciliated abroad is
subject to this tax. The State v. PRydras, 9 La. Ann. R., 165;
therefore, if this article of the tyeaty comprised the suceession
of a citizen of Louisiana, the complaint of the foreign legatees
would. not be justified. They are subject to "only such duties
as are exacted from citizens of Louisiana under the same circumstances." But we concur with the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the opinion that the treaty does not regulate the testamentary dispositions of citizens or subjects of the contracting Powers, in reference to property within the country of
their origin or citizenship. The cause of the treaty was, that
the citizens and subjects of each of the contracting Powers
were or might be subject to onerous taxes upon property possessed by them within the States of the other, by reason .of
their alienage, and its purpose was to enable such persons to
dispose of their property, paying such duties only as the inhabitants of the .country where the property lies pay under
like conditions. The case of a citizen or subject of the respective countries residing at hmlne, and disposing of property
there in favor of a citizen or subject of the other, was not in

SUPREME COURT
Whiridge et al. v. Dill et al.

the contemplation of the eontracting Powers, and is not em.
braced in this article of the treaty. This view of the treaty
disposes of this cause upon the grounds on which it was determined in the Supreme Court of Louisiana. It has been
suggested in the argument of this case, that the Government
of the United States is incompetent to regulate testamentary
dispositions or laws of inheritance of foreigners, in reference
to.property within the States.
The question is one of great magnitude, but it is not important in the decision of this cause, and we consequently abstain from entering upon its consideration.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is affirmed.

THOMAS WHITRIDGE AND OTHERS, CLAMATrS OF THE SCHOONER
FANNIE CROCKER, APPELLANTS, v. JOSHUA DILL AND OTHERS.
In a collision which took place between two schooners in the Chesapeake bay,
the colliding vessel, being the larger, and fastest sailer, and attempting to
pass the smaller to windward, was in fault, because there was not a sufficient
lookout.
The absence of a lookout is not excusable, because of an accident wiich had
happened, and which required all hands to be called to haul in the damaged
mainsail.
3he was also in fault, because, being not sufficiently to the windward to have
passed the other vessel in safety, she did not seasonably give way and pass
to the right, the wind being from the northwest, and both vessels directing
their course north by east, the smaller vessel laying one point closer to the
wind than the larger.
Where a vessel astern, in an open sea and in good weather, is sailing faster than
the one ahead, and pursuing the same general direction, if both vessels are
close hauled on the wind, the vessel astern, as a general rule, is bound to give
way, or to adopt the necessary precautions to avoid a collision.
Cases cited to illustrate this principle.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the district of Maryland.
It was a libel filed in the District Court by Joshua Dill and
ten others, owne&; of the schooner Henry R. Smith, against
the schooner Fannie Crocker, for running down and sinking
the schoonerHenry- R. Smith.

