SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hodge et al.

akter five years adverse possession, he had -only to show that he
and those under whom he claimed, held under a deed from a
collector of the revenue, of lands sold for the non-payment of
taxes. He was not bound to show that all the requisitions of
the law had been complied with in order to make the deed a
valid and indefeasible conveyance of the title. If the court
should require such proof, before a defendant could have the
benefit of this law, it would require him to show that he bad no
need of the protection of the statute, before he could be entitled
to it. Such a construction would annul the act altogether,
which waE evidently intended to save -the defendant from the
difficulty, after such a length of time, of showing the validity of
his tax-title. The case' of Moore v. Brown, 11 How. 424, had
reference to a deed void on its face, and the consequence of this
fact, under the peculiar statutes of Illinois, it furnishes no authority for the decision of the eourt below in the present case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and
a venire e novo ordered.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Ciicuit Cotrt of the United States for the Eastern
District of Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration where6f, it, is. now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venire facias de vovo, and to proceed
therewith in -conformity to the opinion of this court.

THE UNITED

STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ANDREW
HODGE, JR. AND LEVI PIERCE.

In a suit upon a postmaster's bond, when treasury transcripts are offered in evidence,
ic is not necessary that they should contain the statements of credits claimed by
the postmaster, and disallowed, in whole or in part, by the officers of the governmnnt.
Nor is it a reasott for rejecting the transcripts as evidence, that the items charged in
the accounts, as balances of quarterly returns, did not purport, on the face of said
accounts, to be balances acknowledged by the postmaster, nor were supported by
proper vouchers; but mnerely purported to be the balances of said quarterly
returns, as audited dad adjusted by the officers of the .ovemment. The objection
applied, if at 9A to the accuracy of the accounts, and not to their admission as
mzidence.
Tho basis of an action against a postmaster is his bond and its breaches; and not
the transcripts nor the quarterly returns, which are made evidence by the statute.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of e:rror, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
The United

479

States.v. Hodge et al.

It was the same case which was twice previously before the
court, as reported in 3 How. 534, and 6 How. 279.
The facts and points of law are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
It was argued by Mr. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the
plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Johnson and MZVr. May, for the defendants in error.
The arguments of the counsel were so connected with an examination of, and reference to, the accounts, which were very
voluminous, that it would be difficult to present an abstract of
them.
Mt. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us upon a writ of error, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The plaintiffs in error instituted in the Circuit Court an action
at law against the defendants, to recover the sum of twenty-five
thousand dollars, the penalty of a bond executed 'by those defendants with W. H. Ker, and by which" the obligors bound
themselves jointly and severally for the faithful performance by
Ker, of the duties of postmaster at New Orleans. The amount
claimed by the United States, upon the statement of the account
of the postmaster, at the Treasury Department, was, on the 18th
of August, 1839, 870,126.72, nearly three times the penalty of
the bond.
This cause was first tried in the Circuit Court in February,
1843, when, under a charge from the judge, the jury found a verdict for the defendants. A writ of error was sued out to the
judgment of the court, but was afterwards dismissed here for
the irregularity that it was signed by the clerk of the court and
not by the judge. Vide 3 How. 534. Upon a new writ of error,
the case was brought up to this court, was heard upon eiceptions to the rulings of the judge, when the decision' of the Circuit Court was reversed, and the cause remanded for trial upon
a venirefaciasde novo. 6 How. 279.
In pursuance of the mandate of this court, the cause coming
on to be finally heard in the Circuit Court on the 8th of May,
1851, the judge refused to allow any of the statements of the
accounts with the postmaster or any of the transcripts from the
Post-Office Department, relating to the accounts of the postmaster, or any of the monthly returns of that officer which were
offered in evidence by the plaintiffs to be read to th jury, but
excluded the whole of them, whereupon the jury found a verdict
for the defendants. The 6ase is now before us upon exceptions

480

SUPREME COURT.
The' United States v. Rodge et al.

to the rulings of the judge, and which exceptions are as follows:
"Be it remembered, that on the trial of this case, the attorney
of the United States, after having read in evidence the bond
sued on, offered in evidence the following certified transcripts of
statement of accounts, copies of quarterly returns of W. IL Ker,
late postmaster, and of the other papers pertainingto the account
of the said postmaster, hereto annexed; tc the introduction of
which, as evidence, the defendants, by their counsel, objected,
and the court sustained the objection, and refused to allow the
said transcrigts, or any of them, to be read in evidence to the
jury; to which opinion and decikon of the court, in excluding
said evidence, the attorhey of the United States excepts and
prays that this bill of exceptions may be signed, sealed, and made
matter of record, which is done accordingly.
" THEo. H. McCALEB, U S. Judge." [sEAL.]
By consent of the counsel of the United States, the court here
states the grounds upon which it rejected the transcripts above
mentioned as follows:
"1st That the said statement of accounts, between the United
States and said W. H. Ker [were] as audited and adjusted only,
and did not purport to contain the statement of credits claimed
by him, and disallowed in whole or in part by the officers of the
government.
"2d. That the items charged to the said W. H. Ker in said
accounts, prior to the year 1836, as balances of quarterly returns,
do not purport on the face of said accounts to be balances acknowledged by him, -nor are they supported by any proper
vouchers, but merely purport to be the balances of said quarterly returns, as audited and adjusted by the officers of the
government.
"3d. That the quarterly returns were iiot the basis of the action, and under the law could not be admitted as evidence before
the jury, except as vouchers to sustain the account, (which)
having been rejected by the court, the quarterly retiurns could
not be given in evidence without it.
"THEo. H. McCALEB, U S. JU4de."
In order-to test the accuracy of the decision by which the
competency and legal effect of the transcripts were passed upon
by the court, and by which they were ruled out at the trial, some
ieference will be proper to the statutes by which those documents have been authorized and directed, and the mode of their
application prescribed in the prosecution of claims on behalf of
the government. By the 8th section of the act of Congress for
the reorganization of the Post-Office Department, passed on the
2d of July, 1836, (vide Stat at Large, vol. 5 p. 81,) it is provided,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

481

The United States v. Hodge et al.

"that there shall be appointed by the President, with the advice
and consent of the Senate, an Auditor of the Treasury for the
Post-Office Department, whose duty it shall be to receive all
accounts arising in said department, or relative thereto, to audit
and settle the same, and to certify their bdlances to the Postmaster-General. He shall keep and preserve all accounts, with
the vouchers, after settlement; he shall promptly report to the
Postmaster-General all delinquencies of postmasters in paying
over the proceeds of their offices, and shall close the accounts
of the department quarterly, and transmit to the Secretary of
the Treasury quarterly statements of the receipts and expenditures."
By section 15th, of the same statute, (vol.5,p. 82,) it is further
provided, "that copies of the quarterly returns of postmasters,
and of any papers pertaining to the accounts in the office of the
Auditor for the Post-Office Department,. certified by him under
his seal of. office, shall be admitted as evidence in the courts of
the United States; and in every case of delinquency of any
postmaster or contractor, in which suit may be brought, the said
auditor shall forward to the Attorney of the United States, certified copies of all papers in his office tending to sustain the
claim; and in every such case a statement of the account, certified as aforesaid, shall be admitted as evidence; and the couri
trying the cause shall be thereupon authorized to give judgment
and award execution, subject to the provisions of the 38th section of the act to reduce into one the several acts establishing
the Post-Office Department, approved iarch 3d, 1825." The
38th section of the act of 1825, here referred to, relates exclusively to the conditions on which the court may grant a continuance to defendants, beyond the return term, in suits against
them. The 15th section of the act of 1836 goes on further to declare, "that no c4aim for a credit shall be allowed upon the trial,
but such as shall have been presented to the said auditor, and by
him disallowed in whole or in part, unless it shall be proved to
the satisfaction of the court that the defendant is at the time of
the trial in possession of vouchers not before in his power to
procure, and that he was prevented from exhibiting to the said
auditor by some unavoidable accident."
In the case before us there were exhibited, on the trial below,
two general accounts or transcripts from the auditor for the PostOffice Department with the postmaster Ker. By the former of
these accounts, the balance against the postmaster was stated
at $Q3,347-.78 ; by the latter the balance was reduced to the sum
of $70,126.96. The difference in these amounts is dxplained
by the facts, that at the time at which the first statement was
made, the postmaster had failed to make his quarterly returns as
VOL. XIII.

41

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hodgc et al.

required by law, from the 1st of July to the 15th of November,
1839, and in consequence of that failure had been charged, in
pursuance of the 32d section of the act of Congress of 1825,
with double the estimated amount of postages receivable during
that interval. Subsequently to this, statement, the postmaster
having rendered his account for the interval above mentioned,
the actual amount due from him was charged against him in
lieu of the duplicated estimate of receipts, and the balance
against him thereby reduced to, the sum of $70,126.96. The
transcript of the statement thus corrected, was certified to the
Cireuit Court on the 11th of May, 1842, before the trial of the
cause.
In addition to these general transcripts, there were certified
by the auditor,*and tendered in evidence by the United States,
copies of the quarterly accounts or returns rendered by the postmaster from the quarter ending on the 30th of September, 1836,
before the execution of his official bond sued on, up to the period of his removal; and on each of these quarterly returns or
accounts the corrections or .disallowances are noted. Proof is
found in the record of notice to the postmaster of all these corrections in his returns, and the balances claimed on each of these
returns, as corrected, were afterwards carried into the auditor's
general statements, of which transcripts were furnished and
offered in evidence at the trial. It would seem difficult to discover a plausible reason for the exclusion Iy the judge at circuit
of the transbripts offered in evidence, as incompetent or irrelevant
to the issue before him, and equally so to reconcile the reason
assigned by his honor with the conclusion to which it has led
him. In the first place, the language of the act of Cop1gress is exress and imperative, that the " Auditor of the Treasury for the
-'ost-Office Department shall receive all acounts arising in the
departmdnt relative thereto, and audit and settle the same, and
certify their balances to the Postmaster-General." Vide sect. 8th
of the act of 1836. And again, section 15th of the same act: "In
every case of delinquency of any postmaster or' contractor in
'which suit ma be brought, the said-auditor shalr forward to the
Attorney of the United States, certiued copies of all papers in
his office tending to sustain the claim, and in every such case, a
statement of the account, certified as aforesaid, shall be admitted as evidence, and the court trying the' cause shall be thereupon authorized to give judgment and aw'ard execution)" &c.
The competency, of a statement by the auditor of all or any accounts with postmasters and contractors in suits against them,
cannot, then, be questioned; the accuracy of such statements as
to detail, is a -wholly different matter, and is to be questioned or
contested in the mode prescribed by other provisions of the

DECEMBER

TERM,

1.851.

483

The United States v. Hodge et al.

statute. The only qualification ever made of the principle above
laid down, if indeed it can be properly consiuered a qualification, is to be found in the decisions of this court in the cases
of the United States v. Buford, 3 Peters, 29, and of the United
States v. Jones, 8 Peters, 375, in which it has been ruled, that.
transcripts from the treasury should not amount to proof of
facts not coming within the regular relation existing between
the department and persons with respect to whom such facts
may have transpired; but this exception or qualification cannot
apply to transactions falling strictly within the relation subsisting between the government and its agents, or rather it goes to
affirm the operation of the statute in reference to such transactions. The utmost latitude which could be given to the decisions above mentioned, could not extend them to the entire character of the transcripts certified from the department as evidence,
but must limit their effect to any portions or items of those
transcripts which should be irregular, and not within the language or import of the statute, nor within the regular operatipns
of the department.
The first reason-assigned by the judge below for excluding the
entire transcripts is, that they were presented as accounts between
the United States and the postmaster Ker, as audited and adjusted only, and did not purport to contain the statement of
credits claimed by him and disallowed in whole or in part by
the officers of government. The obvious answer to this objection is, that the omission complained of did not render those
documents any the less transcripts certified by the officer, nor destroy their competency as evidence under the statute. The objection, if it comprise either force or plausibility, is one strictly
applicable to the completeness or -sufficiency of the documents
offered, and not to their competency or legality. An objection
to the transcripts from the department, founded on the facts that
they are only a statement and adjustment of the accounts bet veen the United States and the postmaster, without containing the credits claimed and disallowed, is precisely an objection
based upon the conformity of those documents with the law; for,
by the 8th section of the act of 1836, the auditor is directed to
receive all accounts arising in the department or relative thereto,
to audit and settle the same, and to certify the balances therein
to the Postmaster-General- and we may seek in vain for aly
provision in the statute which prescribes a particular form of
stating the accounts or directing a list of the iterls.not admitted
by the department, but rejected as illegal, to be made-parts of that
general account, or transcript. A different proceeding would
seem to have been the contemplation of the legislature, if we
can gather its intention from the mode pointed out f6r preferring

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hodge et al.

and establishing credits, which, if denied and rejected by the
government, it would seem strange to require should, by the act
of that government which denied their existence, be held forth
as a part of its own view of the transaction. But, as already
observed, the reason assigned by the judge of the Circuit Court
for ruling out the transcripts is one which could apply, in any
view, only to the sufficiency or strength-of the proof, and not
to the competency or relevancy thereof. That reason too is
directly in conflict with the 15th section of the act of 1836,
which explicitly declares, irrespective of their force or efficiency,
"that copies of the quarterly returns of postmasters, and of any
papers pertaining to the accounts in the office of the auditor of
the Post-Office Department# certified by him under the seal of
his office, shall be admitted as evidence in the courts of the
United States; and in every case of delinquency by any postmaster or contractor, in which'suits may be brought, the said
auditor shall forward to the Attorney of the United States, certified copies of all papers in his office, tending to sustain the
blaim, and in every such case a statement of the account, certified
as aforesaid, shall be admitted as evidence." Under this ample
provision of the statute not only the statements of accounts,
but certified copies of every paper in the department pertaining
to such accounts, are made competent evidence in the courts of•
the United States.
It will be observed, in this'case, that in the certified transcripts
from the department, every credit allowed to the postmaster
upon the settlement of his account is given, and appears upon
the face of the transcripts, so that the defendants have received
the full benefit of all such credits; and indeed the opinion of the
judge below is not founded on the withholding of any of these
credits from the postmaster, but it rests exclusively upon the
fact of the absence from the face of the transcripts or 'general
accounts of the alleged credits, whose correctness, or legal existence even, was denied by the government, but which the defendant was still at liberty to 'assertin the mode presbribed by the
statute. What obligation there could be tpon the government
to embody and to present to the court claims whose existence it
repudiated and denied, we are unable to perceive. The language
of the statute contains no such requisition, and none such appears to fall within the meaning or objects, of the law. Upon
each of the quarterly returns of the postmaster the corrections
made at the department are noted in a separate column, annexed
thereto for the sole purpose of inserting those corrections; the
balances, as corrected, were thence transferred to the general accounts or transcripts, and the postmaster was informed of the
corrections made, with the view to his sustaining the rejected

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

485

The United States v.. Hodge et al.

items by proofs, if in his power to do so. The quarterly returns
themselves remaining as to all the items they contained, precisely
as made by the postmaster himself.
The question of the admissibility and competency of transcripts like those ruled out by the judge in the court below, has,
in several instances received the examination of this court, and
their competency and legality as evidence, in cases like the
present, have been established upon the fullest consideration.
In the case of Hoyt v. The United States, 10 Howard, 109,
this question was raised, and in the investigation of it by this
court, the cases of The United States v. Buford, 3 Peters, 29, The
United States v. Jones, 8 Peters, 375, and The United States v.
Eckford's Executors, 1 Ho*ard, 250, were all examined and compared. It is true that the cases above mentioned did not arise
upon the statute regulating the Post-Office Department, but they
involved the construction of the act of March 3d, 1797, the import
of which, and indeed the language thereof, 'mutatis viutandis, are
identical with those of the act of 1836, regulating the Post-Office
Department. Vide Stat. at Large, 512. In the case of Hoyt v. The
United States, the law is thus expounded by this court: "The
counsel for the plaintiffs, (The United States,) in the court below,
produced on the trial four treasury transcripts, containing a
statement of the accounts of the plaintiff in error with the
government, for the whole period of his term, and which resulted
in the balance above stated. These transcripts were objected to
as not competent evidence against the defendant of the balance
therein found due, within the meaning of the act of Congress
providing for this species of proof. The second section of the
act provides that in every case of delinquency where a suit has
been brought, a transcript from the books and proceedings of the
treasury, certified by the register and authenticated under the
seal of the department, shall be admitted as evidence, upon which
the court is authorized to give judgment." This court further
proceeds: "In the case before us the several items of account in
the transcripts arise out of the official transactions of the defendant as collector, with the Treasury Department, and were founded
upon his quarterly returns and other accounts rendered in pursuance of law and the instructions of the treasury. They were
substantial copies of these quarterly returns revised and corrected
by the accounting officer, as they were received, and with copies
of which the defendant had been furnished, in the usual course
of the department; they present a mutual account of debit and
credit arising out of the official dealings with the government in
the collection of the revenue. We can hardly conceive of a case,
therefore, coming more directly within the act of Congress as
expounded by the cases referred to. ' The court then deduces the
41*

486

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hodge et al.

following conclusions: "As a general rulE, therefore, every item
of the account that can be the subject of litigation at the trial
on the production of a transcript, must have been a matter of
dispute at the Treasury Department, and of course presenting
nothing new or unexpected to the parties. The court is of
opinion, therefore, that the several treasury transcripts offered in
evidence were properly admitted" We think, therefore, that the
objection of the judge of the court below to the transcript offered
in evidence, viz., that it did not contain on its face, as credits,
items which were never admitted as credits, butwere denied and
rejected as such, was justified neither br the statute, nor by
reason, nor custom in the statement of accounts.
The second cause assigned by-the judge below for his rejection of the transcripts from the jury, is likewise one which applies, if at all, to the accuracy of the items in the account, and
- not to the competency of the entire transcripts as documents
certified and attested in the mode prescribed by the act of Ccngress. The objection on the part of the judge, if it can be appiehended, seems to be this: That the quarterly returns of the
postmaster entering into, and forming par:s of the general transcripts, having been corrected at the department, the balances
produced by such corrections cannot be regarded as the acknowledged amounts due by the postmaster, but, on the contrary, are
the balances stated as due on said quarterly returns as audited
and adjusted by the officers of the government. As we have
already said, this objection applies entirely to the correctness of
the items contained in the general account as stated, and cannot change the character of the transcripts as certified statements of 'the accounts audited and adjusted at the department,
and as directed to be certified by the provisions of the statute.
Moreover, these quarterly returns, which, so far as they go, are
certainly admissions of the postmaster, are in nowise changed or
affected, except by the disalloxance of particular items, and by
that very disallowance the officer is put in -the position, aid notifled to sustain, if he can, his claims by legal proof. If he fail to do
this, it can certainly furnish no reason why every other item of
indebtment, admitted to be correct by both parties, should be
withheld. We can perceive, then, no force in the second cause
assigned by the judge below for the rejection of the transcripts.
The third cause assigned by the judge for rejecting the evi.
dence tendered by the plaintiffi, has less of plausibility to sustain
it than either which precedes it; and may be disposed of in
a few words. This last cause begins with the affirmation, that
the quarterly returs were not the basis of the action; next, it asserts that these returns could not, .under th . law, be admitted as
evidence to the jury, except as vouchers to sustain the account,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

487

The United States v. Hodge et alf.

and then the conclusion attempted from thesepositions is, that
the account, being rejected by the court, the quarterly returns
could not be given in evidence without' it. A somewhat curious example of assumption is given in this argument of the
court, and of deduction in the conclusion as drawn therefrom.

In the first place, it may be observed that neither the transcripts
nor the quarterly returns, certified from the department, consti-

tuted, properly speaking, the basis of the action against the defendants- that basis is found in the official bond of the postmaster and his sureties, and in the acts or delinquencies

of the officer. The proof of those delinquencies cQnsisted in
part as ordered by the statute, of the general transcripts, and
of the quarterly returns certified and attested as that statute directed; they were both made evidence, and ought to have been
so received, to avail as far as they regularly and properly might
upon the issue made between the government and the defenddants. They both came within the literal descriptions in the
statute of the "copies of quarterly returns of postmasters and of
any papers pertaining to the accounts in the office of the Auditor
of the Post-Office Department, which, when certified by him
under his seal of office, shall be admitted in evidence in the
courts of the United States." But the trenchant argument of
the court below is simply this: I have cut off a portion of this
statutory evidence, by the former part of my opinion, the residue
shall be subjected to a like operation. We think that the decision of the Circuit Court, as a whole, and in the detail, as set
forth by that court, is erroneous, and should be, as the same is
hereby, reversed; and we do remand this cause to the Circuit
Court to be again tried subject to the principles laid down in
this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern

District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed; and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venirefacias de novo, and to proceed therewith in conformity to the opinion of this court.

