DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

429

Norris v. Crocker et al.

cord from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and
was'argued by counsel On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the 'aid Supreme Court to be proceeded
with in conformity.to the opinion of this court, and as to law
and justice may appertain.
Order in No. 131.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Georgia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venirefacias de novo, and to proceed
therewith, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

TonN NoRRIs, PLAINTIFF, V. EDWIN B. CROCKER AND ELISRA
EGBEIT.
The fourth section of the act of Congress, approved on the 12th day of February,
1793, (1 Stat. at Large, 302,) entitled "An act respecting fugitives escaping from
justice, and persons escaping from the service of their masters," is repealed, so far
as relates to the penalty, by the act of Congress approved September 18th, 1850,
(9 Stat. at Large, 462,) entitled "An act to amend, and supplementary to, the ab6ve
actu"
Therefore, where an action for the recovery of the penalty prescribed in the act of
1793 was pending at the time of the repeal, sucb repeal is a bar to the action.

Tins case came up from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Indiana, upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
The following certificate explains the question:
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

District of Indiana.
At a Circuit Court of the United States, begun and holden at
Indianapolis, for the District of Indiana, on Monday, the nineteenth day of May, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
fifty-one, and continued from day to day until Friday, the thirtieth day of May, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one.

SUPREME COURT.
iNorris v. Crocker et al.
JOHN NORRIS,

B. CROCKER AND ELISHA EGBERT.
Present, honorable John McLean, and the honorable Elisha
M. Huntington, judges.
- This is an action of debt brought to recover the penalty of
five hundred dollars, upon the fourth section of the act of Congress, approved February 12, 1793, entitled "An act respecting
EDWIN

fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the service of
their masters;" declaration in the usual form, and demurrer and
joinder thereto.
The case coming on to -be argued on demurrer, it occurred as
a question, whether the aforesaid section of the aforesaid act of
February 12, 1793, is repealed, so far as relates to the penalty
given by said section, bythe act of CongTess of September 18th,

the act
to persons
and from
supplementary
1850, entitled "An act to amend
justice, and
entitled; 'Anact respecing fugitives
escaping frori the service of their masters,' approved February
12th, '1793 ; and whether, if repealed, the same can affect this
before the pnssage of the last-named

action, which was pending
act; on which questions the opinions of the judges were op.
posede
Whereupon, on motion of the plaintiff, by hiscounsel, that
thepoints on which the disagreements hath happled, may, during the term, be stated nnder the direction of the judges, and
certified under the seal of the court to the Supreme Court to be
finally decided.
It is ordered that the foregoing statement of the pleadings and
the following questions involved, which are made under the
direction of the judges, be certified according to the request of
the plaintiff, by his counsel, and the law in that case made and
provided, to wit:
I. Is the fourth section of the act of Corgress, approved on
the 12th day of February, A. D. 1793, entitled _'An act respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the service
of their masters," repealed, so far as relates to the penalty, by
the act of Congress, approved September 18th, 1850, entitled
"An act to amend, and supplementary to the act entitled 'An
act respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from
the service of their masters,' approved February 12th, 1793.
II. Whether, if the fourth section of the last-named act of
February 12th, 1793, is repealed, so far as relates to the penalty
by, the act to amend and supplementary to the same, that repeal
will, in law, bar the present action that was pending at the time
of the repeal.

DECEMBER TERM,
Norris v.

1851.

431

Crocker et al.

Upon this certificate, the cause came up to this court, and was
argued by,'Mr. 0. H Smith, for the plaintiff, and MAr. Clase, for
the defendants.

Mr. Smith, for the plaintiff.
-On the part of the plaintiff, we contend that the act of 1850,
does not repeal the fourth section of the act of 1793, but is only
cumulative; and we ask this court so to certify to the Circuit
Court.
The defendants maintain that the act of 1850 does repeal, by
implication, the fourth section of the act of 1793, and every dis.
tinct offence created by that, section; therefore, if the court should
even think that part of the section is repealed by implication,
which we submit they will not, still if the whole of the section
is not repealed, the certificate must be for the plaintiff, and the
demurrer in the Circuit Court must be overruled.
Before'we proceed to examine the two acts, and to compare
them, we will direct the attention of the court to some- plain
and familiar principles, for the construction of statutes, by which
we are willing to construe these acts, as applicable to this case.
1. "Generally, statutes are to be construed to operate in futuro, unless a retrospective effect be clearly intended." Prince
v. United States, 2 Gallis. C. C. R. 204.
2. "1In doubtful cases, a court should compare all the parts
of a statute, and different statutes in pari materia,to. ascertain
the intention of the legislature." Sloop Elizabeth, Paine's C.
C. R. 11.
3. " Where a statute is made in addition to another statute
on the same subject, without repealing any part of it, the provisions of both must be constred together." 13 Mass. 324, 344.
4. " Statutes can never be applied -retrospectively, by mere
construction." 9 B. A. 221; 10 Mass. 437.; 12 Mass. 383; 16
Mass. 215; 1 Blackf. R. 220.
5. "Subsequent statutes, which add accumulative penalties,
and institute new methods of proceeding, do not repeal former
penalties and methods of proceeding, ordained by preceding statutes, without negative words." 6 Price, 131 ; 9 B. A. 227.
1 6. "The law does not favor a repeal by implication, nor is it
to be allowed unless the repugnancy be quite plain; for as such
repeal carries with it a reflection upon the wisdom of the former
parliament, it has ever been confined to the repealing as little
as possible of the preceding statute." 2 Wash. 297; 2 Barn. &
Ald. 149; 6 Maule & Selwyn, 116; 15 East, 372; 9 B. A. 228.
7. " Although two acts of parliament are seemingly repugnant, yet if there be no clause of non obstante in the latter, they
shall, if possible, have such construction that the latter may nof

432

SUPREME COU3E T.
Norris v. Crocker et al.

-

be a repeal of the former by implication." Weston's case, Dyer,
347; 11 Rep. 63; Hard. 344; 9 B. A. 2Q8.
With these general and fundamental principles before us, we
proceed to direct the mind of the court1st. To the section of the act of Congress upon which this action was brought, and
2d. To the section of the act of 1850, passed pending the action, which is relied upon as repealing the fourth section of the
act of 1793.
1. The section of the act of 1793, upon which this action is
founded, reads as follows:
"That any person who shall; knowingly and willingly, obstruct or hinder such claimant, his agent, or attorney, in so seizing or arresting such fugitive from labor, or shall rescue such
fugitive from such claimant, his agent, or attorney, when so
arrested, pursuant to the authority herein given or declared, or
shall harbor or conceal such person, after notice that he or she
was a fugitive from. labor as aforesaid, shall for either of the said
offences forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dollars; which
penalty may be recovered by and'for the benefit of such claimant, by action of debt in any court proper to try the same," saving, &c.
This section, the court will see, gave several distinct causes
of action for the penalty:
1. Against anyper.son who should knowingly and willingly
"obstruct" the claimant, his agent, or attorney, from "seizing or
arresting the fugitive."
2. Against those who shall knowingly and willingly "hinder"
the claimant, his agent, or attorney, in so "seizing or arresting
the fugitive."
3. Any persons who shall knowingly CLnd Willingly "rescue"
such fugitive from such claimant, his agent, or attorney, when so
arrested, pursuant to the authority herein given or declared."
4. Against persons "Iwho shall ' harbor' such fugitive" "after
notice that- he or she was a fugitive from labor."
5. Against persons "who shall conceal such person, after notice that he or she was a fugitive from labor."
The section of the act of 1850, that is relied upon as repealing the fourth section of the acd of 1793, as to the penalty, by
implication, we maintain is merely cumulative. We proceed to
give the section; and in order to show the additions that have
been rhade to the section of the act of 1793, by the act of 1850,
we give the section, and place the additions in brackets.
"That any person who shall knowingly and willingly obstruct
[or prevent such claimant, his agent, or attorney, [or any person
or persons lawfully assisting him, her, or them,j from arresting

DECEMBER TERM, 185"1.
Norris v.

433

Crocker et al.

such a fugitive from service or labor, [either with or without
process as aforesaid,] or shall rescue [or attempt to rescue] such
fugitive from service or labor from [the custody of] said claimant, his or her agent or attorney, [or other person or persons lawfully assisting as aforesaid,] when so arrested pursuant to the
authority herein given and declared, [or shall aid, abet, or assist
such person, so owing service or labor as aforesaid, directly or
indirectly to escape from such claimant, his agent, or attorney, or
other person or persons legally authorized as aforesaid,] or shall
harbor or conceal such fugitive [so as to prevent the discovery
and arresting of such person] after notice [or knowledge] of the
fact that such person was a fugitive from service or labor as
aforesaid."
It will be seen, by an examihation of the above section, that
it creates new offences, and punishes them differently, and is
therefore cumulative.
The section above does not make "harboring" or "concealing " a slave subject to a penalty, unless it is done "so a4 to
prevent the discovery and arresting of such person after notice,"
&c.,,while the section of the law of 1793, on which these actions
are founded, makes the offence to "harbor or conceal such person,
after notice that he or she was a fugitive from labor," subject to
a penalty of $500. These offences are entirely different, and
are visited with different penalties. The legislature (Congress)
therefore did not rdpeal the offence of " h a r b o r i n g " or "concealing" slaves from their masters, either in express terms by implication. Both acts can well stand together, and the rule of law
is to construe them as we have already stated.
Let us now come to the act of Congress of 1850, and inquire
whether it could have been the intention of the framers of that
act to repeal the act of 1793. We maintain the negative of this
proposition, as being clear and conclusive.
1. Had -such been the intention of the legislature, the act
would have contained an express repealing clause, Which it
does not.
2. Congress was composed of good lawyers and wise legislators, who would never have left to construction and implication
that which they intended to have enacted.
3. The object of the act of Congress of 1850, was evidently
to give greater facilities to the master of the slave, in securing
the fugitive; and can it be for a moment supposed that Congress intended to repeal the act of 1793, wipe out all liabilities
incurred under that act, and deprive the master of the rights that
had accrued to him, of action in suits pending, or otherwise ?
Most certainly not.
4. It is clear that the act of 1850 cannot, under any construcVOL. XIII.

37

484

SUPREME COURT.
Norris v. Crocker et al.

tion, have a retrospective operation, and therefore could in nb
event operate on the rights of the plaintiff which had accrued
before the passage of the act, unless it was by way of repeal of
the previous act by implication.
5. The title of the act is conclusive as to the object and intention of the legislature in its passage. It-was, as it expressly
declares, amendatory to, and supplementary of, the act of 1793.
Not a repeal of the act, but amendatory and supplementary to
See'Webthat act; "additional," "adding what is wanting."
ster's Dictionary as to the words "supplementary" and "to
amend."
6. The act of 1850, in the language of Judge Nelson, in his
able charge to the grand jury, "was passed for the purpose of
carrying more effectually into execution a provision of the Constitution of the United States." "The supplementary act is
obviously framed with great skill and care, and bears upon its
face the deep conviction of the body that enacted it that the
.constitutional-provisions had not only been disregarded, but that
a settled purpose, a fixed determination existed in some portions of the country to set its obligations at naught. The act
meets this condition of things, real or supposed, and clothed the
public authorities with'power adequate to the exigency." This
view of the object and effect of the act is certainly very erroneous if the act was a repeal of the penal part of the act of
1793, as is contended. If it enacted impunity and absolution to
all offenders under the act of 1793, dismissed all actions pending for violations of its provisions with ,osts, and, being retroactive in its operation, left no cause of action foi any penalty
incurred prior to its passage, though not within the offences
named by the act of 1850, we submit that this court should not
give to the act of 1850 such a construoticn, but should construe
act to amend, and
it to be what its title declares it to be, -an
supplementary to, the -act of 1793. This constructioni will accord with the object and intention bf the legislature, will enforce
the rights of the plaintiff, and maintain te majesty of the lawB
And the integrity of the Union.
Mr. Chase, for defendant, contrasted tLe two laws, and then
proceeded with his argument.
It *as evident, from this comparison, thht the design of the
act of 1850 was to enlarge the act of 1793 and make it more
efficient and stringent, by extending the definitions of the prohibited offences, and by substituting for the penalty of five hundred dollars for the benefit of the claimant, the public punishment of a fine of one thousand dollars and imprisonment, and
for mere liability to an action for the injury, the definite award

DEOEMBER TERM, 151.
Norris v.

435

Crocker et al.

of one thousand dollars as civil damages for each servant lost.
No offence is described in the act of 1793 which is not expressly
mentioned and prohibited in the adt of 1850; while the penalties and sanctions of the latter act are entirely distinct, both in
nature and magnitude, from those of the former.
The rules of law applicable to this law are, I apprehend, too
well settled to admit of much diversity of opinion. The first is
this:
Acts of the legislature prohibiting the same offiences and injuries as former acts, but imposing different penalties or giving
different remedies, repeal, so far, such former acts. Rex v. Cator, 4 Burr. 2026; Nichols qui tam v. Squire, 5 Pick. 168;
Commonwealth v. Kimball, 21 Pick. 373; Adams v. Ashby, 2
Bibb. 96; 2 Dana, 330; Hickman v. Littlepage, 2 Ib.334; Milne v.
Huber, 3 McLean, 212; The State v. Whitworth, 8 Porter,
(Ala.) 434; McQuilkin v. Doe ex dem. Stoddard, 8 Black 581;
Leighton v. Walker, 9 N. H. 59.
The leading case is Rex v. Cator, 4 Burr. 2026. The defendant had been convicted upon 5 Geo. 1, c. 27 and 23 Geo. 2,
c. 13, for enticing and seducing artificers in the manufactures of
the United Kingdom into foreign service. Both acts were upon
the same subject. The offence was within each. The first imposed a penalty of X100 and three months' imprisonment for
the first offence, and for the next a fine at discretion and twelve
months' imprisonment. The second act imposed a penalty of
4500 and twelve months' imprisonment for the first offence;
and for the next X1000 and two years' imprisonment. Lord
Mansfield held, "The latter act seems to have been a repeal of
the former: it was made to supply the deficiencies of the
former."
The language of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in Nichols qui tam v. Squire, 5 Pick. 168, is very clear: 1 We think
the statute of 1785, c. 24, upon which the qui tam action is
founded, is repealed, if not by Stat. 1800, c. 57, (which seems
to have had a different object in view,) yet certainly by Stat.
1817, c. 191, which appears to cover the whole subject-matter
of the statute of 1785. By the statute of 1817 the selling'of
tickets in any lottery not granted or permitted by the Commonwealth is prohibited under a new penalty; and where the legislature impose a second penalty for an offence, whether smalleror larger than the former one, a party cannot be allowed to sue
on one or the other, at his option. This point of repeal by implication is supported by authority. In the case of Bartlett v.
King, (12 Mass. 537,) an exceedingly useful statute, passed in
1754, concerning bequests and donations to pious and charitable
uses, was held not to be in force, the legislature having in 1785

486

SUPRE ME COURT.
Norris v. Crocker et al.

legislated upon the same subject, and omitted to regnact the
provisions of -that statute."
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Alabama, in The State
v. Whitworth, (8 Porter's Ala. Rep. 434,) is equally decided:
"The act of 1829, inhibiting gaming, covers the whole ground of
the previous statute; so far as the keeping, exhibiting, carrying
on, or being in any manner interested in, any gaming-table or
bank whatever is concerned, and includes every offence connected with the subject-matter; and as it provides a different, and in
some respects a milder, punishment for these offences thn the
previous statutes, it repeals them so far as the same ofences
are provided to be punished by it."
It sbems nqedless to quote from the other cases cited. These
authorities aie sufficient to establish the proposition, that the
act of 1850, so far as it imposes new and different penalties and
"unishments for the same offences prohibited by the act of
1793, repeals that act.
The second rule of law laid down by the defendants is this:
No judgmert can be rendered in any suit for a penalty after
the repeal of the act by which it was imposed. The repeal of
a statute puts an end to all suits founded upon it. Rex v. Justices of, the Peace for the City of -London, 3 Burr. 1456; Yeaton .v. The United States, 5 Cranch, 281; Schooner Rachel v.
The United States, 6 Cranch, 329; The Irresistible, 7 Wheat.
551; The United States v.. Preston, 3 Peters, 57; Commonwealth v. Marshall, 11 Pick. 350; Commonwealth v. Kimball,
21 Pick. 373; Commonwealth v. Leftwich, 5 Rand. 657; Peopld
v. Livingston, 6 Wend. 526; Commonwealth v. Welch, 2 Dana;-'
330; Lewis v. Foster, 1 N. H. Rep. 61; Stevenson v. Doe, 8
Black. 508; Pope v. Lewis, 4 Ala. 487; Road in Hatfield Townshipi 4 Yeates, 392; Maryland v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, 3 How. U. S. Rep. 534; 18 Maine Rep. 109; 25
Maine, 452; Miller's case, 1 Win. Black. 451.
The leading case is Rex v. Justices of London, 3 Burr.
1456. It wa a motion for a mandamns requiring the justices'
to proceed in a matter depending before -themafter the act vegulating the proceeding had been repealed. The matter had been
by them adjourned unto a day after the repealing clause took
effect, and they then refused to proceed further. "Lord Mansfield was very clear, and the rest of the qourt concurred with
him, that no jurisdiction now remained in t&e Sessions."
In the case of Yeaton v. The United States, 5 Cranch, 281,
this court said, upon appeal from a sentence of condemnation,
where the lw under which the sentence had been *pronounced
had been repealed after the sentence3 " The cause is to be considered as if no sentence had been pronounced; and if no ser-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

437

Norris v. Crocker et al.

tence had been pronounced, it has been long settled, on general
principles, that after the expiration or repeal of a law no penalty
can be enforced or punishment inflicted for violations of the law,
committed while it was in force, unless some special provision
be made for that purpose by statute."
And it makes no difference whether the penalty goes to the
public, or in part or in whole to an individual.
In Lewis v. Foster, (IN. H. 61,) a judgment had been rendered
in an action of debt for a penalty under a statute which gave
the whole penalty to the plaintiff. Before execution the statute was repealed. The defendant, by a proceeding in review,
brought the case before the Supreme Court, where it stood as
if no judgment had been rendered. The court said: "The
plaintiff's right of action was taken away by the repeal of the
law on which it was founded. .Every right he acqidred by a
judgmefit was subject to be lost on review of the cause. We
must try tle cause in the same manner as if there never had
been a judgment, but we now find no act which will warrant
a judgment in favor of the plaintiff."
So in Pope v. Lewis, (4 Ala. Rep. 489,) the court said:
"The principal question in this cause is whether any judgment
can be rendered in an action founded on a penal statute after
its repeal. The counsel for the defendant in error maintain, .that
by the commencement of the suit for the penalty prescribed by
the statute for selling rope and bagging without inspection, the
defendant acquired a vested right in the penalty, which the subsequent repeal of the statute by the legislature cannot deprive
him of. The foundation of a claim to a penalty prescribed by
law is derived entirely from the statute authorizing a judgment
to be rendered in favor of any one who will sue for it." " This
It
claim is imperfect until a judgment be rendered for it ......
follows, necessarily, that as the right to the penalty is inchoate
until judgment, if from any cause no judgment can be rendered
for the penalty, the absolute or vested right to it can never exist
It cannot admit of doubt that the legislature may at pleasure
repeal any penal law; and it is equally well settled that after
such repeal no judgment can be rendered, either of corporal
punishment or pecuniary fine. Nor is it easy to perceive how,
upon principle, any other decision could be made."
The whole matter is summed up in an expression of Mr.
Chief Justice Taney, in Maryland v. The Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company, (3 How. 534): "The repeal of the law imposing a penalty is itself a remission."
These principles and authorities seem to leave no doubt upon
either question certified from the Circuit Court. It appears to
be quite clear, both that the provisions of the 4th section of the
37 *

8IUPRIME COUBT.
Norris

v. Crocker eot al.

act of 1793, giving a penalty for the offences therein desqribed,
are repealed by the operation of the 7th section of the act of
1850, giving different penalties for the same offences; and- that
this repeal-bars actions for penalties pending at the taking effect
of the last act.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The following questions are certified to us od a *division of
opinion from the Circuit Court for the Dktrict &f Indiana.
1. 'Whether the 4th section of the act of 179, respecting per.
sons escaping from service of'their masters is repealed, so far
as relates to the penalty, by the act of 1850, on the same subject.
2. Whether,'if the act of 1793 is repealed as to the penalty,
the repeal will bar an action that was pending at the time of
the repeal.
The fugitive slave law of 1850 does not repeal the 4th section 'of the act of 1793 in terms; and if it is repealed, it
must be by implication. As a general rule it is not open to
controversy, that where a new statute covers the whole subject.
matter of an old one, adds offences, and prescribes different penalties for those enumerated in the old law, that then the former

statute is repealed .by implication; as the provisions of both
cannot
stand together.
I To ascertain
whether there be repugnance, the two enactments must be compared.

The 4th section of the act of 1793 provides: 1st. That any.
person-who shall, knowingly and willingly, obstruct or hinder a
claimant, his agent or attorney, in arTesting a fugitive from
labor:
Or, 2d. Shall rescue the fugitive from the claimant, his agent
or attorney, after he has been arrested:.
Or, 3d. Shall, knowingly and willingly, harbor, or conceal the
fugitive, knowing he is such: That for committing either of
said offences such person shall forfeit and'pay the gum of five
hundred dollars: which penalty may be rezovered by the claimant for his own benefit; and reserving also to the claimant his
right of action in damages for the actual injuries he may have
sustained, be they more or less.
The act of 1850, section 7, declares:
1st. That any person who shall, knowingly-and willingly, obstruct, hinder or prevent, such claimant, his agent or attorneyor any person, or persons, lawfully assisting him, her or them,
from arresting such fugitive - either with or without process:

Or, 2d. Shall res~ue, or attempt to rescue, such fugitive, when
arrested, from the custody of the claimant, his agent or attorney,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

439

Norris v. Crocker et al.

or from tie custody of any other person, or'persons, lawfully
assisting:
Or, 3d. Shall aid, abet, or asist the person owing service, directly, or indirectly, to escape from such claimatit, his agent or
attorney, or otherperson or persons legally assisting:
Or, 4th. Shall harbor or conceal such fugitive, so as to prevent his discovery and arrest, after notice or knowledge of the
fact, that such person was a fugitive: The person so offending,
in either of the cases specified, shall be subject to a fine not ex-,
ceeding one thousand dollars, and imprisonment not exceeding
six months, on conviction by indictment. Secondly, That the
person thus offending, shall forfeit and pay, by way. of civil
damages, to the party injured by such illegal conduct, the sum
of one thousand dollars for each fugitive lost, by reason of such
conduct, to be recovered by action of debt.
And the question is, whether the foregoing provisions of the
act of 1850 are repugnant to those contained in the act of 1793,
so far as the penalty of five hundred dollars is concerned.
The former statute gives this penalty to the owner in three
cases: for obstructing an arrest; for a rescue; and for harboring the fNgitive. It was given, regardless of the fact, whether
the owner had or had not recovered his slave; and in addition,
by the act of 1793 he might sue for, and recover, the value, if
the slave was lost by the illegal conduct of the defendant; or he
might recover inferior damages, if the slave was obtained.
By the act of 1850, a penalty is inflicted, by way of fine, on
conviction; and impis'onment is added. The prosecution is
at the instance of 'the United States, with which the owner of
the slave is not necessarily connected, the government taking
the penalty recovered: nor is it of any consequence, under this
mode of proceediig, whether the owner has or has not recovered
his slave; the offender being equally liable to prosecution for
committing any one of the offences enumerated in the statute,
including the old ones, found in the act of 1793, and the additional ones, superadded in that of 1850, and which are indicated
by the words in italics. The recent statute covers every offence
found in the former act, which subjects the offender to a penalty
of 500 dollars, and prescribes a new, and different penalty, recoverable by indictment; and is plainly repugnant to the act of
1793..
A seeming difficulty, exists, in the concluding part of the
seventh section of the new act, which awards civil compensation
to the owner for the loss of each slave, if that loss was occasioned by any one of the illegal acts that are made indictable:
but no recovery under, and by force of the statute, can be had,
unless the owner has lost the slave. The policy of the law is

440

SUPREME COURT.
Norris v. Crocker et al.

obvious. On trials, illegal conduct, and loss, might be fully
established; but then, the wide range of proof, as to value, could
still, in effect, defeat the suit by a verdict for low damages: and
therefore Congiess fixed the value alike in every case of loss,
and took the assessment of damages from the jury. This provision is new, ahd inconsistent with the 4th section of the act
of 179 , in this: The former act imposes a penalty of five
hundred dollars, in the*enumerated cases, regardless of any actual loss on the part of the owner: whereas, for the same offences,
the act of 1850 allows civil damages of one thousand dollars for
each slave lost; but nothing when he is regained- loss being
the ground of action: nevertheless, the party injured is left to
his common-law remedy for any damage he may have sustained short of actual loss of the slave by the illegal conduct of
the offending party: and foi actual loss also, if he prefers and
elects that remedy to .an action for civil damages under the
statute - but both modes cannot be pursued.
We therefore answer, to the first question certified, that the
act of 1850 has repealed, so far as relates to the pensltv. the
fourth section of the act of 1793.
The next question referrPtd o us for decision, presents no difficulty.
The suit was pending below when the act of September 18,,.
1850, was passed, and was for the penalty of 500 dollars, secured
by the 4th sect.on of the act of 1793. As the plaintiff's right fo
recover depended entirely on the statute, *.tsrepeal deprived the
court of jurisdiction over the subject-matter. And in the next
place, as the plaintiff had no vested right in the penalty, the
legislature might discharge the defendant by repealing the law.
We therefore answer, to the second question certified, that the
repeal of the 4th section of the act of 1793 does bar this action,
although pending at the time of the-repeal.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
'record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, and on the points or questions on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which were certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to
'the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court: 1st. That the fourd1 section of the act of Congress, approved
on the' 2th day of February, A. n. 1793, entitled "An act respecting.fugitives from justice and persons escaping from the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

441

Rogers v. Lindsey et al.

service of their masters," is repealed, so far as relates to the
penalty, by the act of Congress approved September 18th, 1850,
entitled, " An act to amend, and supplementary to, the act entitled 'An act respecting fugitives from justice and personsescaping from the service of their masters,"' 'approved February
12th, 1793.
2d. That the repeal of the said fourth section will in law bar
the present at-tion that was pending at the time of the repeal.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that It be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

LEWIS ROGERS, APPELLANT, V.- JOSEPH G. LINDSEY,
ATWOOD, AND JOHN S. BENNhTT.

IENRY S.

The following paper, viz.
"The Piesideut or Cashier of the Planters and Merchants Bank will please hold,
subject to the order of Mr. J.G. Lindsey, all the debts referred to in the inclosed
letter from Mr. McFarlin, except the two drafts of McColierMinge, upon the
Mlcsrs.Ellicotts, of Baltimore, which, when collected, please place to my credit"imports an authority to Lindsey to control the settlement and collection of these
several demands; but not necessarily a transfer of the title to or interest in them.
The circumstances of the case favor this construction. Lindsey had become personally responsible for a sum of money, which these debts were intended in part to
meet. As an honest transaction, it would answer all purposes, if hA had only a'
power to collect the debts.
Where Lindsey, under this power, assigned an interest in one of these judgments,
and the bill charged that the assignee knew of the interest of the original creditor,
which the assignee, in his answer, did. not deny, he failed to bring himself within
the rules which protect a purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice, and
his claim must be set aside.
Lindsey's having assigned this judgment to a third person, and then taken a reassignment of it, does not vary the case. He stands then in his original position.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama.
The bill was filed by Rogers against Lindsey, Atwood, and
Bennett, under the circumstances mentioned in the opinion of
the court, and which it is not necessary to repeat.
The cause was heard upon the bill, answers, exhibits, and
proofs, in the said District Court, on the 17th of April, 1850, and
the court being of opinion that the plaintiff, Rogers, by his contract with the defendant, Lindsey, had assigned and transferred
the judgment in the said court, in favor of Rogers & Gray
against John S. Bennett, to said -Lindsey, and that he, Lindsey,
and the assignees under him, were entitled to the money made
thereon, ordered and decreed that the plaintiff's bill be dismissed, with costs.
Rogers, the complainant; appealed to this court.

