SUPREME

COURT.

Barrow v. Hill.

ROBERT

R.

BARROW, PLAINTIFF IN EREOR, V.
HILL.

NATHANIEL B.

Where the only exceptions taken in the court below were to the refusals of tho coirt
to continue the case to the next term; and it appears that the continuance asked for
below and the suing out the writ of error were only for the purpose of delaying tho
payment of a just debt, and no counsel appeared in this court on that side, the 17th
rule will be applied and the judgment of the court below be affirmed with ten per
cent. interest.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
Hill was a citizen of South- Carolina, e.nd sold two slaves to
Barrow, a citizen of Louisiana. Barrow gave his note for
$2,000, dated 12th of February, 1848, payable twelve months
after date. When due, it was protested. Hill then filed iis
petition in the Circuit Court of the United States. Barrow's
arnswer admitted the execution of the note, but alleged that the
negroes were unsound. In April, 1850, the cause came on for
trial. The counsel for the defendant moved the court for a
continuance "on -the ground that William C. Fisher; a material witness for the defendant is absent or does not appear on
the trial of this cause; that the said Fisher is in the city at
this time; that defendant desired the clerk of this court to summon said Fisher, but that the marshal has not been able to find
him and serve him with a subpawa. Nevertheless, it appeared
thdt on the next day, Fisherwas present in court and examined.
The cot 'usion of the first bill of exceptions was as follows,
viz.:
The defendant further declares that he has not induced or
consented to said Fisher's absence; to all of which the d-efendant offered to swear, but the court overruled the motions on the
ground that it appeared, by the declaration of the counsel for
defendant, that the witness Fisher Wvas the day before, seen by
him in the city of New Orleans, and therefo;e the court declared
that the testimony of the said witness would be received before
the conclusion of the trial. Accordingly, the next morning, the
witness appeared in court, and was regularly examined by the
counsel of both defendant and plaintiff, and his testimony was
commented on by counsel before the cause was finally submitted; whereupon the counsel for the defendant excepts to the
ruling of the court, and tenders this his bill of exceptions, praythe same may be signed and made a part of this recor.
cord.
THE.o. L McCALEB,
United States Tudge.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

55

Barrow v. Hill.

The second bill of exceptions was as follows:
Be it remembered, that at the trial of this cause before the
court, at the term aforesaid, the counsel for the defendant moved
the court for a continuance, on the grounds that a commission
was issued by this court on the" 11th March, 1850, to take the
testimony of William S. Green, a resident of the State of Kentucky, but supposed to be at that time on a plantation owned
by said Green in the parish of Terrebonne, Louisiana. That
the testimony of said Green is important, material, and necessary to the defence. That due diligence has been used to have
this testimony of said Green taken, but that the said commission has not yet been returned to this court; to all of which the
defendant offered to swear, but the court overruled the motion,
on the ground that the commission had issued some time after
issue joined, and subject to the right of the adverse party to
have the case tried when regularly docketed; and also upon the
ground that a sufficient time had been allowed for the return of
said commission. Whereupon the counsel for defendant excepts to the ruling of the court and tenders this his bill of exceptions, praying that the same may be signed and made a part of
THEO. H. McCALEB,
the record.
United States Jzudge.
After hearing Fisher and another witness for the defendant,
and a witness for the plaintiff, the court gave judgment for the
plaintiff; whereupon the cause was brought up to this court
upon the two exceptions above mentioned.
It was argued by Mr. V'enable, for the defendant in error,
no counsel appearing for the plaintiff in error.
14r. Venable said, - the only error as qned is, that the judg.
below overruled a motion for a continuance for reasons set forth
in the bill of exceptions; an application for a continuance being
addressed to the discretion of the court, it is submitted that, in
this case, that discretion was soundly exercised; and the defendant prays that the judgment be affirmed. And, as it appears
that this writ of error was sued out for delay, he further asks
that damages may be awarded him, according to the seventeenth
rule of this court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case is brought up by a writ of error, directed to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana.

66

SUPREME

COURT.

Barrow v. Hill.

No counsel has appeared in this court for the plaintiff in error.
The case has been called in its regular order for argument, and
thereupon the counsel for the defendant has, under the 19th
rule of the court, opened the record and argued the case, and
prays an affirmance- of the judgment, with ten per cent.
damages, on the ground that the writ of error was issued merely
for delay.
Upon looking into the record, it appears that twd exceptions
were taken in the court below by the plaintiff in error; and both
of them were taken- to the refusal of the court to continue the
case to the next term.
It has been repeatedly decided in this court, that a motion
for the continuance of the cause addresses itself to the sound
judicial discretion of the court, and its ieecision, for or against
the motion, cannot be assigned as error in this court. The rule
is so familiar in practice, that it is unnecessary to refer to cases
to prove it. The decision of the Circuit Court, therefore, upon
the motions above mentioned, is no ground for reversing the
judgment, and does not afford any reasonable foundation for.
suing out this writ of error.
* And, upon examining the statement in the exceptions, and
the reasons assigned by the court for its refusal, the inference
would seem to be irresistible, that the continuance was not asked
for by the plaintiff in error, under the expectation that it would
enable him to obtain testimony material to his defence, bt to
delay the payment of a just debt, and that the writ of error' was
sued out for the"same purpose. The case, therefore, falls within
the 17th rule of the court, and the judgment is accordingly
affirmed, with ten per cent. interest on the amount, from the rendition of the judgment in the Circuit Court until paid.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United Stateq for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel for the defendant
in error. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that. the judgment of the said Circuit
Court, in this cause be and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
costs and with interest, at the rate. of ten. per centum pler
annum on the amount, from the rendition of the judgment in
the Circuit Court until paid.

