DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

287

Taylor v. D,.

the witness resides more than a hundred miles from the place
of trial, such a provision may have been necessary. It then required nearly as much time, labor, and expense to travel one
hundred miles, as it -does now to travel one thousand. Now,
testimony may be taken and returned from California, or any
part of Europe, on commission, in two or three months, and
in any of the States east of the Rocky Mountains in two or
three weeks. There is now seldom any necessity for having
recourse to this mode of taking testimony. Besides, it is contrary to the course of the common law; and, except in cases
of mere formal proof, (such as the signature or execution of
an instrument of writing,) or of some isolated fact, (such as
demand of a bill, or notice to an indorser,) testimony thus
taken is liable to great abuse. At best, it is calculated to elicit
only such a partial statement of the truth as may have the
effect of entire falsehood. The person who prepares the witness
and examines him can generally have just so much or so little
of the truth, or such a version of it, as will suit his case. In
closely-contested cases, of fact testimony thus obtained must
always be unsatisfactory and liable to suspicion, especially if
the party has had time and opportunity to take it in the regu.
lar way. This provision of the act of Congress should never be
resorted to unless in circumstances of absolute necessity, or in
the excepted cases we have just mentioned.
Let the judgment of the Cirduit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the -United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by cou.sel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

WASHINGTON

AND SANDERS

JOHN DOE,

TAYLOR,

ex dern.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

A USTIN MILLER.

By the laws of Mfississippi, ueeds of trust and mortgages are valid, as against creditors, and purchasers only from the time when they are recorded.
A judgment is a lien from the time of its rendition.
Therefore, where a judgment was rendered, in the interval between the execution and
recording of a deed, it was a lien upon the land of the debtor.
A firi faci'as, being issued upon this judgment, was levied upon the land; but, before the issuing of a tenditoniexponas, the debtor died.

288

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Doe.

It was not necessary to revive the judgment by a scire facias; but the sheriff who
had thus levied upon the land could proceed to sell it, under a venditioni exponas;
and a purchaser, under this sale, could not be ejected by a claimant under the deed
given by the debtor.
THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Nlississippi.
It was an ejeotment, brougit: in the court below by Miller,
against the Taylors, who were the purchasers of the property in
question at a sheriff's sale. The controversy was respecting the
validity of the sale, the circumstances attending which are detailed in the opinion of the court. The following table shows
the date of the various tiansactions.
Crane was the owner, and in possession of the property.
September 21, 1840, Crane made a deed of trust to Pitser
Miller.
November 17, 1840, a judgment was gilren against Crane, at
the suit of some third person, for $6000, in the Circuit Court of
the county of Marshall.
Upon this judgment a fieri facias was issued, returnable to
the first Monday in June, 1841.
December 7, 1840, the deed from Crane to Pitser Miller was
recorded.
April 16, 1841, the execution was levied upon the land in
controversy. Whereupon Crane claimed the benefit of the valuation law of Mississippi. The property was valued at six thousand dollars, but two thirds not being bid, the papers were
returned to the clerk's office.
February 20, 1842, Crane died.
May 30, 1842, twelve months after tne return of the papers, a
writ of venditioni exponas, tested on the first Monday in March,
1842, was issued, commanding the sheriff to sell the land'
August 17, 1842, the sheriff sold the land to the Taylors; and
on the same day made them a deed for it and put them in:possession.
April 20, 1843, Pitser Miller put up the land for sale under
the deed of trust from Crane, when Austin Miller became the
purchases, and received a deed from the trustee.
In October, 1847, Miller brought his action of ejectment
against the Taylors in the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Mississippi, Miller being a citizen
of the State of Tennessee.
In December, 1849, the cause came on for trial.
On the foregoing facts, which were established by legal testimony, the court charged the jury, that if they believed, from

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

289

Taylor v. Doe.

the evidence in the case, that the venditioni exponas, by virtue
of which the land in controversy was sold, and under which
the defendants became purchasers thereof, was issued and
tested after the death of said William Crane, and without a revival of the judgment by scire facias, therl such sale and-purchase were void, and conferred no title on defendants.
The defendants excepted and brought the case up to this
court.
It was argued by 31tr. Folney B. Howard,for the plaintiffs in
error, and by Mr. Vinton and _r. Stanton, for the defendants in
error.
31r. Howard, for plaintiffs in error.
The only question involved in this case is, whether an execution sale is void when the party defendant died before the test
of the venditioni exponas, and the judgment was not revived by
scirefacias.
1. A judgment in Mississippi is a lien upon all property from
the date of its rendition. In this case the judgment was rendered previous to the conveyance, and the purchaser took it subject to the lien and the right of the judgment creditor to sell.
Pickens v. Marlow, 2 S. & M. 428; 3 Id. 67; 9 Id. 9.
2. Sheriffs' sales in Mississippi, under executions issued after
the death of the defendant, and without revival by scire facias,
have always been held only voidable, and not void, and therefore sustained in actions of ejectment. Smith et al. v. Winston
et al. 2 How. Miss. R. 607; 5 How. Miss. R. 256; 9 Smedes &
M. 218.
3. This being an important property rule in Mississippi in
relation to real estate, it is submitted, that this court, under its
former decisions, will follow the interpretation of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, especially the late case of Shelton v. Hamilton, which is printed as part of this brief, so far as it relates to
this principle, and the certified manuscript copy, herewith filed.
5 Cranch, 22; 2 Cranch, 87; 1 Wheat. 27; 2 Wheat. 316; 10
Wheat 152; 12 Wheat. 153; 4 Peters, 127; 5 Id. 151.
The counsel for the defendants in error contended, that the
decisions are uniform and almost uninterrupted, to the effect
that a levy on real estate does not divest the title of the judgment debtor, or satisfy the execution, as in the case of a levy on
personal goods. The land, therefore, descends to the heir in
spite of the levy; and in order to subject it by a process tested
after the death 9f the ancestor, the heir must be made a party
by scirefacias.. Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al. 4 How. Sup.
VOL. XIII.

25

290

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Doe.

Ct. R. 58; 6 Ala. Rep. 658; 2 How. Miss. R. 601; 5 Id. 629;
Davis v. Helm, 3 S.& AT. 17; Smith v. Walker, 10 Id. 589;
3 .Ala. 204; 7 Id. 660.
The writ of venditioni exponas is a pro-.eeding in personam,
not in rem. It must have persons for parties. Against a dead
man it is wholly void. Gwin v. Latimer, 4 Yerger, 22; Overton v. Perkins, 10 Id. 328; Rutherford v. Reed, 6 Humph. 423;
Samuels v. Zackery, 4 Iredell, 377; Bqden v. McKeene, 4 Hawks,
279; Woodcock v. Bennett, 1 Cowen; 711; Stymets v. Biooks,
10 Wendell, 206.
In Hughes v. Rees, 4 Meeson & Welsby, 468, the court say the
venditioni exponas is "part of the fieri facias," "a species offieri
facias," "a writ directing the sheriff to execute the fieri facias
in a particular manner."
The act of 1840, called the valuation law of Mississippi, did
not alter these principles. It enacted, that if lands levied on
would not sell for two thirds of their appraised value, the sheriff
should return the fierifacias,with all proceedings, to the court;
and if the judgment should not be satisfieC' after twelve months,
avenditioniexponas should issue. The sheriff is not authorized to
sell without this new process. It is the writ alone which vests
in that officer the power to sell and convey lands. Natchez Ins.
Co. v. Helm, 13 Smedes & Marsh. 182.
.'The cases in Peck's Reg.80; 4 Bibb, 345, and 2 Bay, 120,
quoted as being opposed to the foregoing authorities, are not in
fact such. The case of Toomer v. Purky, 1 Constitutional R.
323, would seem to be in opposition to the current of authorities; but it must be regarded as having been decided without
due consideration.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment, instituted in the court below
by the plaintiff, a citizen and inhabitant of the State of Tennessee, against the defendants, citizens and inhabitants of the
State of Mississippi; and the facts proved in the cause and
about which there appears'to have beei no contrariety of opinion,
were to the following effect. That the plaintiff and the defendants derived -their titles from one William Crane, who was at
one time seized and possessed of the demised premises. That
being so seized and possessed, Crane conveyed the land, on the
21st of September, 1840, to one Pitser Miller, for the purpose of
securing a debt in said conveyance mentioned; that this deed
from Crane, after having been proved, was delivered to the probate clerk of the county wherein the land was situated, on the
7th day of December, 1840, andwas on that day recorded. That

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

Taylor v. Doe.

this land was afterwards duly advertised for sale inder the trust
above mentioned, was regularly sold in pursuance thereof, by the
trustee, on the 20th day of April, 1843, to the lessor of the plain.
tiff, for the sum of $1,000, and conveyed to him by the trustee
by deed which was acknowledged and recofded on the day and
in the year last mentioned. That the defendants were in possession of the demised premises at the commencement of this
action, and that the land in dispute was worth, $4,000.
The defendants then proved, that on the 17th of November,
1840, a judgment was recovered in the Circuit Court ot the
county in which the demised premises are situated, against the
said Crane, for the sum of $6,Op0; that, on this judgment., an
execution was sued out against the goods and chattels, lands
and tenements, of the said Crane, returnable to the 1st Monday
in June, 1841, which execution, on the same day on which it
was sued, came to the hands of the sheriff of the county, and
was by him levied on the land in controversy on the 16th of
April, 1841. That thereupon the said Crane claimed the benefit of the valuation law of Mississippi, and in pursuance of that
law, the land was valued at six thousand dollars, and that being
after such valuation advertised and offered for sale, and two
thirds of the appraised value not having been offered for the said
land, the execution and papers connected therewith were returned to the clerk's office of the court of the county, according to
law; that after the expiration of twelve months, viz., on the
30th of May, 1842, a writ of venditioni exponas, tested on the
1st Monday in March, 1842, was sued out by the clerk of the
county aforesaid, directed to the sheriff of said county, commanding him to sell the land which had been levied upon, and
on which the appraisement and suspension had been taken, as
before set out; that, by virtue of this writ of venditioni exponas,
the said sheriff, after duly-advertising the land, sold the same on
the 17th day of August, 1842, when the defendants became the
purchasers thereof, at the price of $800, and having paid the
purchase-money, the sheriff conveyed to them the said land by a
deed in due form of law, which was acknowledged and recorded
on the 17th of August, 1842, the date of the said deed; that under this deed the defendants were in possession of, and claimed
title to, the land in question.
The plaintiffs' lessor then proved that Crane, upon an execution against whom the land had been seized, and at whose in.
stance that execution had been stayed under the provisions of
the statute, departed this life on the 20th of February, 1842,
during the twelve months' suspension of the proceedings on that
process. and before the test and suing out of the venditioni ex-

SUPREME

COURT.

Taylor v. Doe.

ponas under which the land had been sold, and purchased by the
tenants in possession.
Upon the foregoing facts, the judge charged the jury, that if
they believed from the evidence, the vendit~oni exponas, by virtue
of which the land in controversy was sold, and under which the
defendants became the purchasers thereof, had been sued out
and tested after the death of Crane, and without a revival of the
judgment by scire facias, then the sale and purchase were void,
and conferred no title on the tenants in possession.
With reference to the proofs in this case, and the charge pro.
nounced thereon by the court below, a single question only has
been discussed by the counsel, and it is certainly that which
must be decisive upon the judgment of this court, viz., the question involving the validity of the proceedings upon the judgment
against Crane, and the legal -consequences flowing from those
proceedings. By the statute of Mississippi (vide Howard &
Hutchinson's Collection, c. 34, sect. 5, p. 344,) deeds of trust
aiM mortgages, are valid, as against creditors and purchasers,
only from the period at Which they are delivered to the proper
recording officer. By the law. of the same State (vide How. &
Hutch. c. 47, sect. 43, p. 621,) a judgment proprio vWore ope.
rates a lien upon all the property of a defendant from the time
that it is rendered.
The trust deed from Crane to Pitser Miller, not having been
recorded until after the judgment against Crane, and the sale
under the trust not having been made until after the lapse of
more than three years from the judgment, and not until hvo
years after the levy of the execution upon the lands under that
judgment, the title derived from the sale and conveyance by the
trustee, must, by the operation of the statutes above cited, be inevitably postponed to the rights of the claimant under the judgment, unless the latter, with the proceedings had thereon, can
have been rendered null by some vice or :xregularity which deprived them of legal validity.
It is insisted, for the lessor of the plaintiff that such vice and
irregularity are manifested by the facts which controlled the
charge of the judge of the court below, viz., the suing forth
of the venditioni exponas and the proceedings upon that process,
after the death of the defendant in that judgment, and without
any revival thereof against the representative of that defendant.
In considering the objection thus urged, it must be taken as
a concessum on all sides that, by the law of Mississippi, the
judgment against Crane operated as a lien on his land, and that
by the execution and levy, the fruits of that judgment, the lien
had attached particularly and specificalli.V upon -the subject of

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

293

Taylor v. Doe.

its operation. So far then as the rights of ttle parties to the
judgment and the subject-matter to be affected by those rights
were concerned, every thing was determined; all controversy
was closed. The law had taken the subject entirely to itself, to
be applied by its own authority and its own rules. Did the indulgence of appraisement, and the temporary suspension allowed
in a certain predicament to the debtor, alter the rights or obligations of the parties, or change the status, or liability, or appropriation, of the subject which the law had already taken into its
own hands? To admit of any conclusions like these, would be*
to open again controversies already closed, and to wrest from the
fiat of the law, the subjects it had specially and absolutely applied. The privilege of appraisement and suspension was in
itself a great indulgence; it would become an opprobrium to
justice, if it could be converted into a means of abrogating rights
which she had expressly and deliberately conferred. The appraisement and suspension wrought no change in the relative
position of the parties, it neither released nor weakened the hold
taken by the law on the subject, but only completed the proceedings on the conditions which the statute had prescribed, the
operation it had begun, and which it had the regular authorit
to fulfil. We regard the vcntditioni exponas in this case merely
as a continuation and coilipletion of the previous execution by
which the property had been appropriated, and was still in the
custody of the law, and not as a separate, independent, much
less an original proceeding, the offspring or result of a distinct
and farther adjudication. This interpretation is in conformity
xith the meaning and purpose of the process of venditioni expovas, and with the terms of that writ as provided in the statute
of Mississippi, which run: in the tollowing language, viz. (Vide
How. & Hutch. Col. c.42, seq. 18.) "We command you that
you expose to sale those good6 and chattels, lands and tenements of A B, to the value of
which, according to our
command, you have taken, and which remain in your hands
unsold as you have certified to our judges, of our
Court, to satisfy C D the sum of
whereof in our
said court he hath recovered execution against the said A
B by virtue of a judgment in the said court, &c.," thils
showing the consummation of the right of the plaintiff, the
divestiture of possession of tie defendant, and the transfer
of that possession to the custody and possession of the law
by the levy of the previous execution. Considering this to be
the situation of the property, and regarding the force of the
judgment and levy as not having been affected by the appraisement and suspension of sate, it becomes unimportant to
investigate the results attempted to be deduced from the fact
253'

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Doe.

that thle venditioni exponas was sued out after the death of the
defendant Crane. According to our view this fact would have
been immaterial both upon the rules of the common law and
upon the provisions of the stat. of the 29 Car. 2, adopted in
many of the States; for by the former the execution would have
been valid if tested before the death of the defendant, and by
the statute if delivered to the officer before that period; but in
this instance not only did the lien which could be enforced by
fieri facias exist from the date of judgment, according to the
statute of Mississippi, but it was actually consummated by seizure in the lifetime of the defendant in the judgment. Upon the
point of the validity of an execution against the personalty, if
tested and sued in the lifetime of the debtor, numerous authorities might be cited from the English decisions -and from the adjudications of the State courts, as well as the decision of this court
in the case of Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al. in 4 How. Rep.
58, in which many of the cases have been reviewed. A par+tio
cular reference to the cases upon this point, however, is no)t
deemed important in the present instance, though it may not be
alfogether out of place to refer to several decisions of the Supreme Court of, M\ississippi ruling a doctrine which would go
very far in sustaining the title of the defendants in the ejectment,
admitting that the validity of the first execution and levy on the
judgment against Crane was a matter regularly open for examination. Thus the cases of Smith and Montgomery v. Winston and Lawson, 2 How. Miss. Rep. 601; of Drake et al. v. Collins, 5 Id. 253; and of Harrington v. O'Reilly et al. 9 Sm. & Marsh.
216, have laid it down as the law of Mississippi in relation to real
as well as personal estate, "that a sale made under an execution
which issued without a revival of the judgment is not absolutely
void- but voidable only, and cannot be avoided collaterally."
This last queson this court do not feel themselves nowlcalled
upon to settle; considering the levy under the first judgment
against Crane and the lien thereby created as having been consummated, and the property placed by the proceedings in the
custody of the law, they regard the title of the defendants
below derived -from the judgment, the levy of the fieri facihzs,
and sale under the venditioni exponas, as regular and valid, and
one which should have been sustained- The judgment of the
District Court is therefore reversed, and the cause remanded to
that court to be tried upon a venire favicas de nova, in conformity -with this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States, for the North-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

295

Tremlett v. Adams.

ern District of Mississippi, and was,argued by ebunsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed,
with costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby,
remanded to the said District Court, with directions to award a
venire facias de novo, and to proceed therein in conformity with
the opinion of this court.

TnOMAs TREMLET-T, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH T. ADAMS.
The tariff law of July 30, 1846 (9 Stat. at Large, 42.) reduced the duties on imported coal, and was to tak effect on the 2d of December, 1846. The sixth section provided thdt all goods, which might be in the publio-stores on that day,
should pay only the reduced duty.
On the 6th of August, 1846, (9 Stat. at-Large, 53,) Congress passed the Warehousing Act, authorizing importers, under certain circumstances, to deposit their goods
in the public stores, and to draw them out and pay the duties at any time within
one year.
But this right was confined to a port of entry, unless extended, by reghation of the
Secretary of the Treasury, to a port of delivery.
Therefore, where New Bedford was the port of entry, and Wareham a port of delivery, the collector of New Bedfori (acting under the direetion,s of the Secretary,
of the Treasury) was right in refusing coal to be entered for warehousing at
Wareham.
Where an importer deposited a sum of money, as estimated auties, with the collector, which, upon adjustment, was found to exceed the true duty by a small
amount, and the collector offered to pay it back, but the importer refused to receive
it, the existence of this small balance is not sufficient reason for reversing the jude
ment of the Circuit Court, which was in favor of the collector.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court for the District of Massachhsetts.
It was a suit brought in the Circuit Court, by Thomas Tremr
lett, a merchant of Boston, against Adams, the collector of the
port of New Bedford, for return of duties.
The case is stated in the bill of exceptions, which was as
follows:
This was an action of assumpsit, brought against the defendant, collector for the port of New Bedford, to recover the
sum of twenty-two hundred and sixty-seven dollars, seventyseven cents, and interest, excess of duties upon sundry cargoes
of coal, imported into the port of Wareham, in the collection
district of New Bedford, by the plaintiff, and claimed to be illegally exacted by said defendant, and paid by said plaintiff under
protest.
At the trial of the case before his honor, Judge Sprague, the
folldwing facts were admitted by the defendant, namely:
1st. That, in the months of September and October, 1846,

