DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

295

Tremlett v. Adams.

ern District of Mississippi, and was,argued by ebunsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed,
with costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby,
remanded to the said District Court, with directions to award a
venire facias de novo, and to proceed therein in conformity with
the opinion of this court.

TnOMAs TREMLET-T, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH T. ADAMS.
The tariff law of July 30, 1846 (9 Stat. at Large, 42.) reduced the duties on imported coal, and was to tak effect on the 2d of December, 1846. The sixth section provided thdt all goods, which might be in the publio-stores on that day,
should pay only the reduced duty.
On the 6th of August, 1846, (9 Stat. at-Large, 53,) Congress passed the Warehousing Act, authorizing importers, under certain circumstances, to deposit their goods
in the public stores, and to draw them out and pay the duties at any time within
one year.
But this right was confined to a port of entry, unless extended, by reghation of the
Secretary of the Treasury, to a port of delivery.
Therefore, where New Bedford was the port of entry, and Wareham a port of delivery, the collector of New Bedfori (acting under the direetion,s of the Secretary,
of the Treasury) was right in refusing coal to be entered for warehousing at
Wareham.
Where an importer deposited a sum of money, as estimated auties, with the collector, which, upon adjustment, was found to exceed the true duty by a small
amount, and the collector offered to pay it back, but the importer refused to receive
it, the existence of this small balance is not sufficient reason for reversing the jude
ment of the Circuit Court, which was in favor of the collector.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court for the District of Massachhsetts.
It was a suit brought in the Circuit Court, by Thomas Tremr
lett, a merchant of Boston, against Adams, the collector of the
port of New Bedford, for return of duties.
The case is stated in the bill of exceptions, which was as
follows:
This was an action of assumpsit, brought against the defendant, collector for the port of New Bedford, to recover the
sum of twenty-two hundred and sixty-seven dollars, seventyseven cents, and interest, excess of duties upon sundry cargoes
of coal, imported into the port of Wareham, in the collection
district of New Bedford, by the plaintiff, and claimed to be illegally exacted by said defendant, and paid by said plaintiff under
protest.
At the trial of the case before his honor, Judge Sprague, the
folldwing facts were admitted by the defendant, namely:
1st. That, in the months of September and October, 1846,

296

SUPREME COURT
Tremlett v. Adams.

the plaintiff, Thomas Trerlett, a merchant of Boston, imported
from Pictou, in Nova, Scotia, into the porb of Wareham, in the
collection district of New Bedford, nine cargoes of coal, as follows, namely:
Chaldros.
Brig Indfis
,
Schooner Congress
Brig Mary Sophia
Barque Acadia .
Brig Charles :Edward
Schooner Armida
.
Brig Hudson
".
Brig.China
Brig Moselle

Duty
T. Cwt. Qrs]
h s. charged,

121 1-5
157
132
173
116 1-6
153
249 11-12 329
153 3-12 I 210
161 5-12 212

13
19
10
7
19
14

161 2-12 212 7
173 8-12 . 228 1
289 8-12 249 1

1458 9-12 19221

8

2 1 12
0 16
2 12
0 10
0 26
1 26
3
1
0

16
12
8

1126

$279
304
268
576
333
372
371

44
42
68
37
43
27

Money
deposited.
$285
315
280
575
360
375

00
00
00
00
00
00

69
400 52
457 32

375 00
400 00
438 00

$3364 14

$3403 00

Amounting, in the aggregate, to 1,45S,! chaldrons, or 1,922
tons, 8 cwt. 1 qr. 26 lbs., as appears by the custom-house records.
These several cargoes of coal were shipped at Pictou, for
the port of Wareham, a port of delivery only; and, upon the
arrjval at that poit of the first-mentioned vessel, the brig Indus,
on or about the 3d of September, 1846, the plaintiff made application at the custom-house in New Bedford, to the defend,ant, Joseph T. Adams, then collector at said port, to enter said
coal, for warehousing, at Wareham, aforesaid, under the provisions of the act of Congress, entitled, "An act to establish a
wa:rehousing system," &c., passed August; 6th, i846. But -the
defendant refused" to allow the plaintiff toenter said coal for
warehousing, as aforesaid, under the act aforesaid, because said
Wareham was not a port of entry, but' a port of delivery; and
required him, if he would land said coal at said Wareham, to
enter the same under the act for the collection of duties, passed
August 30th, 1842, and to deposit $285 to cover the duties
which might be found to be legally due and payable thereon.
The plaintiff, in order that said vessel might be permitted to
discharge her cargo, complied with this requisition, first entering
the following protest in writing:
"I protest against paying duties, wishing to warehouse the
coal per brig Indus, from Pictou ;" and signed " Thomas Tremlett, by his attorney, Jacob Parker."
The usual permit was then granted by the collector, to land
the coal from said vessel at said Wareham, and the coal was
accordingly landed; and, upon the arrival at said Wareham of
the other cargoes of coal, by the several vessels above named,

DECEMBER t-ERM, 1851.

297

Tremlett v. Adams.

said plaintiff made like applications to the defendant, at the
collector's office at New Bedford, to enter each cdrgo foi warehousing under said act of August 6th, f846, at Wareham,
aforesaid.
But the defendant, in like manner, as in the case of the brig
Indus, refused permission to warehouse, as aforesaid, and required the plaintiff to make the same entry as in that case, and
deposit a sum of money upon the entry of each cargo, sufficient to cover the duties which might be found to be legally due
and payable thereon, under the provisions of the act of August
20th, 1842, the plaintiff first entering a protest in writing, in
each case, and upon the entry of each cargo, in manner and
form as in the case of the brig Indus, above mentioned; and
said coal was thereupon landed, and deposited in the same
manner as that per brig Indus.
2d. That all of said coal, landed at said Wareham from the
above-named vessels, was deposited in one pile, and remained
in the place where it was originally deposited until after December 19th, 1846.
3d. That the aggregate sum deposited with the defendant by
the plaintiff, to cover the amount of duties on the several cargoes of coal above mentioned, was $3,403, and the duties on said
coal, computed under the Tariff Act of August 30, 1842, would
amount to $3,364.14; that by the act of July 30, 1846, the duties on the coal in question would amount to $1,135.23.
4th. That the brigs Indus and Mary Sophia -were British ves.
sels; that it has been the invariable practice of the collectors
at New Bedford, for more than twenty years, to allow foreign
vessels the same rights and privileges, as to unlading and discharging their cargoes at the port of Wareham, that are granted
to American vessels, and that no objection was made or intimated by the defendant to the ploiniff to his landing the cargoes of said "Indus" and "Mary Sophia" at said Wareham.
5th. That said Wareham is the principal port, in the collection district of New Bedford, where coal is imported for consumption.
6th. That the defendant, on or before the 19th of December,
1846, delivered to the plaintiff's attorney a statement of the
balance due to the plaintiff for money deposited, over and above
the amount of duties claimed on the nine cargoes of coal aforesaid, amounting to $38.86, and offered then to pay the same
to M. Parker, the plaintiff's attorney, which he declined to
receive; and that- on the 13th of November, 1849, Mr. Adams,
the defendant, tendered the same amount in specie to Thomas
Tremlett, the plaintiff, at his office in Boston, which he refused
to receive, and informed the defendant that in 1846 he instructed
Mr. Parker, his attorney, not to receive it.

SUPREME

COURT.

Tremlett v. Adams.

7th. That the paper hereto annexed marked A, is a true copy of
the commission under which D. Nye aated as an officer of the
revenue, from the date of the commission till after January, 1849;
and that the paper marked B, annexed hereto, is a true copy of
an official letter, received by D. Nye from said defendant, at or
about the time it bears date, and that the papers annexed,
marked C and D, are true copies of official letters received by the
defendant from the Secretary of the Treasury of the United
States.
Boston, December 13th, 1849.
(The paper marked A was merely an authority to David Nye
to act as deputy-collector, inspector, gauger, weigher, and measurer, for the port of Wareham, dated October 3, 1843.
The paper marked B was an authority to Nye, from Adams,
under the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury, to warehouse coal, &c., at Wareham, under the Warehousing Act of
1846. But this authority was dated August 22, 1848.
The paper marked C was dated August 27th, 1846, and was
a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to Adams, refusing
to allow any article to be warehoused without the limits of a
port of entry.
The paper marked D was from the same to same, dated July
5th, 1849, merely saying that the District Attorney had been instructed.to defend Adbms in the suit brought by Tremlett.)
Upon those facts the plaintiff, by his counsel, requested the
court to rule and instruct the jury, 1st. That the right or privilege of warehousing goods at any
ports or places within the United States :_s regulated by the laws
of Congress, which specify the ports and -olaces at which, and the
manner in which, such warehousing shall be permitted, and that
no discretion as to the selection of such ports or places, or, as to
the manner in which such warehousing shall be allowed, is reposed in the collector, or any other executive officer.
The plaintiff further requested the court to rule and instruct
the jury,2d. That by law there is no distinction as to the exercise of
such right of warehousing between ports of entry and ports of
delivery, and that if the plaintiff at the time had a right, under
the existing laws, to warehouse his goods in'a port of entry in
any district in the United States, he had equally a right to waiehouse them at any port of delivery in such district, upon complying with the requirements of the laws regulating the warehousing of goods.
The plaintiff further requested the court to rule and instruct
the jury, 3d. That the plaintiff, being unlawfully prevented from ware-

DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.

299

Tremlett v. Adams.

housing his goods as aforesaid, and required to pay duties upon
them according to the rates established by the Tariff Law of 1842,
ought to recover of the defendant the difference between the
amount of duties chargeable under the Tariff Act of 1842 and
that under the Tariff Act of 1846, and interest thereon from the
time of payment of the several sums.
The plaintiff further requested the court to rule and instruct
the jury, -

4th. That if, upon the facts, the plaintiff could not recover the
whole of the difference between the amount of duties properly
chargeable under the act of 1842, and the amount properly
chargeable under the act of 1846, he was entitled to recover the
sum of $38.86, being the surplus in the defendant's hands over
and above the amount of the duty properly chargeable according to the act of 1842. But the court refused to give the instructions so prayed for; but, on the contrary thereof, did rule
and instruct the jury that the plaintiff could not maintain his
action, nor recover either of said sums of money, or any part
thereof; to all which rulings and instructions the plaintiff excepts, and prays that his exceptions may be allowed.
PELEG SPRAGUE, [SEAL.]

udg-e, 4-c.
The jury accordingly found for the defendant, and upon these
exceptions, the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Sherman, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Bibb, for the defendant in error. There was also an
elaborate brief on the same side, filed by Mr. Cittenden, (Attorney-General.)
1Mr. Sherman, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the
court below erred,1st. In refusing the instructions prayed for in behalf of the
plaintiff below.
2d. In the instructions which it gave to the jury.
(The arguments of the counsel upon both sides were founded
upon a minute examination of preceding laws, which it would
be difficult to compress withiR reasonable limits, and at the same
time do justice to the arguments. The reporter, therefore, confines himself to a mere statement of the points.)
Mr. Sherman united both the above points in his arguments.
1st. That, under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, a right existed to warehouse tlke coal at a port of delivery.
2d. The right to warehouse at the port in.question being given
by law, the plaintiff could. not be deprived of that right by any
instructions issued by the Secretary of the Treasury to carry the

300

SUPREME COURT.
Tremlett v. Adama.

act into effect. . Sect. 5 of Warehousing Act, 9 Stat. at Large,
53; Tracy & Balister v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 95; Elliot v.
Swartwout, 10 Pet. 153; and Greely v. Thompson, 10 How.
234, decided at the last term of the Supreme Court.
3d. The defendant, as collector of the customs, having deprived the plaintiff of the right to warehouse his said nine cargoes of coal at Wareham, and to enter the same, under the
Tariff Act of July, 1846, upon the payment of $1,135.13, the
duty imposed on the same by that act, and exacted of the plaintiff a deposit of money, as for duties, amounting to $3,403, the
plaintiff has a right to recover the difference, with interest.
4th. Or, otherwise, if it be decided that the duties were legally
due under the Tariff Act of 1842, amounting to $3,364.11, the
plaintiff having deposited with the defendant the sum of $3,403,
is entitled to recover the difference, viz., $38.89, with interest.
Boyden v. Moore, 5 Mass. R. 365, 369; Breed v. Hurd, 6 Pick.
356; Whipple v. Newton, 17 Pick. 168.
On the other hand, the counsel for the defendant in error contended that the first, second, and third instructions, as moved,
were not according to the law of the case upon the facts established by the evidence, and facts pertinent to the issue, which
no evidence conduced to prove, (and are therefore to be considered as not having existed.) They would, if given, have misled
the jury.
'The first and second instructions moved, misconstrue the revenue laws. Important distinctions between ports of entry and
delivery, and ports of deivery only, are made by the laws. The
Secretary of the Treasury had a discretion to refuse to suffer
coal to be warehoused at ports of delivery only, where no collector, naval officer, or surveyor resided; where the collector of
the port of entry had to dispharge, at one, two, or three ports of
delivery only, annexed to his collection district, all the duties of
collector, naval officer, and surveyor; and where, in the opinion
of the Secretary, the additional charge of a permanent officer to
reside at the port of delivery only, with the rent to be paid for
warehouses, would overgo the receipts from storage, and diminish the revenue at such port of delivery only.
The third instruction moved by the plaintiff, when applied to
the facts of the case, assumes, in the firs-; place, that the Secretary of the Treasury "unlawfully" prevented the warehousing
of the coal at Wareham; and in the next place assumes that,
because the collector obeyed the instructions of the Secretary,
the defendant became a wrongdoer; aneL in the third place assumes that the defendant is liable, and, in the language of the
count, became .indebted to the plaintiff, and promised him to

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

301

Tremlett v. Adams.

pay the difference of duty on the coal between the Tariff of
1842, and that of December, 1846.
If the Secretary of the Treasury had been sued as the wrongdoer instead of the collector, the Secretary could have defended
and maintained his instructions against warehousing coal at
Wareham, a port of delivery only, as being a lawful exercise of
a discretionary power confided by the revenue laws existing before the act to establish a system of warehousing, not impaired
by that act, but confirmed by its fifth section; which discretionary power so given by the laws, was. necessary and proper to
the uniformity and efficiency of the system of revenue from the
customs, over which the judicial department has no control.
The second proposition assumed by the plaintiff, that the defendant, in obeying the instructions to him as collector, by the
Secretary of the Treasury, against warehousing the coal at the
port of Wareham, became thereby a wrongdoer, and liable to
the plaintiff for damages, would not follow, if it were conceded,
that the Secretary of the Treasury, in the exercise of his functions, erred in the construction of the revenue laws, and thereupon issued wrong instructions to the collector against warehousing at Wareham.
The third assumption, as to the amount of the remote consequential damages, would not follow from the plaintiff's first and
second premises, if they were conceded.
The conduct of the defendant, as collector, whether he pursued the right line of his duty, or departed from it and became
a trespasser, and if a wrongdoer for what damages he became
responsible, are matters to be adjudged by the laws in force defining his duties as collector at the time when the plaintiff made
his protest against the conduct of the collector; not by the error
of the Secretary of the Treasury, whom the law had put over
him as a light, a guide, and a buckler; nor by laws which did
not take effbct until months after the plaintiff's protest; nor by
the after voluntary act of the plaintiff himself, of omission or
commission.
* The fourth instruction moved relates to the sum of $38.86,
twice tendered to the plaintiff. and twice refused.
This is certainly a small business, a little matter, a very trifling matter, wherewith the plaintiff hath elected, (after two tenders and refusals,) to engage the time and attention, first of the
Circuit Court of the United States, by an action originally brought
therein, whose cognizance, as defined by law, is intended to be
limited to cases "where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive
of costs, the sum or value of five hundred d6llars," and secondly,
the time and attention of this court, whose appellate jurisdiction in such like cases, is, by. the- law. intended to be confined to
VOL. XIII.

26

302

SUPREME COURT.
Tremlett v. Adams.

matters in dispute exceeding the sum or value of two thousand
dollars, exclusive of costs.
If the plaintiff had truly stated his said demand, for the said
sum of thirty-eight dollars eighty-six cents, neither the Circuit
Court nor this court could have held ccgnizance of the plea.
But by refusing this sum when tendered, and by mixing this
matter with his protest about the warehousing, and, by stating
his demand at five thousand dollars, he has compelled the Circuit Court and this court to hold cognizance of his complaint.
If the jury had found for the plaintiff the sum of thirty-eight
dollars eighty-six cents, then, according to the twentieth section
of the Judiciary Act of 24th September, 1789, "he shall not be
allowed, but, at the discretion of the court, may be adjudged, to
pay costs."
When, upon the facts given in evidence, the plaintiff moved
this fourth instruction, that " he was entitled to recover the sum
of $06.86," he thereby confined and dwindled his demand to that
sum; the court was called to adjudicate as to that sum; to
lend its assistar.ce to the plaintiff to recover that sum and no
more; a matter far beneath the cognizance of that court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action brought by the plaintiff against the collector
of the port of New Bedford, for refusing to permit the plaintiff
to enter for warehousing at Wareham sundry cargoes of coal,
imported from Pictou, Nova Scotia, which were shipped for
Wareham, and arrived in the months of September and October 1846. Wareham was a port of delivery in the colleetion
district of which New Bedford was the port of entry; and the
collector, in refusing to permit them -to be entered for warehousing at Wareham, acted under the directions of the Secretary of
the Treasury. The plaintiff was require:l to pay in cash the
duties imposed by the act of 1842, before the permit for landing
at Wareham was granted. And this suit is brought to rdcover
the difference between the duties paid and the duties to which
the coal would have been liable if it had been warehoused at
Wareham and remainud in store as the plaintiff desired until
the reduced tariff went into operation. The case depends upon
the construction of the Warehousing Act of August 6, 1846.
The law is framed in very general terms, referring to other
laws for some of its regulations ; and containing but few specific directi.ons as to the manner in which it should be carried into
execution. And it authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to
make from time to time such regulations, not inconsistent with.
law, as might be necessary to give full effect to the provikons of

DECEMBER TER.f, 1851.

303

Tremlett v. Adams.

the act, and secure a just accountability under it. This mode
of legislation has raturally led to some ambiguity, and has
given rise to this controversy.
The act went into operation on the'day it was approved by
the President. And the plaintiff insists that, under its provisions,
he was entitled, as soon as it passed, to land his goods at the
port of delivery upon bonding for the duties; and to have them
placed there in store in order to avail himself, if he thought
proper, of the reduced tariff, which took effect on the 2d of December, in the same year. The 6th section of the Tariff Act of
July 30, 1846, which passed a few days before the Warehousing
Act, of which we are now speaking, provided that all goods imported after the passage of that law, and remaining in the public
stores on the 2d of December following, when the act went into
operation, should be subject to no other duty upon entry thereof
than if they had been imported after that day.
In expounding the Warehousing Act, it must be borne in
mind, that it was not passed for the purpose of enabling the importer to avail himself of the reduced rates of duty. It is a part
of the general and permanent system of revenue; and its evident object is to facilitate and encourage-commerce by exempting the importer from the payment of duties, until he is ready
to bring his goods into market. The opportunity it afforded
of taking advantage of the reduced rates of duty was an accidental circumstance arising from the time at which it happened
to be passed. The provisions in the 6th section of the Tariff Act
of July 30, 1846, had no reference to goods entered for warehousing. There was.no law at that time which authorized the importer so to enter them. And although the Warehousing Act,
which passed a few days afterwards, enabled the importer, by warehousing his goods, to take the benefit of the provisions of the previous law, yet it was not passed for that purpose. And it must be
regarded and interpreted, not as an act passed for a temporary
purpose, or to meet a change of tariff, but as one intended to be
equally applicable to goods imported after the 2d day'of December, as to goods imported between the 30th of July and that
time. The plaintiff had the same legal rights in this respect at
the time he offered to enter his coal at Wareham as an importer
of the present day, and nothing more; and no greater advantages were intended to be given him by the Warehousing Act.
Previous to the passage of this act no gbods, chargeable with
cash duties, could be landed at the port of delivery until the
duties were paid at the port of entry. The importer had no
right to land them anywhere until they had passed through the
custom-house. And they coluld not be landed at the port of
delivery without the permit of the proper officer at the port of

804

SUPREM1E COURT
Tremlett v. Adams.

entry. This permit in effect delivered them to the owner to be
landed under the usual inspection, and sold and disposed of as
he thought proper; and the permit could not be granted unless
the duties had been paid.
There could, therefore, but rarely be any necessity for public
stores or warehouses at a port of delivery, before the passage of
the Warehousing Act.
It was otherwise at ports of entry. The importer himself
had no right to land them even at a" port of entry before the
duties were Paid. But when the entry at the custom-house was
imperfect, for wNant of the proper documents, or where the goods
were damaged in the- voyage, and the duties could not be immediately ascertained; or the cash duties were not paid after
the forms of entry had been complied with; in all of these cases
the collector was directed, by existing laws, to take possession
of such goods, and -place them in public stores, and retain them
until'the duties were paid. Andas all of this was to be done
at the port of entry, public stores were necessary at such ports;
and they had accordingly been provided for by law, before the
passage of the Warehousing Act.
Now, the Warehbusing Act, so far as the landing and storing
of goods is concerned, places goods entered for warehousing
upon the same, footing with goods upon which th, duties have
not been paid. It provides, that in all cases of failure or neglect to pay the duties within the period allowed by law to the
importer, to make entry thereof, or whenever the owner, importer, or consignee, shall make entry for warehousing in the
manner directed in the act, the collector shall take possession
of the goods and deposit them in the public stores, or in other
stores to be agreed on by the collector or other chief officer of
the port, and the importer of the goods to be secured in the
manner provided for in the act of 1818 relative to the warehousing of wines and distilled spirits. The warehoused goods,
therefore, are to be taken possession of by the same officer and
stored, and treated like goods upon which the importer had
failed to pay duty. And, as the latter were necessarily to be
taken possession of at the port of entry, and accustomed to he
stored there, the natural inference from this association is, that
the law contemplated the storage of warehoused goods at the
same place, and did not mean to give the importer a right to
store them at any port of delivery to which he .might have
chosen to ship them. The Warehousing Act gives him no peculiar privileges over the importer of goods directed to be placed
in the public stores because the duties were not paid; nor any
greater right to select for himself the place of storage.
The 2d section of the act strengthens this construction of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Tremlett v. Adams.

1st section. It provides that warehoused goodi, deposited in
the public stores in the manner provided in the 1st section,
might be withdrawn and transported to any other port of entry;
and directs that the party should give bond for the deposit of
them in store, in the port of entry to whih they shall be destined. The use of the words "ports of entry," in this provision, implies that they were to be stored in a port of that description in the first instance, and to be deposited again in a
like port, if they were transported coastwise.
Again, the directions as to the manner in which they are to
be secured while they remain in the store, and to be delivered
to'the party when he is entitled to receive them, leads to the
same conclusion. They cannot be withdrawn without a permit from the collector and naval officer of the port at which
they are stored. And as there is no naval officer appointed or
needed at a port of delivery, this provision would appear to
have contemplated the storage at a port of entry and not of delivery. There are certain expressions in the law which may be
applied to a port of delivery as well as of entry. But they were
introduced for the purpose of authorizing the Secretary of the
Treasury, under the power to make regulations, to have suitable
storehouses to provide at a port of delivery, when the nature
and importance of the trade might require it.
The act of 1799, c. 22, ยง 21, (1 Stat. at Large, 642,) authorizes
the collector, with the approbation of the principal officer of the
Treasury Department, to employ proper persons as weighers,
gaugers, measurers, and inspectors at the several ports within
his district; and also, with the like approbation, to provide, at
the public expense, storehouses for the safe-keeping of goods,
and such scales, weights, and measures, as may be necessary. The
secretary and collector were, therefore, under this law, to determine where storehouses were necessary; and might provide them
at a port of delivery, if they believed the interests of the public
and of commerce demanded it. But the law confided it to their
discretion, to determine whether they sould or should not be
provided at any particular port of delivery; and the Warehousing Act has not changed the law in this respect, and does not
require that there should be public st6rehouses at every port of
delivery at which the importer might wish to warehouse his
goods.
The record shows, that after this transaction took place, the
secretary did authorize goods to be warehoused at Wareham.
But the question before us is not whether he might not have
authorized it before; but whether, independently of any regulation by the secretary, the importer had not an absolute right,
as soon as the law was passed, to land his gbods at the port of
S 2,*

SUPREME COURT.
Tremlett v. Adams.

delivery to which they were destined, and store them there, upon
giving the bonds which the law requires. We think he had
not, and that the right, given under the Warehousing Act, was,
confined to a port of entry, unless extended, by regulation of the
secretary, to a port of delivery.
Indeed, the execution of the law would be impracticable
under the construction contended for by the plaintiff. For it
directs that the bond to be taken on the entry for warehousing,
shall be prescribed by the secretary; and it is made his duty to
make regulations to carry the law into full effect, and secure a
just accountability. These things required time; and the collector could not act without them. Yet, if the plaintiff's construction be the correct one, his right to enter his coal for warehousing at Wareham was as absolute trhe day after the law
passed as it was when he offered to make the entry. For if the
law gave him the right, independently of any regulations by the
secretary, he was not bound to wait until they were made and
'the form of the bond prescribed; but might have demanded his
rights on the 7th of August, and sued the collector if he failed
to obtain them. It is evident that Congress could not have intended to confer upon the importer this right. Nor can the law
receive that construction without rejecting the provisions which
authorize the secretary to prescribe the form of the bond, and
to direct the manner in which the act was to be carried into
effect. These provisions, iff relation to the power of the secretary, are important, and were intended to guard the public
against any abuse of the privileges which the Warehousing Act
gave to the'importer.
. Moreover, many of the ports of delivery are at places where
the trade is trivial and unimportant, and where it would be difficult to procure suitable storehouses for [L cargo unexpectedly
arriving and demanding to be warehoused'. In many of them
there are not a sufficient number of officers to superintend the
landing and warehousing of a cargo of an ordinary ship, and
guard it afterwards from being improperly withdrawn. The
Warehousing Act does not authorize the appointment of additional officers, at ports of delivery, nor provide for any additional
expenses to be incurred by the public in carrying it into execution. And if the collector is bound to grant a permit to land
the goods, at any port of delivery which, the importer may
select for his shipment, it is easy to foresee the abuses to which
it would lead; and the frauds that might be practised under it,
Congress can hardly be presumed, from any general or ambiguous language, to have intended, in this law, to dispense with
-all the safeguards which had been so carefully provided and
preserved in previous acts. We think neither its words nor its

DECEMBER TERM,.1851.

307

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

manifest object will justify such a constructiori, and that the
collector was right in refusing the permit to the plaintiff to land
and warehouse the coal in question at Wareham.
As regards the small balance of the plaintiff's deposit which
remained in the collector's hands after the payment of the legal
duties, it is no ground for reversing the judgment of the Circuit
Court. The defendant offered to pay it, but the plaintiff refused to receive it. The money placed in the hands of the collector for the estimated duties was a deposit in trust for the
United States for the ariount that should be found actually
due; and for the plaintiff for the balance, if any should remain
after the duties were paid. And as the plaintiff refused to receive this balance when tendered, it contiliues a deposit in the
hands of the defendant with the plaintiff 1 consent; and he
cannot subject the collector to the costs and expenses of a suit
until he can show that it is wrongfully withheld.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
cont, that the judgment of the said Circurit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with dosts.

Tan

PHILADELPHIA, WILMINGTON, AND BALTIMORE RAIL ROAD
COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,'V. SEBRE HOWARD.

In Maryland, th clerk of a county court was propdrly admitted to prove the verity
of a copy of the docket-entries made by him as clerk, because, by a law of Mary:
land, no technical record was required to be made.
And, moreover, the fact which was to be proved being merely the pendency of an
action, proof that the entry was made on the docket by the proper officer was
proof that the action was pending, until the other party could show its termiz"
nation.
Where the question was, whether or not the paper declared upon bore the corporate
seal of the defendants, (an incorporated company,, evidence was admissible to
show that, in a former suit, the defendants had treated and relied upon the instrument, as one bearing the corporate seal. And it was admissible, although the
former sitwas not between the same parties ; and although the former suit was
against one of three corporations, which had afterwards become merged into olie,
which one was the present defendant.
The admission of the paper as'evidence only left the question to the jury. The bur
den of proof still remained upon the plaintiff.

