SUPREME COURT.
Weems v. George et al.

How. 22. It follows, then, from the foregoing authorities, as
an inevitable conclusion, that whether the undertakiDngs set out
in the special counts or in the general indebitatus assmnpsit be
taken as joint or as, joint and several, it would have constituted
no valid objection to the proceedings in the Circuit Court by which
the cause was discontinued, as to all the defendants save the
last or immediate indorser, even had such an objection been
directly and expressly presented and reserved by the pleadings.
That discontinuance deprived him of no right, imposed upon him
no burden or responsibility he was not already bound to sustain
-- it merely left him in the exact position in which his undertaking with the plaintiff below could be regularly and properly adjudicated. Upon full c6nsideration, therefore, we think that the
judgment of the Circuit Court should be, and the same is hereby
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Southern Distaict of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration xvhereof, it is now here ordered, and adjudged, by this
court, that the judgment of said Circuit Court in this cause, be,
and the same is hereby affirmed with costs and damages, at the
rate of six -per centum per annum.

ALEXANDER H. WEEMS, PLAINTIFF
IN
ERROR, V. ANN
GEORGE, CONELLY GEORGF, ROSE ANN GEORGE, WIFE OF
JOHN STEEN, MARY ANN GEORGE, WIFE OF THOMAS CONN,
NANCY GEORGE, WIFE OF JAMES GILMOUR, MARGARET GEORGE,
WIFE OF WILLIAM MILLER, JOHN STEEN, THOMAS CONN,
JAMES GILMOUR, AND WILLIAM MILLER.
Where there was a sale of an undivided moiety of a tracd of land, and the purchaser
undertook to extinguish certain liens upon it, which he failed to do; and in consequence of such failure the liens were enforced, and had to be paid by the heirs of
the origina owner, a suit by these heirs against the purchaser to recover damages
for the non-fulfilment of his contract to extinguish the liens, was not within the prohibition of the llth section of the Judiciary Act, 1 Stat. at Large, 78. The heirs,
being aliens, had a right to sue in the Circuit Court.
In a trial in Louisiana, where the judge tried the whole case without the intervention
of a jury, a bill of exceptions to the admission of testimony by the judge, cannot
be sustained in this court.
The extinguishment of the liens by the heirs of the original owner, was effected by process of law and attended with costs. It was proper that these costs also, as well as

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

191

Weems v. George et al.
the amount of the liens, should be recovered by the heirs from the defaulting party
who had failed to fulfil his contract. The article, 1929 of the code of Louisiana,
does not include this case: but it is included within article 1924.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The plaintiff in error, and Alexander George, being joint
owners of certain real property, made a partition of it between
them on the 14th of January, 1847, by a written act of partition, and the plaintiff in error undertook, and promised to pay,
certain promissory notes, made by Alexander George in favor
of John McClain Durand, and which were secured by mortgage
on the property described in the act of partition, among which
were two notes, one for the sum of $1,305.38, payable on the
1st of January, 1848, with interest at six per cent. per annum
from maturity; and one for the sum of $1,250.22, payable on
the 1st of January, 1849, with interest at six per cent. per annum
from maturity. When the note for $1,305.38 fell due the plain.
tiff in error paid $600 on account upon it, leaving the remainder
unpaid; and, when the other note fell due, he failed to pay it,
also. After default was made in the payment of the last note,
the holder of the two notes instituted suit against the defendants in error, the heirs and legal representatives of Alexander
George, who was then dead, and recovered the amount due on
them, viz.: $1,955.60, and costs of protest, with interest at six
per cent. per annum on $705.38, from 4th January, 1848, and
on the remainder from 4th January, 1849, by judgment, and
issued an execution or ft. fa., under which certain slaves were
seized, in the parish of St. Tammany, and brought over to the
city of New Orleans, where they were sold on the 13th of
June, 1849, and the sum of $2,435.88, out of the proceeds of
the sale, were applied to the payment pf the debt and of the
costs made.
On the 1st of December, 1849, Ann George, &c., the defendants in error, filed their petition against Weems in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, claiming to be reimbursed this sum of $2,435.88, with interest and costs. (Another claim was made for the value of a
negro slave who died, but as a rendititur was entered before
inal judgment, it is not necessary to notice this further.)
The defendant put in two pleas to the jurisdiction: 1st, that
the plaintiffs were not aliens, and 2d, that they derived their
right from George; and as he and Weems were both citizens
of Louisiana, the plaintiffs were" prohibited, by the 11th section
of the Judiciary Act, from bringing suit in the United States
court. These pleas were overruled.
After sundry other proceedings, the defendant filed the forlowing answer.

192

SUPREME COURT.
Weems v. George et al.

Now comes the defendant in the above entitled suit, and
denies all and singular the allegations in the plaintiffs' petition
contained; he denies specially that the plaintiffs are the heirs of
said Alexander George, or that they have, or ever had any interest
in the succession of said Alexander George. He denies that plaintiffs ever authorized the institution of this suit, and avers that
they have no interest in the pretended causes of action set forth in
said petition. He avers, also, that he is in no manner liable to
plaintiffs herein. Your respondent further says, that if at any time
he has refused or failed to pay any of the notes mentioned in said
petition, it was because one Rickerman had brought suit against
the succession of said Alexander George, claiming a lien and privilege upon said island for work, labor, &c., incontructing a leveq
thereon, which lien and privilege neither said Durand nor thE
curator of said succession would discharge, and your respondent
is in no way liable for the consequences of such refusal. Where.
fore defendant prays to be hence dismissed with his costs, and
for general relief &c.
CHAS. M. EMERSON,
J.

S. 'WHITTAKER,

Defendant'sattorneys.
On the 4th of April, 1850, the cause came on for trial before
the judge, without a jury, when the following final judgment
was given, viz.
This cause this day came on to be heard; Halsey and Bonford, Esqs., appearing for the plaintiffs, and Emerson, Esq., for
defendant. When, after argument of counsel, the court being
satisfied that the law and the vidence are in favor of the plaintiffs, Ann George et al., doth order, adjudge, and decree, that
the said plaintiffs do have and recover judgment against the
defendant, Alexander W. Weems, for the sum of two thousand
four hundred and thirty-five dollars and eighty-eight cents, with
interest on nineteen hundred and fifty-five dollars and sixty
cents of said sum, from 13th June, 1849, at the rate of six per
centum per annum, until paid, and costs of suit to be taxed.
Judgment rendered 4th April, 1850.
Judgment signed 22d April, 1850.
THEODORE:

H.

McCALEB,

[SEAL.)

United States Tude.
In the course of the trial, the following bill of exceptions was
taken.
Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause, the plaintiffs
offered in evidence a certificate marked D, of one N. B. Harmer, clerk of the eighth Judicial District Court for the parish of
St. Tammany, for the purpose of proving that certain claims
against the succession of Alexander George were satisfied add

DF

E MBER TERM, 1851.

193

Weems v. George et &I.

paid by the heirs of said George. To the introduction of this"
document the defendant objected, on the ground that.it was not
competent nor within the official duties"and acts of the clerk to
certify to. the existence of facts from the inspection of; and from
documents and papers on file in the suit; and that the facts and
the papers showing them should have been copied, and the certificate given as to the verity of the copy. The court overruled
the objection and admitted the evidence.
Be it remembered, also, that on the trial of said cause the
plaintiffs offered one&3. M. Durand as a witness to prove that he
had brought suit against the defendant in this suit, the said
Alexander W. Weems, to recover the amount of the notes set
forth in this suit, and that said Weems had taken a suspensive
appeal from an order of seizure and sale, to the Supreme Court
of the State of Louisiana. The defendant objected to these
facts being stated by the witness, on the ground that it was not
competent to prove the contents, or any part of the contents, of
written documents, or of judicial records by parol, without first
proving the destruction of the said documents or records. But
the court overruled the objection an4 permitted the witness to
testify to the facts above mentioned.
THEODORE M. MCCALEB,
United States Tudge.
The defendants brought the case up to this court by writ of
error.
It was argued by Mr. Miles Tazylor, for the plaintiff in error,
and Mr. Lawrence, for the defendants in error.
Mr. Taylor, for the plaintiff in error.
Upon the trial of the cuse, the defendants in error, in the
court below, offered in evidence a certificate of the clerk -of the
eighth Judicial District Court for the parish of St. Tammany,
for the purpose of proving that certain claims against the sue.
cession of Alexander George were satisfied and paid by the
the heirs of the said George. To the introduction of this certi.
ficate the plaintiff in error objected, on the ground that it was
not competent for, nor within the official duties or power or"the
clerk, to certify to the existence of 'facts from the inspection of
documents and papers on file :in a suit, and that such facts, if
they existed, could only be shown by duly certified copies -of
the documents and .papers on file, showing such facts; and the
objection was overruled by the court, and- the certificate admitted. And the defendants in error further offered one . AL
Durand as a witness to prove that he had brought suit against
the plaintiff in error, to recover the amount of the notes sued on
VOL. XII.

17

194

SUPREME COURT.
Weems v. George et al.

in this case, and that he, the plaintiff in error, had taken a suspensive appeal therein to the Supreme Court of Louisiana. To
the introduction of this testimony the plaintiff in error objected,
on the ground that one could not be permitted to prove the contents, or any part of the contents, of judicial records by parol,
without first proving the destruction of the said records; and
the objection was overruled, and the testimony admitted. To
the decisions of the court overruling these objections, and admitting the certificate of the clerk, and the testimony of the withess Durand, the plaintiff excepted;. and his bill of exceptions
was duly allowed and signed by the court, as will be seen at
p. 8 of the transcript.
And this7 ruling of the court was erroneous. and an error appa.
rent on the face of the record.
As to the certificate of the clerk:
1st. If it relates to facts shown by papers or aocuments on
file in his office, he cannot certify the substance of such papers;
he must give a transcript of them. Smoot v. Russell, 1 Mart.
La. Rep. N. S.522; 1 Phill. Evi. 317.
2d. If it related to facts within his knowledge, it was inadmissible; because the statement was not made under oath, &c.
Ellicott v. Pearl, 10 Pet. 412.
As to the testimony of the witness Durand.
1st. It was not the best evidence the nature of the case admitted of.
2d. Judicial records can only be proved by copies duly certified to be true copies from the originals. 1 Phillips, Evidence,
383; Hagan v.Lucas, 10 Pet. 400.
_Mr. Lawrence, for defendants in error.
The plaintiff in error pleaded to the jurisdiction, (p. 3,) on the
ground that the petitioners are not-aliens, as'alleged; and, especially, that the said Alexander George was, in his lifetime, and at
the date of the notes, &c. a citizen of Louisiana; and that D.urand
and wife .(the vendors to George) were also citizens of Louisiana.
The first bill of exceptions states, that the plaintiffs below
offered in evidence a certificate of the clerk of the parish court
for the purpose of proving that certa'n claims against the succession of Alexander George were paid by the heirs of said
George, which was objected to on the ground that the clerk was
not authorized to certify as to facts from _r~spection of records.
The second bill of exceptions states, that the plaintiffs below
offered Durand as a witness, to prove that he had brought suit
against We~ms on the nofes set forth ia the petition. The
defendant objected, on the ground that it was not competent to
prove-the contents of judicial records by parol, without first
proving their'loss or destruction.

DECEM*BER TERM1, 1851.

195

Weems v. George et al.

1st. The plea to the jurisdiction.
The plaintiffs below were oliens. The action was not brought
upon the promissory notes, but upon the agreement in the act
of partition. They were not assignees of a chose in action; in
the sense of the lth section of the Judiciary Act. The plaintiffs below were the heirs of George, and not his assignees.
Chappedelaine v. Dechenaux, 4 Cranch, 306; Sere et al. v. Pftot,
6 Cranch, 332.
2d. As to the 1st bill of exceptions. The evidence offered is
not shown to be material. The object of it was to prove that
the plaintiffs below had paid claims against the estate of Alexander George, in order to show that they had taken possession
of the succession of Alexander George, and were discharging
their duties in that capacity.
3d. As to the 2d bill of exceptions. The evidence of Durand
was offered, not for the purpose of proving the contents of a
judicial record, but simply to establish the fact that a suit was
brought; that fact being only used as proof of a demand from
Weems before the commencement of an action against the
defendants in error. A demand by sait was not necessary.
4th. The objection, that the judgment for principal, interest,
costs of protest on the notes, and for the further sum of $389.08,
was erroneous, is not well taken; and the art. 1929 of the Civil
Code, which is cited, is not applicable. The previous articles,
from 1924, are applicable to this case. See, also, The United
States v. King, 7 How. 854; Field v. The United States, 9 Pet.
202.
Mr. Justice GRIER- delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error brought this suit in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
against Weems, the plaintiff in *error,by petition, according to
the practice in the cou'rts" of that State. They aver, in their
petition, that their are aliens, and subjects of the Queen of
Great Britain, with -the exception of two, who were citizens of
the State of Illinois; and that they are the heirs of Alekarider
George, deceased. That said George, in his lifetime, was owner
of a certain island, the undivided moiety of which he had sold
to Weems. That, in the act of partition between them, Weemrs
agreed to pay two certain notes, given by George for the purchase-money, and which were secured by mortgage on the land,
-one for $1,305.82, payable on the 1st of January, 1848, and
the other for $1,250.22, on 1st of January, 1849. That Weems
paid the sum of $600 on the notes, but neglected or refused to
pay the balance. That Alexander George having died, and the
defendants in error having been admilted to the succession as

196

SUPREME COURT.
Weems v. George et al.

his heirs, an execution was issued on the mortgage for the
balance of the notes, on which certain slaves held by them, as
such heirs, were seized and sold; and the ,sum of $2,435.88
raised in satisfaction of the balance of said notes, with interest
and costs of suit.
The defendant below filed two pleas to the jurisdiction: 1st,
That the plaintiffs were not aliens, as set,forth in their bill ; and,
secondly, that the claim of the plaintiffs is .under Alexander
George, who was. a citizen of Louisiana.
These pleas were overruled, - the fir~t, it is to be presumed,
because it was not true in fact; and the second, because it was
,not good in law. For the.plaintiffs' petition does not set forth
a claim as assignees of the neg'otiable paper or notes mentioned
therein, but for damage and loss incurred by them, from the
neglect and refusal of'Weems to pay certain liens which he had
contracted to pAy in the -act of partition between himself and
George.
As the argument submitted by the'counsel for plaintiff in error
does not insist that there was error in overriling these pleas to
the jurisdiction, they need not bb further noticed.
The case was aftenvards heard on the merits before the court,
without the interventin " of a jury; and a paper, called a bill of
exceptions' to. the admission. of certain." testimony, is found on
the record; on which'the plaintiff in error eems mainly to rely
for the reversal of judgment." It right be thought, perhaps,
hypercritical to objeqt to the form of th.s paper, as it comes
from a State. where common-law forms are little known in prac'tice; but it may be remarked, 'that 'this document certifies, only
that certain testimony. *as offered and recei~ied by the court after
objection by.the' defendant's counsel, and does not state that
any exception was taken to such ruling of the court, or that the
judge who signed it vas asked 'tc sea, or did seal a bill of exceptions. But, waiving' this objection, the first exception is to
receiving in evidence a certain paper, maxked D. That paper
is not copied in, or annexed to, the bill., It is said to be a certificate from the clerk of the eigh-.h Judicial District for the
parish of St. Tammany, offered to prove that certain claims
against the succession of Alexander George were paid by his
heirs.- The objection to it was undoubtedly a good and valid
objection, if the contents of the' paper were what the objection
assumes them to be. But as the paper itself is not set forth in
the bill, this court cannot know whether the objection was overruled because the paper was not what it was assumed to be, or
because the objection was not well taken, if it was.
The second exception was to the admission of parol testimony, that a suit had been brought against the defendant,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

197

Weems v. George et al.

Weems. The objection, that the contents of a record cannot
be proved by parol, is certainly a good and legal one, if such
were the offer or sucl the evidence given by the witness.
But the bill does not state any of the preceding evidence in
the case, nor the purpose or bearing of the testimony offered.
It may have been merely offered to show demand of the payment of a note; a fact in pais, which may be proved in phrol,
like any other mode of demand, notwithstanding it was made
by presenting a writ.
But there remains an objection to these- bills of exception
which is conclusive against them, even if they had been drawn in
all proper and legal form. It has been frequently decided by
this court that, notwithstanding there is no distinction between
suits at law and equity in the courts of Louisiana, in those of
the United States this distinction must be preserved. When
the case is submitted to the judge, to find the facts without the
intervention of a jury, he acts as a referee, by consent of the
parties, and no bill of exceptions will lie to his reception or
rejection of testimony, nor to his judgment on the law. In
such cases, when a party feels aggrieved by the decision of the
courl, a case should be made up, stating the facts as found by
the court, in the nature of a special verdict, and the judgment
of the court thereon. If testimony has been received after objection, or overruled, as incompetent or irrelevant, it should be
stated, so that this court may judge whether it w.s competent,
relevant, or material, in a just decision of the case. See Craig
v. Missouri, 4 Pet. 427.
In Field v. The United States, 9 Pet. 202, Marshall, C. J., in
delivering the opinion of the court, says: "As the case was not
tried by a jury, the exception to the admission of evidence was
not properly the subject of a bill of exceptions. But if the
District Court improperly admitted the evidence, the only effect
woul l be, that this court would reject that evidence, and proceed
to decide the cause as if it were not on the record. It would not,
however, of itself, constitute any ground for the reversal of the
judgmaent."1 And, again, in The United States v. King, 7 How.
8513, 854, it is decided, that "1no exception can be taken -where
there is no jury, and where the question of law is decided in
delivering the final decision of the court." And, "when the
court decides the fact without the intervention of a jury, the
admission of illegal testimony, even if material, is not of itself
a ground for reversing the judgment, nor is it properly the subject of a bill of exceptions."
It is alleged, also, that there is error on the face of this record,
because the court allowed the whole amount levied from the
property of the plaintiffs below, being the amount of the notes
17 '

198

SUPREME COURT.
Lord et al. v. Goddard.

and costs; because, by art. 1929 of the Code of Louisiana,
"the damages due for delay in the performance of an obligation
are called interest. The creditor is entitled to these damages
without proving any -loss, and whatever loss he may have
suffered he can recover no more." But we'are of opinion that
this objection is founded on 'a mistake of th6 nature of the
action, which is not brought on the notes mentioned in the
petition, but for damages suffered by the plaintiffs below, on
account of the non-performance by the defendant of his stipulations contained in his act of partition. This case, therefore,
comes within the art. 1924 of the code, -which says: "The
obligations of contracts extending to whatsoever is incident to
such contracts, the party who violates them is liable, as one of
the incidents of his, obligations, to the payment of the damages
which the other party has sustained by his default."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the -transcript of the record Yrom the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisinia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages,
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

SAtPsoN B. Lopb

AND GEORGE W. JENNESS,
ERROR V. JOHN GODDARD.

PLAINTIFFS IN

Where an action was brought against certain persons for giving a commercial letter
of recommendation with intention to defraud and deceive, wherebi the party to
whom the letter was addressed gave credit and sustained a loss, the question for the
juiy ought to have been whether or not there was fraud and an intention to deceive,
in giving the letter.
If there was no such intention, if the parties honestly stated their own opinion, believing at the time that they stated the truth, they are not liable in this form of
action, although the representation turned out to be entirely untrue.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the District of New Hampshire.
,Goddard was the plaintiff below, and Lord and Jenness the
defendants.
The declaration in two counts alleged that the plaintiffs in
error, October 28, 1847, intending to deceive and defraud the

