SUPREME COURT.
Parish et al. v. Murphree et al.

exceed, and which they ought not to be restrained from exercising.
But on the other hand if the defendants had no such rights, or
powers; if they were claiming them and about to exercise them,
in a manner certain to inflict great and continuing injury on
the complainants, the extent of. which injury a court of law could
not fully ascertain, and could redress, even partially, only by a
great multiplicity of suits, then no court of chancery would
hesitate to grant relief. It is certain therefore that this bill was
dismissed, by reason of, what I consider, the erroneous -views
taken by the chancellor, of the rights claimed by the complainant under the Constitution of the United States.
It has been argued that by the local law of Virginia, contained in the general railroad act of that State, the chancellor had
not jurisdiction to grant an injunction to restrain the construction of the extension road. If the chancellor had so decided and
dismissed the bill, for that reason this court could not reverse
that decision. But he did not so decide; and I cannot infer
that he would so decide if this case were to be remanded, because I am of opinion that the statute relied on has no application to this case.
My opinion is that the-decree of the Superior Courtof Chancery
should be reversed and the case remanded: with such directions
as would secure to the complainants the remedy to which they
are entitled, to prevent the violation of rights, secured to them
by the Constitution of the United States.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Court of Appeals of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, that the
decree of the said Court of Appeals in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs.

kIENRY

PARISH, DANIEL PARISH,

LEROY

AL WILEY, JOHN

R.

MAIISHALL, THOMAS P. NORRIS, AND THOMAS PARISH, MERCHANTS AND PARTNERS TRADING UNDER TEE FIRM AND STYLE OF
PARISH & Co., APPELLANTS, V. CALEB MURPHREE, ADMINISTRATOR OF GEORGE GOFFE, DECEASED; LOUISA C. GOFFE,
THOMAS WILLIAMS, JR., JOHN 11. HENDERSON, TRUSTEE, &C.,
MARTHA LUCY, ADDISON BOYKIN AND WIFE, ELIZABETH G.
GOFFE, CALVIN NORRIS, AND DAVID STRODER.

The Statute of Frauds in the State of Alabaina declares void conveyances made for
the pmrpose of hindering or defrauding creditors of their just debts.

DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.

93

Parish et al. v. Murphreo et 'al.
Where a person made a settlement upon his wife and children, owing at that time a
large sum of money, for which he was soon afterwards sued, and became insolvent
these circumstances, with other similar ones, are sufficient to set aside the deed as
being fraudulent within the statute.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of 'the United
States for the Northern District of Alabama.
It was a bill filed by the appellants, as creditors, to set aside"
a deed of settlement made by George Goffe upon his wife and
daughters, under circumstances which are detailed in'the opinion
of the court.
The District Court sustained the deed upon the following
ground.
"The true practical rule whicll I think is fully authorized by
the case of Hinds's Lessee v. Longworth, is laid down by the
Supreme Court of New York, in the case of Jackson v. Town.
That rule is, that ' neither a creditor nor a purchaser can impeach a conveyance bond fide made, founded on natural love and
affection, free, from the imputation of fraud,. and when' the
grantor had, 'independent of the property granted, an ample
fund to satisfy his creditors.
"Testing the case under consideration by this rule, we must
look to the evidence to ascertain the amount and value of the,
property owned by George Goffe, as well as by the firit
of G. &
J. M. Goffe, at the period of the sale to Williams, and the conveyance of his notes for the benefit of Mrs. Goffe and her
daughters, independent of the Blount Springs tract; and also to
determine whether these deeds are made bondfide, and free from
the imputation of fraud."
The District Court considered that the facts of the case
brought it within the operation of this rule, and therefore upheld
the deed.
The complainants appealed to this court.

It was argued by Mr. olney/ . Howard, for the appellants,
for whom also a printed brief was filed by Mr. T A. Campbell,
and submitted by .41r. Wilcox. for the defendants, on a printed
brief.
The following sketch will present the views of the respective
counsel upon the questions of fact and of law.
The counsel for the appellants stated that the defendants rely
upon the following facts-: 1st. That Goffe was fully able to pay
his debts with the property that remained to him, and that his
insolvency, which was declared and notorious in the early part
of 1839, arose from the improvident dealings of 1837 and 1838,
as a country merchant. 2d. That Goffe had been advanced by
the father of his wife, and this settlement was a return for his

94

SUPREME COURT.
Parish et al. v. Murphreo et al.

kindness. 3d. That Mrs. Goffe relinquished dower in the lands,
and that her relinquishment was the consideration of the settlement.
Much evidence was taken on the first issue, none on the second, and Williams was examined as to the third and proved
that after the arrangements for a sale had been concluded by
G6ffe to him of the Blount Springs, Goffe- proposed the settle.
ment of four notes on his childrenr amounting to $40,000. That
he XWilliams) insisted upon the settlement embracing the wife
of Goffe, and threatened to interrupt the contract if his wishes
were not fulfilled. That Goffe settled the last note due (due in
1848) for $14,000 upon his wife, making the whole settlement
$54,000. Record, 158, 159, 160.
Much evidence was taken upon the first part of the case. The
result of it was that Goffe in 1836 and 1837 carried on the business of selling merchandise. That he failed to meet his payments in the fall of 1837, in New York, and in the early part of
1838, a very large amount of his paper lay over, inclAding the
large debt of the plaintiffs. That suits were instantly commenced against him by a large number of creditors; and early
in 1839, he was sold out. That in that year he "run off" with
about $10,000 worth of property, to Texas, and died in a year
or two after.
The fact is shown that Goffe was largely indebted, and had
sent to the north for a larger credit at the date of his contract
with Williams, and had obtained it. That he did not disclose
this transaction.
In the record, a statenent of twenty-sewn judgments will be
found. Of these, four were rendered on notes dated in February, 1837, and four in the months of September and October,
1837, independent of the judgments recovered by the plaintiff.
The record also shows that Goffe sought and obtained credit
in New York without any disclosure of the disposition of thenotes of Williams, and the deed of trust on the Springs, to his
wife and children.
The principal seat of the business of Goffa was at Tuscaloosa,
then the capital of Alabama, and the Blount Springs are situate in a secluded spot in a poor and mountainous country, having but little intercourse-with commercial cities.
The judge of the District Court assumed that the fact that
Goffe was able to payhis4elts in September, 1837, was proven,
and upheld the settlement.
The record shows that he (Goffe) sought and obtained credit
for these plaintiffs. at that time.
The evidence simply indicates insolvency at the date of the
sale apart from the property of the Blount.Springs.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

95

Parish et al. v. Murphree et al.

Covington, his clerk, exaggerates the value of his property.
The Tuscaloosa store was sold for $1,000, and is ,put down at
$10,000.
The wild lands in Blount and Walker counties were unsalable at the'government price.
In Alabama, the statute of 13 and 27 Elizabeth, have been
substantially reenacted. Clay's Dig. tit. Frauds. , The construction of that statute by the Supreme Court is, that all voluntary conveyances as to 'existing creditors are in law fraudulent, and that the creditor is not requiredto prove circumstances
of fraud. 2 Stewart's Rep. 336 ; 9 Ala. 937, 945 ; 16 Ala. 233 ;
8 Porter's Rep. 196; 6 Ala. R. 506; 10 Ala. 432; 14 Ala. 350.
The Supreme Court of the United States, in Sexton v.
Wheaton, 8 Wheat. 229,- notice this construction of the act.
In construing this statute, the courts have considered every conveyance not made on consideration deemed valuable in law, as
void against previous creditors. 1 Iredell, Eq. 180; 4 Wash.
C. C. R. 129, 137 ; 4 S. & M. 303 ; 1 Brock. 501, 511 ; 3 Johns.
Ch. R. 481; 12 Pet. 179, 198; 1 Robinson, Va. R. 125; 8
Metcalf, 411; 7 How. S. C. R. 220.
The utmost relaxation of this rule is, that when the gift is
reasonable in amount, where an ample estate is left to the debtor
for the payment of existing creditors without hazard to their
rights, or any material diminution of their prdspects of payment,
his settlement will. not be held invalid.
Under this relaxed rule, the case of the defendants cannot be
maintained.
The debts due by the donor were large, covering quite the
whole of the property that remaified to him, upon a favorable
calculation. The settlement was enormous, and greatly impaired
the prospects of payment of the creditors.
Insolvency for such an amount is proven, that the indebtedness of Goffe, in. 1837, cannot have been fully ascertained in
this case. 1 American Leading Cases, by Hare & Wallace, 60.
The evidence of Williams to show a different consideration
for the settlement than the one apparent on the deed of trust,
has not succeeded. Goffe had already concluded to settle
$40,000, when Williams first conversed with Goffe, on the
children. At the suggestion of Williams, he adds the last note
due ten years after, to the settlement, in favor of the wife. The
fraudulent motive -was already in operation when Williams
spoke, and we nowhere understood that the wife demanded the
settlement, or that it was a consideration for the transfer itself.
It seems rather to have been done to pacify Williams.
The deed of trust expresses no consideration of the kind now
set up. It is a purely voluntary settlement on the face of the

96

SUPREME COURT.
Parish et al. v. Murphree ft al.

deed. It is not competent to the defendants to change its character. 4 Phil. Ev. (Hill & Cowen's notes,) note 287, p. 583;
16 Ohio, R. 438; 7 Johns. R. 841; 11 Wheat. 213.

Mr. Wilcox, for the appellees, made the following points But two questions are presented by the record; one of fact,
and one of law.
1. Was George Goffe indebted to insolvency, apart from the
Blount Spring property, at the time he made the settlement on
his wife and daughters? The deposition of Elam Covington,
who was well acquainted with Goffe's affairs, setiles this question. le states that Goffe owned at the time of the settlement,
independent of the Blount Spring property, real estate to the
amount'of $12,000- negroes worth $13,000. There were debts
due him from other persons to the amount of $10,000; making
in all $35,000 of his individual means. The assets of the'firm
of G. & J. M. Goffe, dt the same time, consisted of $10,000
worth of merchandise, and $10,000 in debts due them., In
addition to this, Goffe still held the two first notes given by
Williams, amounting to $10,000; making an aggregate of
$65,000 worth of property (partnership ar individual,) liable
to the individual and firm debts. The debts of Goffe (both
individual and partnership) according to the testimony of the
complainants' ovn witnesses, only amounted to about $25,000.
The first question, then, is fully answered; for there is no conflict of testimony. The allegation of the bill, that the settle.
ment was made to hinder and delay creditors, is fully denied by
the answers, and *a good reason shown fir its being made, to
wit, that Goffe, when a poor young man, had married his wife,
and obtained by her a considerable amount of property, a portion of which he wished, while in prosperous circumstances, to
settle on his children. Mrs. Goffe also. had relinquished her
right of dower to the Blount Spring tract of land; and, in consideration of this, the settlement was made on her. Goffe at
first refused to make it, and only consented, finally, at the
urgent solicitation of his friends. This conclusively shows that
he was actuated by no fraudulent design. , See deposition of
Colonel Williams. It is also shown that Goffe paid his debts
usqtil the fall of 1839, two years after the settlement was made.
2. Will an indebtedness not amounting to insolvency, existing
at the time of a voluntary settlement, invalidate it? or, is such
indebtedness ptr se evidence of fraud?
Whatever may have been the conflict of authorities (English
and American) on this point, it can no longer be considered
open, since the decision by this court, in the case of Hinds's
Lessee v. Longworth, 11 Wheat. 199. The doctrine of per se

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

97

Parish et al. v. Murphree et al.

fraud is here expressly repudiated, and each case made fo
depend on the circumstances attendant on it. Indeed,.commoa
sense will dictate that a man who makes a settlement of thi
so't under ordinary circumstances, and at the same time retains
a sufficiency of property to pay all the debts that may be existing against him, cannot intend a fraud. A fraud, or a desire to
avoid the payrhent of his debts, would lead him to cover up, or
secrete all. See also Van Wyck v. Seward, 6 Paige, 62; 1
Edwards, 497; 2 Bland, 26; 3 Dessaus. 1.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill of complaint was therefore correct, and an affirmance is respectfully
asked.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery, from the District Court of
Northern Alabama.
The bill was filed to set aside a deed of settlement, made by
George Goffe, dated the 12th September, 1837, on his wife and
four daughters, on the ground, that it was made in fraud of
creditors.
At the date above stated, Goffe and wife, by deed of general
warranty, conveyed to Thomas Williams, Jr., six hundred and
forty acres of land, including the "Blount Spring Tract," in
Blount County, State of Alabama, for the consideration of sixtyfour thousand dollars.
To secure the payment of the consideration, on the same day,
Williams executed a deed of trust on the same property to,
Joseph A. Goffe and George Goffe, for which notes bearing interest were given, five thousand dollars payable 1st March, 1838'
five thousand payable on the 1st of October following, ten thousan the 1st of October, 1840, ten thousand the 1st of October,
1842, ten thousand the 1st of October, 1844, ten thousand the.
1st of October, 1846, and fourteen thousand the 1st of October,
1848. Williams was to remain in possession of the land, and
was authorized to 'sell parts of it to meet the above payments.
On the same day, George Goffe executed a deed of settlement signed also by Joseph M. Goffe, by which he appropriated
to his four daughters, the four ten thousand dollars notes above
stated, and the fourteen thousand dollars note to his wife ia
consideration of 4'the natural love and affection he had for
them."
-The complainants represent that George and J. IVL Goffe did
business together as merchants, and that on the 2d of February,
1837, they executed to them, their promissory note for $5,169
payable in thirteen months; and on the same day another note
payable in twelve months for five thousand one hundred and,
VOL. xiII.

9

SUPREME COURT.
Parish et al. v. Murphree et al.

sixty-eight dollars and twenty-five cents; also another note on
the 2d September, 1837, for $953.25, payable nine months after
date. On all which notes judgments were obtained in the District Court, amounting to the sum of $14,667.42, at November
term, 1841. Executions having been issued on the judgments,
were returned no property,- and the defendants are alleged to be
insolvent. And the complainants pray that George Goffe may
be decreed to pay the amount due them, and- on failure to do
so, that Williams may be decreed to pay -the same, and in default-thereof, that the lands and real estate or debts assigned to
-Mrs. Goffe and her children, may be converted into money by
sale- or otherwise so as to pay the sum due the complainants:
The defendants deny, the allegations of the bill, and aver that
at the time of the settlement the Goffes were able to pay their
debts; that their assets exceeded their liabilities, and that the
complainants have failed to collect their claims through their
own negligence.
The statute of frauds of Alabama declares that" every gift,
grant, or conveyance of lands, &c., or of goods or chattels, &c.,
by writing or otherwise, had, made, or contrived, of malice,
fraud, covin, collusion, or guile, to the end or purpose to delay,
jhinder,'or defraud creditors of their just and lawful actions, suits,
debts, &c., shall be from henceforth deemed and taken onl as
against the person or persons, his, her, or their heirs, &c., whose
debts, suits, &c., by such means, shall or might be, in anywise
disturbed, hindered, delayed, or defrauded, to be clearly and
utterly void," &c.
This statute appears to have been copied froa the English
statute of the 13th Elizabeth, and most of the statutes of the
States, on the same subject, embrace substantially the same
provisions. The various constructions which have been given
to the statutes of frauds by the courts of England and of this
country, would seem to have been influenced, to some extent,
from an attempt to give a literal application of the words of the
statute instead of its intent. No provision can be drawn so as
to define minutely the circumstance under which fraud may be
committed, If an individual being in debt, shall make a voluntary conveyance of his entire property, it would be a clear case
of fraud; -but this rule would not apply if such a conveyance be
made by a person free from all embarrassments and without reference to future responsibilities. But between these extremes
numberless cases arise, under facts and circumstances which
must be minutely examined, to ascertain their true character.
To hold that a settlement of a small amount, by an individual
in independent circumstances, and which if known to the public, would not affect'his credit, is fraudulent, would be a perver-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

99

Parish et al. v. Murphree et al.

sion of the statute. It did not intend thus to disturb the ordinary and safe transactions in society, made in good faith, and
which, at the time, subjected creditors to no hazard. The statute
designed to prohibit frauds, by protecting the rights of creditors.
If the facts and circumstances show clearly a fraddulent intent,
the conveyance is void against all creditors, past or future.
Where a voluntary conveyance is made by.an individual free
from debt, with a purpose of committing a fraud on future creditors, it is void under the statute. And if a settlement be made,
without any fraudulent intent, yet if the amount thus conveyed
impaired the means of the grantor so as to hinder or delay his
cfeditors, it is as to them void.
In the case before us, two of the debts, exceeding ten thousand
dollars, were contracted in February, 1837, seven months before
the settlement deed was executed. The other debt of nine hundred fifty three dollars and twenty five cents, was contracted the
22d of September, ten days after the settlement. The property
conveyed amounted to sixty-four thousand dollars, fifty-four
thousand of which were covered by the settlement.
This conveyance is attempted to be sustained on the ground
that Mrs. Goffe relinquished her dower to the tract conveyed,
and that .George Goffe, including the partnership concerns, held
an aggregate property, after the-settlement, amounting to the
sum of sixty-five thousand dollars ; and that the debts against
Goffe individually and also against the- partnership, did not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars. It appears that in the Fall
of 1837, and in the early part of 1828, a large amount of his
paper being due, at New York, Tncluding the plaintiffl' was not
paid. Suits were commenced against him, and early in 1839,
his property, within tb- reach of process, was all sold. Goffe, it
is proved, sent to Texas in 1839, by his brother, ten negroes and
other property, worth about ten thousand dollars. In 1840,
George Goffe went to Texas, where he afterwards died. Twentyseven judgments were rendered against him, four of which were
on notes dated the 27th of February, 1837, and four on notes
give in September and October following, independent of the
plaintiffs' judgments.
These facts are incompatible with the assumption, that Goffe's
assets were Xnore than double his liabilities. His aggregate of
property must have been made of exaggerated values, and too
low an estimate was made of his eastern debts. After the settlement and, as it would seem, before it was known to his
eastern creditors, his purchases of merchandise were large, and
his business at home was greatly extended. Several stores were
established by him in partnership with his brother. After having abstracted from his means fifty-four thousand dollars,-this

100

SU-PREME COURT.
Parish et al. v. Murphree et al.

enlargement of his business shows a dispcsition to carry on a
hazardous enterprise, at the risk. of his creditors. In less than
three years after the settlement, judgments were obtained against
the partnership for between twenty-five and thirty thousand dollars; no inconsiderable part of which had been contracted and
was due at the time of the settlement. These facts prove, that
after the voluntary conveyance Goffe was unable to meet his
engagements. Nothifig can be more deceptive, than to show a
state of solvency by an exhibit on paper of unsalable property,
when the debts are payable in cash. Such property when sold
will not, generally, bring one fifth of its estimated value. And
suth seems to have been the result in the case before us.
But to avoid the settlement, insolvency need not be shown
nor presumed. It is enough to know that when the settlement
was made, Goffe was engaged in merchandising principally on
credit; his means consisted chiefly of a broken assortment of
goods, debts due for merchandise scattered over the country in
small amounts, wild lands of little value, a few negroes, and a
very limited amount of improved real estate, the value of which
was greatly over-estimated. On such a basis, no prudent man
with an honest purpose and a due regard to the rights of his
•creditors, could'have made the settlement.
A conveyance under such circumstances, we think, would be
'void against creditors, at common law; and Nve are not aware
that any sound construction of the statute has been given which
'would not avoid it. Sexton v. Wheaton et ux. 8 Wheat.
229; Hinde's Lessee v. Longworth, 11 WhEat. 199; Hutchinson
zet al. v. Kelley, Robinson's Rep. 123; Miller v. Thompson,,
3 Porter's Rep. 196.
' The decree of the District Court is reversed, and the cause is
remanded to that court, with instructions to enter a decree for
the complainants as prayed for in the bill.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of th United States for the Northern District of Alabama, and-was argued by counsel. On consideration whereQf, it is now here ordered and adjudged and decreed
by this court, that the decre6 of the said District Court, in this
cause be, and the same is hereby reversed -with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said District ,Court, witk instructions to enter a decree for the complainants, as praSed, ror in the bill.

