THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITE]) STATES,
AT

DECEMRtER TERM*, 1851

THE UNITED ;STATES,

Appellants,

v. JOSEPH HUGHES.

Where s grant of lanS in Lonisidina, was made by the Spanish governor, in Febra
ary 1799,-but no possession was ever taken by the grantee, during the existence
of the Spanish government, or since the cession to the United States; and no
proof of the existence of the grant until 1835, when the grantee sold his interest
to a third person; the presumption urising from this neglect is, that the grant, if

made, had been abandoned.
The regulations of Gayoso, who made the grant, were, that the settler should forfeit

the land, if he failed to establish himself upon it within one year and put under
labor ten arpents in every hundred within three years.

THIS was a land case, arising .under the acts of 1824 and
1844, and brought up by appeal from the District Court of the
United, States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The petition in this case was filed in the District Court of
the United States, for the Eastern District of.Louisiana, on the
16th day of June, 1846.
Hughes, the petitioner, represented therein that, on the petition of Joseph Guidry, the Spanish governor of Louisiana,
Gayoso granted to him, (said Guidry,) on the 1st of February,
1799, a tract of land, having a front of 40 arfents on, the Atchafalaya, with a depth of 40 arpents. adjoining the land of Andr6
Martin, on the west bank of the Said river, near where the Point
Coriple trace from Opelousas, crosses said river. Petitioner further alleges that the said claim was presented to the board of
qommissioners, under the act of Congress of 6th of February,
1835, and reported on favor'ably, but never acted on by Congress ; that the United States have sold none of said land, except a small part to John L. Daniel;" and that he, Hughes, has
VOL. XII.

1

2

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes.

become owner of one thousand arpents of sadd grant by a chain
of conveyances, &c.; he therefore prays for a decree confirming
hia title, &c;
The answer of the United States denies all the allegations of
the petitiop.
Depositions to prove the genuineness of Gayoso's signature
were given in evidence.
The chain of title to the petition was a conveyance from
Guidry to Andr6 Martin, on the 19th of April, 1837, and conveyance by Martin to Hughes, on the 1st of March, 1846.
The'District, Court confirmed the claim, and the United States
appealed.
It was argued by /i-r.Crittenden,(Attorney-General,) for the
United States, and by Messrs. J"anin and Taylor, for the ap*iellee.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the District Court of the
-Eastern District of Louisiana.
The -plaintiff, Hughes, in the court below, filed a petition,
founded upon a Spanish claim; under the act of 17th of June,
1844, which revived the act of 26th of May, 1824, for the purpose of recovering a tract of sixteen hund.fed "arpents of land,
situate in Louisiana, on the Atchafalaya river, near where the
Point Coup6e road crosses the said. river.
The petition states that the concession was made to one
Joseph Guidry, on the 1st of February, 1799, by Governor Gayoso, under whom the plaintiff derives title.
The proofs in the case show, that the grant was made on the
application of Guidry at the date ientioned; that he sold and
assigned his interest in the same to one Andr6 Martin, at the
risk of the purchaser, 19th of April, 183.5, who assigned the
same to the plaintiff, 1st of Maich, 1846, in pursuance of a
contract made with his agent in 1840. The latter purchase was
also made at the risk of the purchasei.
This concession was an incomplete grant, and did not vest a
perfect title to the property in the grantee, according to the
Spanish usages and regulatious, until a survey was made by the
proper official authority, and the party thus put in possession, together, also, with a compliance with other cohditions, if contained in the giant, or in any general regulations respecting the disposition of the public domain. Possession, with definite and fixed
boundaries, was essential to enable him to procure from the proper
Spanish authority a complete ttle. If, however, the concession
itself contained a description of the land sufficient to enable

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

3

The United States v. Hughes.

the grantee to locate the same without the aid of a survey, the
incipient grant, and possession thus taken, have always been
regarded as such a severance of the tract from the public domain, as to entitle the grantee to a confirmation of the grant
within the provisions of the act of 1824.
In such a case, there would be no discretion to be exercised
by the public surveyor in putting the party in possession, which,.
under the Spanish usages, in disposing of the public land, was
regarded as essential, in case of grants indefinite as to the location. The survey would be rather matter of form, than of substance, and might, therefore, very well be dispensed with.
In this case, the description in the grant is, perhaps, sufficiently specific to have enabled the grantee to t'ake possession
without the necessity of a survey; and, if possession had been
taken in pursuance of the grant, he, or those claiming under him,
would have presented a proper case for confirming the title under
the act; and the decree of the court below in favor of the claim
might well be sustained.
But no possession of the land was ever taken under this imperfect and incomplete grant, either during the existence of the
Spanish government, or since the cession to the United States.
Not only .has no possession been taken, but, for aught that appears in the record, no action has been had, or claim set up,
under the grant, during the whole of the period, from its date
down to the institution of the suit, 16th of May, 1847.
Nor have we any proof of the actual existenbe of the grant, at
all, until the 19th of April, 1835, when the grantee sold and
quitclaimed his interest to Martin, under whom the plaintiff
claims. No account has been given of it for the period of some
thirty-six years. The plaintiff rests his claim exclusively upon
the evidence of the signature of the governor to the 'concession,
under date of 1st of February, 1779, and its production, 16th
of May, 1846, before the court when the suit was commenced,
together wyith the trahsfer from Guidry, the grantee, to Martin,
in 1835, and from the latter to himself, in 1846; and this unconnected with any possession of the premises, or claim of
right of possession to the same, in the mean time.
In view of this state of facts, it is impossible to deny, but
that the claim comes before us under circumstances of very great
suspicion; or to resist the conclusion that the grant, if made,
had been abandoned. It is difficult to abcount for the neglect
to take possession, or to set up any right or claim to the land
for so long a period, upon any other supposition; especially,'
when we see that the description of the premises in 'the concession is sufficiently specific to-have enabled the grantee to
take possession under it without the -aid of a previous survey.

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes.

This conclusion is strengthened, when we take into view the
regalations of Governor Gayoso himself, who made the grant
i question, respecting the disposition of public lands, published
at New Orleans, 9th of September, 1797, about a year and a
half before it was made. According to the 14th article, it is
declared, that the settler shall forfeit the lands, if he fails to
establish himself upon them within one year; and shall have
put under labor ten arpents in every hundred, within three
years. And in the regulations of the Intendant, Iorales, published at the same place, July 17, 1799, some six months after
the date of this grant, possession and cultivation, within a limited time after the concession, are expressly enjoined, under the
penalty of forfeiture.
The neglect to comply with these regulations, thus positively
enjoined, within the three years that the Spanish government
continued after the date of the grant, together with the absence
of claim or assertion of right to the land, and absence even of
any proof of the actual existence-of the grant for the period of
more than thirty-six years, we are of opinion, lay a foundation
for the inference or presumption of abandonment of the original
concession made by Gayoso, too strong to be resisted; at least,
a presumption of abandonment that called for explanation on
the par of the plaintiff, accounting for the neglect to take the
possession, for the great delay in the assertion of the claim, and
for the absence of any evidence of even the existence of the
grant itself for so long a period of time.
On these grounds, we think, the decree of the court belov
eironeous, and should be reversed, proceedings remitted to thE
court below, and petition be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said District Court'
in this cause be, and flie same is hereby, reversed and annulled;
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said District Court, with directions to dismi§s the petition of the
claimant

THE UNITED SEATES, APPELLANTS, V. JosEPH HUGHES.
The court again decides, as in the preceding case, that where a Spanish grant was
made in 1798, and no evidence was offered that possession was taken under the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

5

The United States v. Hughes.
grant, nor any claim of right or title made under it until 1837, nor any evidence
given to account for the neglect, the presumption is that the claim had, been abandoned.
In this ease, also, there was no proof that the persons who purported to. convey as
heirs, were actually the heirs of the party whom they professed to represent.

TIs was a land case, pxising under the acts of 1824 and
1844, and came up by appeal from the Disirict Court of the
United States for Louisiana.
The parties were the same as in the preceding case:
The petition in this case was filed in the District'Court, for
the Eastern District of Louisiana, on the 16th of June, 1846.
The petitioner, Hughes, claims under a grant alleged to have
been made by Governor Gayos6 to Andre Martin, on the 10th
of October, 1798, of a tract of land of twenty-eight arpents
front, with a depth of one hundred arpents, situated onothe west
bank of the Atchafalaya, about one league above where the
trace or road from Opelousas to Point Coup6e crosses the said
river. The petitioner alleges further, that said Martin took im-.
mediate possession, &c., and that the board of commissioners
made a favorable report on the claim in the year 1840, but thAd
Congress never acted on it, and that he holds a title to one thousand arpents thereof, &c. He thereupon prays that his title
may be decreed to be good.
The answer of the United States is a general denial of the
allegations of the petition.
The evidence of the original title is the petition of Andre
Martin to the governor for the said tract of land, and the governor's decree thereon, signed by him in these -words:"Granted
forever, that he may establish it," and dated "New Orleans,
October 10th, 1798."
Hughes claimed title under a deed from certain perbons who
represented themselves to be the heirs of Martin, dated 14th of
July, 1848.
The District Court decided in favor of the petitioner, and the
United States appealed.
It was argued by Mr. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the
United States, and by llessrs.Yanhi and Taylor for the appellee.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
The plaintiff, Hughesy claimed in the court below 3800 arpents
of land situate in Louisiana, on the west bank of the Atchafalaya river, about one league above where the road from Opelou.
sas to Point Couple crosses said river under a concession from
1*

-

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. HugheS.

Governor Gayoso to one Andre Martin, 10th of October,
1798.
The petition was presented to the District Court on the 16th
of June, 1846, under the act of 17th June, 1844, reviving the
.act of 26th May, 1824, praying for a confirmation of the grant
in pursuance of the provisions of the act.
Evidence was given of the handwriting cf Martin to the application to the governor for the grant of the tract in question'
and of the handwriting of the governor to the grant.
The plaintiff, also, gave in evidence a conveyance by notariva
act under date of 14th of July, 1848, purposting to be made by
the heirs of Andre Martin, the original grantee, to himself, conveying one thousand arpents, part of the tract of 3800 arperits,
to be taken: off the front part of the tract.
Evidence was also given of a notice to the registers and receivers of the land-office at Opelousas, in Louisiana, of a
claim on 'behalf of the heirs of Martin by their, attorney, f )r
confirmation of the claim under date 1st of February, 1837.
What action took place before these officers on the application,
if any, does not appear on the record, nor have we been referred
to any proceedings therein.
There is no evidence that possession was ever taken of the
land by the grantee, or any person claiming under him; nor of
any claim of right to the possession; or of any right or title
under the concession, or of the actual existence even of the concession itself, until the application to the register and receiver in
1837, a period of over thirty-eight years fromi its date.
Nor is there any evidence in the record accounting for the
neglect ih take possession, or for the absence of evidence of an
assertion of right under the grant, or of even the existence of
the grant itself for so long a period of time.
I The plaintiff rests his claim exclusively upon the production,
and proof of ths incomplete grant by Governor Gayoso in 1798,
of his title as derived from the grantee in 1848, and of the ap•lication to the officers of the land-office at Opelousas in 1837.
We have already held, in a previous case of this plaintiff and
the United States, that the neglect to take possession, and
the absence of any claim under the grant, and of any evidence
even of the existence-of the grant itself, for so long a period of
time, afford such a violent presumption of abandonment of the
claim, that unless explained to the satisfaction. of the court, it is
impossible, consistent with any sound principles of law or of
equity, to uphold it. We refer to the opinion given in that
case oxi this point as decisive of the present one.
There is also an additional objection to a recovery in this
-case, that did not exist, in the one refeired to. The plaintiff

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

7

The United States v. Hughes.

shows no title to the land in question. There is no proof in the
record that the persons joining in the conveyance to him of the
premises in July, 1848; were the heirs of Martin, the" original
grantee. The recital in the instrument is no evidence of the
fact. The proper proof should have been furnished of the
heirship.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the decree of the court
below is erroneous, and should be revered, and remit the proceedings to the court below, with directions to dismiss the petition.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District *Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said District Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled;
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the
said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition -of
the claimant.

THE

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V.

JOSEPH HUGHES.

The decision in the two preccding cases again affirmed.

THIS was a land case arising under the acts of 1824 and 1844,
and came up by appeal from the District Court of the United
States for Louisiana.
The parties were the same as in the two preceding cases.
Joseph Hughes filed his petition on the 16th June, 1846,
claiming 3200 arpents of land, as having been granted by the
governor of Louisiana, Gayoso, on the 26th April, 1798, "to
Andr6 Martin. He alleges that said Martin took immediate
possession, and held it till his death. That in the year 1840,
the board of commissioners reported favorably on said claim,
but that Congress had never acted upon it; and that he will, on
the trial produce good and legal sales 3.nd transfers of the sail
tract of land from the heirs of the said Martin to himself.
The answer put in, on the part of the United States, consists
of a general denial of the statements in the petition..
The evidences of title exhibited on the part of the petitioner
were,
1st. The pefition of Andr6 Martin to the governor for a grant
of 3200 arpents, &c., dated March 28, 1798.

8

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes.

2d. The concession and order of survey made by Governor
Gayoso, and dated 26th April, 1798.
3d. The sales and deeds of conveyance by the heirs of Andre
Martin, under which the petitioner, Hughes, claims, dated respectively the 13th and 14th of July, 1848.
Testimony was offered to prove the genuineness of. Gayoso's
signature to the order of survey.
The District Court decided in favor of the petitioner and the
United States appealed.
It was argued by Mr. Crittenden, (Attorney-Generalj) for the
United States, and by Messrs. Janin and Taylor for the appellee.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District .Court of the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
I The plaintiff claimed three thousand arpents of land situate in
Louisiana, and fronting on the back part of lands of Oliver
Thibodeaux, Theodore Thibodeaux, and Claude Martin, under
a concession to Andr6 Martin from Governor Gayoso, 26 April,
1798. The proceedings-were under the act of 17th June, 1844,
reviving the act of 26th May, 1824.
Evidence was given of the handwriting of Martin to the application for the land, and of Governor Gayoso to the concession.
The plaintiff also produced evidence of a conveyance of the'
premises to himself by an instrument bearing date 14th July, 1848,
purporting to have been executed by the heirs of Andr6 Martin the
original grantee. And, also, notice to the register and receiver
of the land-office at Opelousas, Louisiana, of an application
on behalf of the heirs, by their attorney, for confirmation of the
grant under date of 23d December, 1536.
The concession was an inchoate and incomplete grant; and
there is no evidence that any possession was ever taken of the
land, nor of any claim set up under the grant to the game, from
its date down to 1836, when notice was given to the officers of
the land-office; nor any evidence of the existence of the grant
during the whole of this period.. The case falls directly within
the principlep of the two previous cases just decided.
There is, also, no proof of .ny title in the plaintiff derived
from the original grantee. The cdnveyance purporting to be
executed by the heirs notwithstanding the recitals to that effect,
furnishes no e idenc6 of the fact of heirship.
We think the decree of the court below erroneous, and should
be reversed; and that the proceedings be remitted to the court
below, and the petition be dismissed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

9

The United States v. Pillerin et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said District Court in
this cause, be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled,
and this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the
claimant.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ARmAND PILLERIN AND
OTHERS; THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. A. B. RomAN;
THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CARLOS DE VILLEMONT'S
HEIRS AND OTHERS; THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JEAN
B. LABRANCHE'S HEIRS.
This court again decides, as in 9 How. 127, and 10 How. 609, that French grants of
land in Louisiana, made after the treaty of Fontainblcau, by which Louisiana was

ceded to Spain, are void, unless confirmed by the Spanish authorities before the
cession to the United States.
Butif there has been continued possession under the grants so as to lay the foundation
for presuming a confirmation by Spain, then the cases are not included within the acts
of 1824 and 1844, which look only to inchoate and equitable titles. The District
Court of the United States has therefore no jrisdictior

THESE f6ur cases were land cases, arising under the acts of
1824 and 1844, and were appeals from the District Court of the
United States, for Louisiana.
They were cases of French grants made after the treaty of
Fontainbleau by which Louisiana was ceded to Spain.

They were argued by 11r. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for
the United States, and by iMessrs. Janin and Taylor, for the appellees, excdpt the second wnich was argued by Mr. &u6.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These four cases are all French grants made after the treaty
of Fontainbleau by which Louisiana was ceded to Spain. We
have already decided in the cases of The United States v.
Reynes, 9 How. 127, and The United States v. D'Auterive, 10
How. 607, that grants of this description are void, unless confirmed by the Spanish authorities before the cession to the
United States. In some of these cases evidence-has been offered

