DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

283

Walsh et al. v. Rogers et al.

oi consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs and
damages, at the rate of six per cent. per annum.

JOHN WALSH, EDWARD WALSH, AND DICKINSON B. MOREHEAD,
-OWNERS OF THE STEAMBOAT IOWA, APPELLANTS, V. PATRICK
ROGERS, THOIAS SHERLOCK, JOHN B. SIMMAONS, EDWARD
MONTGOMERY, JOHN W. BAKER, AND P. A. ANSHUTE, CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMBOAT DECLARATION, HER TACKLE; APPAREL,
AND"FURNITURE.
In a case of collision, upon the River AIississippi, between the steamboats Iowa and
Declaration, whereby the Iowa was sunk, the weight of evidence was, that the
Iowa was in fault, and the libel filed by her owners against the owners of the Declaration was properly dismissed.
Ezr parte depositions, under the act of 1789, without notice, ought not be taken,
unless in circumstances of absolute necessity, or in cases of mere formal'proof or
of some isolated fact.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The libel was filed by the appellants, in the District Court,
where they obtained a decree on the 1st May, 1848, for $18,500
and costs. Ail appeal was taken to the Circuit Court.
On the 19th of February, 1850, the cause was heard finally in
thp Circuit Court, and upon consideration of all the testimony,
as well that considered by the District Court, as the testimony
subsequently'taken, and arguments of counsel, the judgment of
The District Court was declared to be erroneous, was ordered to
be reversed and annulled, and the libel to be dismissed at the
costs of the appellants.
The libellants then appealed to this court
It was argued by _41r. Fendalland Hl!r. Ohilton, for the appellants, and .11r. Badger, for the appellees.
The questions were exclusively those of fact and evidence, as
will be seen by a reference to the opinion of the cohrt. No
question of law was raised in the case.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents no question of law for our decision. As
is usual in cases of collision, each party makes out a good case
by the testimony of the pilot and crew of his own boat. This
collision occurred, also, after night; and although the night was

284

SUPREME

COURT.

Walsh et al. v. Rogers ot al.

not very dark, the most calm spectator, on such occasions, is
subject to great illusions as to the motion and position of the
respective vessels. The attention of passengers is also seldom
given to the subject until their fears are excited; and the danger
to life and property threatened by the sudden shock of the collision, generally renders them incapable of a clear apprehension
of what passes at the time, or a distinct recollection of what
preceded the event The pilot and crew of each boat feel bound
to exonerate themselves from blame, and consequently cannot
be expected to give a very candid statement of the facts. In
such cases the oral examination of witnesses before the court,
with a stringent cross-examination by skilful counsel, is almost
the only method of eliciting truth from such sources. This may
be done in the Distict Court, and sometimes, possibly, on appeal to the Circuit Court. But such a course of sifting out the
truth in doubtful cases cannot be pursued here. We are disposed, therefore, to require that the appellant should be held to
make out a pretty clear case of mistake in the court below, before he should expect a reversal of their judgment. Raising a
doubt on contested facts, is not sufficient for the action of this
court. An appeal should not be a mere speculation on chances.
It is admitted in this case, that if the story told by the libellants' witnesses is true, they are entitled to recover the value of
their boat It is admitted, also, that if the facts testified by the
respondents' witnesses are true, the appellants ought not to recover. Their several statements cannot be reconciled; and one
or the other of them must be false in all its material allegations.
The libellants' witnesses testify: That on the 1st of October,
1847, about 8 o'clock in. the evening, the steamboat Iowa was
ascending the River Mississippi, above Morgan's Bend, on a
voyage from New Orleans to St. Louis. That she had previously
landed a passenger about two miles below the place of collision,
on the right bank of the river. That she.then crossed the river
to the left bank, and was proceeding in her proper place, close to
the shore, (from ten to twenty-five feet from it.). That the Declaration was seen coming down the river towards the Iowa. That
the Iowa stopped her engine a minute before the collision. The
Declaration turned towards the left bank, and ran quartering
into the Iowa, driving her, by force of the collision, against the
shore, where she sunk immediately, and so suddenly, that one
of the passengers was drowned in his berth. In support of this
statement, the pilot, the captain, fifteen of the crew, and five
passengers, have testified. They are supported, also, by two
witnesses on the right bank, who testified that the Iowa crossed
the river immediately after letting out the passengers. Without,
criticizing these depo~itions, as to the probability of the facts

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

285

Walsh et al. v. Rogers et

stated, or the consistency of each with itself and the others, we
shall merely state the opportunity which they respectively had,
by their own statements, for observing the material facts to'
which they have testified. The pilot and five of the cre w were,
by their own account, in a situation to know and correctly judge
of the facts to which they have testified. The captain and
eleven of the crew were not; some were in the cabin, some in
the social hall, and many in their beds asleep, till their attention
was aroused by the collision. Yet, whether asleep or awake,
they all swear as positively to the relative course and positi6n
of the vessels, before and at the time of the collision, as those
who were in a situation to observe them.
Of the five passengers who cbrroborate the statement of the
crew, one was engaged in the social hall playing cards, and
another asleep in his berth, till aroused by the collision; a third
was discredited by proof of his declarations, soon after the occurrence, that the pilot of the Iowa was drunk, and caused the collision by his incapacity; and a fourth, by his admission that he
expected to recover six hundred dollars lost by the sinking of the
Iowa, out of the damages to be recovered from the defendants.
On the contrary, the witnesses for the responddnts swear distinctly and positively to the following statement of facts:
1st. That the Declaration was coming down the river in the
middle of the channel, rather nearer the left than the right bank,
having two or more companies of volunteers, with their officers,
on board as passengers.
2d. That it was a clear, starlight night, and that the decks of
the Declaration were covered with passengers in a situation to
see correctly every thing that occurred.
3d. That the Iowa, when first seen, was about a mile off,
coming up the right shore of the river, and had not yet crossed
to the left.
4th. That when the Iowa. came near, or somewhat below the
Declaration, she turned suddenly across the river, either because
the boat became unmanageable by the pilot from "smelling a
bar," or with an intention to cross under the bows of the Declaration.
5th. That from the course pursued by the Iowa she threatened
to strike the wheel-house of the Declaration; and that, to avoid
this, the engine of the Declaration was stopped, and afterwards
reversed, so that sh- was commencing a retrograde movement
at the time of the collision.
6th. That the Iowa came on under a full head of steam, and
impinged herself against the bows of the Declaration, breaking
-her flagstaff, and causing the death of one of the soldiers on the
deck.

286

SUPREME COtT.
Walsh et al. v. Rogers at al.

7th. That the head of the Declaration was turned round
quartering up stream by force of the collision, and that the Iowa
continued under a full head of steam till she struck the left bank
of the river, and there sunk in a few minutes.
Nineteen of the crew of the Declaration were examined.
Eleven of them were in a situation to see what they testify to.
Eight others, whose attention was first called to the matter by
the stopping of the engine and backing the boat, corroborate
the others as to that fact, without attempting to testify to facts
which could not have come under their personal notice. Their
statements are circumstantial, consistent, and probable, while
those detailed by appellants' witnesses are improbable and almost
incredible. But what is perfectly conclusive of the case, is the
fact that the testimony of these nineteen witnesses, who may be
supposed to be under the usual bias on such occasions, is completely corroborated by that of seventy of the passengers. Fifty,
,four of these.were standing on the decks, or other parts of the
vessel, where they had a full view of the whole transaction from
the time that the boats came within sight of each other, till the
Iowa sunk to the bottom. They all conur in swearing positively to the facts we have stated, and that they could not be
mistaken. The remaining sixteen corroborate them as to the
stopping and backing of the engine of the Declaration, and the
position of the boats immediately after the collision.
. If confidence can be placed in human testimony, it is plain
that the libellants are not entitled to the judgment of the court,
in their favor.
Indeed, the only argument which has been urgea against this
overwhelming mass of testimony is, that tae numerous witnesses
of respondents coincide so completely in all the circumstances
and facts related, not only in their order of narration, but in their
language and phraseology, that it leads to the suspicion of a
factitious story, got up after consultatian. But the number
of the witnesses, the respectability and standing of many of
them, the fact that their testimony was taken at different times,
by different commissioners, at different places, leaves no room
for such an imputation. The coincidence of statement and similarity of language and expression may well have arisen from
the fact that their testimony was taken under the act of Congress, ex parte, without cross-examination, and probably by an
agent who'had the same stereotyped leading questions put to
each of the witnesses in the same sequence and in the same
words.
While we are on this subject, it will riot be improper to remark, that when the act of Congress of 1789 was passed, per,
mitting ex parte depositions without notice, to be taken, where

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

287

Taylor v. D,.

the witness resides more than a hundred miles from the place
of trial, such a provision may have been necessary. It then required nearly as much time, labor, and expense to travel one
hundred miles, as it -does now to travel one thousand. Now,
testimony may be taken and returned from California, or any
part of Europe, on commission, in two or three months, and
in any of the States east of the Rocky Mountains in two or
three weeks. There is now seldom any necessity for having
recourse to this mode of taking testimony. Besides, it is contrary to the course of the common law; and, except in cases
of mere formal proof, (such as the signature or execution of
an instrument of writing,) or of some isolated fact, (such as
demand of a bill, or notice to an indorser,) testimony thus
taken is liable to great abuse. At best, it is calculated to elicit
only such a partial statement of the truth as may have the
effect of entire falsehood. The person who prepares the witness
and examines him can generally have just so much or so little
of the truth, or such a version of it, as will suit his case. In
closely-contested cases, of fact testimony thus obtained must
always be unsatisfactory and liable to suspicion, especially if
the party has had time and opportunity to take it in the regu.
lar way. This provision of the act of Congress should never be
resorted to unless in circumstances of absolute necessity, or in
the excepted cases we have just mentioned.
Let the judgment of the Cirduit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the -United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by cou.sel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

WASHINGTON

AND SANDERS

JOHN DOE,

TAYLOR,

ex dern.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

A USTIN MILLER.

By the laws of Mfississippi, ueeds of trust and mortgages are valid, as against creditors, and purchasers only from the time when they are recorded.
A judgment is a lien from the time of its rendition.
Therefore, where a judgment was rendered, in the interval between the execution and
recording of a deed, it was a lien upon the land of the debtor.
A firi faci'as, being issued upon this judgment, was levied upon the land; but, before the issuing of a tenditoniexponas, the debtor died.

