DECEMBER TERM,.1851.

307

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

manifest object will justify such a constructiori, and that the
collector was right in refusing the permit to the plaintiff to land
and warehouse the coal in question at Wareham.
As regards the small balance of the plaintiff's deposit which
remained in the collector's hands after the payment of the legal
duties, it is no ground for reversing the judgment of the Circuit
Court. The defendant offered to pay it, but the plaintiff refused to receive it. The money placed in the hands of the collector for the estimated duties was a deposit in trust for the
United States for the ariount that should be found actually
due; and for the plaintiff for the balance, if any should remain
after the duties were paid. And as the plaintiff refused to receive this balance when tendered, it contiliues a deposit in the
hands of the defendant with the plaintiff 1 consent; and he
cannot subject the collector to the costs and expenses of a suit
until he can show that it is wrongfully withheld.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
cont, that the judgment of the said Circurit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with dosts.

Tan

PHILADELPHIA, WILMINGTON, AND BALTIMORE RAIL ROAD
COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,'V. SEBRE HOWARD.

In Maryland, th clerk of a county court was propdrly admitted to prove the verity
of a copy of the docket-entries made by him as clerk, because, by a law of Mary:
land, no technical record was required to be made.
And, moreover, the fact which was to be proved being merely the pendency of an
action, proof that the entry was made on the docket by the proper officer was
proof that the action was pending, until the other party could show its termiz"
nation.
Where the question was, whether or not the paper declared upon bore the corporate
seal of the defendants, (an incorporated company,, evidence was admissible to
show that, in a former suit, the defendants had treated and relied upon the instrument, as one bearing the corporate seal. And it was admissible, although the
former sitwas not between the same parties ; and although the former suit was
against one of three corporations, which had afterwards become merged into olie,
which one was the present defendant.
The admission of the paper as'evidence only left the question to the jury. The bur
den of proof still remained upon the plaintiff.

308

SUPREME

COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.
The evidence of the president of the company, to show that there was an understanding between himself and the plaintiff, that another person should also sign the
paper before it became obligatory, was not admissible, because the understanding
alluded to did not refer to the time when the corporate seal was affixed, but to some
prior time.
In order to show that the paper in question bore the seal of the corporation, it was
admissible to read in evidence the deposition of the 6eceased officer of the corpora.tion, who had affixed the seal, and which deposition had been taken by the defendants in ,the former suit.
If the defendants had relied upon the paper in question to defeat the plaintiff in a
former suit, they are estopped from denying its validity in this suit. It was not
necessary to plead the estoppel, because the state of the pleadings would not have
justified such a plea.
Where the covenant purported to be made between two persons by name, of the first
part, and the corporate company,. of the second part and only one of the persons
of the first part signed the instrument, and the covenant ran between the party of
the first part and the party of the second part, it was proper for the person who
had signed on the first part to sue alone; because the covenant enured to the benefit
of those who were parties to it.
In this particular case, a covenant to'finish the work by a certain day, on the one part,
and a covenant to pay monthly on the other part. were distinct and independent
covenants. And a right in the company to annul ths contract at any time, did not
include a right to forfeit the earnings of the other party, for work done prior to
the time when the contract was annulled.
A covenant to do the work according to a certain schcule, which schedule mentioned
that it was to be done according to the directions of the engineer, bound the company to pay for the work, which was executed according to such directions,
though a profile was departed from which was made out before the contract was
entered into.
So, also, where the contract was, to place the waste earth where ordered by the engineer, it was the duty of the engineer to provide a convenient place; and if he
failed to do so. the other party was entitled to damages.
Where the contract authorized the company to retain fifteen per cent. of the earnings
of the contractor, this was by way of indemnity, and not forfeiture; and they were
bound to pay it over, unless the jury should be satisfied that the company had
sustained an equivalent amount of damage by the default, negligence, or misco;.
duct of the contractor.
Where, in the progress of the work, the contractor was stopped by an injunction
issued by a court of chancery,*he was not entitled to recover damages for the
delay occasioned by it, unless the jury should find that the company did not use
reasonable diligence to obtain a dissolution of the in-unction.
If the company annulled the contract merely for the purpose of having the work
done cheaper, or for the purpose of oppressing and injuring the contractor, lie was
entitled to recover damages for any loss of profit he might have sustained; and
of the reasons which influenced the company, the jury were to be the judges.
THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the District of Maryland.
It was a complicated' case, the decision of which involved
numerous points of law, as will be seen by the syllabus prefixed
to this statement.
There were six exceptions to the admfssibility of evidence
taken during the progress of the trial in the Circuit Court. The
plaintiff below then offered eleven prayers to the court, and the
defendant, thirteen. The court laid aside all the prayers and
embodied its instructions to the jury in thirteen propositions.
The facts of the case, out of which all these points of law
arose were- the following:

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

309

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

Prior to 1836, there existed in Maryland a' company called
the Delaware and Maryland Railroad* Company, which, by an
act of the legislature, passed on the 14th of March, 1836, was
united with the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad Company; the two united taking the name of the latter.
It will be perceived that this company is not eo nomine, one of
the parties to the present suit, and it may as well be now mentioned that afterwards a further union of companies took place by virtue of a law of Maryland, passed on 20th of January, 1838.
The following companies were united, viz.: The Baltimore
and Port Deposit Railroad Company; The Wilmington and
Susquehannah Railroad Company; The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company;-the three, thus
united, taking the name of the latter company, which was the
plaintiff in error.
On the 12th of July, 1836, whilst the Washington and Susquehannah Railroad Company had a separate existence, a contract was entered into between them and Howard for the prosecution of the work in Cecil county, in the State of Maryland.
Two copies of this paper were extant. They were substantially
alike except in this; that one of them (the one referred to as
marked B) was sealed by Sebre Howard, and was signed by
James Canby, President, with his private sea] affixed. It was
not sealed by the Railroad Company. The other (referred to as
marked A) was signed and sdaled by Howard, and signed also
by Canby, as president. It also bord an impression which purported to be seal of the company.
This latter paper was the basis of the present suit, which was
an action of covenant. Some of the points of law decided in
the case refer to the paper, which makes it necessary to insert
it, viz.:
Agreement between Sebre Howard and Hiram Howard, of
the first part, and the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad
Company, of the second part.
The party of the first part, in consideration of the matters
hereinafter referred to and set out, covenants and agrees, to and
with the party of the second part, to furnish and 'dliver, at the
proper cost of the said party of the first part, the building materials which are described in the annexed schedule, to the said,
party of the second part, together with the necessary Workr'anship and'labor on said railroad, and at such times, and in such
quantities, as the party of the second part shall designate; and
faithfully, diligently, and-in a good and workmanlike manner,
to do, execute *and perform the office, work, and labor in the
said schedule mentioued.

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

And the party of the second part, in consideration of the premises, covenants and agrees to pay the party of the first part the
sums and prices in the said schedule mentioned, on or before the
first day of November next, or at such other times and in such
manner as therein declared.
Provided, however, that in case the party of the second part
shall at any time be of opinion that this contract is not duly
complied with by the said party of the first part, or that it js
not in due progress of execution, or that the said party of the
first part is irregular, or negligent; then, and in such case, he
shall~be authorized to declare this contract forfeited, and thereupon fhe same shall become null; and the party of the first part
shall have no appeal from the opinion and decision aforesaid,
and he hereby releases all right to except to, or question the same,
in any place or under any circumstances whatever; but the
party of the first part shall still remain liable to the party"of he
second part, for the damages occasioned to him by the said noncompliance, irregularity, or negligence.
And providdd, also, that in order to secure the faithful and
punctual performance of the covenants a.bove made by the party
of the first part, and to indemnify and protect the party of the
second part from loss in case of default and forfeiture of this
contract, the said party of the second part shall, notwithstanding
the provision in the annexed schedule, be authorized to retain in
their hands, until the completion of the contract, fifteen per cent.
of the moneys at any time due to the said party of the first part.
said parties, this vtwelftli
Thus covenanted and agreed by the
seals.
day of July, 1836, as witness their
SEBRE HOWARD,

[SEAL.]
SEAL.]
[SEAL.
[SEAL.]

JAMIES

CANBY,

President. [SEAL.J

Sealed and delivered in the presence ofWILLIAI

P.

BROBSON.

[SEAL.]

Schedule referred to above.
The above-named Sebre Howard and Hiram Howard contract
to do all the grading of that part of section No. 9, in the State
of Maryland, of the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad,
which extendsfrom station No. 191, to the end of the piers and
wharf in the River Susquehannah, opposite Havre de Grace, according to the directions of the engineer, and according to the specification hitherto annexed, for the sum of twenty-slx cents per
cubic yard for every cubic yard excavated; the said section to
be completed in a workmanlike manner, viz., one mile from

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

311

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard,

station No. 191, by October 15, 1836, and the residue by
November 1, ensuhi-g.
They also contract to make the embankment at the river from
the excavation of the road, provided the haul shall not exceed
a distance of eight hundred feet from the eastern termination of
the said embankment; all other portions of the hauling together
not to exceed an average of eight hundred feet; and for any
distance exceeding the said average the price is to be one and a
half cents per cubic yard for each hundred feet.
The party of the second part contracts to pay to the said
Sebre and Hiram Howard, the said sum of twenty-sLx cents per
cubic yard in monthly payments, according to the measurement
and-valuation of the engineer, retaining from each payment fifteen
per cent. until the final completion of the work. If any additional work, in consequence of water, grubbing, or hard material,
is required on the side ditch or ditches, or through Cowden's
woods, the same is to be decided by the engineer, as in case of
rock, &c.
iSpecfcation of' the manner of grading the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad.
Before commencing any excavation or embankment, the natural sod must be removed to a depth of three inches from the
whole surface occupied by the same, for the purpose of afterwards sodding the slopes thereof, and all stumps, trees, bushes,
&c.,entirely removed from the line of road as directed by the
engineer. In cases of embankment a grip must be cut about
one foot deep for footing the slopes, and preventing them from
slipping. The embankments must be very carefully carried up
in layers of about one foot in thickness, laid in hollow form, and
in so doing, all hauling or wheeling, whether loaded or empty,
must be done over the same. The slopes of excavations and
embankments will be one and a half horizontal to one perpendicular, except where otherwise ordered by the engineer, and are
to be sodded with the sods removed from the original surface.
Side ditches and back drains must be cut wherever ordered by
the engineer, at the same price as the common excavation. The
side ditches ill on an average be about nine feet wide on top,
and about two feet deep, and will extend along a great portion
of the road. In most places where embankments are to be made,
the cutting of the adjacent parts is about sufficient for their formation, and as the cbntractor is supposed to have examined the
ground and profiles, and to have formed his estimates accordingly, no allowance will be made for extra hauling. Where
mord earth is required than is proctired from the excavations, the
contractor shall take it from such places as the engineer may

312

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

dir;ect, the cost per cubic yard being the same as the other parts.
Where there is any earth from the excavations, more than is required for the embankments, it shall be placed where ordered by
the engineer.
All the estimates will be made by measuring the excavations
only.
Loose rocks, boulders, ironstone, or other pebbles, of a less
weight than one fourth of a ton, are to be removed by the contractor at the same price as the common excavation; but in cases
of larger size, or for blasting, the price shall be a matter of special agreement between the contractors and engineer, and if the
former should not be willing to execute it for what appears to
the engineer a fair price, the latter may put the same into other
hands.
No extra alloWance will be made for cutting down trees, grubbing, bailing, or other accidental expenses.
Measurements and estimates will be taken about once a month,
and full payment will be made by the directors, after deducting
15 per cent., which deduction on each estimate will be retained
until 'the entire contract is completed, which must be on or before
the
It is distinctly understood by the contractors that the use of
ardent spirits among the workmen is strictly forbidden.
WILLIAI STRICKLAND,

(Indorsed.)-

Chief Eng.. of ths Wil. 4- Sus. R. R
S. and H. Howards Contract.

Sebre Howard went to work alone, Hiram Howard nev&r having signed or participated in the contract
On the 17th of September, 1836, he was served with an injunction issued by the High Court of Chancery of Maryland,
against the Maryland and Delaware Railroad Company, its
agents and servants, commanding them ta desist from the pros~cution of a particular part of the work.
On the 30th of October, 1836, the injunctidn was dissbi-ved.
On the 18th of January, 1837, the direztors of the company
passed the following resolution:
A communication was received from the chief engineer,
representing that the contract of S. & H. Howard for section
No. 9,'was not in due progress of execution, and recommenmnng
that it should be forfeited, which was read, and on motion of
Ar. Gilpin, the following resolution was adopted, viz. .
"WWhereas, a contract was duly executed between S. Howard
(acting for himself and H. Howard,) and the Wilmington and
Susquehannah Railroac-Company, bearing date the 12th day of
July last, whereby the said S. & H. Howard contracted, for the

DEdEMBER TERM, 1851.

313

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

consideration therein mentioned, to do all the grading of that
part of section No. 9, of the said railroad which extends from
station No. 191, to the end of the piers and wharf in the River
Susquehannah, opposite Havre De Grace, according to the directions of the engineer of the said railroad, and to the specification
thereto annexed, and to complete the same by the time therein
mentioned; and whereas, the times appointed for the completion of said contract have elapsed, and the work if not yet completed, and the party of the second part is of the opinion that
the contract is not duly complied with by the party of the first
part, and that the said contract is not in due progress of execution : - Therefore, resolved, that the said contract be, and the
same is hereby declared to be forfeited."
A suit was then brought in Cecil County Court, by Sebre and
Hiram Howard, against the Wilmington and Susquehannah
Railroad Company, which was finally disposed of at Octobei
term, 1847. The result of the suit is shown in the following
copy of the docket-entries, which were admitted in evidence by
the Circuit Court, but the admissibility of which constituted the
subject of the first bill of exceptions.
Inr Cecil County Court, October Term, 1847.
S. & H. HOWARD, use of Charles Howard,'

use of Hinson H. Cole, $5,000, use df
Daniel B. Banks, $1,000,
THrE WILMINGTON AN).SusQuEHiANNAH RAILRoAD CoMnPANY.
Procedendo and record for the court of appeals; leave-4oamend pleadings; nar. filed; pleas filed; similiter; replication
and demurrer; leave to defendantto amend pleadings; amended
pleas; replication and demurrer; rejoinder; agreement; leave to
defendants to issue commission to Wilmington, Delaware ;agreement filed; jury sworn; juty find their verdict for the defendants, under instructions from the court, without leaving their
box; December 8d, 1847, judgment on the verdict.
In testimony that the above is a true copy of the docket-entries taken from the record of Cecil County Court, for October
term, 1847, I hereunto set my hand, and the seal of said court
affix, this 12th of November, A. D. 1849.
R.

C. HOLLYDAY, [SEAL.]

Clerk of Cecil County Court.
This suit having thus failed, Sebre Howard, a citizen of the
vOL. XIII.

27

SUPRE
BME COURT.
Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howar&

State of Illinois, brought an action of covenant in his own name,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland. The declaration set out the following breaches which
were filed short by agreement of counsel.
1st breach. In not paying the estimate of the first of January.
2d breach. Damages resulting from the injunction sued out by
John Stump.
3d breach. For not building the bridge over Mill creek, and
the culvert in Cowden's woods, whereby the plaintiff was damaged by the necessity of making circuitous hauls.
4th breach. For omission seasonably to build the wharf and
cribs on the Susquehannah, whereby the plaintiff was prevented
from hauling the earth from the excavations made by him upon
said road.
5th breach. For refusal to point out a place or places to permit plaintiff to waste or deposit the earth from the excavations
of the road.
6th breach. 'For refusal to pay for the overhaul.
7th breach. For fraudulently declaring contract forfeited, and
thereby depriving plaintiff of gains which would otherwise have
accrued to him on the completion of the contract, and refusal to
pay the amount of the 15 pbr cent. retained by the defendants
under'the Several estimates.
,8th breach. For not paying said fifteen per cent. so retained
rpon the several estimates.
The defendants put in the following pleas:
Pleas. And the said defendant, by William Schley, its attorney, comes and defends the -wroing and injury, when, &c., and
says, that the said supposed agreement in writing, in the said
declaration mentioned, is not the deed of this defendant. And
of this the said' defendant puts itself upon the country, &c.
And the said defendant, by leave of the court here, for this
purpose first had and obtained, according to the form of the statute in such case.made and provided, for a further plea in this
behalf, says, that the said supposed agreement in writing, in the
said declaration mentioned, is not the deed of"the Wilmington
and Susquehannah Railroad- Company, 1nAhe, said declaration
mentioned. And of this the said defendant puts itself upon the
country, &c.
And the said defendant, by leave of the court here -for this
purpose Jfrst had and obtained, accor ing to the form f the. statute in such case made and provided, for a fxther plea in this
behalf to the said declaration, says, that th&-said Wilmningoti
and Susquehannah Railroad Company, in the Wai_ declar4fion
mentioned, did not make, -r enter into, an agreement in writing
-with the said'plaintiff, sealed- with the corporate seal of the
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

31

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

said Wilmington
manner and form
pleading alleged.
upon the country,

and Susquehannah Railroad Company, in
as the said plaintiff hath above in his said
And of this the said defendant put itself
&c.
WILLIAM SCHLEY,
Attorney for Defendant.

It was agreed that leave was given to the defendants to give
in evidence any matter of defence which could be specially
pleaded.
Upon this issue the cause went to trial, when the jury, under
the instructions of the court, which will be hereafter set forth,
found a verdict for the plaintiff for twenty-four, thousand four
hundred and twenty-five dollars and twenty-four cents damages,
with costs.
It has been already mentioned that the defendants took six
exceptions, dtaring the progress of the trial, to the admission Of
evidence. They were as follows:
First Exception. At the trial of this caub.,, the plaintiff -to
maintain -the issue on his part joined, proved by Richard T. Hollyday, a competent witness, that he is the present clerk of Cecil
County Court; and that the following is a true copy of the docketentries under the seal of Cecil County Court in a case heretofore
depending in that court.
(Then followed the docket-entries above quoted.)
The plaintiff then offered to read said docket-entries in evidence to the jury, for the purpose of showing that such a suit
was depending in said court, as shown by said docket-entries,
and --or no other purpose; but the defendant, by its counsel, objected to said docket-entries as legal and competent evidence in
this cause, and insisted that the same ought not to be read tothe jury as evidence in this cause, for the purpose for which
they were offered, or for any other purpose. But the court overruled the said objection, and permitted the said docket-entries to
be read in evidence in this cause, and the same were accordingly
read to the jury. To the admission of which said docket-entries
Jn evidence, the defendant, by its counsel, prayed leave to except.
Second Exception. The plaintiff then further proved, by said
Richard T. Hollyday, that he was present in t he month of December, 1847, at the trial in Cecil County Court of the said cause,
specified in-the said docket-entries referred to in the first bill of
exceptions, and being shown the paper marked A, of which the
following is a true copy:
(The paper marked A has been alreaay described in this statement.)
He was asked whether or not he had ever seen said paper before, and particularly whether or not he had seen the paper A

816"

SUPREME

COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

exhibited as a paper of defendant's, and in the possession of the
counsel for the defendant in said case, specified in said docketentries at the said trial in December, 147 ; but the defendant,
by its counsel, objected to said question, and to the admission in
evidence of any answer to the same, on -he ground that that
suit was between different parties; but the court overruled the
objection to said question, and to the answer to the same, and
permitted the said witness to answer the same, who deposed
that the plaintiff in said c6,se, at said trial in Cecil County Court,
relied upon another paper, shown to the witness marked B, and
which is as follows:
(The paper marked B has been heretofore described in this
statement.)
But thht one of the counsel forthe defendant had then and
there in his possession, at said trial, the said paper, marked A,
and handed the said paper to Judge Chambers as the teal contract in the case, and spoke of it as the real and genuine contract between the parties.
To which said question to said witness and to the answer
given by the said witness thereto, the defendant by its counsel
prayed leave to except.
Third Exception. The said Richard T. Hollyday being furthdr examined, stated that whether the impression on said paper,
marked A, is or ip not the seal of -the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad Company, he does not know, not having seen
at any time the seal of the said company; but that the witness
thinks that said paper A wes offered in evidence by the defendant in said cause, in Cecil County Court, as the deed of said
company, and that evidence of that fact that it was such deed
was offered by said defendant. The plaintiff then offered to
read in evidence to the jury the said paper marked A, but the
defendant, by its counsel, objected to the admissibility of said
paper in evideiice to the jury. But the ccurt overruled the said
objection, anci permitted the said paper to be read in evidence
to the jury, as primd facie proved to be thbe deed of the said
Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad Company to the admission of which said paper in evidence, the said defendant, by
its counsel, excepted.
Fourth Exception. The plaintiff then further proved by Francis nW. Ellis,'a competent witness, that he is a member of the
bar of Cecil County Court, and that he was present at said court
in December, 1847, at the trial of said case, specifidd in. said
docket-entries set out in the first bill ot exceptions; that'at said
trial no evidenc6 whatever was given by the defendant; but that,
at the conclusion of the plaintiff's case, an objection was made
by the counsel for the defendant in the case, to the plaintiff's

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

right of recovery, and he thinks tke ground of objection was that
the action should not have been brought in the names of Sebre
Howard and Hiram Howard. The said witness further stated
that, at said trial, one of the counsel for the defendant in that
case had in his hands the paper marked A, offered in evidence
in this case by the plaintiff, and that he stated, not only to those
around him at the bar, but also i# conversation with the presiding judge, that said paper was the real contract between the
parties.
Evidence of Henry Stump. The plaintiff further proved by
Henry Stump, a competent witness, that he was present at the
trial, in December, 1847, in Cecil County Court of the said case,
specified in the said docket-entries set out in the first bill of'exceptions, and that he was so present as one of the counsel for
said plaintiff, and that he took part in the trial. That at said
trial the said paper, marked A, was offered in evidence by the
defendant, and relied on by the counsel for the defendant in that
case, the same having been proved by a witness, to be sealed
with.the corporate seal of said defendant; and that the objection
to the right of recovery in that case was based oli said paper,
marked A, as a deed; and that the production and proof of said
paper A, as the sealed deed of the defendant, at once satisfied
him that said suit could not be maintained, and that he therefore suffered the verdict to be taken for the" defendant.
The plaintiff then read the agreement of union, dated 5th
February, 1838, between the Wilmington and Susquehannah
Railroad Company, the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad
Company, and the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Bqltimoie
Railroad Company, under the last-mentioned name. -He then
offered to read in evidence a copy of an injunction, issued from
the Court of Chancery of Maryland, on the 13th September,
1836, at the suit of John Stump against the Delaware and MaThe defendant objected to the
ryland Railroad Company.
admissibility of the copy so offered; but the objection was overruled, and the court permitted said paper to be read in evidence
to the jury, cfor the purpose of showing the fact that an injunction had issued, which it was admitt6d had been served on
Howard, on the 17th September, 1836, and as furnishing evidence of excuse, on the part of said Howard, for his failure to
complete the work to be done, under his contract, by the time
therein specified."
F fthi Exception. After evidence, on various points, had been
given on both sides, the defendant offered to prove by James
Canby, "that when the two papers, respectively marked A and
B, were signed by him and by Sebre Howard, and sealed by the
latter, that it was then understood between them, that both said
27

818

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. r. Howard1,

papers were also, thereafter, to be signed and sealed by Hiram
Howard." The plaintiff objected to the evidence, so offered to
be given; and the court sustained the objection, and refused to
allow the question to be propounded to the said witness, or to
be answered by said witness, and rejected as inadmissible the
evidence so proposed to be given.
[Mr. Canby had previously proved that he was then the presiident of the Wilmington and SusquehannaL Railroad Company,
and that both the papers, A and, B, wvere signed and sealed by
him, and by Sebre Howard. He had also proved that, although
the impression on paper A was the seal cf said company, yet
that it was never placed there b ' his authority, or by the authority of the board. He had also proved tha; the section was let
to Sebre and Hiram Howard. Evidence had also previously
been given, that all the estimates were made in the names of S.
& H. Howard; and that all receipts, for payments made, were
given in their joint name.]
The object of the defendant, by the evidence proposed to be
given, was to confirm the evidence of the said witness, that the
seal of the company impressed on paper A, was not placed there
by his authority, or by the authority of the board; and further,
and, more especially, to show that, in point of fact, said paper
A was not intended, sealed or unsealed, as it then stood, to be
the complete and perfect contract of the company; and that the
actual execution' of the contract by Hiram Howard, also, was a
condition precedent to its existence as the contract of the company.
Sixth Exception. This exception covered upwards of an hundred pages of the printed rec6rd. The evidence offered by the
plaintiff and objected to by the defendant, consisted principally
of so much of the record of the case in CEcil County Court, as
preceded the appeal, in that case, to the Court of Appeals; and
it was offered by the plaintiff below, for the purpose of introducing, as evidence against the defendant below, the deposition
of William P. Brobson, taken in that case, on behalf of the defendapt in that case, and whose subsequent decease was proved.
The lefendant objected to the admission of said deposition in
evidence in 'this case. The court, however, admitted the depo.
sition, and it was accordingly read. The deposition was taken
7th April, 1840.
Seventh Exception. This included an exception to the refusal
of the court to grant the prayers offered by the counsel for the
defendants, and also an exception to the instructions given by
the court to the jury, , It has been already stated that the court
laid aside the prayers offered by the counsel on both sides, and
gave its own instructions to the jury; but by way of illustration,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

319

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. i. Howard.

the prayers offered by the counseI for the plaintiff are here inserted also.
.Plaintif'sPrayers.
1st. If the jury believe that Sebre Howard made with the defendants the contract in question, and went on to perform the
work under the same, and so continued the same until the
month of January, 1837, when the company declared his contract forfeited, and that the engineers of the company made an
estimate of the work so done, showing a balance due the contractor, Howard, of
, then plaintiff is entitled to
recover that sum, with interest.
2d. If the jury believe the facts stated in the foregoing prayer,
and further find that the plaintiff was stopped by the officers of
the defendant from proceeding in the work, which stoppage
was induced by the injunction issued and given in evidence;
and if they further find that the defendant had neglected to
procure any title to the land worked upon until after such injunction was laid and dissolved, then the plaintiff is entitled to
recover such amount of damages as the jury may ilnd from the
evidence that he sustained by reason-of his being turned off from
said work.
3d. If the jury find the facts stated in the preceding prayers,
then by the true construction of the contract the plaintiffs are
entitled to the excess of overhaul, resulting from going off the
company's lands, and descending to and ascending from Mlill
creelk, in the construction of the embankment east of Mill creek.
4th. If the jury find all the facts stated in the preceding
prayers, and further find that the plaintiffs were obstructed in the
perfbrmance of their work by the absence of proper cribs at the
iver Susquehannah, where plaintiff was at work at the time;
and if they further find that he was, in consequen.e of such nonperformance by defendants, turned away from this work, then
plaintiffs are entitled to recover such amount as the jury may
find he sustained damage by reason of such omission of defendant.
5th. That by the true construction of the contract in this case,
the defendants were bound to furnish ground to waste the earth
upon which was to be dug out of the hills through which the
road was to be cut by plaintiff; and if they find that the defendants refused to do so, plaintiff is entitled to recover such
sum as the jury may find he sustained loss by not being furnished with ground to waste such earth upon.
6th. That plaintiff is entitled to recover for any and every
overhaul exceeding an average of 800-feet.
7th. That if the, jury find that the plaintiff faithfully per-

820

SUPREME COURT.

Phil'adelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

formed his work under this contract, and. was only prevented
from finishing it by the misconduct of the defendant, then plaintiff is entitled to recover such sum as he would have made by
completing said contract.
8th. If the jury believe that the defendant wilfully and fraudulently, and. without any reasonable or proper cause, declared
the contract given in evidence forfeited, then the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover, notwithstanding such declaration of forfeitur6, for any damages arising to them, after such declaration of
forfeiture, in, consequence thereof.
9th. That by the true construction of the contract given in
evidence, it was the duty of the-defendant to have all the culverts and bridges upon the route of said road; within the limits
of plaintiffse contract, prepared for the free pursuance of his
work; and if the jury believe that defendants or persons employed by them neglected so to do, they, defendants, are liable
for such damages as plaintiffs show thei sustained in consequence of such omission or neglect of defendant.
10th. That by the true construction of this contract, it was
the duty of defendants to prevent or remove all obstructions to
the plaintiffs' work which it was within their power to remove;
and it was their duty to have obtained a right to work on the
road before said plaintiffs commenced their work; and if they
find that, in consequence of legal proceedings against said conipamy, plaintiffs were obstructed and hindered in the performance
of their work, and thereby seriously damaged, that plaintiffs are
entitled to recover for such damage.
11th. That plaintiff&are entitled to recover for all work and
labor actuly done and performed under said contract, including
the 15 pet cent. retained upon the several estimates, after deducting the payments shown to have been made.
And. the defendant offered the following.
Defendant's Prayers.
1st. The defendant, by its courrsel,-prays the court to instruct
the jury that if they thall find, from the evidence in this cause,
that the seal upon the- contract, offered in evidence by the plaintiff, dated 12th July, 1836, was not affixed to the said contract
by the authority of the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad
Company, and was affixed without the authority of the defendant in this suit, and was so affixed after the'execution of the
agreement of union,. offered in evidence by the plaintiffs, dated
the 5th,.f February, 1838, 'the plaintiff is not entitled to recover
upon it in this suit...

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

'321

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Bal.timore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

2d. If the jury shall find, from the evidence in this cause, that
at the trial in Cecil County Court, in December, 1847, of the
case of Sebre Howard and Hiram Howard against the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad Company, spoken of in their
testimony, by Mr. Hollyday, Mr. Ellis, Mi. Stump, and Mr.
Scott, the plaintiffs in said suit offered in evidence to the jury,
in support of the issue joined on their part, the contract offered
in- evidence in this cause, marked exhibit B, and shall further
find, from the evidence in the cause, that the defendant in said
suit offered no evidence whatever in support of the issue joined
on its part, and that the counsel for the defendant in that suit,
when the plaintiffs offered to read in evidence .the contract,
marked B, objected to the admissibility of the same in evidence
upon the issue joined in said suit, upon the ground that whereas
the plaintiffs in that suit declared on an alleged contract, made
by the said plaintiffs with the said defendant in that suit, yet
the said paper, so offered to be read in evidence by the said
plaintiffs, being executed only by said Sebre Howard, and under
his seal, was the contract alone of said Sebre Howard, and was
not the same contract alleged by the plaintiffs in the pleadings
in that case; *and shall further find, from the evidence in the
cause, that this was the only objection made and argued in the
trial of said cause on the part of the defendant, and was the
only'point then and there decided by the said court, then the
reliance on said objection does not estop or debar the defendant in this suit from denying that"the paper, marked exhibit
A, nbw offered in evidence in this suit by the plaintiff, is not
the deed of the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad Company, even if the jury shall find, from the evidence in the
cause, that the said paper A wds then and there.in- court, in
the possession of the defendant's counsel in that suit, and
was spoken of by him, as stated by the witnesses, as the real
contract between the parties; provided, they shall also find,
from the evidence in. the cause, that the counsel who appeared
for the defendant in said suit were then wholly ignorant of the
fact that said seal had been placed on the said contract, without
any authority, as aforesaid.
3d. If the jury shall find, from the evidence in the cause, that
the work done on the 9th section of the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad on and after the 12th day of July, 1836, so
far as done by the plaiihtiff, Sebre Howard, was so done by said
plaintiff as one of the firm of Sebre and Hiram Howard, and
that all the estimates were made out as in favor of said firm,
and received and receipted for by the plaintiff, so far as any
moneys were received by him from the said company in the

322

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Ho-waTd.

name and on behalf of said firm; and that the plaintiff, in his
dealings and transactions with said company, professed to act
as one of said firm, and for and on behalf of said firm, and never
notified the said company or any of its officers, whilst engaged
in work on said road, that he was not acting as a member of
said firm, and for and on behalf of said firm, then the plaintiff is
not entitled to recover in this case upon the first breach by him
assigned in his declaration.
4th. If the jury shall find, from the evidence in the cause, that
the-resolution of the board of the Wilmington and Susquehannah
Railroad Company,- dated 18th January, 1837, offered in evidance in this cause, was duly passed by said board, and shall not
find from the evidence in the cause that the same was fraudulently passed by said board, or by said company, then the plaintiff
is not entitled to recover on the 7th breach of his declaration.
5th. If the jury shall find with the defendant on the fourth
prayer, and shall also find, from tie evidence in the cause, that
notice was given on the same day, to the plaintiff in the suit, of
the passage of said resolution, then the said contract was there-.
by rendered null so far as concerned any liability thereunder on
the part of the defendant; and that the plaintiff is not entitled
to maintain this suit.
6th. If the jury shall find, from the evidence in the cause, that
the first mile of said section No. 9 was not finished on or before
the 15th day of October, 1836, and was not, in fact, finished at
any time, nor accepted by the defendant as fully and completely
graded by the plaintiff, or by the said firm of Sebre Howard and
Hirarh Howard; and shall'further find, from the evidence, that
the alleged excuses, alleged in pleading by the plaintiff, were
not in any respect the cause of, or contributory to the failure on
the part of the said plaintiff, or of the said plaintiff and said
Hiram Howard, to finish the same in the time limited for that
purpose in said contract, then the plaintiff is not entitled to
recover in this case on said first breach in hais said declaration.
7th. If the jury shall find, from the evidence, that the injunction issued by John Stump, offered n evidence in this cause,
was issued without any justifiable cause, and without any basis
in rightj and that the issuing of said injunction was not based on
any actual omission of duty on th6 part of said company, then
theplaintiff is not entitled to recover on thsecond count of his
declaration.
8th. If the jury shall find, from the evidence in the cause,
that the plaintiff was contractor on another section of the road
of Ote said company, and that said former section was completed by him before the making of the contract offered in evi-

DECE

BER TERM, 1851.

823

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

dence in this case; and shall further find, that in the execution
of said former contract the plaintiff provided bridges and other
rhodes of intercommunication from one part of his work to
another, without any complaint; and shall further find that it
was the known usage of said company to lave to the contractors the business of congtruction of their bridges so as to pass with
materials and excavation from one part of their work to another,
and that such is the known and uniform usage of other public
works, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover on the second
breach of his declaration.
9th. If the jury shall find, from the evidence in the cause, that
the plaintiff, at the time he was stopped by the assistant engineer, Mr. Farquhar from throwing more earth aginst the outer
crib of the embankment at the river, might readily and conveniently have deposited many thousand cubic-yards of earth
within the limits of said embankment, if he had chosen so to do;
and that the plaintiff perversely and stubbornly refused so to do;
then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover on the 4th breacl of
his declaration.
10th. If the jury shall find, from the evidence, that the excavations made by the plaintiff, in the month of December, 1836,
were needed by the defendant for the embankment at the river;
and shall also find that the same could have been conveniently
deposited there by the plaintiff, and that the plaintiff knew these
facts, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover on the 5th
breach of his declaration.
11th. If the jury shall find that fair and proper estimates
were made by defendant for all the overhaul of earth made
by the plaintiff, over the average haul of 800 feet, theh the
plaintiff is not entitled to recover on the 6th breach of his declaration.
12th. If the jury shall believe that, at the time of the execution of the agreement, the road to be excavated and graded was
staked out and marked upon the ground, and that a profile was
shown, showing the depth of excavation to be made, and the,
height of the embankments, and that afterwards the plan of the
road was altered and changed, by which the excavations were
to be deeper and wider, and some of the embankments higher
and some lower, to suit the altered plan of the road, and that
the work done by the plaintiff, and for which he claims damages,
was in grading the road according to the altered plan, then the
plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action.
13th. If the jury shall believe that all the work done in pursuance of the agreement stated in the declaration was done by
Sebre and Hiram Howard, and not by Sebre Howard alone,
that then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.

824

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

The court thereupon rejecting the respective prayers on both
sides, gave the jury the following instructions:
Court's Instructions to the tury.
SEBRE HOWARD

,

V.
THE PHILADELPHIA, WILMINGTON, AND(
)
BALTIMORE RAILROAD COMPANY.

1st. If the corporate seal of the Wilmington and Susquehannah
Railroad Company was affixed to the instrament of writing upon
which this suit is brought, with the authority of the company,
while it had a separate existence for the purpose of making it at
that time, and as it then stood the contract of the company, then
the said instrument of writing is the dee(L of the said corporation; although it was never delivered to t/e plaintiff nor notice
of the sealing given to him; and although no seal was affixed
by the corporation to the, duplicate copy delivered to him; and
the defendant in the present action is equally bound by it, and
in like manner.
2d. If the jury find from the evidence that this instrument of
writing was produced in court, and relied upon by the present
defendant, as a contract under the seal of the Wilmington and
Susquehannah Railroad Company, fi an action of assumpsit
bronght by Sebre and Hiram Howard against the last-mention[ed company in Cecil County Court; and that the said suit
was decided against the plaintiffs upon the ground that this instrument was duly sealed by the said corporation as its deed,
then the defendant cannot be permitted in this' case to deny the
validity of the said sealing, because such a defence would impute to the present defendant itself a fraud upon. the administration of justice in Cecil County Court.
3d. If upon either of these grounds the jury find the instrument of writing upon which this suit is brought to be the deed
of defendant, then the plaintiff is en itled to recover in this suit
any damage he may have sustained by a breach of the covenants on the part of the corporation; but if-they find that it is
ifot the deed of the defendant upon either of these grounds, then
their verdict must be for the defendant.
4th. The omission of the plaintiffs to finish the work within
the times mentioned in the contract, is not a bar to his recovery
for the pfice of the work he actually performed; but the defendant may set off any damage he sustaine I by the delay, if the
delay arose from the default of the plaintiffs.
5th. If the defendant annulled this contract, as stated in the
testimony, under the belief that the plaintiff was not prosecuting

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

325

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

the work with proper diligence, and for the reasons assigned in

the resolution of the board, they are not liable for any damage
the plaintiff may have sustained thereby, even although he was
in no default, and the company acted in this respect under a
mistaken opinion as to his conduct.
6th. But this annulling did not deprive him of any rights
vested in him at that time, nor make the covenant void ab initio,
so as to deprive him of a remedy upon it for any money then
due him for his work, or any damages he had then already sustained.
7th. The increased work occasioned by changing the width
of the road and altering the grade having been directed by the
engineer of the company under its aut~hority, was done under
this covenant, and within its stipulations, and may be recovered
in this action, without resorting to an action of assumpsit.
8th. If the jury find for the plaintiff upon the first or second
instructions, he is entitled to recover the amount due on the
work done by him in December, 1836, and January, 1837, according to the measurements and valuation of the engineer of
the company, and cannot go into evidence to show that they
were erroneous, or that he was entitled to a greater allowance
for overhaul than the amount stated in the estimates of the engineer.
9th. Also, if from any cause, without the fault of tke plaintif,
the earth excavated could not be used in the filling up and embankments on the road and at the river, it was the duty of the
defendant to furnish a place to waste it. And if the company
refused, on the application of the plaintiff to provide a convenient place for that purpose, he is entitled to recover such da-

mages as he sustained by the refusal, if he sustained any; and
he is alo entitled to recover any damage he may have sustained
by the delay of his work or the increase of his expense in per.
forming it, occasioned [by] the negligence, acts, or default of the
defendant.
10th. Also, the plaintiff is entitled to recover the fifteen per
cent. retained by the company, unless the jury find that the company has sustained damage by the default, negligence, or misconduct of the plaintiff. And if such damage has been sustained, but not to the amount of the fifteen per cent, then the
plaintiff is entitled to recover the balance, after deducting the
amount of damage sustained by the company.
11th. The corporation was not bound to provide bridges over
the streams to enable the plaintiff to pass conveniently with his
carts from one part of the road to another.
12th. The decision of the Court of Appeals is conclusive
evidence that the injunction spoken of in the testimony, was
VOL. XIII.

28

326

SUPREME

COURT.

IPhiladelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howar4.

not occasioned by the default -of the defendant;' and the plaintiff is not entitled to recover damages for the delay occasioned
by it, unless the jury find that the company did not use reasonable diligence to obtain a dissolution of the injunction.
13th. If the jury find that the resolution of the company annulling the contract was not in truth- passed for the reasons
therein assigned, but for the purpose of having the remaining
work done upon cheaper terms than those agreed upon in the
contract with the plaintiff, or for the purpose of oppressing and
injuring the plaintiff, then he is entitled to recover damages for
any loss of profit he may lfrve sustained by the refusal of the
company to permit him to finish the work he had contracted to
perform, if he sustained any.
The defendant, by its counsel, prayed leave to except, in
respect of all and each of the prayers offered on the part of tl.e
defendant, to the court's refusal to grant said several prayer's
respectively, and also prayed leave to except to the instructions
given by the court to the jury, and to each one of said instructions, severally and respectively, and prayed that the court here
would sign and seal this, its seventh bill of exceptions, according
to the form of the statutes in such case made and provided; and
which is accordingly done this 16th day of November, 1850.
R. B. TANEY, ISEAL.]
U.

S. HEMATH, ISEAL.]

Upon all these exceptions the case came up to this court, and
was argued by Mr. Schley, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr.
NYelson and Mr. Johnson, for the defendant in error:
The reporter has not room to notice the arguments of A-r.
Schley, for the plaintiffs in error, upon the points of evidence
brought up in the six first exceptions. The points made by
him upon the 7th exception -which included the rulings of the
court as instructions to the jury, were the following:
1. The defendant in error cannot, as sole plaintiff in the action, maintain the suit. Whether the contract be the deed of
the company, or a mere contract by parol, the covenantees or
promisees, as the case may be, are Sebre Howard and Hiram
Howard. This point, if well taken, is decisive of the case.
Platt on Covenants, 18; Clement v. Henley, 2 Rolle's Abr. 22;
Faits (F.) P1. 2; Vernon . v. Jefferys, 2 Stra. 1146; Petrie v.
Bury, 3 Barn. '& Cress. 353, (10 Eng. C. L. Rep. 108); Rose v.
Poulton, 2 Barn. & Ad. 822, (22 Eng. C. L. Rep. 194) ; Scott-v.
Godwift, 1 Bos. & Pul. 67; Anderson v. Martindale, 1 East,
497; 1 Wins. Saunders, 201, f. and cases cited there; 1 Saunders,
Pl. & Ev. 390; Wetherell v. Langton, 1 Exch. Rep. (Welsby,
Hurl. & Gord.) 634; Foley v. Addenbrooke, 4 Q. B. 197,

DECEMBER TERM, L1851.

827

:Philadelphia, Wilmington & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

(45 Eng. C. L. Rep. 195); Hopkinson v. Let, 6 Q. B. 964,
(51 Eng. C. L. Rep. 963)-; Wakefield v. Brown, 9 Q. B. 209
(58 Eng. C. L. Rep. 217); Smith v. Ransom, 21 Wend. 204.
2. Unless the instrument, on which the action is founded,
was, in fact,'the deed of the Wilmington and Susquehannah
Railroad Company, existing and operative as such, at the time
of the union of the companies, an action of covenant cannot be
maintained thereon, under the act of 1837, against the plaintiff
in error. This point, if well taken, is decisive of the case.
3. If the last preceding proposition cannot be supported, in
its full extent, still, upon the issue joined on the plea of'non est
factunz, the plaintiff in error was not estopped, in law, from showing, that the paper was not, in fact, the deed of the Wilmington
and Susquehannah Railroad Company. Wilson v. Butler, 4
'Bing. N. Cas. 748, (33 Eng. C. L. Rep. 521) ; 1 Chitty's Plead.
603; and cases referred to in the notes.
4. The alleged productiorn of the instrument, in the former
suit, as a deed, would not, as matter of law, have been a fraud
upon the administration of justice. Fraud or no fraud was a
question of fact for the jury; and the application of the doctrine
of estoppel ought to have been only upon the hypothesis, that
the jury would find fraud, as a fact in the case. Accident, mistake, or surprise, might afford good ground for relief in equity,
under very peculiar circumstances; but not for the application
of estoppel in pais, in the absence of all intention to perpetrate
a fraud. Reference is made to the various cases collected in
the notes, in 44 Law Lib. 467; Conard v. Nicholl, 4 Pet. 295;
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 716.
5. Even if the instrument was properly held to be the deed
of the said company, yet, upon itt true construction, time was
of the essence of the contract. As the evidence clearly showed
that the work was not performed, within the time limited in that
behalf, and as there was no valid excuse for the default, the
plaintiff below could not recover on the basis of said agreement.
The proper form of action would have been assumpsit, upon a
qnaueint' valebat, for the work and labor done. This objection,
if well taken, is decisive of the case. 1 Chifty's Plead. 340, and
cases in note (4.) Watchman v. Crook, 5 Gill & Johns. 254;
Watkins v. Hodges & Lansdale, 6 Harr. & Johns. 38; Bank of
Columbia v. Hagner, 1 Pet. 455, 465; Longworth v. Taylor, 1
A'Lean's Rep. 395 ; Fresh v. Gilson, 16 Pet' 327, 334; Notes
to Cutter v. Powell, Smith's L. C. 44 Law Lib. 17, 27; Gibbons's Law of Contracts,  20 to  47; and the cases there
stated.
6. 'By force of the declaration of forfeiture, if validly made,
(that is, if made under the circumstances stated as the hypothe-

828

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Rilroad Co. v. Howard.

sis of the fifth instruction,) the instrument was annulled, so far
as it imposed any obligation upon the company. It could not
be made, thereafter, the basis of an-action against said company. Whilst, conceding that the plaintiff below was not
thereby deprived of any rights, completely vested in him before
forfeiture; yet, it will be insisted, that the remedy, for the enforcement of such rights, is not by an action upon the instrument itself. Assurnpsit, upon a quantum valebat, would have
been the appropriate form of action, or reief could have been
had in equity. It will, therefore, be respectfully insisted, that
the sixth instruction, (which is founded on the same hypothesis
as the fifth,) confounds the distinction between right and remedy.
As to the first branch, vide Mathewson v. Lydiate, 5 Co. 22
b; s. c. Cro. Eliz. 408,470, 546. As to second branch, 1 Chitty's
Plead. 340, note 4; and cases there cited.
'7. At all events, no action at law can be maintained against
the plaintiff in error, on said annulled contract, (if validly annulled,) under the provisions of the act of 1837, c. 30. The
forfeiture was declared on the 18th January, 1837. The act
was passed on the 20th January, 1838. The instrument, therefore, was not a subsisting obligation of the Wilmington and
Susquehannah Railroad Company, when the act of union was
passed.
8. The claim to'the fifteen per cent. retaLned by the company,
was not a vested right, at the time the contract was annulled.
Even if the sixth instruction was correct, the tenth instruction
was erroneous. By the express terms of the agreement, the
retained per cent. wag not demandable unil the completion of
the contract. As the contract was never fulfilled by -the contractor, the retained per cent. cannot bl- demanded, in an action
based on the contract.
9. No recovery can be had, in this suit, in re"pect of any matter, not embraced in the contract. The ,ubject-matter of the
contract is to be limited and confined to the original plan of the
work, as contemplated and established, when the contract was
made. The obligation of the contract cannot be extended beyond the subject-matter. It had not the capacity of expansion
or contraction, in accordance with any changes that the company might choose to make. Such additional work cannot be
recovered in this action, as declared in the seventh instruction
of the co-irt, as work done under the covenant, and within its
stipulations. 2 Stark. Ev. 768; Fresh v. Gilson, 16 Pet. 327.
10. There was no implied covenant on the part of the company, to procure a place for the waste of the surplus excavations,
if any. But even if there was such'implied covenant, there was
no evidence in the cause from which it could reasonably be

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

329

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

inferred, that there was any excavation to be wasted as surplus.
11. The defendant below was not liable, in any manner, for
the consequences of the injunction issued from chancery. The
action was grounded on the alleged covenant; and the company,
by its contract, had not warranted againt interruption by the
wrongful acts of any stranger. There is a wide differenbe between allowing the interruption to avail to the plaintiff below,
as an excuse on his behalf for non-performance 6f the work
within the prescribed time; and in making the delay of the
company, in removing the cause of interruption, a ground of
action, against the defendant below, as being a violation by the
company of its covenant. Platt on Covenants, 601, (3 Law
Lib. 269,) and case referred to in the notes there.
12. It will be insisted, that there was no evidence in the
cause to justify the hypothesis of the thirteenth instruction of
the court; that there was nothing from which the jury could
legitimately find the facts of fraud and oppression, which are
made the basis of that instruction.
13. And it will also be insisted, that the thirteenth instruction is erroneous, in this, that thereby it is laid down, that the
loss of profits, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, is the proper
measure of damages to be allowed by the jury, .if they should
find that the company improperly refused to permit the plaintiff
to perform his work. Gilpins v. Consequa, Peters, C. C. Rep. 85"
Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109; Bell v. Cunningham, 3 Peters,
69, 86; 2 Greenleaf on Evidence, sect. 261; Fairman v. Fluck,
5 Watts, 516, 518; Story on Agency, 216; Short v. Skipwith,
1 Brock. Rep. 108.
14. The third prayer of the defendant ought to have been
granted. Even if, in facLt, or by estoppel, the paper A was the
deed of the company; yet, if the work was really performed by,
or on behalf of, the firm of S. & H. Howard, and the dealings
'and transactions of the company, in relation to said work, were
with the said firm, (without notice of any proposed or actuai
separate performance of the woik by the plaintiff, individually,
as under said paper A,) then the defendant'had a right to insist,
that as the work was done by said firm, the privity of contract,
in relation thereto, was with said firm, and that the estimate
was payable only to the firm, under the paper B, as the subsisting contract between the parties, or otherwise upon an assumpsit
to said firm.
15. The ninth and tenth prayers of the plaintiff ought to have
been granted. The evidence of Mr. Heckert shows that "the
embankment under the change of' grade was 650 feet long and
100 feet wide, and there was much space wherein Howard
28 *

830

SUPREME

COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

could have placed the earth from his -excavations to make the
said embankment." Besides this, there was express directions
from the engineer to the plaintiff below, to place the embankment (not against the crib, but) on each side of the centre-line
of the embankment for the width of twenty-five feet on each
side of said centre-line. His conduct in throwing the embankment against the outer crib was wilful and perverse.
The counsel for the defendants mad3 the following referances to authorities, to show that the exceptions were not sustainable :
On the First Exception. Act of Assembly of Maryland, 1817,
c. 119; Peake's Evidence, 34; Jones v. Randall, Cowper's
Rep. 17.
On the Second and Third Exceptions. Acts of Assembly of
Maryland, 1831, c. 296; 1835, c. 93; 1837, c. 30; Agreement
of Union, 1838, February 5th, (page 29th of the Record); 4 S.
& R. 246 ; 2 Hill, 64; 1 Metcalf, 27; 5 Monroe, 530 ; 17 Conn.
345, 355; 18 Id. 138, 443; Fishmonger v. Robertson, 5 Mann.
& Grang. 131, 192, 193.
On the Fourth Exception. Same authorities cited in support of the 4th instruction.
On the Sixth Exception. 1 Greenleaf's EvidencQ, sect. 553,
p. 618; 1 Adolphus & Ellis, 19.
On the Seventh Exception. In support of the 1st, 2d and
3d instructions. Coke's Lit. Lib. 1, sect. 5, 36, (a.) note 222;
2 Leonard, 97; 1 Ventr. 257; 1 Levinz, 46; 1 Siderfin, 8; Carthew, 360; 3 Keble, 307; 1 Kyd on Corporations, 268.
In'support of the 4th Instruction. Terry v. Dance, 2 H.
Black. 389 ; 1 East, 625, 631 ; 2 Johns. 272, 387; 5 Johns. 78;
15 Mass. 500; 19. Johns. 341; 2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 456;
Campbell v. Jones, 6. T. R. 570; Fishmonger v. Robertson,
5 Mann. & Granger, I97; 1-oward v. Philadelphia Railroad Co.
1 Gill,-311; Goldsbor'6ugh v. Orr, 8 Wheat. 217; 1 Villiams's
Saund. 320 b.; Pordage v. Cole, Id. 220, n. 4; Carpeniter v.
Creswell, 4 Bing. 409; Boon v. Eyre, 1 H. Bla. .273.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court
'Sebre Howard brought his action of'covenant broken, in tht
Circuit Court of the United'States for the District of'Ma'rylhnd,
and upon the trial, the defendants took se-en bills of exception,
which are here for consideration upon a writ of error. Each
o them must be separately examined.
The first, raises the question, whether Howard could prove
that a certain suit was pending in Cecil County Court by the
testimony of the clerk of that court to the verity of a copy of
the docket-entries made in that suit by him, as clerk.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

331

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

It is not objected that a copy of the docket-entries was produced instead of the original entries, because no court is required
to permit its original entries to go out of the custody of its own
officers, in the place appointed for their preservation; but the
objection is, that a formal record ought to have been shown.
There are two distinct answers to this objection, either of which
is sufficient.
By the act of Assembly of Maryland, (1817, c. 119,) the
clerk of the County Court is not required to make up a formal
record. The docket-entries and files of the court stand in place
of the record. When a formal record is not required by law,
those entries which are permitted to stand in place of it are admissible in evidence. Several judicial decisions in England
have been referred to by the counsel of the plaintiff in error, to
the effect, that the finding of an indictment at the sessions
cannot be proved by the production of the minute-book of the
sessions, from which book the roll, containing the record of such
proceedings, is subsequently made up. See 2 Phil. Ev. 194.
But the distinction between those cases and a case like this is
pointed out in a recent decision of the Court of King's Bench
in Reina v. Yeoveley, 8 Ad. & EL 806, in which it was held,
that the minute-book of the sessions was admissible to prove
the fact that an order of removal had been made, it appearing
that it was not the practice to make up any other record of
such an order; and Lord Denman fixes on the precise ground
on which the evidence was admissible in this case, when he
says, "the book contains a caption, and the decision of the sessions; and their decision is the fact to be proved."
So in Arundell v. White, 14 East, 216, the plaintiff offered the
minute-book of the Sheriff's Court in London, containing the
entry of the plaint, and the word "withdrawn," opposite to the
entry, and proved it was the usual course of the court to make
such an entry when the suit was abandoned by the plaintiff;
it was held to be competent evidence to prove the abandonment
of the suit by the plaintiff and its final termination. In Commonwealth v. Bolkom, 3 Pick. 281, it was decided that the
minute-book of the sessions, showing the grant of a license to
the defendant, was legal evidence of that fact, there being no
statute requiring a technical record to be made up.
And in Jones v. Randall, Cowper's R. 17, copies of the
minute-book of the House of Lords were admitted in evidence
of a decree, because it was not the practice to make a formal
record.
The principle of all these decisions is the same. Where the
law, which governs the tribunal, requires no other record than
the one, a copy of which is presented, that is sufficient. In

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co.

r

Howard.

Maryland, no technical record was required by law to be made
up by the clerks of the county courts; and, therefore, no other
record than the one produced was needful to prove the pendency
of an action in such a court.
But there is another point of view in which this evidence was
clearly admissible.
The fact to be proved was the pendency of an action. An
action is pending when it is duly entered in court. The entry
of an action in court is made, by an entry on the docket, of the
title of the case, by the proper officer, in the due course of
his official duty. Proof of such an entry being made by the
proper officer, accompanied by the presumption which the
law entertains, that he has done his duty in making it, is
proof that the action was duly entertained in court, and so
proof that the action was pending; and if the other party
asserts that it had been disposed of, at any particular time
after it was entered, he must show it. The docket-entry of the
action was therefore admissible for this special purpose, because
it was the very fact which, when shown, proved the pendency
of the action, until the other party showed its termination.
The second bill of exceptions was taken to the ruling of the
court admitting a witness to testify that he was present at the
trial of the above-mentioned case in Cecil County Court, in
December, 1847, in which Sebre Howard and Hiram Howard
were shown hy the docket-entries to have been plantiffs, and
the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad Corporation defendant; that the plaintiffs at that trial relied on a paper writing, shown to the witness, and set out in the bill of exceptions;
that one of the counsel of the defendant had in his possession
another paper writing, also shown to the witness, and being the
deed declared on in this suit; and that the defendant's counsel
handed this lasi-mentioned paper to the presiding judge, and
spoke of it as the true and genuine contract between the parties.
To render the ruling, to which this bill of exceptions was
taken, intelligible, it is necessary to state, that the Wilmington
and Susquehannah Railroad Corporation was tfie defendant in
that action, which was assumpsit, founded on the paper first
spoken of by the Witness, which did not bear the seal of the corporation; that by the act of Assembly of 1.837, c. 30, the Bal.
timorp and Susquehannah Company, the Baltimore and Port
Deposit Company, and the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and
Baltimore Companty, were consolidated, under the name of the
Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company
and that this action being covenant, against the Philadelphia,
Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, and the plea
non estfactun, the plaintiff was 'ndeavoring to prove, that the

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

333

.Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

paper declared on bore the corporate seal of the Wilmington and
Susquehannah Railroad Company. This being the fact to be
proved, evidence that the corporation, through its counsel, had
treated the instrument as bearing the corporate seal, and relied
upon it as a deed of the corporation, was undoubtedly admissible. It is objected that the parties to that suit were not thesame as in this one; but this is wholly immaterial. The evidence does not derive its validity from any privity of parties.
It tends to prove an admission by the corporation, that the instrument was sealed with its seal. It is further objected that the
admission was not made by the defendants in this action, but by
the Wilmington and Susquehannah Corporation. It is true the
action in the trial of which the admission was made, being brought
before the union of the corporations, was necessarily in the name
of the original corpo'ation; but as, by virtue of the act of
union, the Wilmington and Susquehannah Company, the Baltimore and Port Deposit Company, and the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Company were merged in and constituted one body corporate, under the name of the Philadelphia,
Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, it is very clear
that at the time the trial took place in Cecil County Court all
acts and admissions of the defendant in that case, though necessarily in the name of the Wilmington and Susquehannah Company, were done and made by the same corporation which now
defends this action. This exception must therefore be overruled.
The third exception is that the court permitted the deed to be
read to the jury, although only vague and inconclusive evidence
had been given, that it bore the corporate seal. We do not consider the evidence was vague, for it applied to this particular
paper, and tended to prove it to be the deed of the company.
Whether it would turn out to be conclusive, or not, depended
upon the fact whether any other evidence would be offered to
control it, and upon the judgment of the jury. But the deed
was rightly admitted to be read as soon as any evidence of its
execution, fit to be weighed by the jury, had Veen given by the
plaintiff. It was argued that this evidence was not sufficient to
change the burden of proof; and it is true that, upon the issue
whether the paper bore the corporate seal, the burden of proof
remained on the plaintiff throughout the trial, however the evidence
might preponderate, to the one side or the other, (Powers v. Russell, 13 Pick. 69) ; but the court did not rule that the burden of
proof was changed, but only that such primdfacie evidence had
been given as enabled the plaintiff to read the deed to the jury.
The subject-matter of the fourth exception became wholly immaterial in the progress of the cause, and could not be assigned*

8384

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

for error, even if the ruling had been erroneous. Greenleaf's
Lessee v. Birth, 5 Pet. 132. But we think the ruling was correct.
The fifth exception was taken to the refusal of the court to
allow a question to be answered by James Canby, one of the
defendant's witnesses. This witness had already testified as
follows:
"Leslie and White were the first contractors, and they were
induced to relinquish it at the instance of the board, and it was
then let to Sebre and Hiram Howard; the terms and price, and
other essentials of the contract, were entered into on the 12th
July, 1836 ; and on that day two papers were prepared and were
then signed by him, and also signed by Sebre Howard; and deponent, as president of the company, expressly directed the
secretary, Mr. Brobson, that the seal of thm, company was not to
be fixed to either paper until Hiram Howard signed and sealed
both of them. The two papers, respectively marked A and B,
being shown to him, he stated that they are the two papers to
which he refers; that the impression of the seal on said paper
A, is the seal of the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad
Company, but that said seal was not placed there, he is very
positive, at any time whilst he was president of said company,
and was never placed there by his authority or by the authority
of the board."
The defendant now insists he had e. right to. prove by this
witness, that although the paper bore the corporate seal of the
company, it was not its deed, because of an understanding between the witness and the plaintiff that Hiram Howard was to
execute the paper. If the offer had been to prove that at the
time the corporate seal was affixed, it was agreed the instrument should not be the deed of the company, unless, or until,
Hiram Howard should execute it, the evidence might have been
admissible. Pawling et al. v. The United States, 4 Cranch, 219;
Derby Canal Company v. Wilmot, 9 East, 360 ; Bell v. Ingestre,
12 Ad. & El. N. s. 317. But the understanding, to which the
question points, was prior to the sealing, and in no way connected
with that act, of which the witness had no knowledge. It did
not bear upon the question whether "-he instrument was the
deed of the company, and was properly rejected.
The sixth exception rests on the following facts: The plaintiff offered to read the deposition of a deceased witness taken
by the defendants in the case in Cecil County Court, to prove
that the paper in question bore the seal of the corporation placed
there by the deponent, an officer of the corporation. The defendant objected, but the court admitted the evidence. We
consider the evidence was. admissible upon two grounds; to

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

335

.Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v.Howard.

prove that in that case the defendant -had asserted this instrument to be the deed of the corporation, and relied on it as such;
and also, because the witness lEeing dead, his deposition, regularly taken in a suit in which both the plaintiff and defendant
were parties, touching the same subject-matter in issue in this
case,.was competent evidence on its trial. It is said the parties
were not the same. But it is not necessary they should be identical, and they were the same, except that Hiram Howard was
a coplaintiff in the former suit, and this diversity does not render the evidence inadmissible. 1 Greenl. Ev.553 ; 1 Ad. & El. 19.
The seventh and last bill of exceptions covers nine distinct
propositions given by the court to the jury as instructions. The
first of the instructions excepted to, was as follows:
"If the jury find from the evidence that this instrument of
writing was produced in court, and relied upon by the present
defendant, as a contract under the seal of the Wilmington and
Susquehannah Railroad Company, in an action of assunipsit
brought by Sebre and Hiram Howard, against the last-mentioned company in Cecil County Court; and that the said suit was
decided against the plaintiffs upon the ground that thi instrument was duly sealed by the said corporation as its deed, then
the defendant cannot be permitted in this case to deny the
validity of said sealing, because such a defence would impute to
the present defendant itself a fraud upon the administration of
justice in Cecil County Court."
It is objected that this instruction applied the doctrine of
estoppel, where the matter of the estoppel had not been relied on
in pleading. The rules on this subject are well settled. If a
party has opportunity to plead an estoppel and voluntarily
omits to do so, and tenders or takes issue on the fact, he thus
waives the estoppel and commits the matter to the jury, who are
to find the truth. 1 Saund. 325 a., n. 4; 2 B. & A. 668; 2 Bing.
377; 4 Bing. N. C. 748. But if he have not opportunity to
show the estoppel by pleading, he may exhibit the matter thereof
in evidence, on the trial, under any issue which involves the
fact, and both the court and the jury are bound thereby. 1 Salk.
276; 17 Mass. 369. Now the plea in this case was n
est
fachtm, which amounts to a denial that the instrument declared
on was the defendant's deed at the time of action brought. If
sealed and delivered, and subsequently altered, or erased, in a
material part, or if the seal was torn off, before action brought,
the plea is supported. 5 Coke, 23, 119 b.; 11 Coke, 27, 28;
Co. Lit. 35 b., n. 6,7. It follows that a replication to the effect
that on some day, long before actioh brought, the instrument
was the deed of the defendant, would be bad on demurrer, for
it would not completely answer the plea.

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

The plaintiff cannot b3 said to have opportunity to plead an
estoppel, and voluntarily to omit to do so, when the previous
pleadings are such that if he did plead it, it would be demurtable.
Besides, a plea' of non est-factum rightly concludes to the
country, and so the plaintiff has no opportunity to reply specially, any new matter of fact. He can only join the issue tendered, and if he were prevented from having the benefit of an
estoppel, because he has not pleaded it, it would follow that the
plaintiff can never have the benefit of an estoppel when the
defendant pleads the general issue, for in no such case can he
plead it. This was clearly poinited out in Trevivan v. Lawrence, 1 Salk. 276, wherb the court say, "that when the plaintiffs' title is by estoppel, and the defendant pleads the general
issue, the jury are bound by the estoppel." And it is in this
way that the numerous cases of estoppels in pais which are in
the recent books of reports, have almost always been presented.
It is further objected, that the facts supposed in the instruction
did not amount in law to an estoppel. We think otherwise.
Hall v. White, 3 C. & P. 137, was detinue for certain deeds.
The defendant wrote to the plaintiffs' attorney, and spoke of
the deed as in his possession under such circumstances as ought
to have led him to understand a suit would be brought upon
the faith of what he said. Best, C. J., ruled: 't If the defendq.nt said he had the deeds, and thereby induced the plaintiffs to
bring their action against him, I shall hold that they may recover,
though the assertion was a fraud on his part." In Doe v. Lambly, 2 Esp. 635, the defendant had informed the plaintiffs' agent
that his tenancy commenced at Lady-day, and the agent gave'
a notice to quit on that day. This not being heeded, ejectment
was brought, and the tenant set up a holding from a different
day. But Lord Kenyon refused to allow him to show that he
was even mistaken in his admission, for he was concluded.
Mordecai v. Oliver; 3 Hawks, 479; Crocketv. Lasbrook, 5 Mon.
530; Trustees of Congregation, &c. v. Williams, 9 Wend. 147,
are to the same point.
These decisions go much further than this case requires, because the defendant not only induced the plaintiff to bring this
action, but defeated the action in Cecil County Court, by asserting and maintaining this paper to be the deed of the company; and this brings the defendant within the principle of the
common law, that when a party asserts what he knows is false,
or does not know to be true, to another's loss, and his own gain,
he is guilty of a fraud; a fraud in fact, if he knows it to be
false, fraud in law, if he does not know it to be true. Polhill v.
Walter, 3 B. & Ad. 114; Lobdell v. Baker, 1 Met. 201.

DECEM1BER TERM,

1851.

337

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore, Railroad Co. v. Howard.

Certainly it would not mitigate the fraud, if the false assertion
were made in a court of justice and a meritorious suit defeated
thereby. 'We are clearly of opinion, that the defendant cannot
be heard to say, that what was asserted on the former trial was
false, even if the assertion was made by ristake. If it was a
mistake, of which there is no evidence, it was one made by the
defendant, of which he took the benefit, and the plaintiff the
loss, and it is too late to correct it. It does not carry the estoppel beyond what is strictly equitable, to hold that the representation which defeated one action on a point of form should. sustain another on a like point.
The next instruction is objected to on the ground that Hiram
Howard ought to have been joined as a coplaintiff. By reference. to the indenture, it will be seen that it purports to be made
between Sebre Howard and Hiram Howard, of the first part,
and the Wilmington and Susquehannah Railroad Company, of
the second part. The covenants are not by or with these persons nominatin, but throughout the party of the one part cevenants with the party of the other part. Sebre Howard alone
and the corporation sealed the deed.
It is settled that if one of two covenantees does not execute
the instrument, he must join in the action, because whatever
may be the beneficial interest of either, their legal interest is
joint, and if each were to gue, the court could not know for
which to give judgment. Slingsby's case, 5 Coke, 18, b. ; Petrie
v. Bury, 3 B. & C. 353. And the rule has recently been canied
so far as to hold, that where a joint covenantee had no beneficial interest, did not seal the deed, and expressly disclaimed undr seal, the other covenantee could not sue alone. Wetherell
v. Langton, 1 Wels. H. & G. 634. But this rule has no application until it is ascertained that there is a joint covenantee, and
this is to be determined in each case by examining the whole
instrument. Lo6king at this deed, it appears the covenant sued
on was with "the party of the first part," and the inquiry with
whom the covenant was made, resolves itself into the question,
what person, or persons, constituted "the party of the nrst
part," at the moment when the deed took 6ffect?
The descriptive words, in the premises of the deed, declare
Sebre and Hiram Howard to be the party of the first part; but,
inasmuch as Hiram did not seal the deed, he never in truth became a party to the instrument. He entered into no covenant
contained in it. When, in the early part of the deed, the par4y
of the first part covenants with the party of the second part to
do the work, it is impossible to maintain, that Hiram Howard
is there embraced, under the words "party of the first part," as*
a covenantor. And when, in the next sentence; the party of the
VOL. XIII.

29

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore :Railroad Co. v. Howard.

second part covenants with the party of the first part to pay for
the work, it would be a most 'strained construction to hold, that
the same words do embrace him as a covenantee. There can
be no sound reason for the construction, that the words party
of the first part mean one thing, when that party is to do something, and a different thing, when that party is to receive compensation for doing it. The truth is, that the descriptive words
are controlled by the decisive fact, that Hiram did not sea] the
deed, and so error demonstrationis plainly appears. An examination of the numerous authorities cited by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error will show that they are reconcilable with this
interpretation of the covenants; for, in all the cases in which one
.of the persons named in the deed did not seal, he was covenanted with nominatim. Our conclusion is, that the actionwas
rightly brought by Sebre Howard alone.
The next instruction excepted to was as follows: "The omission of the plaintiffs to finish the work within the times mentioned in the contract, is not a bar to his recovery for the price
of the work he actually performed; but the defendant may set
off any damage he sustained by the delay, if the delay arose
from the default of the plaintiffs."
The time fixed for the completion of the contract was the
first day of November, 1836. The company agreed to pay
twenty-six cents per cubic yard, in monthly payments, according to the measurement and valuation of the engineer. These
monthly payments were made up to December, 1837, -"and
when the v ontract was determined by fhe company, January
18th, 1838r under a power to that effect in the instrument,
which will be presently noticed, there remained due the price
of the work done in December, and on eighteen days in Janu-

;ary.
The question is, whether the covenant to pay was dependent
on the covenant'to finish the work by the first day of November. So far as respects each monthly instalment, earned before
breach of the covenant to finish the work on the first day of
November, it is clear the covenants were independent. Or, to
state it more accurately, the covenant to pay at the end of each
month, for the work done during that .month, was dependent
on the progress' of the work, so far as respect ed the amount
to be paid; but Was not dependent on the covenant to finish
the work by a day certain. The only doubt is, -whether, after
the breach of this last-mentioned covenant, the defendants were
bound to pay for work done after that time.
The is an apparent, and perhaps some real conflict, in the
decisions of different courts, on this point. 2 Johns. 272,387;
10 Johns. 203; 2 H. Bl. 380; 8 Mass. 80; 15 Mass. 503; 6 Gill

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

339

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

& Johns. 254. We do not deem it needful to review the numerous authorities because we hold the general principle to be
clear, that covenants are to be considered dependent, or independent, according to the intention of the parties, which is to be
deduced from the whole instrument; and in this case we find
no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion, that the covenants
were throughout independent. There are, in this instrument,
no terms which import a condition, or expressly make one of
these covenants in any particular dependent on the other. There
is no necessary dependency between them, as the pay for work
done may be made though the work be done after the day.
The failur6 to perform on the day does not go to the whole consideration of the contract, and there is no natural connection between the amount to be paid for work after the day, and the injury or loss inflicted by a failure to perform on the day. Still
it would have been competent for the parties to agree that the
contractor should not receive the monthly instalment due in November, if the work should not be then finished, and that he
should receive nothing for work done after that time.
But we find no such agreement. On the contrary, the covenant to pay for vhat shall have been done during each preceding
month is absolute and unlimited, and the parties have provided
a mode of securing the performance of the work and the indemnification of the company from loss, wholly different from making these covenants in any particular dependent on each other.
They have agreed, as will be presently more fully stated, that
the company may declare a forfeiture of the contract in case
the work should not proceed to their satisfaction, and may retain fifteen per cent. of each payment to secure themselves
from loss. Without undertaking to apply to this particular
case any fixed technical rule, like that held in Terry v. Duntze,
2 H. Bl. 389, we hold it was not the intention of these
Rlarties, as shown by this instrument, to make the payment of
any instalment dependent on the covenant to finish the work
by the first day of November; and that consequently the instruction given at thetrial was correct.
The sixth instruction, which is also excepted to, must be read
in connection with the fifth and the provision of the contract to
which they refer. The contract contains the following clause:
" Provided, however, that in case the party of the second
part shall at any time be of opinion that this contract is not
duly complied with by the said party of the first part, or that
it is not in due progress of execution, or .that the said party
of the first part is irregular or negligent, then, and in such case,
he shall be authorized to declare this contract forfeited, and
thereupon the same shall become null, and the party of the

340

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmi3igton, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

first part shall have no appeal from the opinion and decision
aforesaid, and he hereby releases all right to except to, or question the same in any place under any circumstances whatever;
bult the party of the 'first part shall still remain liable to the
party of the second part for the damages occasioned by the said
non-compliance, irregularity, or negligence."
The instructions thereon were:
5th. " If the defendant annulled this contract, as stated in
the testimony, under the belief that the plaintiff was not prosecuting the work with proper diligence, and for the reasons assigned in the resolution of the board, they are not liable for
any damage the plaintiff may have sustained thereby, even
although he was in no default, and the company acted in
this respect under a mistaken opinion as tro his conduct."
6th. "But this annulling did not deprive him of any rights
vested in him at that time, or make the covenant void ab
initio, so as to deprive him of a remedy upon it for any
money then due him for his work, or any damages he had
then already sustained."
The law leans strongly against forfeiture, and it is incumbent on the party who seeks to enforce one, to show plainly
his right to it. The language used in this contract is susceptible of two meanings. One is the literal meaning, for which
the plaintiff in error contends, that the declaration of the company annulled the contract, destroying all rights which had
become vested under it, so that if there iyras one of the monthly
payments in arrear and justly due from the company to thq
contractor, and as to which the company was in default, yet it
could not be recovered, because every obligation arising out of
the contract was at an end.
Another interpretation is, that the contract, so far as it remained executory on the part of the contractor, and all obliga.
tions of the company dependent on the future execution by
him of any part of the contract might be annulled. We cannot hesitate to fix on the latter as the true interpretation.
In the first place, the intent to have the obligation of the contractor, to respond for damages, continue, is clear. In the next
place, though the contractor expressly releases all right to except to the forfeiture, he does not release aniy right -already vested under the contract, by reason of its pEEt performance, and
expressio unius exclusio alterius. And finally, it is highly improbable, that the parties could have intended to put it in the
power of the company,. to exempt itself from paying money,
honestly earned and justly due, by- its own act declaring a forfeiture. The counsel for the plaintiff in error seemed to feel the
pressure of this difficulty, and not to be willing to maintain that

DECEMBER T.ERM, 1851.

841

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

vested rights were absolutely destroyed by the act of the company; and he suggested that though, the covenant were destroy.
ed, assumpsit might lie upon an implied promise. But if the
intention of the parties was to put an end to all obligation on
the part of the company arising from the covenant, there would
remain nothing from which a promise could be implied; and if
this was not their intention, then we come back to the very in.
terpretation against which he contended; for if the obligation
arising from the covenant remains, the covenant is not destroyed. We hold the instruction of the court on this point to
have been correct.
The next instruction, excepted to, was in these words :
"The increased work occasioned by- changing th width of the
road and altering the grade having been directed by the engi.
neer of the company under its authority, was done ander this
covenant, and within its stipulations, and may be recovered in
this action, without resorting to an action of assumpsit."
The covenant of the plaintiff was "to do, execute, and per.
form the work and labor in the said schedule mentioned." And
the schedule mentions "all the grading of that part: of section
9, &c., according to the directions of the engineer," &c. We
think this instruction was correct. The plaintiff in error insists
that the covenant was to do the grading precisely as shown by
a profile made before the contract was entered into. If this
were so, the company would have been disabled from making
any change either of width or grade, without the consent of
the defendant. We do not think this was the meaning of the
contract, and both the company and the contractor having act.
ed on a different interpretation of it, the company must now
pay for the increased work of which theyhave had the benefit.
The ninth instruction was as follows:
9th. "Also, if from any cause, without the fault of the
plaintiff, the earth excavated could not be used in the filling'up
and embankments on the road and at the river, it was the.duty
of the defendant to furnish a place to waste it. And if the
company refused, on the application of the plaintiff to provide
a convenient place for that purpose, he is entitled to recover.
such damages as he sustained by the refusal, if he sustained
any; and he is also entitled to recover any damage he may have
sustained by the delay of his work or the increase of his expense in performing it, occasioned [by] the negligence, acts, or
default of the defendant."
To this the plaintiff in error objects, "that it assumes that
the company was bound to provide' a place on which to waste
the eartht" The cofl'act says the contractor is to place earth,
not wanted for embankment, "where ordered by the engineer."
29 *

342

SUPREME

COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

He can rightfully place it nowhere until ordered by the engineer,
and if such an order was refused, or delayed, and the contractor
was thereby injured, he.had a clear right to damages. It cannot
be supposed such an order was to be given or obeyed, if obedience to it would be a trespass. Before giving it, the company
was bound to make it a lawful order, the execution of which
would not subject the parties to damages for a wrong, and
therefore was bound to provide a place, and, of course, a reasonably convenient place as well as seasonably to give the
order.
The plaintiff in error also excepted tc the tenth instruction,
which must be taken together with the clause of the contract to
-wich it relates, to be intelligible. The contract contains the
follo-wng provision:
" And provided, also, that in order to secure the faithful and
punctual performance of the covenants above made by the )arty
of the first part, and to indemnify and protect the party oi the
second part'from loss in case of default and forfeiture of this
contract, the said party of the second part shall, notwithstanding the provision in the annexed schedule, be authorized to retain
in their hands, until the completion of the contract, fifteen per
cent. of the money at any time due to the said party of the first
part; thus covenanted and agreed by the said parties, this
twelfth day of July, 1836, as witness their seals."
The instruction was:
10th. "Also, the plaintiff is entitled to recover fhe fifteen per
cent. retained by the company, unless ihe jury find that the
company has sustained damage by the default, negligence, or
misconduct of the plaintiff. And if such damage.has been sus.
tained, but not to the amount of fifteen per cent. then the plaintiff is entitled to recover the balance, after deducting the amount
of damage sustained by the company."
It is argued that here is a stipulation that the fifteen per
cent. may be retained by the company uatil the conipletion of
the contract 15y the defendant; that it never was completed by
him, and so the time of payment had'not arrived when this
action was brought.
Now, it is manifest that one of the events contemplated in
this clause was a forfeiture such. as actually took place; that in
that event the contract never would be completed by the defendant, and so its completion could not with any propriety be fixed
on as to the linit of time during which the company might retaini
the money, unless it was the intention of the parties that the
fifteen per cent. so retained shoula belong absolutely to the
company in case of a forfeiture of the contract. But the parties
have not only failed to providefor such forfeiture of the. fifteen

DECEMBER TERM, 185.1.

843

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

per cent., bit have plainly declared a different purpose. Their
language is, that this money is retained, "to indemnify and pro.
tect the party of the second part from loss, in case of default and
forfeiture of this contract."
There is a wide difference both in fact and in law, between
indemnity and forfeiture; yet it is the formei and not the latter
which the parties had in view. Whether an express st~pulation
for a forfeiture of this fifteen per cent. could hve been enforced,
it is not necessary to decide.
But when the parties have shown au intent to provide a fund
for indemnity merely, the legal, as well as the just result is, that
after indemnity is made and the sole purpose of the fund filly
executed, the residue of it shall go to the person to whom it
equitably belongs. Rightly construed the words, "until the
completion of the ontract," refer to the time Iduring which all
monthly payments were to be made, and give the right to retain
the fifteen per cent. out of each and every payment, rather than
fix an absolute limit of time during which these sums might be
retained. In neither event, contemplated by this cliuse, would
this limit of time be strictly prbper. If a forfeiture of the contract tookplace, it was manifestly inapplicable; and if no forfeiture did take place, but damage were suffered by the company, from default of the contractor, equal to the fifteen per cent,
it cannot be supposed their right to retain was to cease with the
completion of the contract. This objection, therefore, must be
overruled.
The plaintiff in error also excepts to the 12th instruction. We
do not deem it needful to determine whether there was evidence
to go to the jury, that the company did not use reasonable diligence to obtain a dissolution of the injunction, because we consider so much of the instruction as relates to this subject, to be
a proper qualification of the absolute and peremptory bar, asserted in the first part of the instruction; and if the company
desired to raise any question concerning the proper tribunal to
decide on the matter of diligence, or respecting the evidence
competent to justify a finding thereon, some prayer for particular
instructions respecting these points should have been preferred.
But we consider there was some evidence bearing on this question of diligence, and that it was for the jury and not the court
to pass thereon.
Two objections are made to the thirteenth instruction. The
first is, that this instruction assumed the existence of evidence,
competent to go to jury, to prove that the defendants fraudulently
terminated the contract under the claoise which enabled them to
declare it forfeited. To this objection, it is a conclusive answer
that the defendants themselves prayed for an instruction sub-

344

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Howard.

stantially like that given. The other objection is, that the jury
were instructed to allow by way of damages, such profit as they
might find the plaintiff had been deprived of by the termination of the contract by the defendants, i! they should find the
act of termination to be fraudulent.
It is insisted that only actual damage, and not profits, were
in that event to be inquired into and allowed by the jury. It
must be admitted that actual damages were all that could law'fully be given in an action of covenant, even if the company had
been guilty of fraud. But it by no means follows that profits
are not to be allowed, understanding, as we must, the term pro.
fits in this instruction as meaning the gain which the plaintiff
would have made if he had been permitted to complete his contract. Actual damages clearly include the direct and actual loss
which the plaintiff sustains propter rem ipsam non habitam.
And in case of a contract like this, that loss is, among other
things, the difference between the cost of doing the work arid
the price to be paid for it. This difference is the inducement
and real consideration which causes the contractor to enter into
the contact. For this he expends his time, exerts his skill, uses
his capital, and assumes the risks which attend the enterprise.
And to deprive him of it, when the other party has broken the
contract and unlawfully put an end to the work, would be unjust. There is no rule of law which requires us to inflict this
injustice. Wherever profits are spoken of- as not a subject of
damages, it will be found that something contingent upon future
bargains, or speculations, or states of the market, are refeced to,
and not the difference between the agreed price of something
contracted for and its ascertainable value, or cost. See Masterton v. Mayor of Brooklyn, 7 Hill's R. 61, and cases there referred to. We hold it to be a clear rule, that the gain or profit, of
which the contractor was deprived, by the refusal of the company to allow him to proceed with, and complete the work, was
a proper subject of damages.
We have considered all the exceptions; we find no one tena-'
ble, and the judgment of the cuurt below is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Cour of the United States for the District of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, end
the'same is hereby, affirmed with costs and damages at the rate
of six ner centum per annum.

