518

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge 'Co. et al.

the libellants claim additional damages, for the injury and expenses sustained from the seizure and detention. It applies
only to- these additional damages; and, however strong the
grounds of suspicion may have been, it is no bar to restitui-cGz,
if the claimant can show that the goods which he claims belon~ed to him, were neutral, and that nothing had been done
that subjected them to capture aid condemnation.
The judgnient of the Circuit. Court must therefore ke reversed, and a mandate, awarded, directing the case to be
temanded to the District Court, to be there proceeded in, according to the rules and principles stated in this opinion.
The appeal on the part of the respondent is dismissed. The
decision upon the matter in controversy was in his fav6r,.and
the question -of law decided against him on the first demurrer,
was open for argument upon the appeal of the libellants. There
was no ground, therefore, for "this appeal.
Order in Jecker et al. v. Mantgomer4.
This cause-came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
Yrom the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county 6f Washington, and
was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, for farther
proceedings to be had therein, in conforniffy to the opinion of
this court.
Order in MIontgomery v. .Tecker tt at.
.This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from" the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued- by 'counsel; on consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, with.costs.

THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, COMPLAINANT,

V. THE WHEELING AND BELMONT BRIDGE COMPANY,- WII]LIAM OTTERSON
AND GEORGE CROFT.

The State of Pennsylvania having constructed lines of caaal and railroad, and other
means of travel and transportation, which world be in uired
in their revenues by
the obstruction in the River Ohio, created by a bridge at Wheeling, has a suffi.
ciently direct interest to sustain en application to this court, in the exercise of ori*

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

519

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et &l.
ginal jurisdiction, for an injunction to remove the obstruction. The remedy at law
would be incomplete.
It is admitted that the federal courts have no jurisdiction of common-law offences,
and that there is no abstract, pervading principle, of the common lw of the Union
under which this court can take jurisdiction; and that the case under consideration
is subject to the same rules of action as if the suit Jad been commenced in the
Circuit Court for the District of Virginia.
But chancery jurisdiction is conferred on the courts of the United States by the Constitution, under certain limitations ; and, under these limitations, the sages of the
High Court of Chancery, in England, which have been adopted as rules by this
court, furnish the chancery law which is exercised in all the States, and even in
those where no State chancery system exists.
Under this system, where relief can be given by the English chancery, similar relief
may be given by the courts of the Union.
An itdictment against a bridge, as a nuisance, by, the United States, could not be sustained; but a proceeding against it, on the ground of a private and irreparable
injury, may be sustained, at the instance of an individual or a corporation, either
in the Federal or State courts.
In case of nuisance, if the obstruction be unlawful and the injury irreparable, by a
suit at common law, the injured party may claim the extraordinary protection of a
court of chancery.
The Ohio is a navigable stream, subject to the commercial power of Congress, which
has been exercised over it; and, if the act of Virginia authorized the structure of
the bridge, so as to obstruct navigation, it would afford no justification to the bridge
company.
Congress has sanctioned the compact made between Virginia and Kentucky, viz.,
"That the use and navigation of the River Ohio, so far as the territory of Virginia
or Kentucky is concerned, shall be free and common to the citizens of the United
States." This compact is obligatory, and can be carried out by this court.
Where there is a private injury from a public nuisance, a court of equity will interfere
by injunction.
In this case, the bridge is a nuisance. This is shown by measuring the height of the
bridge, and of~the water, and of the chimneys of the boats. The report of the
commissioner, appointed by this court to ascertain these facts, is equivalent to the
verdict of a jury.
The report of the commissioner adverted to and commented upon; the extent of
injury sustained by the boats explained; and the importance shown of maintaining
the navigation of the river.
If a structure be declared to be a nuisance, there is no room for a calculation and
comparison between the injuries and benefitl which it produces.
Therefore, unless there be an elevation of the lowest parts of the bridge for three
hundred feet over the channel of the river-not less than one hundred and eleven
feet from the low-water mark, the flooring of tbe bridge descending fro-,a the termini of the elevation at the rate of four feet in the hundred-or some other plan
shall be adopted which shall relieve the navigation from obstruction, on or before
the first of February next, - the bridge must be abated.
(In consequence of the intimation above alluded to, viz., "that some other plan might
be adopted"than elevating the bridge, the court, at the request of the counsel for
the Bridge Company, referred the matter to 'an engineer. After receiving his report,
the court decided as follows.)
The Bridge Company may, upon their own responsibility, try whether the western
channel can be improved and made passable, by means of a draw, so as to afford
a safe and unobstructed navigation for the largest class of boats, having chimneys
eighty feet high, when they cannot pass under the suspension-bridge. Thig'is to
be done, if at all, before the first M onday of February next, on which day the
plaintiff may move the court on the subject of the decree.

T s was a case upon the equity side of this court, in the
exercis6'of originaljurisdiction.
It is noticed in 9 H ward, 64, and again in 11 Howard, 528.
In 9 Howard, a statement is given of the contents ot the bill
-

520

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridga Co. et al.

and answer, and of the proceedings in the case, up to the' time
of its reference to a commissioner, for the p, rpose of taking further proofs upon the points therein stated. The reader is referred to that volume for these proceedings.
In that report it is mentioned that a notice of the arguments
of counsel was deferred until the final decision of the case.
That final decision having taken place at this term, it is proper
now to note ah briefly as possible the g? unds assumed by the
re~petlve counsel.
The points made and authorities cited by the counsel for the
plaintiff, were the following, viz.
1. That the Ohio River is a public highway of commerce,
which, under the Constitution of the United States, has. been
regulated by Congress. - Journal of Congress, vol. 4, 637, 638;
Ordinance of 1787, art. 4; Act of Congress admitting Kentucky,
(1 Stat. at Large, 189) ; Virginia act of Assembly, 18 Dec. 1789,
(Rev. Code, 1819, 57) ; Acts of Congress for enrolling and licensing ships or vessels to be employed in the coasting trade, and
for regulating the same, (1 Stat. at Large, 305) ; Act of Congress
authorizing duties to be paid at ports on the Ohio, (4 Stat. at
Large, 480); Act of Congress to improve the navigation of
the. Ohio River, (4 Stat. at Large, 32); Acts of Congress providing for inspection, &c., of steamboats, (5 Stat. at Large, 304) ;
Cbmmittee Report No. 672, in the House of Representatives,
24th Congress; Report No. 993, 25th Congress, on a bridge
at Wheeling; Report No. 79, 28th Congress, 1st session on
a bridge at Wheeling; Peqlnsylvania Resolutions, vol. 29, (Pa.
Laws, 487,) on a bridge at Wheeling; Pennsylvania Resolutions, vol. 31, (Pa. Laws, 591,) on the Wheelin'g Bridge; 42 Ohio
Laws, 269; Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat, 1; Gordon's Digest 15,
27, 176, 191, 325, 343, 428; 2 ,Madison Papers, 599, 602, 606,
614,
627, 677; Resolutions of Generel Assembly. of Virgnia,623,
November, 1786; Resolution
offered by delegates from
North Carolina, in Congress, September, 1788, relative to the
navigation of the Mississippi, (Journal of Congress, 1788) ; Resolution of Congress, on the same subject, September, 1788, (Journal of Congress, 1788); 2 Madison Papers, 678; Act providing
for sale of Public Land, (1 Stat. at Large, 464, sect. 6) ; Lyman's
American Diplomacy, 300, 303, 310, 311, 315; Report on Commerce and Navigation, December 31, 1849.
2. That free navigation of the Ohio River, as a common highway, having been established by regulations of Congress, and by
compact between the States, it cannot lawfiully be obstructed by
force of any State authority or legislation.' Constitution of the
United States, art. 1, sect. 8, clauses 2, 4, 17; sect. 9, clause 5.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

521

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

see. 10, clause 2; art. 6, 1st clause; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1; Brown v, State of Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 419; Wilson v.
Blackbird Creek Marsh Co. 2 Peters, 245; Charles River Bridge
v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 540, 542, 604; Norris v. Boston,
7 Howard's United States Rep. 283; Groves v. Slaughter, 15
Peters, 506; Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheaton, 22; Worcester v.
Georgia, 6 Peters, 515; Spooner v, McConnell, 1 McLean's
Rep. 359; United States v. New Bedford Bridge, 1 Woodb. &
Minot, 401, and authorities there cited; Corfield v. Coryell, 4
Wash. C. C. 379 ; Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540 Livingstonf
x. North R. S. B. Co. 3 Cow. 713.
3. That inasmuch as the Wheeling Bridge has been found
by the commissioner's .eport to be, an obstruction to the free
navigation of the Ohio River, it is a publi6 nuisance that may be
abated by a court of equity on complaint of an injured party.
Hargrave's Tract, De Jure Marts, 9, 22, 35, 87; 3 Thomas's Co.
Lit. 4; 2 Story's Equity, sects. 920, 921, 924; Eden on Injunctions, 157, 158, 160, 161, 222, 228 ; Drewry on Injunctions, 237,
240, 249, 294; City of Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co.
12 Peters, 91; Blakemore v. Glamorganshire Canal Co. 1, Myl.
& Keen, 164; 1 McLean, 359; 3 McLeau, 226; 1 Woodhury
& Minot, 401 ; Shelford on Railways, 428, 445, and cases there
cited; Robinson v. Lord Byron, 1 Bro. C. C. 588; Lane v. Neivdigate, 10 Vesey, 192; Spender v. London and Birmingham
Railway Co. 1 Railway C. 170; Attorney-General v. Manchester Railway, 1 Railway C. 436; North of England Railway v.
Clarence'Railway, 1 Coll. C. C. 521; Angell on Watercourses,
201, 208,209, 213; Attorney-General v. Burrildge, 10 Price, 360 ;
Attorney-General v. Parmeter, Id.' 378 ; Attorney-General v.
Johnson, 2 Wils. Ch. R. 87; Attorney-General v. Forbes, 2 Myl.
& Craig, 039; Attorney-General v. The Cohoes" Co. 6 Paige, Ch.
133; Spencer v. The Railway Co. 8 Simons, 193; Corning v.
Lowerre, 6 Johns. Ch. 439; Boston Water Power Co. v. Boston
& W. Railroad, 16 Pick. 525; Barrow v. Richards, 8 Paige, Ch.
351; Livingston v. Mayor of N. York, 8 Wend. 99; Bush v.
Warren, Prec. Ch. 530; 2 Story's Equity, p. 252; 2 Ans. 603;
2 Starkle's Rep. 448' United States Con§t. art. 3, sect. 1, 2;
Walford on Railways, 408; Shelford on Railways, 430; 1 Railway Cases, 68, 576; 2 Railway Cases, 380; 2 Younge & Coll.
611; Attorney-General v. Utica Ins. Co. 2 Johns. Ch. Rep.'379;
1 Baldwin, 205; 1 Swanston, 250; 1 Myhle & Keen, 164; 3
Howard's United States Rep. 229; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling
Bridge, before Judge Grier, Pamphlet Reports.
4. That for an injury to a State, she may maintain a suit in
a court of competent jurisdiction. King of France v. Morris,
44*

522

SJPREME

COURT.

State of Pefinsylvania v. The Wheeling &d. Bridge Co. et al.

3 .Yeates, 251; King of Spain v. Oliver, Peters C. C. R. 276;
Nabob of The Carnatic v. East India Co. 1 Ves. Jr. 382; Don
Diego v. Jolyfe, Hobart, 86; Colombian Government v. Rothschild, 1 Sim. 94; Duke of Btunswick v. King of Hanover, 6
Beav. 1; Story's Equity Pl. sect. 55; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet; 720; 4 How. 592; Vattel, book 3, chap. 6, sects.
22, 23, 49, 50, 60, 65, 71; Wheaton's International LhW, 81, 82;
Lieber's Political Ethics, 2, 5, 48, book 2, 196; Whewell's Elements, 2, 5,,849; Mayor of New Orleans v. The United States,
10 Peters, 672; New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; United
States Constitution, art. 3.
5. That the equitable powers of the Supreme Court of the
United States are adequate to grant relief against a public
nuisance, and where a State is a party to the suit, that court has
original jurisdiction. United States Const. art. 3, sects. 1, 2;
City of Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal, 12 Peters, 91 ; Story's
Commentaries, 570; Federalist,-No. 80; Osborn v. Bank of
United States, 9 Wheaton, 839; Bank of United States v.
Planters Bank, 9 Wheat. 904.
The following extract contains the views of Mr. Stanton, one
of the counsel for the complainant.
It is my desig to present, as briefly as I can, the grounds on
which the State of Pennsylvania prosecutes this suit and claims
relief of this court. That purpose will be served by the discussion of a single proposition, which will embrace all the points
made, viz.
That the Ohio River is a highway of commerce leading to
and from the ports of Pennsylvania, regulated by Congress, unlawfully obstructed by the Wheeling Bridge, to the injury of the
State of Pennsylvania; and therefore thEot the bridge ought to
be abated by decree of this court at her suit.
The first branch of this proposition, that the Ohio River is a
highway of commerce, will not be disputed; for it is a geographical and statistical fact recognized by every department of the
government of which this court would take judicial notice; and
by their answer the defendants admit tha; this highway is navigated in steamboats by citizens of the State of Pennsylvania,
and connects with her ports. The boundary of six States, its
waters draining a large territory of four other States, flowing in
a south-west direction from the Alleghany -Mountains to the
Mississippi, presenting to the navigator a broad and placid
stream one thousand miles in length, more free from dangers
and obstructions than any other navigable river in the world, it
is apparent that the regulation of this river would claim the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

523

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

earnest attention of statesmen. Accordingly we find that when
the possession of this river and the territory through which it
flowed had been secured by independence and peace with Great
Britain, the sagacious statesmen of that day speedily turned
their attention to' the regulation of the western rivers, and the
commerce th.ey foresaw must soon flow along their course,
On the 12th day of May, 1786, on the motion of Mr. Grayson,
of Virginia, the following resolution was'adopted:
"_Resolved, That the navigable waters leading into the IMississiplpi and St. Lawrunce, and the carrying-places between
the same, be, and they are hereby, declared to be common liighways, and be forever free, as well to the inhabitants of said territory as to the citizens of the United States and those of any
other States that may be admitted into the confederation, with.out any tax, impost, or duty therefor." Journal df Congress,
1786, p. 637.
Soon after this, all questions as to the title of the territory
north-west of the Ohio being secured by compromise and cession
of the claims of the several States, an ordinance for its regulation
was adopted by Congress. This was the ordinance of 13th July,
1787, since become so famous in connection with another question. The 4th article, last clause, of this ordinance,. contains, a
reg\atio'n in the same words as the resolution of Mr. Grayson.
A similar condition has been imposed onthe admission into the
Union of every State bordering upon these waters. It is denied
by the defendants that Virginia assented to this provision of the
ordinance. But this car make no difference, for it is nevertheless a regulation of commerce by Congress, as has been decided
by this courti (3 How. 229,) and at all events it overthrows the
authority clained by these defendants under the legislation of
Ohio.
In 1789, Virginia, being in possession of a large territory
north-east'of the Ohio, now constituting the State of Kentucky,
deired to have it admitted into the Union as a separate and independent State. For this purpose, her General Assembly, on
tfie 18th December, 1789, passed an act providing for its erection as an independent State upon certain terms and condi-'
tions, among which were the following:
"That the use and navigation of the River Ohio, so far as the
territory of the proposed State, or the territory that shall remain within the limits of this Commonwealth lies thereon, shall
be free and common to the citizens of the United States." Virginia Rev. Code, 1818, p. 59.
To this act the assent of Congress was given, (1 Stat. at
Large, 64,) and it became-a compact between Virginia and the

524

SUPREME COUET.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

other States of the Union. Freedom being thus established by
Congress and the concurrent action of Virginia, as the regulation of the river channel, its commerce was still further .regulated by the act of Congress of 1807, attaching the Ohio River to
the collection district of Mississippi, and appointing surveyors
for the ports of Pittsburg, Marietta, Cincinnati, and Louisville.
1 Sfat. at Large, 464.
The growing commerce of this region in 1824 received further
attention from the general government by a large, appropriation
to improve the navigation of the Ohio River; and from that period until now annual appropriations have been made to improve its navigation and remove obstructions. This commerce
being carried on by steamboats, the regulation of these vessels
in 1838 received the attention of Congress. The act of 7th of
July, 1838, provided specially for their license and enrolment,
for the appointment of an inspector of their boilers, engines, and
machinery, prescribing the duties of the officers, and enforcing
severe penalties in case of injury to perso:s or property. 5 Stat.
at Large, 304.
Thus it appears that the constitutional power of Congress to
regulate commerce on the Ohio River, belonging exclusively-to
that branch of the general government, has been fully exercised
upon every subject susceptible of regulation. This pawer has
been exerted upon the channel, and whatever passes through it
-upon the stream and upon its bed, upon the vessel, its navigator, and whatever it transports, upon its engine, machinery,
cargo, passengers, officers, and crew; nay, that it has extended
to the very subject now under consideration; and that Congress,
by express and repeated action, has prohibited the erection of a
bridge at Wheeling, I shall proceed now to show.
In 1836, petitions to Congress praying for the construction
of a bridge at Wheeling were laid" be.ore that body. They
were backed by resolutions of the State of Ohio instructing her
Senators and requesting her Representatives to use their exertions to obtain that object. Accompar.ying them were statements and representations of similar import to the grounds now
urged in favor of the Wheeling Bridge. The importance of
such structure.as a link connecting the disjointed fragments of
the Cumberland Road,-the great advantage to commerce, and
to the general governrqent in the time of war, of such facility
for crossing the Ohio' River, - the obstructions of ice and driftwood and the evils of the ferry, - the inconvenience of delay in
transporting the mails, -all these were held up in bold relief,
and represented in glowing and exaggerated col6rs.
Vith the
petitions were presented various communications from Mr.

:DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

525

State" of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

Ellet, the engineer by whom this bridge has been erected, urging
the necessity and practicability of the undertaking, and presenting plans for its accomplishment A favorable report was procured from the Committee on Roads and Canals, which undertook to answer the objection urged against bridging the Ohio.
From this report it appears that the main, and indeed the only
important objection was that now insisted on by the State of
Pennsylvania; the obstruction which sudh an erection would
be likely to occasion to steamboats. In answer to this objection it was insisted then, as now, that high chimneys were unnecessary, and that the few boats likely to be obstructed might,
with proper machinery, accommodate themselves to the exigency, and that their convenience should yield to the public benefits
of a bridge. But Congress thought otherwise, and the plan wasrejected. House Reports, 1st sess. 24th Cong. No. 132.
At the next session of the same Congress the subject was
again brought forward; the same plan prbposed; the same
views presented; the same arguments urged. The project was
again opposed in Congress on the ground of its injury to navigation, and, as is evident from the committee's report, was on
that ground alone defeated. House Reports, 2d sess, 24th Cong.
672.
Still insisting upon a bridge at Wheeling, the 25th Congress,
had the subject presented in a report of the Committee on Roads
and Canals, on the 27th of June, 1838. In the mean thn an
exploration and survey had been made, under the direction of
the War Department, by Messrs. Sanders and Dutton, two skil-,
ful and distinguished engineers in the government service.
They presented a plan for a suspension bridge across the Ohio
River, having for its basis a strict regard to the rights of navigation, and providing that no obstruction should be offered to the
passage of the highest steamboat chimney on the highest floods.
Their plan proposed a space of five hundred feet in widih and
the height of the highest chimney then known; and, in order to
providefor any change or improvement in steamboats, the floor
of the bridge was to be movable so as to allow the passage of
boats. Report of Messrs. Sanders and Dutton, House Documents, 25th Congress, June, 1838, No. 993. The cost was estimated at $400,000. A plan by Mr. Ellet was also submitted
for a bridge, the same elevation, seven hundred feet in width.
But the same objections being urged, were found to be insuperable, and the plan was rejected.
It is further to be remarked that among the documents of this
session was a surrender by the city of Wheeling of its streets
for the purposes of a bridge, and by Zane of any portion of

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

the island for purposes of embankment. And yet an excuse
now given for not erecting the bridge higher is the alleged damage to the streets, and the amount Zane would charge for embankment on the island, which is set down at the moderate estimate of $20,000. These rights were then freely granted for thebridge; and it was not until a later day that the cheap expddient was resorted to of saving private property by the encroachoment on public rights on a navigable river.
In Decefnber, 1843, another series of resolutions was procured
from the Ohio legislature, and, armed therewith, those interested
in making Wheeling the head of navigaticn, again appeared before Congress. But Pennsylvania had become awakened to her
interests2 and the danget becoming imminent, she instructed her
senator& and representatives to oppose the, erection of the proposed bridge across the Ohio. Her resolutions pointed to the
specific objections now urged: - The obstruction to the free use
of the Ohio River; the injury to commerce, trade, and manufa~ctures, building of ships, war-steamers, and other vessels, by
placing a barrier in the passage to the Gulf; the interfering with
steamboats, in high water, trading with the Western and Southern States; and claimed the rise of thd .Ohio'Rivef as a great
thoroughfare. They were in these words:
"Whereas, application has been made to Congress of the United States for an appropriation to aid in the erection of a bridge
dcr6ss the Ohio River at Wheeling, Virginia, the construction
of which might materially obstruct the free use and navigation
of said river above that point, and injuriously affect the commerce of the city of Pittsburg and all that district of Pennsylvania lying west of the Alleghany Mountains, by arresting the
building of war-steajmers and other vessels of the great western
manufacturing and commercial emporium of this State, by placing a barrier to th~ir passage to the Gulf of Mexico, besides seriously interfering with the free navigation of the Ohio River by
steamboats and other vessels engaged in the trade of the Western and Southern States during high stages of water: Therefore,
"1Resolved,by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in General Assembly met, That
our Senators in Congress are hereby instructed, and our Representatives requested, to vote against any appropriation by the
national legislature to the object above stated, and oppose every
proposition for the erection of a bridge at Wheelin'g or at any
other point on.the Ohio River, or any project that would result
in increasing the obstacles already existing to the free navigation and use of that great thoroughfare of this Commonwealth.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

5267

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al..

".Resolved, That the Governor be requested to transmit a
copy of the foregoing preamble and resolution to each member
of the Pennsylvania delegation in Congress.
"JA-Eqvs Ross SNOWDEN, Speaker of the House of Rep.
" WILLIAmr BIGLER, Speaker of the Senate.
DAvID R. PORTER."
"Approved 26th January, 1844.
These resolutions were immediately laid before Congress, and
referred in the House to the Committee on Roads and Canals,
on which was Mr. Steenrod, a member from Wheeling. House
Doe. 28 Cong. No. 79.
Here, then, the question was brought before Congress in the
most solemn and imposing form. Two sovereign States appeared at the bar of Congress, one urging and the other opposing the bridge.
At this crisis a bill had already been reported by that committee making an appropriation for a bridge at Wheeling, and
containing this clause, "that the bridge shall be so constructed
as to admit at all times, without obstruction or delay, of the
safe and easy passage of steamboats of the largest dimensions."
On ;the twenty-ninth day of January Mr. Steenrod presented
a report, not contesting the rights of Pennsylvania, nor the
injury she must suffer from an obstruction at Wheeling, but
claiming that a bridge could be erected across the Ohio, at
Wheefiik without obstructing the use and navigation of the
river according to the provisions of !he bill. With this report
was submitted a plan by Mr.Ellet for such a bridge, stating
that he had, since the date of his former plan, examined the localities, and " would recommend a radical change of plan for
the Wheeling Bridge, and leave the river entirely unobstructed."
House Rep. 28 Cong. No. 79.
It appears, moreover, that the plan proposed was in some respects similar to that afterwards adopted and executed by the
same engineer. It was a single span across the river, at an elevation of ninety feet above low water. But it was not then
disclosed that such elevation was to be only for one hundred
feet in width; that the channel was to be cut across by an inclined plane so as to obstruct a public navigable river. The
specific objection was then urged as now, that ninety feet above
low water would not admit the passage of steamboats with
tall chimneys. It was then answered as it is now, that such
height was unnecessary, that few boats only used- such chimneys, that they ought to be provided with hinges and machinery
for lowering; that detention would be only for a short space;
that the river was impassable by reason of ice; that the mails

528

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

were delayed, and, in short, every possible argument that has
been, qr can be, presented in favor of this bridge was, in a report by the member from that district, pressed upon Congress.
It was all to no purpose. The rights of Pennsylvania, and her
,interests of navigation, were deemed paramount, and the constitutional obligation to preserve the Ohio River as a free and
common highway was held to be inviolable.
Now, the regulation of commerce consists as much in negative as positive action. Mr. Justice McLean, Passenger Cases,
7 Howard, 399.
Supposing, therefore, the Ohio River to be exclusively within
the territory 'of Virginia, on bbth banks, and from its head
to its mouth, and that he might authorize bridges over it, yet
that power is subordinate to the constitutional authority of
Congress over commerce. And if Congress, in the exercise of
its power, has madifested a negative policy hostile to bridges
over the Ohio, any confficting exercise of SEtate authority would
be void. And yet, in their answer, this hostile policy of Congress is the confessed motive for procuring their charter from
the State of Virginia: Nay, more, its purpose is admitted to
be that which the power granted to Congress by the 3d clause,
8th article, of the Constitution was especially intended to prevent, the acquisition by States, for their citizens, of commercial advantages by separate legislation.
# "The addition of territory and of settlement on the Pacific
Ocean, and the increasing population and commerce of that coast,
have recently given new importance to the subject; the change in
federal policy and legislation qs to bridges and other works of
internal improvement has made it incumbent upon the States,
by -separate legislation, to consult and prcmote their own and
the general welfare and prosperity." Original Answer, p. 24.
The defendants' allusion to the Pacific settlements and commerce is of deep significance, and indicates the result to be expected, if States may thwart and override the constitutional provision, and by separate legislation consult their own and the
general welfare. It has been well remarked, that in such event,
the Constitution would be a rope of sand.
It is' manifest, therefore, that the only constitutional power
that could in any event authorize this bridge had been invoked,
and that by its negative action, potentially as by express enactment, this structure.-was prohibited.
Commerce, on the Ohio, being thus regulated by Congress,
and that regulation including all the subjects of navigation, its
vehicle, and thoge engaged in its management, it follows that
any act or erection, in any way affecting the subjects thus regulated, .whether by individuals or State governments, is unlawful.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

529

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

In the great case of Gibbons v. Ogden, (9 "Wheaton, 1,) this
court decided that the power to regulate commerce included
navigation, and when exercised by that body, any conflicting
State regulation, no matter for what purpose or extent adopted,
was void. In the subsequent case of Wilson v. The Blackbird
Creek Marsh Company, (2 Peters, 245,) it was held that any
exercise of this power by Congress excluded and controlled all
State action.
Subsequent cases have illustrated these principles, applying
them to all action, direct, or indirect, of individuals or States interfering with congressional regulations of foreign and domestic,
commerce. In the passenger cases, Norris v. Bostofi, and Smith
v. Turner, (Pamph. Rep. p. 85,) Chief Justice Taney remarks: "It
has always been admitted, in the discussion upon this clause of
the Constitution, (art. 8, sect.*3,) that the power to regulate
commerce includes navigation, and ships, and crews, because
they are the ordinary means of commercial intercourse." In the
same cases, Mr. Justice Daniel observes: "The power to regulate commerce, includes the regulation of the vessel, as well as
the cargo, and the manner of using the vessel in that commerce." Id. p. 131.
In those casez the following propositions were among others
maintained:
" That the power to regulate commerce, foreign and between
the States, was vested exclusively in Congress." Mr. Justice
McLean, 7 Howard, 400.
. " That the power in Congress to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States, includes navigation upon the high seas, and in the bays, harbors, lakes, and
navigable waters within the United States, and any law by a
State, in any way affecting the right of navigation, or subjecting the exercise of the right to a condition, is contrary to the
aforesaid grant." Mr. Justice Wayne, Id. 414.
"That" Congress has regulated commerce, and intercourse
with foreign nations, and between the several States, by willing
that it shall be free, aud it is, therefore, not left to the direction
of each State in the Union, either to refuse a right of passage to
persons or property through her territory, or to exact a duty for
permission to exercise it." Mr. Justice Catron and Mr. Justice
Grier, Id. 464.
The principle of these decisions has been illustrated and enforced by a long series of cases, cited in the brief, and to which
it is sufficient for me to refer. See cases cited in brief. Hence
it follows that the bridge, erected by the defendants d&er the
channel of the Ohio River, if it obstructs, interferes with, or in
anywise regulates navigation, is an unlawful obstruction, no
VOL. XIU.

45

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

matter by what charter or State enactments it may be authorized or sanctioned. I proceed to demonstrate that it does ob.'
struct navigation, and conflicts with every regulation prescribed
by Congress for that river.
At Wheeling, the channel between Zane's Island and the
main Virginia shore is one thousand and ten feet wide.
Through this strait, fifty millions in va.ue of property, and
over three hundred thousand passengers are accustomed to pass
safely and without impediment, in steamboats to and from
Pittsburg. Through it, the rice, cotton, and sugar of the Southern States, the bacon, flour, tobacco, and various products of
the Western States, the furs, peltries, minerals, and products of
the North-western region are transported ta an Eastern market;
and by the same channel foreign and domestic merchandise
and manufactures find their way to their millions of consumers
in that vast region. Baffled in the project of diverting this commerce from Pittsburg, by making Wheeling the head of navigation, under the sanction of Congress, resort was had to State
authority, where Pennsylvania had no voice and where her
remonstrance could not be heard.
On the 19th of March, 1847, a charter for the erection of a
wire suspension-bridge was obtained from the General Assembly
of -Virginia, under color of which, but in violation of the most
important of its express provisions, the defendants proceeded to
erect their bridge, in the manner represented in the diagram now
exhibited to the court.
An inspection of that diagram exhibits 1;he fact that the onix
maferial variation between the bridge erected, and that proposed to and rejected by Congress, in 1844, consists -in a particular, whereby nine hundred feet of the river channel is wholly
cut off for purposes of navigation. When the engineer, by
whom this- structure was erected, proposed to throw a single
span across the channel, ninety feet above low water, no one
could have imagined that elevation applied to only one hundred,
feet in width of the water's surface, and that by an inclined
plane stretching across the channel the residue was to be cut
off. And yet such is this erection. The highest point in the
bridge above low-water level is ninety-two feet one and a half
inches: from that point it deflects four feet in every hundred,
being at the western abutment only sixty-two feet above thatlevel. Taking the highest point as a centre of the highest space,
one hundred feet wide, it is at its extremities only ninety feet
above water.,
This elevation, moreover, is above the low-water level of the
Ohio, viz. eighteen inches in the channel. But this level exists for
a short season only of the year, the height of water varying forty.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851..

531

State oF Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

five feet between the extremes of high and low-water mark. The
tables in the record exhibit the height of water at Wheeling, each
day, for the period of the last ten years. From them we
gather 1st. That the usual Spring and Fall floods, in March and December, attain the height of thirty-eight feet.
2d. That floods, ranging from twenty to thirty-eight feet, have
occurred in the months of January, February, March, April,
May, June, July, November, and December, nine several months
in the year.
3d. That the duration of these floods varies from two to ten
days.
Regard to those facts has always been deemed of vital importance in the consideration of bridging navigable -waters.
Thus the wire suspension-bridge over the Menai Straits, swings
clear one hundred feet above high water; the Tweed Bridge is
the same elevation; the Freyburg Bridge spans the channel at
an elevation of one hundred. and twenty-seVen feet above high
water, (Sanders's Report); and on a late occasion of erecting a
railway-bridge over the IMenai Straits, the Lords of Admiralty
required the structure to be one hundred feet above high water,
the whole width (2,800 feet) of the channel. Quarterly Review,
October, 1849. Stern adherence to this requisition led to the most
brilliant achievement of science since the days of Sir Isaac Newton. While the Conway Tubular-Bridge will stand as a monument of genius, overcoming natural obstacles to accommodatenavigation, the Wheeling Bridge hangs an obstruction to navigation, copied, by its engineer, from the miserable expedient of a
South American Indian, its original inventor..
With utter disregard to the principles of science and the exigencies of commerce, low-water level is taken as the basis of
elevation for the Wheeling Bridge, and upon usual floods only
a space one hundred feet in width by fifty in height is allowed
for the passage of vessels ascending and descending the Ohio
River- through that space the commerce of the most navigable
river in the world is compelled to stoop and dodge in high
floods.
The extent of departure from the principles of art, the engagements of the parties, and the obligations of law, will be seen in
the following considerations:
1st. It is an ordinary wire susp-ension-bridge, which, over a
channel like the Ohio, is condemned by one of the most dis.
tinguishfd engineers of this country, whose 6pinion, from his
official employment as superintendent of the improvements of
navigation on the Western waters, is entitled to great weight.
"I have no hesitation in giving the opinion that ordinary

SUPReME COUET.
State of Pennsylvania v.' Thi3 Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

wire suspension-bridges are not well adapted to the bridging of
the Ohio; and in view of the excessive ranges, from extreme
low to extreme high water, ranging as tLey do, from thirty-five
to sixty-five feet at different points, 1 am persuaded that none
but truss-frame bridges, with suitable diraws at one or both extremities, or at suitable intermediate points, are properly adapted to bridging the Ohio. Hence, I am decidedly of opinion
that wire suspension-bridges are neither expedient nor applicable in bridging the Ohio, or any other of the main navigable
-rivers of the West, liable as they all are to excessive changes in
the elevation of their surfaces and the depth of their flobds."
Col. Long's Deposition, pp. 139, 140.
2d. It is an inclined plane thrown across a swift stream of"
ever-varying surface, the current setting w3st towards the lowest
point of the bridge, rocks fringing the highest point on the east,
with nothing to mark the depth below, or the space above the
surface, no two points at the same level, and nothing to guide
the navigator in the perils that thus beset-him. This inclined
plane is placed so low as on spring floods to leave a clear headway of only fifty feet by one hundred in a natural channel one
thousand and ten feet wide, over the whaole of which vessels
have hitherto been accustomed at all hours, in all weather, to
pass sgely, but where now the obscurity of fog and darkness,
the force of the current, or accident in the complicated machinery of a steamboat, expese it to shipwreck.
3d. It not only forbids all advance or irirovement in the
size and dimensions of vessels, but forces them back ten years,
making the dimensions of the Louisville Bridge and the condi-'
tion imposed by the falls of the Ohio, tae'standard of steamboat architecture and navigation.
Thai in these respects,.also, such a bridge is against all example and rule, I shall now proceed to show, by the highest
authority in the science of engineering.
,4Among the consideratious that should- be held up to view,
in throwing bridges across the Ohio, it may be stated that the'
bridge shall offer no serious obstruction to the navigation of the
river, by steamboats or other craft, according to existing peculiarities of such boats or craft, and'to sound considerations of
probable improvement in the size and character of such boats
and craft." CoL. J. J. Abert, Chief of Top. Bureau, Record,

p. 124.
"In selecting a plan for a bridge over the east branch, (of the
Ohio at Wheeling,) full regard must be had to the interests of
the navigation of the Ohio, which require that the bridge should

offer no-obstruction to the passage of steamboats or other craft,
which run or may hereafter navigate that river." Report on

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

533

State of 3 ennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge C4p. et al.

Wheeling Bridge to the War DeparL by Lieuts. Sanders and
Dutton, House Rep. 25 Cong. 1 Sess. No. 903.
"The bridge shall be so constructed as to admit, at all times,
without obstruction or delay, of the safe and easy passage of
steamboats bf the largest dimensions." Bill making an appropriation for a bridge at Wheeling; reported by the Committea
6n-Roads and Canalg. House Report, 28 Cong. 1st' Session,
No. 79.
Telford's Wire Suspension-Bridge, over the Menai Straits,
leaves a., cldar level water-way five hundred- feet wide. The
Freyburg Bridge leaves a clear water-way eight hundred feet
wide. Ellet's Letter, House Rep. 24 Cong. No. 672.
The English Lords of Admiralty required the Conway Bridge
to give a clear water-way one hundred feet above high water
over the whole width of the channel 2,800 feet. Oct. Quarterly
ReView, 1849, p. 218. In his first plan for a bridge at Wheeling,
submitted to Congress, Mi. Ellet proposed a clear water-way
700 fRet wide. House Rep. 24 Cong. No; 672. In his last
plan, he proposed a clear water-way over the whole width of the
channel, and to leave the river entirely unobstructed.
,llet's
Letter, Deo 291 1840 House Rep. 28th Congress, 1st Session,
No. 79.
Influenced, doubtless, by these ruies and examples, the Virginia Legislature pro-ided in the charter of this bridge:
"If the said bridge, mentioned in the eighth section of this
act, shall be so erected as to obstruct the navigation of the Ohio
Riv _r, in the usual manner of such steamboats and other crafts
as ate now commonly accustomed to navigate the same, when
the river shall be as high as the highest floods heretofore known,
then, unless, upon such obstruction being found to exist, such
obstruction shall be immediately removed or remedied, the said
last-mentioned bidge may be treated as a public nuisance, and
abated accordingly."
When- this charter was -accepted the defendants -and their
engineer thereby admitted the propriety of its requisitions, and
engaged to comply with them. It was a part of their contract,
with which they "vere bound to comply. Agar v. Regent's
Canal, Coop. 77,; Blackmore v. Glamorganshire Canal, 1 Myl.
&,K. 164. In .total disregard of all this, the defendants have
eregted their bridge on the novel plan of their engineer- undertaking to divide inconveniences with commerce on a public river,
imposing expanse, danger, and delay, razeeing its vessels and
averaging its flood.
"It is fair to malfe a division of thes4 inconveniences, and I
would therefore provideofor a passage of fifty feet, and a fl'ood
of thirty-five, and, if-occasion should require it, allow one or two
45

534

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

of these boats to lie by for a few hours." Ellet's Letter, House
Reports, 28th, Congress, No. 79, p. 4.
Vessels navigating the Ohio are propelled by the agency of
wind or steam, and with the dimensions of the bridge or channel
thus ascertained, it remains only to eximine the result upon
these vessels.
At a single glance it .is apparent that ships and sea-going vessels, requiffng; as they do, over twelve feet draught and ninety
feet above the water, are wholly excluded from navigating the
Ohio above Wheeling. By the evidence, it is shown, that from
the port of Pittsburg, ships have been cleared for foreign ports,
den with domestic products. Revenue and war essels have
been constructed there for the general government, and a large
in ship-building
naval architecture
and
prosperous
invol 'es
at Wheelingandnecessarily
The bridge
springing
up. business
is
the total destruction of this business, and the exclusion of such
vessels and their commerce from the ports of Pennsylvania.
Upon steam-vessels the exclusion operates with but little less
injury.
The diagrams no-w exhibited to the court represent the figure
and dimensions of the Ohio steam-vessels. Two classes are
spoken of. The first being large and-s-wift packets plying between Pittsburg and Cincinnati. The second class comprising
transient vessels and those'which, in the course of their business,
pass through the Louisville Canal.
The first class average in length two hundred and thirty
feet; they are over fifty feet wide; their pilot-house stands forty-'
eight feet above the surface of the water, and they require for
free passage upwards of seventy feet space. It is apparent, then,
that to the passage of these vessels the bridge offers a total obstruction whenever the water exceeds twenty feet in height.
And this, it has already been shown, is liable to occur in nine
several months of the year, and continue from .two to ten days
at a time. Four times, since this court commenced its session,
they have been obstructed. The second class, of boats are one
hundred and eighty feet in length, forty-nine feet wide, with
pilot house forty-seven. feet above-thwafieru, and chimfneys over
sixty feet high'
Upon the Spring and Fall floods, rangirg from thirty to thirtyeight feet, the passage of these boats will also be prevented. It
is said this class are provided with machinery for lowering a portion of their chimneys. And so they are; but the proof exhibits
that this machinery has been resorted to as. an expedient in order
to avoid the obstruction of the Ohio .falls, by passing through
the canal at Louisville. And it is insisted by these defendants
that all boats passingto and from Pittsburg, shall be subject to

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

53&

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

the same condition; imposing upon navigation between Wheel.
ing and Pittsburg the .disadvantages of a great natural obstacle
like the falls of Louisville.
Different opinions have been expressed by witnesses on the
subject of lowering chimneys. A few observations in connection
with the-draughts now beford the court, will here be made.
Two plans of lowerin'g are described. By the first, a few
joints of chimney at the top, turning on a hinge, are lowered
sufficiently to pass through the Louisville Bridge. But this mode
is confined, as evidently it must be, to cases where a short piece
of small diameter and light weight is to be lowered. Yet, even
in these cases, it is spoken of as being a troublesome, expensive,
and dangerous duty. Hinges have broken and chimneys fallen
and crushed the decks; officers and men on the deck are exposed
to danger at night in windy and stormy weather. The packet
chimneys, weighing from 2500 to 3000 pounds, and five feet in
diameter, require a different management. For lowering these,
the only mode suggested is by the use of hinges at the hurricane
deck. Let us consider, then, the condition of one of these
packets in effecting its passage on high water.
Through the Louisville Canal, boats pass slowly with steam
and fire down, with no opposing currents 'and no skill required
to direct their course. The whole force, skill and attention of
officers and crew, may there be devoted to lowering the chimneys.
But boats descend the Ohio River at the rate of from fifteen to
twenty miles per hour, and upon a current running between
Zane's Island and the. Virginia shore at the rate of five to eight
miles an hour, which shortly above the bridge, sets strongly out
from the main shore to the island, thus inclining boats to the
lower part of the bridge. See depositions of Duval and others.
The boats, moreover, usually arrive at the bridge in the night
season. When, therefore, their chimneys are to be lowered, supposing it even possible by mechanical contrivances and skill, the
task is to be accomplished under the most formidable dangers.
Upon a slippery deck, over boilers of steam and a fiery furnace,
contending with wind and current, the boat must be guided
through a narrow space of one hundred feet in width, while huge
chimneys, three tons in weight, are to be lowered to the deck.
It is plain that any accident, under these circumstances, involves
hazard and destruction to life and property, exposing officers,
passengers, and crew to disaster and death in the most appalling
form. Numerous instances of casualties are spoken of by the
witnesses, that have happened on the small boats passing bridges
on the Monongahela and in the Louisville Canal. What, then,
is 'to be apprehended at the Wheeling Bridge' on the Ohio River,
if the packets are to be subjected to such condition? Upon the

S36

SUPREME COURT.

Statg of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

evidence in this case, there is no room to doubt the consequences
that must ensue.
With these general observations, I proceed to examine the
evidence in detail. In the origina) answer it is admitted that
there are boats that cannot pass the bridge. The first supple.
mental answer admits that there are six boats, the owners of
which refuse to remodel their chimneys, sD as to enable them, in
case of a freshet, to pass under the bridge. In their memorial
of January 1st, 1849," calling upon the legislature of the State so
to amend their charter, as to sanction by ].aw the height fixed by
the board of managers," it is admitted that on a rise of thirty
feet, a few of the larger class of boats "vwill be compelled" to
lower their chimneys. On a rise of twenty-five feet, still fewer
boats will be compelled to do so. On a flood of twenty feet,
from five to six boats "will be required to lower their chimneys."
It is also confessed that the requisition imposes "little trouble"
and a " sma ll -additional expense."
The fact being thus confessed by the defendants, 'that the
bridge will arrest the passage of boats, impose the condition of
"remodelling their chimneys,", exact the duty of lowering. them
in order to pass, and incur by this requisition trouble and expense,
the rigTht comes in question.
That no state could grant authority so to interfere with vessels,
regulated and licensed pursuant to the acts of Congress, and
navigating a river over which Congress had extended its protection as to boats, commerce,. and bridges, has already been
shown. That Virginia neither assumed nor delegated suci
authority by their charter, appears from its terms. That the
defendants knew they had no lawful authoxity, is proved by
their calling on the legislature to amend their charter and sanction by law the height of their bridge.
But several grounds of justification, or rathicr excuse, are urged.
That the only boats obstructed by the bridge, have unusually
high chimneys, and "belong toPittsburg, the rival of Wheeling
in commerce and manufactures." That the height of steamboat
chimneys has been increased since the date of the bridge charter.
That the boats obstructed are few in number That the obstruction seldom happens, and only for short periods. That the
height of the qhimney is unnecessary, or if necessary, may be
lowered to pass the bridge.
To each of these pointi of defence, the evidence furnishes a
specific and conclusive answer.
, (Mr. Stanton then entered into a critieal examination of the
evidence and proceeded.)
Without Piursuing this branch of the subject further, it is evident that a more serious obstruction -to the navigation of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

-537

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

Ohio, by steam-vessels as well as ships, could not have been
devised by the art of man. And, upon the authorities already
adduced, it is manifest that the charter under which the defendants claim, if it authorized such erection, being a State enactment, which, in its operation, prescribes regulations fcr commerce
conflicting with those of Congress, such charter is against the
Constitution of the United States, and is absolutely void. And
all considerations, as to the practicability of changing and
adapting the structure and machinery of steamboats, so as to
pass 'the bridge, are wholly unavailing to the defendants, for
Congress, having regulated these vessels, appointed an inspectpr,
prescribed their machinery, and the duties of officers and crew,
and granted them a license to navigate the river, no individual
nor State has any authority to, require a change of such machinery, nor impose the performance of any duty, nor for a
single moment direct or arrest their course ; and hence it follows
that as this is undertaken and accomplished by the Wheeling
Bridge, it is an unlawful obstruction of navigation on the Ohio
River.
The injury resulting to the State of Pennsylvania from this
unlawful obstruction is of the utmost magnitude. Occupying
a central position, resting eastward on the Atlantic, north on the
Lakes, flanking on the Ohio, by it she is conncted with the Gulf
and the vast regions of the West and South. She thus enjoys
a position for foreign and domestic commerce more favorable
than any other in the Union. From the earliest period these
advantages were cultivated, she became a navigating State; the
energies and enterprise of her people were devoted to Aavigation
and commerce. By her own canals connecting -the lakes and
the Atlantic with the Ohio, she* possesses channels for water
transportation, more important than can be possessed by any
State on the continent. By steamboats navigating the Ohio
she has intercourse with all the States lying west and south of
her; and, by the same highway, commerce with foreign nations,
passing through the Gulf and the vTstibsippi, reaches her g.tes,
to be transported eastward through the channels she has opened.
Across this thoroughfare, within fifty miles of her border, the
Wheeling Bridge interposes its barrier. By it her communication with New Orleans, St. Louis, Cincinnati, and all the region
west and south of her, is intercepted, and the commerce flowing
between them and her public works is interrupted, exposed to
danger, delay, and is at times wholly cut offi The admission by
defendants, that obstruction of the Ohio River, from any cause,
would injuriously affect her public works, is evidently true; and
equally plain is it that such obstruction must injuriously affect
every interest that a State can possess, or that she is bound to

5388

SThU'REME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et'al.

cherish and defend. This injury may be considered in respect,
1st. To the persons and p-operty of her citizens.
2d. To her sovereignty and eminent domain.
3d. To her ports.
4th. To the revenue of her public works.
(We must pass over the discussion of the first three of these
points, and proceed to the last.)
To the public works of Pennsylvania, the injury occasioned
by this obstruction is deep and lasting. The products of the
South and West, and of the Pacific coast, are brought in steamboats along the Ohio to the western end of her canals at Pitsburg, thence to be transported through them to Philadelphia, for
an eastern and foreign market. Foreign merchandise and eastern manufactures, received at Philadelphia, are transported by
the same channel to Pittsburg, thence to be carried south and
west, to their destination, in steambqats along the Ohio. If
'these vessels and their commerce are liable to be stopped within
a short distance as they approach the caneis, and subject to expense, delay, and danger, to reach them, the same consequences
to ensue on their voyage departing, the 7alue of these works
must be destroyed. ' This result is confessed by the defendants
to be a necessary consequence of obstruction to the Ohio River
from any cause.
"They have no doubt that the navigation of the Ohio River
is important to the works above referred to, and that the value
thereof would be affected injuriously, if from any cause the pas-.
sage of steamboats from the city of Pittsburg downwards, were
obstructed or impeded." 2d Supplemental Answer, Record, p.42.
That the passage of steamboats to and from Pittsburg is obstructed and impeddd by the Wheeling :Bridge, has also been'
shown by the admissions already quoted.
• Six boats, the owners of which refuse to remodel their
chimneys so as to enable them, in case of a freshet, to pass under
the bridge, belong to Pittsburg, the iival of Wheeling in commerce and manufactures." Supplemental Answer, Record, p. 44:
"A few of the larger class of boats at such a stage (thirty
feet) of water, will be compelled to lower their chimneys."
Mem. to Virginia Legislature, Record, p. 56.
It has been seen that the six boats referred to are the carriers
between Pittsburg and Cincinnati, of three fourths of the trade
and travel transported by the Pennsylvania Canal.
The large class spoken of, are the carriers from New Orleans
and St, Louis. Too large for the canal, these boats can reach
Pittsburg and depart only on high water. Too large for the
bridge, they can pass Wheeling only on low water. They. are
thus excluded from Pittsburg by a natural obstruction at Louis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

539

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

vile, one portion of the year, and for the remainder by an artificial obstruction at Wheeling. To surmount both obstructions
the same condition is imposed-" compelled to- lower their
chimneys."
By their own confession, then, the defendants, with their cables stretched over the c-annel, produce the same result as if
rocks were sunk in its bed. Between the Pennsylvania Canal
and Louisville, a digtance of 'seven hundred miles, no obstruction
has hitherto existed. Between Pittsburg and Cincinnati, with
which, one half of her commerce is transacted, this artificial obstruction, equal to the Louisville falls, is placed within fifty
miles of her borders, interposing between her ports and every
other to which her commerce extends. Nay, more- to remove
obstructions in the Ohio, Congress, at the solicitation of the
Pennsylvania Legislature, has appropriated many millions of
dollars, (4 U. S. Stat. 32,) dnd within twelve months before this
bridge was commenced, one hundred and thirty thousfind two
hundred dollars were expended for that purpose between Wheeling and Pittsburg. Col. Albert's Deposition, p. 126.
Thus it appears that while Congress has. been expending the
public money in improving navigation, the defendants have
spent their own in obstructing it, with much more effectual
purpose.
From the admissions of the defendants as to the obstruction
created by their bridge, and its injury to the property of Pennsylvania, attention may now be turned to the other evidence on
the same subject.
Report of the Board of Canal Cormmiisioners.
" The board fully concur in the views expressed by the collector
as to the injurious effects which the construotion of the bridge
at Wheeling must necessarily produce upon the revenues of the
Commonwealth, derived from the main line of her piiblic works.
If the representation be true that the bridge referred to prevents
the passage of the large class of steamboats, which can only run
in times of high water, then the State ought to take every legal
step to procure the removal of the obstruction. It is unnecessary
for the board to present to the Senate any argument to prove
that such an impediment to the free navigation of the Ohio will
materially affect the interests of Pennsylvania." Record, p. 421.
Report of the State Treasurer.

"1It becomes my duty to call your attention to the bridge lately
constructed across the River Ohio at Wheeling; threatening, as
it does, to interfere with the business and enterprise of Pittsburg,
whose commercial prosperity is so essential to the productiveness

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

of our main line of canal. Should the price of freights to and
from Pittsburg, by the river, be enhanced in the smallest degree
by destroying the competition between the large and small
boats, it will result injuriously to the business of the canal, and
prejudicial to the enterprise of a city -whose manufacturing
wealth and commerce are too valuable to Lhe State to be jeopardized." State Treasurer's Annual Report, p. 12.
"Annual receipts of main line, $1,238,720.05." Id. p. 50.
The views thus expressed by the public officers of Pennsylvania and of the general government, are sustained by the knowledge and experience of business men.
(Mr. Stanton ,proceeded to comment on other testimony, and
then contended that the bridge might have been constructed
so as not to obstruct navigation. He then examined the value
of the bridge as a means of transit from shore to shore, and afterwards the right of, the State to sue in her corporate capacity,
for injuries operating immediately upon the persons, property,
and business, of the citizens of Pennsylvania; and also for those
which operate directly upon the State.)
The right to relief at her own suit being shown, its form remains to be mentioned. Abatement by injunction is prayed.
And for these reasons: Abatement is a remedy which the law
allows persons injured by a nuisance to administer for the'r own
relief; but to avoid the strife and contention that thence might
ensue, courts of equity have assumed jurisdiction to administer
that specific remedy.
The grounds of equitable jurisdiction fcr abatement by injunction, are precisely those occupied herein by'the State.
"The ground," says Mr. Justice Story, "for this jurisdiction
in cases of'purpresture, as well as nuisance, undoubtedly is their
ability to give a more complete and perfect remedy than is llowable at law, in order to prevent irreparable mischief, and also
to suppress oppressive and vexatious litigation. In the, first
place they can interpose, as the courts of law cannot, to restrain
and prevent such nuisances threatened or ih progress, as well as
those already existing. In the next place, by a perpetual injunction the remedy is made complete through all future time.
Whereas an information or indictment at the common law can
dispose only of the existing nuisance, and for future acts new
prosecutions must be brought. In the next place the remedial
justice in equity may be prompt and immediate before irreparable mischief is done, whereas at law nothing can be done except
after trial and upon the award of judgment." 2 Story's Equity,
203; see also cases cited in the brief.
Obstruction of watercourses are cases calling for this remedial
interposition of courts of equity. 2 Stor's Equity, 206.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. etal.

It needs no argument to show that the injury in question, as
.it is great in magnitude, is also most clearly within the. class of
what are known as irreparable injuries. In the first place being
an injury to trade, the full extent of injury cannot be measured
in damages, any more than in cases of nuisance to health, it can
te ascertained how many months or weeks or hours life may be
shortened. In the second place, it is unceasing and without
end. While the water flows and the bridge stands the injury
continues. The mischief is not only irreparable, but the litigation to which it must le.ad would be vexatious in the last degree.
The strife and contention that must follow, are also of the tnost
serious character.
It is the specific penalty prescribed by the charter, the terms
upon which the defendants obtained permission to erect their
bridge, the agreement entered into. That Virginia has since
chosen for herself to waive'that penalty, can make no difference
as to the equities of other parties. This remedy is still in the
charter: "If the bridge shall be so erected as to obstruct navigation, the said bridge may be treated as a public nuisance and
abated accordingly." Charter of Wheeling Bridge.
It is said that before injunction, a trial at law should be
awarded. But trials at law are awarded only where facts are
contested; and cases or nuisance are excepted from the benefit
even of this rule. "If the thing sought to be prohibited is in
itself a nuisance, the court will interfere to stay irreparable mischief, without waiting the result of a trial." Shelford on Railways, 431. But what facts are here to be ascertained ? The
highway, the obstruction, the injury, are confessed on 1he record.
The whole defence rests simply upon legal exceptions, leaving
no iact to be tried.
The acts of Pennsylvania authorizing bridges within her own
territory are urged in defence. To this it is sufficient to remark,
that the equitable doctrine of set-off has never been applied to
cases of n'uisance. And if it were, the bridges on the Alleghany
and Monongahela are not a fair equivalent for the navigation
of the Ohio, Mississippi, and their branches, cut off by the
Wheeling Bridge. When complaint is made or injury shown
from these bridges, then will be time to show their defence.
With this case, and the matters here involved, they have nothing to do.
The State is .also charged with laches:- standing by and witnessing without objection the defendants expend their money.
This is a strange charge, when it is remembered that Pennsylvania met these defendants in Congress, and there urged her
specific objections, resisted and defeated a bill for the erection
VOL. XIII.

46

542

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

of the bridge that had been introduced by the member from
Wheeling, before her remonstrance reached Washington.
She could not follow them into the Legislature of Virginia.
And if she had done so, her rights were sufficiently guarded by
the 14th section of their charter. Its violation was not to be
presumed. But when it became franifestthat, in defiance of its
provisions, the river was about to be obstructed, the law officer
of the State, her attorney-general, promptly appealed to this
tribunal. What charge of laches could be more unfounded?
Pending these proceedings, in the fancied belief that an advantage would be gained thereby, the work was hurried on to its
corhpletion. Warning was given, by the learned judge before
whom the motion was' made, that no equity would be thus
gained, but that if found a nuisance the bridge must be abated.
And this was made one of the grounds for then denying the
motion. (Judge Grier's Opinion.) Abatement is the only remedy
that can save the public works of Pennsylvania from irreparable
injury. It is the condition upon which the defendants in their
own wrong obstructed this highway, and itis the penalty pronounced by Virginia for infringing the rights of navigation.
These rights Pennsylvania might protect by abatement of
this nuisance by her own act. But the Constitution established
this tribunal as one of dignity, wherein a State might sue and
obtain redress by due course of law. Its powers and 'duties are
defined in No. 80 of the Federalist, and in the Constitution by
terms of the most wide and general signfication, extending to
"all those cases which involve the peace 'of the confederacy,
whether they relate to the intercourse between the United States
and foreign nations, or'between the States themselves." Comment upon these terms from me would be superfluous. They
embrace the very case now before the court, than which none
can be conceived more directly or deeply iavolving the peace of
the confederacy. It presents no question of abstract rights, but
one of actual existing vested rights, essential to the existence of
the State and the welffre of her people. Her rights of commerce extending between the several StatEs ; the right of navigation upon a public river; the use of a highway upon which
the value of internal improvements, costing over forty millions
of dollars, depends.
Upon these considerations the State of Pennsylvania prosecutes this suit. Declaring it to be consistent with her charadter
to seek a peaceful remedy, her legislature, by unanimous vote in
both branches, adopted the following resolutions, in obedience
to which-I now appear before this court.
"Be
It resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the tommonwealth of Pennsylvania, in General Assemibly

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

543

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

met - That the free and uninterrupted navigation of the Ohio
River as a common highway, is a right belonging to the citizens
of Pennsylvania, which being essential to the prosperity of the
State, it is the duty of the Commonwealth to assert and defend.
"That the proceedings in behalf of said State, instituted by
her attorney-general in the Supreme Court of the United
States, and now pending therein, against the Wheeling and
Belmont Bridge Company, to abate the nuisance occasioned by
their bridge lately erected across said river, be prosecuted to
final judgment, decree, and execution for abatement of said nuisance."
Having thus presented my proposition in its various brances,
I feel that it is not needful for me to urge upon this court the
important considerations which necessarily arise from the case,
considerations affecting noi only life and property to an immeasurable extent; but vast commerce, essential State rights, and
the peace of the confederacy. They will present themselves to
the court with more force than I could urge them. I know not,
sir, that it becomes me to say more in this behalf. This only
I will add:
In 1765, a distinguished son of Pennsylvania, Dr. Rittenhouse,
first conceived the plaA of her great works, connecting the waters
of the Lakes and the Atlantic with the Ohio River. Seventy
years elapsed before the resources 'of the State were equal to
such an undertaking. But once commenced, it was accomplished. While all other works tending to the same object halted
east of the Alleghanies, Pennsylvania forced her way through,
thus opening a cheap, easy, and secure water transportation
from the Gulf and the Rocky Mountains to the Atlantic seaboard. But no sooner had this mighty work been completed,
and its revenues commenced to replenish the exhausted treasury
of the State, and a prosperous commerce to reimburse her citizens for their heavy taxation, than the flagitious scheme is undertaken to cut her off from the Ohio by a bridge at Wheeling,
within fifty miles of her borders.
When, to prevent so great a wrong, she appeals to the Supreme Court; the work is hurried on; and, pending her application for an injunction, iron cables are stretched across the channel of a navigable river, interrupting vessels arriving and departing from the ports of Pennsylvania. And before she can be
heard in this tribunal, her vessels are stopped on a public highway, their cargo and passengers discharged at Wheeling, and
Pennsylvania ports shut up. For less injuries than these, States
have been heretofore prompt to redress their own wrongs, and
have rushed swiftly to war. Even under our government, in

544

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

defence of commercial rights, supposed to be invaded by congressional enactment, the banner of disunion has been unfurled
in the South. In the North and East, bordering States, asserting
navigation privileges, have resorted to acts of retortion and confiscation, until at length civil war was ready to burst forth on
their borders, and rage along their coasts. At a later day, the
western States of Ohio and lichigan, on a mere boundary ques.
tion, arrayed their military forces against each other, under command of their respective governors. And now, on a mere abstract question, State is seen arrayed against State, with threats
and warlike aspect.
To these, what a contrast and example does Pennsylvania
this day present. Thredtened in her dearest rights, she makes
no appeal to force.
When the foundations of this government were laid, and this
tribunal established as its corner stone, Pennsylvania was there.
She knew that the chief object of the Con'stitution was to substitute the law of reason for the taw of force; and her abiding
confidence in its efficacy for every exigency has never been
shaken. Her commerce obstructed on a public river, her ports
shut up; she comes this day at the head of no armed squadrons,
with no blustering enactments of State sovereignty, with no
threatenings of disunion upon her lips.* As becomes the keystone of the federal arch, she seeks first a'peaceful remedy. She
appears as an humble suitor before civil judges, sitting upon
their judgment-seat) surrounded by no armed janizaries, by no
imperial guards; but in the exercise of their constitutional functions, clothed with an authority more pote:.t, in her estimation,
than an army with banners. She asks them to protect a right,
deemed the most inestimable among all nations, belonging to
her by the law of nature and of nations; gr.aranteed by the Constitution and the laws of Congress, for the improvement of which
millions of her treasure have been lavished: and upon which the
welfare of her people depends. She asks them, by simple injunction, to prevent a local corporation from violating, under
color of State authority, a right that a world in arms could not
wrest from her. How far the wholesome influence of this example may depend upon the decree herein to be rendered, the
learned members of this court, better than I am, are able to judge.
The counsel for the defendants, in the brief which they filed,
made the followin.g points.
The questions which arise in the cause may be classed under
four distinct hea ds:
I. Those which relate to the regularity of the proceedings in
this cause.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

545

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

IL Those relating to the original jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court, in the case presented by record.
III. Those of a political character, arising out of the alleged
interference with the free navigation of the Ohio River, and the
supposed regulation of commerce between the States, and preference of one port over another.
IV. Those involving the law in regard to nuisances, and the
principles on which a court of equity will interpose, by injunction, to grant relief.
I. Under this head the defendants will insist1st. That the order made by Judge Grier, on the 1st day of
August, 1849, was not warranted by practice in courts of equity.
That he had no power to do more than grant or refuse the in.
junction, and that the case has been improperly docketed.
2d. They will insist that, as the defendants have expressly
denied under oath that this suit has been instituted by the State
of Pennsylvania, but that it is in fact the suit of sundry citizens
of Pittsburg who have 'undertaken to use the name of that
State, for the purpose of giving a colorable jurisdiction to this
court over the case, without the authority first obtained of the
legislature or executive of Pennsylvania; and as the plaintiffs
have failed to produce any evidence to show that the proper
authorities of Pennsylvania have authorized the institution of
the suit, the court should either dismiss it, or award a rule
against plaintiff's attorney to show by what authority it has
been instituted. Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy, 4 Dall. 330.
'3d. The original bill being fatally defective was not amendable, the office of an amendment being not to make a new case,
but to correct or improve a bill which contained grounds of
equitable relief. MeMiahon v. Fawcett, 2 Rand. 537.
II. Under this head, defendants will insist that, if the suit has
been regularly docketed and instituted by the direction of the
proper authorities of the State of Pennsylvania, the bills of the
plaintiff do not disclose a case properly cognizable in this court.
They show no such interest on the part of the State of Pennsylvania in the matter in controversy as would make her a competent plaintiff in this court. She should show, on the face of
her bill, a direct and immediate interest in the State of Pennsylvania, in her corporate capacity. A remote consequential injury will not do; injury to her citizens is not sufficient; they
are.competent plaintiffs, and can seek their own redress.
2d. The alleged injury to the public works of Pennsylvania,
and through them to her revenues, is remote, contingentt, and
speculative. The bridge is in another State, and not within
fifty miles of any of her improvements. If it should prove detrimental to them by the greater facilities which it might afford for
46 "

546

SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

crossing the river at Wheeling, and the inducements which it
might hold out to trade and travel to seek that point, it would
be a .case of damnurm absque,injuria.
3d. The allegation of injury to the ship-builders of Pennsylvania is obnoxious to the objections taken to the original bill;
the injury is not to the State, but to her citizens, and it is indirect and consequential.
4th. If there be injury to the public, it is not to the Pennsylvania public, but to the, great public of the Union. If it interferes
with and regulates commerce, it is the commerce of the Union,
and not of Pennsylvania, and the government of the Union'alone
can redress it by a proceeding- in behalf of the United States, at
the instance of her attorney-general. Commonwealth v. Charlestown, 1 Pick. 184 ; see Mitford, Eq. P1. 210 ; Story Eq. Pl. ects.
503-510 ; Fowler v. Lindsey, 3 Dall. 411 ; Bowne v. Arbucde,
4 Dall. 338 and note 2; New York v. Connecticut, 4 Dall. 3;
United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115; McNutt v. Bland, 2
How. 9, opinion of Daniel. J., and cases reviewed by him; Bank
of Kentucky v. Wister, 2 Pet. 318; Georgetown v. Alexandria
Canal, 12 Pet. 91; United States Bank v. Planters Bank of
Georgia, 9 Wheat. 904; Bingham v. Cabot, 3 Dall. 382; Turner
v. Bank of North America, 4 Dall. 8; McCormick v. Sull~ ant,
10 Wheat. 199; Fisher v. Cockrell, 5 Pet. 248; Reed v. Marsh,
13 Pet. 153; 1 Kent, Com. 344, and cases cited; Waring v.
Clarke, 5 How. 468; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet.
657; Spooner v. McConnell, 1 McLean, 338, 359; Rogers v.
Linn, 2 McLean, 126; 8 Cow. 146.
III. The charter was granted for great public objects, and intended to advance and facilitate commerce between the States,
and the. safe, speedy, and certain transmission of the mails between the eastern and western sections of the Union, and therefore commends itself to the favorable regard of the government,
to which is confided the power and the duty of regulating that
species of commerce. The duty of the government of the
United States is quite as imperative to protect and regulate
the trade across, as up and down, the channels of navigable
streams.
The privilege of navigating the river is not paramount to, but
only coequal with, the privilege of crossing it. The bridge is
not a regulator of commerce in any other seilse than a railroad
or a ferry would be. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203; People
v. Saratoga and Rens. Co. 15 Wend. 134; Thompson v. People,
23 Wend. 552; Corfield v. Coryell,'4 Wash. C. C. R. 378; Norris
v. Boston, and Smith v. Turner, 7 How. 283; Houston v. Moore,
5 WYheat. 48; Commonwealth v. New Bedford B. Co. 1 Woodbury & Minot, 423; Wilson v. Blackbird Marsh Co. 2 Peters, 250.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

547

State of Pennsylvania v.The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

IV. The case stated is not one for relief, even at law, and
much less in equity, by injunction:
1. The bridge is not a nuisance.
2. The injury is not direct, inevitable, and irreparable; on the
contrary, by complainant's own showing, it is remote, contingent, and susceptible of compensation in damages.
3. Nor is it peculiar and exclusive, either to the citizens or to
the State of Pennsylvania.
4. The course of Pennsylvania, in chartering and constructing
bridges over navigable waters within, her limits, and in remaining passive until the whole capital of the company had been
expended, should induce the court, even if that case were in
other respects a proper one for relief, to withhold its aid under the
peculiar circumstances of this case. Story, Eq. sect. 959, a & b ;
Eden on Injunctions, 162; Bonaparte v. Camden & Amboy
R. R. Co. 1 Bald. C. C. R. 218; Attorney-General v. Cleaver,
1S Vesey, 218, and authorities cited; Earl Ripon v. Hobart, 1
Coop. Select Cases, 333; Story, Eq. sect. 922- 925, and cases
cited; Pierce v. Dart, 7 Cow. 609; Lansing v. Smith, 8 Cow.
146; Serple v. London and Birmingham R. R. Co. 1 Railw.
Cases, 159; Butler v. Kent, 19 Johns. 223; Laws of Pennsylvania, 1846, 309; Palmer v. Cuyahoga County, 3 McLean, 226;
Jones v. Royal Canal Co. 2 Molloy, 319; Williams v. The Earl
of Jersey, 1 Craig &, Phil. 96; Pelcher v. Hart, 1 Humph. Ten.
Rep. 524; Rex v. Russel, 13 Com. L. R. 254; Crenshaw v. State
R. Co. 6 Rand. 245; Hulme v. Shreve, 3 Green, Ch. Cases, 116;
Illingvorth v. Manchester and Leeds R. R. 2 Railw. Cases, 187;
Attorney-General v. Eastern Co. R. R. Co. 3 Railw. Cases, 337.
After the argument of the cause, the court passed the interlocutory order which is reported in 9 How. 657.
The coming in of the report of the commissioner is mentioned in 11 How. 529, together with the order of court passed
thereon. That report wuras a printed volume of more than seven
hundred pages, accompanied by numerous engravings, and ineluding a great mass of evidence upon geographical, statistical,
and scientific'points. It is very difficult to give an abstract of
it, but the attempt must be made.
"The questions referred to the commissioner to report upon,
were the following, viz., whether the suspension-bridge, mentioned in the pleadings in this cause, erected over the Ohio
River at the city of Wheeling, by the defendants, is or is not an
obstruction to the free navigation of the Ohio River, at the place
where such bridge is erected acrosz the same, by vessels propelled by steam or sails, engaged, or which may be engqged, in
the commerce or navigation of said river; and, if it is such an

548

SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

obstruction, what change, or alteration, if any, can be made,
consistent with the continuance of the bridge across the said
river, that will remov6 the obstruction to the free navigation by
such vessels engaged in the commerce and navigation of such.
river; and also to report the proofs which should be produced
before me by the respective parties; with power to,appoint a clerk
to assist in-the execution of the order of reference; and also
with power, if I should deem it necessary, to appoint a competent engineer, whose duty it should be, under my directions and
instructions, as such commissioner, to take the measurement of
said bridge, its appendages and appurtenances, and the localities
connected therewith, and make a report to me upon the same."
The report commenced with a general examination of suspension-bridges, with their adaptation to th-e passage of railroad
cars. Upon this subject the commissioner expressed himself as
follows:
"My opinion, therefore, is, that if the Wheeling Bridge, in itspresent form, is not permitted to stand, the idea that it can be
so altered in its reconstruction, as to adapt it to the purposes of
ordinary railroad transit, should not be entertained, and should
not b6 permitted to affect the decision of the question of the
practicability of altering or reconstructing' such bridge, so as to
obtain a revenue therefrom, which might be of sufficient importance to the stockholders of the bridge company to induce themto
contribute means to enable the corporatipn to rebuild the bridge."
The report then contained an account of the commercial statistics of the Ohio River, with the velocity of its current, its
floods, &c. The bridge was described as follows:
"The length of the bridge is 980 feet between the faces of
the two abutments; and 1010 feet between the centres of the
towers, at each end, which" support the cables upon which the
flooring of the bridge is suspended. The eastern towers, to the
top of the saddles, are 1 5 3 , feet high above the level of zero of
the water-gauge which indicates the depth of water upon the
Wheeling Bar; and the western towers are 132 feet.
" The deflection of the catenary below the top of the saddles
of the eastern towers, on the 26th of October, 1850, when the
temperature of the atmosphere was 44' of Fahrenheit, was 68
feet 5 inches. And the point of its greatest deflection was 544
feet and 7 inches from the centre of the eastern towers. The
deflection would probably be about 15 inehes less at the temperature of zero of Fahrenheit, and about 15 inches more at a
temperature of 900 above. The temperature of the atmosphere,
at the time the measurement was made, was at about a medium
between the extreme cold of winter and the greatest heat of
summer, and therefore gives the mean deflection.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

549

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

" The ascent of the flooring of the bridge at the east end, for
17 2 feet from the centre of the tower, rises on a grade of 1.28
feet to the 100 ; and for 40 feet further it rises on a grade of
0.625 of a foot to the hundred feet. From thence it descends on
a grade of 0.925 of a fo't to the hundred, for 40 feet; and from
thence to the centre of the western tower, on a grade of 4.08 feet
to every hundred feet.
"At the highest part of the bridge, for the distance of about
56 feet in width, there is a clear headway, for the passage of
steamboats with their chimneys standing, of 92 feet above zero
of the Wheeling water-gauge; or 91 feet above extreme low
water. This headway commences about 174 feet from the top
of the face of the eastern abutment, and terminates 760 feet
from the same point in the western al utment. But this space
of 56 feet in width is not over any part of the river at extreme
low water.
"The bank of the river, under the eastern extremity of the 56
feet space, is 10.21 feet higher- than the level of zero of the
Wheeling gauge; and under the western extremity, the height
of the bank above zero of the gauge, is 3.81 feet. And it is only
22 inches below zero of the gauge at a' point 100 feet further
west. The water upon the Wheeling Dar must therefore be
about 4 feet deep to bring the easterly edge of the stream to apoint under the western eXremity of the 56 feet. And it must
be more than 15 feet deep upon the bar to enable a steamboat
drawing 5 feet to avail itself of the 91 feet of clear headway
above low-water mark, for the whole width of 56 feet.
"It follows, from this statement of the facts, that a steamboat
drawing five feet, and whose chimneys are 79 feet high, or over,
can never pass under the apex of the bridge, at any stage of the
water, without lowering her chimneys. And boats drawing 4
feet and having chimneys as high as 86 feet, can never pass
under any part of the bridge, without lowering, even in stages
of water between 4 and 12 feet high on the Wheeling Bar.
This is in accordance with the testimony, which shows that the
Cincinnati, whose chimneys, according to the miasurement of
the engineer, were but 84.7 feet high, had to lower them to pass
under the bridge, even in the lowest stages of the water upon
which she ran."
Upon the question whether or not the bridge was an obstruction to sailing vessels, the commissioner reported as follows:
" I therefore decide and report that the suspension-bridge at
Wheeling, mentioned in the order of reference, is not an obstruction of the free navigation of the Ohio River, at the place where
it is erected over the. same, by any vessels propelled by sails,
which have been engaged in the commerce or navigation of the

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

river since such bridge was erected, or which will probably be
engaged in such navigation and commerce at any future time
during the existence of such bridge."
Upon that branch of the question which related to the bridge
being an obstruction to steamboats, the rEport contained a description of the boats and the height of the chimneys of some of
them; and came to the following conclusion:
"A greatnumber of witnesses have been exmmined on both sides
in reference to the question whether the pro cess of lowering such
chimneys as are carried upon the Pittsburg and Cincinnati
packets, and others of the largest class of boats which navigate
the waters of the Ohio, is not attended with injury to the chimneys, delay to the boats, and danger to the limbs and lives of the
passengers, or of the officers and crew.
" So far as the question depends upon opinion merely, there is
a very great conflict in the testimony of the witnesses. B,tt
when we examine the facts testified to by them, I think there s
a decided preponderance of testimony in favor of the affirmative
of the question.
"Even with the smaller and shorter chimneys on the boats
which pass through the Louisville and Portland Canal, where
the boaty- proceed very slowly, and lower and raise their chimneys at leisure, accidents frequently occur to the chimneys;
though, from the nature of the navigation through the canal,
the process of raising and lowering does not produce much delay
there, in ordinary cases. It is easy to perceive, that if the four,
five, or six rings, let down upon boats that pass the canal,
should fall, and break from their hinges, as they sometimes do,
the lives of the passengers and crew, or of some of them, would
necessarily be endangered.
"The very elevated as.well as large chimneys useca upon the
Pittsburg and Cincinnati packets, and other boats of that class
cannot, certainly,, with any facility or safety, be lowered by
hinges at the tops. They are, therefore, obliged to 1pwer them
at the hurricane deck, by the means of a derric. The weight
*ofthe parts of the two chimneys which must be let down, upon
these large boats, is estimated by the witnesses to be from three
to four tons. This enormous weight hanging over the cabin, or
rather over the berths of the passengers, in the process qf lowering, would probably prove disastrous in the extreme, if by any
accident the chimneys should come down by the run; which is
very likely to occur, from the carelessness or stupidity of the
green hands that the owners and officers of Western boats are
so often obliged to employ."
The report then discussed the increased danger in lowerina
the chimneys, resulting from the velocity of the river; and ther

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

551

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

examined the question whether such high chimneys were necessary for obtaining the maximum of speed. The conclusion
arrived at was, that they were necessary. Upon this general
branch of the question the commissioner reported as follows:
"It would be a great injury to commerce, and to the community to have the benefit of a fair competition, between river
navigation and railroad transit, destroyed by any unnecessary
obstruction of either. And if railroads can be carried across our
large Western rivers, without impairing the navigation, it is
proper that it should be done. Certainly, if this beautiful and
beneficial structure, which has been thrown across the eastern
branch of the Ohio at Wlteeling, at so much cost, can remain
as it is, without injury to the commerce and navigation of the
river, no one should desire its removal or alteration.
"But, upon a full examination of the subject, or rather such an
examination as I have been enabled to give it, in a limited
time, and -7ithout the aid of counsel, I have arrived at the cqn,clusion, and do accordingly decide and report, that the Wheeling Suspension-Bridge, referred to in the pleadings and proofs
in this cause, is an obstruction of the free navigation of the
Ohio, at the place where it is erected across the same, by vessels
propelled by steam, which are now engaged in the commerce
and navigation of that river, and by such vessels as will undoubtedly be engaged in such navigation and commerce hereafter, at that place; while such bridge is permitted to remain
without very material alterations."
The commissioner then proceeded to discuss the question,
whether the bridge could be so altered as not to impede the free
navigation of the river by steamboats; and examined eight
different plans for effecting this, object. The result was thus
stated :
"I therefore conclude that it is practicable to alter the construction of the present bridge, so that it will not be an obstruction to the free navigation of the Ohio, consistent with the
continuancs of the bridge across the river at the place where it
is now erected.
"And I further decide and report that the change, or alteration,
which can and should be made, in the construction and existing
condition of the bridge, to remove the obstruction which now
exists .to the free navigation of the river at that place, by steamboats, is to raise the suspension-cables, 6nd the flooring of the
bridge, in such a manner as to give a level headway, it lest
three hundred feet wide, over a convenient part of the channel
of the river, of not less than one hundred and twenty feet above
the level of zero on the Wheeling water-gauge; and bhiow the
lowest projections of the flooring of the bridge, and the greatest

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

deflections of the suspension-cables, at a medium temperature
of the atmosphere.
"It will be seen that, in fixing this elevation for the altered
bridge, I have made no provision for a greater amount of headway should the future wants of travel and commerce upon this
part of the river require it. But I have adopted this height as
being ample for the present demands of steamboat navigation,
and upon the supposition that the dimensions of the boats
running on the Ohio, from places above the bridge, and the
heights of their chimneys, have about reached their maximum,
for convenient running, or for profit.
"It is true, some of the boats running below the falls are a
little longer, and have more breadth of beam, than any of the
Pittsburg and Cincinnati packets, and have chimneys a few
feet higher. But they have also a greater depth of hold and
draw more water; and are not, therefore, so well adapted to the
navigation of the upper part of the Ohio, where the river is narrower, and the channel more sinuous.
"Possibly, if the contemplated improvement at the falls of the
Ohio should be made, boats of a larger class and with taller
chimneys might be found profitable, in carrying on a direct trade
between Pittsburg and New Orleans, or between the former
place and St. Louis. But as that event is still in the womb of
time, and may never have birth, I have not deemed it necessaiy to,make any farther provision for it, than an elevation of
the bridge to the height of one hundred and twenty feet, above
the level of zero on the Wheeling gauge, will give them.
" Many of my calculations in this report were made very hurriedly; but the engineer, at my request, has examined them all,
since the draft of the report was prepared, and has not discovered any errors in them. I have reason to believe, therefore,
that they are all correct.
R. HYDE TVALWORTH, oM."
To this report exceptions were filed both upon the part of the
complainant and respondent. On the part of the State of
Pennsylvania the exceptions were as follows:
Complainant's .Exceptions. And now comes the complainant,
by her counsel; and as to the report of the special commissioner, Hon. R. H. Walworth, herein made at the last term, the
said complainant excepts as follows:
1. To so much of said report, on page 30, as decides that the
suspension-bridge, at Wheeling, is not an obstruction of the
free navigation of the Ohio River at the place where it is erected
over the same, by any vessels propelled by sails, which have been
engaged in the commerce or navigation of the river since such
bridge was. erected, or which will probably be 'engaged in such

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

navigation and commerce at any future tine during the existence of such bridge; and, also, in the particulars, that said report does not provide for a headway for ships 6nd sea-going
vessels propelled by sails; and complainant prays that the
court will decree that adequate provision shall be made for the
passage of steam-ships and sailing vessels with their masts
standing.
2. The complainant also excepts to said report in the'parti.
cular, that the change in the construction and existing condition
of said bridge, which, in page 53 of said report, the commissioner decides should be made to remove the obstruction to the
free navigation of the river by steamboats, will not be sufficient
to remove said obstruction, because the obstruction aforesaid
cannot be removed without raising the bridge to the elevation
of at least one hundred and forty-five feet above the level of zero
on the water-gauge, and also because the width of a level
headway of three hundred feet is not sufficient, but the same
ought to be the whole width of the river channel at that place;
and, also, because no necessity is shown for any obstruction to
the navigation, by any bridge at that point, nor is such bridge
authorized, or could be lawfully authorized by any State enactment. Complainant prays that the court may decree accordingly.
3. The complainant also excepts to said report, in the particular, that in fixing the elevation for the altered bridge, in page
53 of said report, no provision is made for a greater amount of
headway, should the future wants of travel and commerce of
this part of the river require it.
Complainant prays that no bridge be allowed across said
channel, or, if any be allowed, that the elevation of such bridge
be fixed by the decree of this court at not less than one hundred
and fortyzfive feet above the level of zero, on the Wheeling
water-gauge, across the whole width of the channel at that place.
4. In all other respects, except the particulars thereof above
excepted to, the complainant prays that the report of the commissioner aforesaid be established and confirmed, and that in
the particulars herein excepted to, the report be corrected by the
decree of this court, so as to abate the obstruction to the navigation of the Ohio River, created by the defendants by their
suspension-bridge, and to preserve the free navigation of the
said river, as prayed for in the original and supplemental bills
of complainant; and that a final decree be entered, as justice
and the rights of your complainant may require.
C. DARRAGH,
SHALER &

STANTON,

ROBERT J. WALKER,

VOL. xiII.

47

For Complainant.

SUPREME COU:RT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

Defendants' Exceptions. The defendants except to the proceedings and report of the commissioner, the Hon. R. H. Walworth, under the order of reference mad.e in this cause, at the
December term, 1849, as follows:
1. That the commissioner made an order for the parties to
appear before him, with their witnesses, at Wheeling, on the
15th July, 1850, without any application for such order from
th3 counsel of either party, but with information from the counsel of the defendants that they could not then be prepared to
take the testimony which they desired to take there. Moreover,
his immediate adjournment on the 15th July, 1850, to a place
several miles from Wheeling, and from the Ohio River,-caused
so much inconvenience and expense in the production of witnesses at that time, as to constrain the defendants to defer the
examination of many .of them until a future opportunity;
which opportunity was afterwards denied to them. Whereby,
and by the course pursued by the commissioner afterwards, as
mentioned in the next exception, the defendants were prevented
from taking the greater part of the testimony which they desired
to take at Wheeling.
2. That the commissioner, in his report, has expressed opinions upon the questions on which he was directed to take
proofs, without first having taken all the proofs which the counsel for the. defendants saw fit to produce before him, and without reporting those proofs particularly. That, "as a general
rule," he refused to receive or to report any testimony produced
by the counsel for the defendants, unless he, the commissioner,
considered it relevant to the subject on which the court had
directed testimony to be taken by him, if objected to by the
opposite counsel; and actually excluded evidence which was
relevant, in some instances, which appear in his report; besides
establishing rules of decision which prevented the production
of all testimony of like tendency to that, which was rejected;
and,
That, on the 4th day of December, 1850, in the unavoidable
absence of the regular counsel of the defendants, (occasioned by
sickness,) the commissioner refused to keep open his proceedings, at Wheeling, until the defendants could have had the presence and advice of that counsel, in relation to the further
production of testimony, refused to grant the defendants further
time for completing their proofs, and even refused to report to
the court the affidavit on which the application for delay was
grounded; notwithstanding, it appears by his report that the
defendants finally (being without counsel) asked for a delay of
only two days, until the expected arrival of their counsel, and
nothing was done, or to be done by the commissioner, in

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

555

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

the cause, until the fifth day afterwards, at Pittsburg. And,
from that time forward, the commissioner denied to the defendants the opportunity and time, which reasonably they ought to
have had, to complete the taking of their testimony before him,
though he had repeatedly been informed by their counsel that
they desired to produce further proofs at 'Wheeling, Philadelphia,
and elsewhere. See Rep. pp. 645, &c.
3. That the commissioner, knowing that the defendants desired to avail themselves of the expiration of the time limited
for making his report, to apply to the court for some explanation
or modification of the order of reference, so as thereafter to prevent a repetition of the injustice which, as they considered, had
been done to them by the commissioner, did, on or about the
Ist of December, 1850, privately apply to the court for an order
extending the time for his proceedings, confirming what he
might have done after the expiration of the time previously
limited, and making no other change in the terms of the order
of reference. And the commissioner suffered the defendants
and their counsel to take their course in ignorance that any such
application had been made, and then refused to make such a
special report as would have enabled them to make a more regular application. See Rep. pp. 645, 648.
4. That the commissioner, in his report, argues to prove that
wire suspension-bridges are not adapted to the uses of railroads which opinion, or argument, is not only incorrect, but is
on a subject not referred to him, and it can only tend to prejudice the defence improperly. See Rep. pp. 17, 20.
6. That the commissioner reports that "the Wheeling Suspension-Bridge, referred to in the pleadings and proofs in this
cause, is an obstruction of the free navigation of the Ohio River,
at the place where it is erected across the same, by vessels propelled by steam, which are now engaged in the commerce of
that river, and by such vessels as will undoubtedly be engaged
in such commerce hereafter, at that place, while such bridge is
permitted to remain without material alterations." Whereas, it
appears by the evidence in the cause, that the said bridge is not
such an obstruction. See Rep. p. 45.
6. That the commissioner reports that a change or alteration
of said bridge can, and should be made by raising the suspension-cables and flooring, so as to give a level headway at least
three hundred feet wide, over a convenient part of the channel
of the river, of not less than 120 feet above the level of zero, on
the Wheeling water-gauge, and below the lowest projections of
the flooring of the bridge and the greatest deflections of the suspension-cables, at a medium temperature of the atmosphere.
Rep. p. 53.

556

SUPREME COUIRT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c- Bridge Co. et al.

7. That the commissioner has decided the questions referred
to him upon the assumption that, if any steamboats -navigating the Ohio, however few, can attain an increase of speed,
however slight, by using the tallest chiraneys, where such increase of speed is beneficial to travel and commerce, in however
small a degree, those steamboats are entitled to the benefit -of
such increase, in opposition to the claims of all who require the
use of a bridge; whatever may be the extent of mischief resulting from the want of a bridge, or from its extreme elevation.
See Rep. p. 45.
8. That the commissioner refused to receive or report any testimony tending to show the amount of inconvenience or injury
which the public would suffer by the want of a bridge such as
the one above mentioned, now standing at Wheeling. And, on
the other hand, he has admitted much testimony, oflbred by the
complainant, to show the magnitude of the present and prospective commerce on the river, and while expressing, in his report,
an opinion favorable to the utility of the tallest chimneys used
by any boat on that pait of the river, has omitted all reference to
the testimony tending to show in how small or great a degree,
if at*all, a reduction of the height of those chimneys, to the
usual standard, would impair their supposed utility, and what
proportimn of the boats navigating, or likely to navigate the river,
do now, or probably will, use chimneys of the extreme height
which he considers useful.
9. That the commissioner appointed Edwin F. Johnson, an
engineer, to make the measurements of the bridge, &c., and retained him in that position after he became aware that the said
Johnson was the brother-in-law of one of the counsel for complainant, residing at Pittsburg, and until -that fact had been discovered and formally alleged by the counsel for the defendants,
and long after the commissioner must have discovered that the
said Johnson was unfit for that position; and the said commissioner proposes to allow the said Johnson pay and expenses as
such engineer, though he failed to perform his duties as such,
and was much more diligent in serving the interests of the complainant in the cause.
10. That the said commissioner unnecessarily increased the
expenses incurred under the order of reference to an enormous
extent.
11. That the commissioner has returned .tie report of the
engineer with his own, without permitting the parties to have an
opportunity of inspecting it before the commissioner closed the
taking of testimony.
12. The defendants not only except to such parts of the report
and proceedings of the commissioner, as are above pointed out,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

557

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

but they insist on their exceptions, taken before the commissioner, and reported by him with the testimony.
ALEX. H. H. STUART.
REVERDY JOHNSON,

Attorne'sfor Defendants.
These exceptions were fully argued upon both sides; but the
great length to which this report must necessarily be protracted,
forbids any notice of the arguments of the respective cofinsel.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This bill was filed in the clerl's office of this court, in July,
1849. It charged that the defendants, under color of an act of
the Legislature of Virginia, but in direct violation of its terms,
were engaged in the construction of a bridge across the Ohio
River, at Wheeling, which would obstruct its navigation, to and
from the ports of Pennsylvania, by steamboats and other craft
which navigate the same. That the State of Pennsylvania owns
certain valuable public works, canals, and railways, constructed
at great expense as channels of commerce, for the transportation
of passengers and goods, from which a large revenue, as tolls,
was received by the State. That these works terminate on the
Ohio River, and were constructed with direct reference to its
free navigation; the goods and passengers transported on these
lines were conveyed in steamboats, on the Ohio River; and the
Wheeling Bridge would so obstruct the navigation of that river,
as to cut off and direct trade and business from the public works
of Pennsylvania, impair and diminish the tolls and reveriue of
the State, and render its improvements useless, The bill prayed
an injunction against the erection of the bridge, as a public nuisance, and for general relief.
In August, 1849, a supplemental bill was filed, stating that,
after notice, the defendants continued to prosecate-their work,
and were engaged in stretching iron cables across the channel
of the river, which would obstruct its navigation, and it praved
that these cables might le abated.
At the December term of this court, 1849, another supplemental
bill was filed, representing that defendants had completed the
erection of the bridge, and that it had obstructed the passage of
steamboats carrying freight and passengers to and from the ports
of Pennsylvania; that it also hindered the passage of steamships and sea-going vessels, which were accustomed to be constructed 'at the ports of Pennsylvania, and would injure and
destroy the trade and business of ship and boat building, which
was carried on by the citizens of Pittsburg, and it prayed an abatement of the bridge as a public nuisance, and for general relief.
In their answers the defendants allege the exclusive sovereignty
47 1

558

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

of Virinia over the Ohio River, and set forth the act authorizing
the erection of the bridge. Ald they object to the application
for an injunction and the relief prayed for, that the persons injured
might have remedy in the courts of Virginia; that the State of
Pennsylvania had no corporate capacity to institute this suit in
the Supreme Court, to vindicate the righ:s of her citizens; that
the State is only a nominal party, whose name was, without
proper authority, used by individuals; that the bridge is a connecting link of a great public highway, as important as the
navigation of the Ohio River; that Pennsylvania had set the
example of authorizing bridges across the Ohio; that certain
engineers of the United States had recommended a wire suspension-bridge at Wheelihg, and gave as their opinion, that "by
an elevation of ninety feet, every imaginable danger of obstructing the navigation would be avoided;" that certain reports of
committees in Congress recognized the necessity of a bridge at
Wheeling, and recommended an appropriation for that purpose;
that the headway for steamers left by the bridge is amply sufficient, forty-seven feet above the water, for all useful purposes;
and if sufficient draught cannot be had at that height, blowers
might be added; that chimneys might have hinges on them, so
as to be lowered without much inconvenience; that the bridge
will not be an appreciable inconvenience to the average class of
boats; that the bridge will not diminish or destroy trade between
Pittsburg and other ports, or do irreparable injury to the citizens
of Pennsylvania.
The answer admits that the State of Pennsylvania has expended large sums of money in the construction of public improvements, terminating at Pittsburg and Beaver; that a great
amount of freight and a large number of passengers do pass over
said works, and that a large amount of toll to the Sthte is derived therefrom; that the navigation of the Ohio River is important to the works above-referred to, and that the value thereof would be affected injuriously if from any cause the passage
of steamboats from the city of Pittsbirg downwards were obstructed or impeded. But they deny that their bridge or the
can in truth be called
cables will have any such effect, or that it;
a nuisance.
To the actual obstruction occasioned by the bridge, as charged
in the second supplemental bill, they set ap an amendatory and
explanatory act of the Virginia Legislature, passed 11th of Jafiuary, 1850, declaring the height of ninety feet at the eastern
abutment, ninety-three and a half feet at the highest point, and
sixtydtwo feet at the western abutment, above the low-water
level of the Ohio River, to be of lawful height, and in conformity
with the intent and meaning of the 19th section of the charter.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

At December term, 1849, the question of jurisdiction was
argued on both sides, and it was sustained by the entry of an.
order of reference to the Hon. R. H. Walworth, as special commissioner to take testimony and report 1. Whether the bridge is, or is not, an obstruction of the free
navigation of the Ohio River, by vessels propelled by steam or
sails, engaged, or which may be engaged, in the commerce or
navigation of said river.
2. If an obstruction be made to appear, what change or alteration in the construction and existing condition of the said bridge,
if any, can be made, consistent with the continuance of the
same across said river, that will remove the obstruction to the free
navigation.
At the ensuing terra, near its close, the commissioner made
his report, together with the report of the engineer employed,
and the evidence taken before him, deciding,
1. That the bridge is not an obstruction to the free navigation
of
the Ohio by any vessels propelled by sails.
' 2.
That the bridge is an obstruction of the free navigation of
the Ohio by vessels propelled by steam.
3. That the change or alteration which can and should be
made in the construction and existing condition of the bridge is,
to raise the cables and'flooring in such manner as to give a level
headway, at least three hundred feet wide, over a convenient
part of the channel, of not less than one hundred and twenty feet
above the level of zero on the Wheeling water-gauge.
To this report several exceptions were taken, by the counsel
on both sides.
As this is the exercise of original jurisdiction by this uvwt, on
the ground that the State of Pennsylvania is a party, it is important to ascertain whether such a case is made out as to entitle
the State to assume this attitude. In the second section of the
third article of the Constitution, it is declared that the Supreme
Court shall have original jurisdiction in a case, where a State
shall be a party.
In this case the State of Pennsylvania is not a party in virtue
)f its sovereignty. It does not come here to protect the rights
of its citizens. The sovereign powers of a State are adequate
to the protection of its own citizens,'and no other jurisdiction
can be exercised over them, or in their behalf, except in a few
specified cases. Nor can the State prosecute this suit on the
ground of any remote or contingent interest in itself. It assumes
and claims, not an abstract right, but a direct interest in the
controversy, and that the power of this court, can redress its
wrongs and save it from irreparable injury. 'If such a case be
made out, the jurisdiction may be sustained.

560

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

When a State enters into a copartnership, or becomes a stockholder in a bank, or other corporation, its sovereignty is not involved in the business, but it stands and is treated as other
stockholders, or partners. And so in the present case, the rights
asserted and relief prayed, are considered as in no respect different from those of an individual. From the dignity of the State,
the Constitution gives to it the right to bring an original suit
in this court. And this is the only privilege, if the right be
established, which the State of Pennsylvania can claim in the
present case.
It is objected, in the first place, that there is no evidence that
•the State of Pennsylvania, has consented to the prosecution of
this suit in its own name.
This would seem to be answered by the fact, that the proceedings were instituted by the attorney-general of the State.
He is its legal r~presentafive, and the court cannot presume,
without proof, against his authority. In January, 1850, the following declaration passed unanimously by both branches of the
Pennsylvania Legislature: "Whereas the navigation of the
River Ohio has been, and is now obstructed by bridges erected
across its channel, between Zane's Island and the main Virginia and Ohio shores, so that steamboats and other water crafts
hitherto accustomed to navigate said river, are hindered in their
passage to and from the port of Pittsburg, and other ports in
the State of Pennsylvania, and the trade and commerce, and
business of this Commonwealth interrupted, the revenue of her
public works diminished and impaired, and steamboats, owned
and navigated by citizens of this State, bound to and from her
ports, are subjected to labor, expense, and delay, with hazard to
life and property, by reason whereof the s:3id bridges are a common and public nuisance, injurious to the State of Pennsylvania and her citizens, therefore be it resolved, &c.
"2. That the proceedings, in behalf of said'State, instituted
by her attorney-general in the Supreme Court of the United
States, and now pending therein against the Wheeling and
Belmont Bridge Company to abate the nuisance occasioned
by their bridge lately erected across the Ohio, be prosecuted to
final judgment, decree, and execution, for abatement of said
nuisance."

On a question of disputed boundary between two States,
although the inquiry of the court is limited to the establishment
of a common line, yet the exercise of sovereign authority, over
more or less territory, ,may depend upon the decision. This
gives great dignity and importance to such a controversy, and
renders necessary a broader view, than on a question as to the
mere right of property. 'But in the present case, the State of

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

561

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et-al.

Pennsylvania claims nothing connected with the exercise of its
sovereignty. It asks from the court a protection of its property,
on the same ground and to the same extent as a corporation or
individual may ask it. And it becomes an important question
whether such facts are shown, as to require the extraordinary
interposition of this court.
Relief in this form is given, as it cannot be given adequately
in any other. The injury complained of, in the language of the
books, must be irreparable by a suit at law for damages. It is
matter of history, as well as in proof, that Pennsylvania, for
many years past, has been engaged in making extensive improvements by canals, railroads, and turnpikes, many of them
extending from Eastern Pennsylvania to Pittsburg, by which
the transportation of goods and passengers is greatly facilitated,
and that a large portion of the goods and passengers thus transported are conveyed to and from Pittsburg on the Ohio River.
On the 18th of December, 1789, an act was passed by Virginia, consenting to the erection of the State of Kentucky put
of its territory, on certain conditions, anong which are the following: "That the use and navigation of the River Ohio, so far
as the territory of the proposed State, or the territory that shall
remain within the limits of this Commonwealth lies thereon,
shall be free and common to the citizens of the United States2
Virg. Revised Code,, 1819, p. 19. To this act the assent of
Congress was given. 1 Stat. at Large, 189.
Thai the Ohio River is navigable, is a historical fact, which
all courts may recognize. For many years the commerce upon
it has been regulated by Congress, under the commercial power,
by establishing ports, requiring vessels which navigate it to
take out licenses, and to observe certain rules for the safety of
their passengers and cargoes. Appropriations by Congress have
been frequently made, to remove obstructions to navigation
from its channel.
It appears that Pennsylvania has constructed a combined line
of canal and railroad from Pittsburg and Alleghany cities, to
the city of Philadelphia, a distance of about four hundred miles,
at an expense of about sixteen millions of dollars, all of which
are owned by the State. There is also a railroad from Pittsburg to Harrisburg which will soon be completed, at an expense of some eight or ten millions of dollars. There is also a
slack-water navigation from Pittsburg lo Brownsville, and up the
Yaughegany to West Newton, and there are other lines of communication between Pittsburg and the East, which are owned in
whole or in part by the State) and from which it derives revenue.
And the witnesses generally say, that any obstruction on the
Ohio River, to the free passage of steamboats, must affect in-

562

SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

juriously the revenue from the above pii~lic works, as it would
divert the transportation of goods and passengers from the lines
to and from Pittsburg, to the northern lines through New York.
Whilst the witnesses differ as to the amount of such an injury,
they generally agree in saying, that any serious obstruction on
the Ohio would diminish the trade and lessen the revenue of
the State. The value of the goods to and from Pittsburg,
transported on the above lines of communication, is estimated
at from forty to fifty millions annually. And it is shown that
the commerce on the Ohio, to and from Pittsburg, amounts to
about the same sum.
If the bridge be such an obstruction to the navigation of the
Ohio as to change, to any considerable extent, the line of transportation through Pennsylvania to the northern route through
New York, or to a more southern route, an injury is done to'the
State of Pennsylyania, as the principal proprietor of the lines
of communication, by canal and railroad, from Philadelphia to
Pittsburg. And this injury is of a character for which an action at law could afford no adequate redress. It is of daily
occurrence, and would require numerous, if not daily prosecutions, for the wrong done; and from the nature of that -rong,
the compensation could not be measured or ascertained with
any degree of precision. The effect would be, if not to reduce
the tolls on these lines of transportation, to prevent their increase
with the increasing busines' of the country.
If the obstruction complained of be an injury, it would be
difficult to state a stronger case for the extraordinary interposition of a -court of chancery. In no case could a remedy be more
hopeless by an action at common law. The structure complained of is permanent, and so are the public works sought to
be protected. The injury, if there be one, is as permanent as
the work from which it proceeds, and as are the works affected
by it. And whatever injury there may now be, will become
greater in proportion to the increase of population and the commercial -developments of the country. And in a country like
this, where there would seem to be no limit to its progress, the
injnry complained of would be -far greater in its effects than
under less prosperous circumstances.
As we are now considering the obstruc-lon of the bridge, not
as to the relief prayed for, but as to thd form of -the remedy
adopted by the complainant, we are brought to the conclusion,
as before announced by this court to the parties, that there is
made out a primd facie case for the exercise of jurisdiction.
The witnesses who testify to the obstriction are numerous, and
the weight of their testimony is not impaired by the impeachment of their credit, or a denial of the facts stated by them.

DECEMBER
Sta

TERM,

1851.

of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

But it is objected, if not as a matter going to the jurisdiction,
as fatal to any further action in the case, that there are no statutory provisions to gide the court, either by the State of Virginia, or by Congress. It is said that there is no common law
oi the Union on which the procedure can be founded; that the
common law of Virginia is subject to its legislative action, and
that the bridge, having been constructed under its authority, it
can in no sense be considered a nuisance. That whatever shall
be done within the limits of a State, is subject to its laws, written or unwritten, unless it be a violation of the Constitution, or
of some act of Congress.
It is admitted that the federal courts have no jurisdiction
of common-law offences, and that there is no abstract pervading
principle of the common law of the Union under which we can
take jurisdiction. And it is admitted, that the case under consideration, is subject to the same rules of action as if the suit
had been commenced in the Circuit Court for the District of
Virginia.
In the second section of the third article of the Constitut ion
it is declared, "the judicial power shall extend to all cases, in
law.and equity, arising uffder this Constitution, the laws of the
United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made under
their authority."
Chancery jurisdiction is conferred on the courts of th, 'United
States with the limitation "that suits in equity sh.,l not be
sustained in either of the courts of the United States, in any
case where plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had
at law." The rules of the High Court of Chancery of England
have been adopted by the courts of the United States. And
there is no other limitation to the exercise of a chancery jurisdiction by these courts, except the value of the matter in controversy, the residence or character of the parties, or a claim
which arises under a law of the United States, and which has
been decided against in a State court.
In exercising this jurisdiction, the courts of the Union are not
limited by the chancery system adopted by any 'State, and they
exercise their functi6ns in a State where no court of chancery
has been established. The usages of the High Court of Chancery
in England, whenever the jurisdiction is exercised, govern the
proceedings. This may be said to be the common law of
chancery, and since the organization of the government, it has
been observed.
In Robinson v. Campbell, (3 *Wheat. 222,) it is said, "The
court, therefore, think that, to effectuate the purposes of the
legislature, the remedies in the courts of the United States are
to be, at common law or in equity, not according to the prac-

064

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.
lice of State courts, but according to the principles of common
law and equity, as distinguished and defined in that country
from which we derive our knowledge of those principles."
This principle is not controverted by what is laid down in the
case of Wheaton & Donaldson v. Peters, 8 Pet. 658, In that
case, the court say, "It is clear there can be no common law of
the United States. The federal government is composed of
twenty-four sovereign and independent States, each of which
may have its local usages, customs, and. comimon law. There
-is no principle which pervades the Union, and has the authority
of law, that is not embodied in the Constitution or laws of the
Union. The common law could be made a part of our federal
system only by legislative adoption. When, therefore, a common-la w right is' asserted, we must look to the State in which
the cbntroversy originafed." The inquiry, in that case; was,
whether a copy-right existed by common law in .the State of
Pennsylvania. But, in the case above .Hited from 3 Wheaton,
the court spoke of the remedy. By the act of' Congress of
1828, proceedings at law, in the courts of the United States,
are required to conform to the modes of proceeding in the State
courts; but there is no such provision in regard to courts of
chancery.
Under this system, where relief can be given by the English
chancery, similar relief may be given by the courts of the
Union.
An indictment at common law. could not be sustained in the
federal courts by the United States, against the bridge as a
nuisance, as no such procedure has been authorized by Congress. But a: proceeding, on the ground of a private and an
irreparable injury, may be sustained against it by an individual
or a corporation.* Such a proceeding is comirhon to the federal
courts, and also to the courts of the State.- The injury makes
the obstruction a private nuisance to the injured party; and the
doctrine of nuisance applies to the case where the jurisdiction
is made out, the same as in a public prosecution. If the obstruction b unlawful, and the injury irreparable, by a suit at
common law, the injured party may claim the extraordinary protection of a court of chancery.
Such a proceeding is as common and as free from difficulty
as an ordinary injunction-bill, against a proceeding at law, or to
stay waste or trespass. The powers of . court of chancery are
as well adapted, and as effectual for relief in the case of a privite nuisance, as in either of the casesnamed. And, in regard
to the exercise of these powers, it is of no importance whether
the eastern channel, over which the bridge is thrown, is wholly
within the limits of the State of VirginiL. The Ohio being a

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

565

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

navigable stream, subject to the commercial power of Congress,
and over which that power has been exerted; if the river be
within the State of Virginia, the commerce upon it, which extends to other Stafes, is not within its jurisdiction; consequently,
if the act of Virginia authorized the structure of the bridge, so
as to obstruct navigation, it could afford no justification to the
Bridge Company.
The act of Virginia, under which the bridge was built, with
scrupulous care, guarded the rights of navigation. In the 19th
section, it is declared "That, if the said bridge shall be so constructed as to injure the navigation of the said river, the said
bridge shall be treated as a public nuisance, and shall be liable
to abatement, upon the same principles and in the same manner
that other public nuisances are." And, in the act of the 19th
of March, 1847, to revive the first act, it is declared, in the 14th
section, "that if the bridge shall be so erected as to obstruct
the navigation of the Ohio River, in the usual manner, by such
steamboats and other crafts as are now commonly accustomed to navigate the same, when the river shall be as high as
the highest floods hereinbefore known, then, unless, upon such
obstruction being found to exist, such obs'luction shall be immediately removed or remedied, the said last-mentioned bridge
may be treated as a public~nuisance, and abated accordingly."
This is 'a full recognition of the public right on this great
highway, and the grant to the Bridge Company was made subject to that right.
It is oLjected that there is no act of Congress prohibiting
.obstructions on the Ohio River, and that until there shall be
such a regulation, a State, in the construction of bridges, has a
right to exercise its own discretion on the subject.
Congress have not declared in terms that a State, by the construction of bridges, or otherwise, shall not obstruct the navigation of the Ohio, but they have regulated navigation upon it, as
before remarked, by licensing vessels, establishing ports of entry,
..imposing duties upon masters and other officers of boats, and
inflicting severe penalties ior neglect of those duties, by which
damage to life or property has resulted. And they have expressly sanctioned the compact made by Virginia with Kentucky, at the time of its admission into the Union, "that the
use and navigation of the River Ohio, so far as the territory of
the proposed State, or the territory that shall remain within the
limits of this Commonwealth lies thereon, shall be free and common to the citizens of the United States.' Now, an obstructed
navigation cannot be said to be free. It was, no doubt, in view
of this compact, that in the charter for the bridge, it was required to be so elevated) as not, at the greatest height of the
VOL. XIII.

48

566

SUPREME

COU:RT.

-State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

water, to obstruct navigation. Any individual may abate a
public nuisance. 5 Bac. Ab. 797; 2 Roll. Ab. 144, 145; 9 Co. 54;
Itawk. P. C. 75, sect. 12.
This compact, by the sanction of CDngress, has become a
law of the Union. What further legislation can be desired for
judicial action? In the case of Green et al. v. Biddle, (8 Wheat.
1,) this court held that a law of the State of Kentucky,,which
was in violation of this compact between Virginia and Kentucky, was yoid; and they say this court has authority to
declare a State law unconstitutional, upon the -round of its
impairig the obligation of a compact between different States
of the Union.
The case of Wilson v. The Blackbird Creek Afarsh Company,
(2 Peters, 250,) is different in principle from the case before us.
A dam was built over a creek to drain a marsh, required by
the unhealthiness it produced. It was a small creek, made
navigable by the flowing of the tide. The Chief Justice said
it was a matter of doubt, whether the small creeks, which the
tide makes navigable a short distance, are within the general
commercial regulation, and that in such cases of doubt, it
would be better for the court to follow the lead of Congress.
Congress have led in regulating commerce on the Ohio, which
brings the case within the rule above laid down. The facts of
the two cases, therefore, instead of being alike, are altogether
different.
No State law can hinder or obstruct the free use of a license
granted under an act of Congress. - Nor can any State violate
the compact, sanctioned as it has been, by obstructing the navi.
gation of the river. MAore than this is not necessary to give -a
civil remedy for an injury done lty an obstruction. Congress
might punish such an act criminally, but until they shall so provide, an indictment will noT lie in the courts of the United
States for an obstruction which is a public nuisance. But a
public nuisance is also a private nuisance, where a special and
an irremediable mischief is done to an individual.
In the case of the City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Co.
(12 Peters, 98,) this court say, " The court of equity, also, pursuing the analogyof the law, that a party may maintain a private
action for special damages, even in case of a public nuisance,
will now take jurisdiction in case of a public nuisance, at
the instance of a private person, where he is in imminent
danger of suffering a special injury, for which, under the circumstances of the case, the law would not afford an adequate
remedy." Where no special damage is alleged, an individual
could not prosecute in his own name for a public nuisance.
This doctrine is laid down in Conning et ah v. Lowerre, 6 Johns.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

567

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

Ch.439. In that case the injunction' was granted, and the
chancellor said, "that here was a special grievance to the plaintiffs, affecting the enjoyment of their pr6perty and the value of
it. The obstruction was not only a common or public nuisance,
but worked a special injury to the plaintiffs."
Chancellor Kent, in the 3d volume of his Commentaries, 411,
says, " The common law, while it acknowledged and protected
the right of the owners of the adjacent lands to the soil and
water of the river, rendered that right subordinate to the public
convenience, and all erections and impediments made by the
owners, to the obstruction of the free use of the river as a highway for boats and rafts are deemed nuisances."
'In Sampson v. Smith, (8 Simons, 272,) it was held that injury
to the plaintiff's trade was sufficient to give jurisdiction against
a public nuisance, and that it was not necessary to use, in such
a prosecution, the name of the attorney-general. And-this was
on a bill for the discontinuance of works already erected.
It is said, "the question of nuisance, or not, must, in cases of
doubt, be tried by a jury." 2 Story's Eq. 202. In this respect
the question is similar to an applicatbn for the protection
of a patent. *Where the right has been long erjoyed, or is clear
of doubt, chancery w'ill interfere without a trial at law. Mr.
Justice Story says, (Id. 203,) "A court of equity will not only
interfere upon the information of the attorney-general, but als6
upon the application of private parties, directly affected by the
nuisance; whereas, at law, in many cases the remedy is, or may
be, solely through the instrumentality of the attorney-general."
In the same volume, (p. 204,) it is said, "In regard to private nuisances the interference of courts of equity, by way of injunction,
is undoubtedly founded upon the ground of restraining irreparable mischief, or of suppressing oppressive and interminable
litigation, or of preventing multiplicity of suits." Mit. Eq. P.
byJeremy, 144, 145; Eden on Injunctions, ch. 11, 231, 238.
" There must be such an injury, as from its nature is not susceptible of being adequately compensated by damages at law,
or such as, from its continuance or permanent mischief, must
occasion a constantly recurring grievance, which cannot otherwise be prevented than by an injunction." "Formerly, indeed,
courts of equity'%vere extremely reluctant to interfere at all,
even in regard to repeated trespasses. But now there is not
the slightest hesitation, if the acts done, or threatened to .be
done to the property, would be ruinous or irreparable." 2 Story's
Eq. 207.
hi Ripon v. Hobart, 3 Mylne & Keen, 169, Lord Brougham
says, "if the thing sought to be prohibited is in itself a nuisance, the court will interfere to stay irreparable mischief without

568

SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

waiting for the result of'a trial; and will, according to the circumstances, direct an'issue or allow an action," &c. Lord Eldon,
in the case of Attorney-General v. Cleaver, 18 Ves. 218, appeared
to think that there was no instance of an injunction to restrain
a nuisance without trial. But in this he was clearly wrong.
The fact that the bridge constitutes a nuisance is ascertained
by measurement. The height of the bridge, of the water, and
of the chimneys of steamboats, are the principal facts to be ascertained. If the obstruction exists, it is a nuisance. To ascertain this a jury is not necessary. It is shown in the report, by
a mathematical demonstration. And the other matters, connected with the case, as to the benefit of high chimneys, lowering of them in passing under the bridge, and shortening chiinneys, are matters of science and experience, better ascertained
by a report than by a verdict. And. the same may be said of
the statistics which are in the case.
The 'object of the suit was, not the recovery of damages, but
to enjoin the defendants from building the bridge which would
injure the plaintiff. If the bridge be a material obstruction to the
navigation of the Ohio, it is not denied that the plaintiff would
be injured. The ground of defence taken and maintained is,
that the bridge is not a material obstruction to commerce on
the river. On this point there is no doubt. A jury, in such a
case could give no aid to the court, nor security to the parties.
Having had. notice of an application for an injunction, before
the defendants had thrown any obstruction over the river, they
cannot claim that their position is strengthened by the completion of the bridge.
But it is said, the bridge constitutes no serious obstruction to
the navigation of the Ohio; that only seven steamboats, of two
hundred and thirty which ply upon the rver as high as Pittsburg, are obstructed ; and that arises from the height of their
chimneys, which might be lowered at a small expense, in passing under the bridge; that by the introduction of blowers, the
chimneys might be shortened without lessening the speed of
the boats; that the goods and passengers which are conveyed
on the public lines of communication, between P ittsburg and
Philadelphia, could be as well conveyed on boats of lower chimneys, and consequently the State, as proprietor of those lines,
if at all injured, is injured so inconsiderably as not to lay the
foundation of this procedure; that none of the packets or the
other boats on the river are owned by the State of Pennsylvania.
That the bridge constitates an obstruction, is shown by the
report of the commissioner, the answer of defendants, the proof
in the case, and by the admission in the argument of the coun'gel for the defendants. The report of the commissioner is con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

569

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

sidered, as to the fact of the obstruction and the extent of it,
of the same force as a verdict of a jury. The report having
been the result of a most- arduous and scientific investigation
of the facts, is entitled to the full weight of a verdict. 2 Railway Cases, 330. The fact of obstruction was a plain and
practical question, but it was connected with other matters involving questions of Acience, which were to be settled on the
opinion of experts, and a report being fairly made, the court
will, generally, assume it as a basis of action, unless it shall
be shown to have been made under improper influences, or
through a mistake of facts. 1 Railway Cases, 576; Shelford
on Railways, 430.
In his report the commissioner says: "The boats running in
that line, and passing the site of- the present suspension-bridge,
in 1849, previous to the time when the first cables were thrown
across the eastern branch of the Ohio, at Wheeling, were
the Clipper, No. 2; the Hibernia, No. 2; the Brilliant; the
Messenger, No. 2; the Isaac Newton; the New England, No.
2; and the Monongahela.
"The Clipper, No. 2, came out in March, 1846, was 215 feet
long, and had chimneys 64 feet high. The Hibernia, No.2, came
out in 1847. She was- 225 feet long, and her chimneys were
72A feet high from the water. The Brilliant came out in February, 1848, was 227 feet long, and had chimneys 71 feet high.
The Messenger, No. 2, came out in the Winte r Spring of 1849,
n
76 feet high. The Isaac
was 242 feet long, and has
63 feet
feet long,No.
and
only and
NewtonThe
wasNew
182 England,
her
2, had
was chimneys
222 feet long,
high.
chimneys were 65 feet high. "The dimensions and height of
the chimneys of the Monongahela," the commissioner says, "I
have not been able to ascertain from the evidence."
" There were also two other regular packets running past
Wheeling in the Spring and Summer of 1849, previous to the
Telegraphs, running as regular
erection of the bwo
packets between Pittsburg and Louisville. The chimneys of
the Telegaph, No. 1, were S0 feet high, and those of the other
Telegraph were 79 feet 9 inches high.
"Not more than two or three of these nine packets had their
in
the close of the navigation
chimneys prepared for low~ering at five
largest only one of them
the Summer of 1849. And of the
could have gotten under the bridge on a twenty feet stage of
thatone, the Brilliant,
water wiTh the chimneys standing; and
could not have gotten under when the water was more than
twenty-one feet upon the Wheeling Bar. And neither of the.
-wo Telegraphs could have gotten under the'bridge at a thirteen
feet stage of the water with their chimneys standing."
48*

570

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

" If the bridge," says the commissioner, "had been erected in
1847, therefore, and those nine' packets had then been running, two of 1hem could not have gotten under the bridge for
nearly three months, when the water was thirteen feet and
over; two of them would have been unable to get under for
thirty-three days, when thewater on the bar was twenty feet
and over; anotheir, the Brilliant, from nineteen to twenty-five
days, when the water was twenty-nine fTet and over; and the
other four as much as ten days, when the water was twentynine feet and over, - unless they had lowered or cut off their
.chimneys."
"The passage of three of the Pittsburg and Cincinnati packets, which were running on the Ohio before the erection of
the bridge, had been actually stopped or obstructed by uch
bridge previous to the oider of reference Li this cause: the M'Iessenger, No. 2, the Hibernia,- No. 2, and tha Brilliant.
"The first of these boats arrived at the bridge on the 10th of
November, 1849, on her downward passage, upon a twenty feet
stage of water, and had to cut off her chimneys before she could
pass the bridge. She was detained there about seven hours, but
I believe she did not lose her trip or passengers. She was subsequently detained at the bridge seven hours, and was obliged
to cut off her chimneys a second time."
" On the 11th of November, 1849, the Hibernia, No. 2, reached
the bridge on her upward trip. They attempted to get her
under the bridge by sinking her deeper ia the water with coal
ballast. But, in attempting to pass the bridge, the top of one
of her chimneys caught upon a projection from the under
side of one of the flooring timbers, and injured the chimney so
that it had to be taken down ana repaired. The boat was detained thirty-two hours at Wheeling on that occasion; and was
obliged to hire-another boat to take her passengers on to Pittsburg, except such of them as preferred to cross the . mountains
by the way of Cumberland.
" On the 18th of the same month the passage of the Hibernia,
No. 2, was again obstructed by the bridge on her downward
passage; by which she lost an entire trip. Finding she could
not get under the bridge.in time to save her trip, she transferred
her freight and passengers to another boat, and returned to
Pittsburg. And the passage of the same boat was again obstructed by the bridge in coming up the riVer last Spring. On
that occasion she arrived at Wheeling between nine and ten
o'clock in the morning, and finding she could not get under the
bridge she gave up the trip, and landed her passengers, who
proceeded east by way. of Cumberland.
"The Brilliant was obstructed by the bridge on her passage

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

up on the 18th December, 1849, and had to wait until her chimneys could be cut off to enable her to pass under the bridge.
The chimneys were cut off at great risk to the lives of those.
who were engaged in the operation; and the boat passed under
the bridge and proceeded to Pittsburg after a detention of four
or five hours.
"In the Winter and" Spring subsequent to the erection of the
bridge, the Buckeye State, the Keystone State, and the Cincin.
nati, three new packets, were brought into the Pittsburg and
Cincinnati lines, in the places of the New England, No. 2, the
Isaac Newton, and the Monongahela. They were all of much
larger dimensions and had much taller chimneys than the old
boats for which they were substituted) and their chimneys were
hinged and rigged for lowering." The chimneys 6f the Buckeye State were 74 feet 8 inches high, those of the Keystone 77
feet 5 inches, and those of the Cincinnati 84 feet 7 inches.
"Two accidents have occurred to those new boats in passing
under the bridge since they came out. The Keystone State, on
her downward passage, the 4th of March last, in attempting to
pass under the apex of the bridge upon a thirteen and a quarter
feet stage of water, could not get near enough to the Wheeling
shore to pass under the apex of the bridge. And in attempting
to drop down about twenty feet further west, one of the chimneys struck the bridge and tore away all the guys or fastenings
of both chimneys, except one guy-rod, broke the westerly chimney in two, broke off the hinge from the other chimney, and tore
up some portions of the hurricane deck to which the guy-rods
were fastened. And if the -remaining guy-rod had given way,
both chimneys, weighing together about four tons, would have
fallen down."
A somewhat similar accident, it seems from the report, occurred to the Cincinnati, in October, 1850.
On the practicability and safety of lowering the chimneys a
great number of witnesses were examined. And the commissioner says, although there was great conflict in the testimony
as respects the danger to the limbs and lives of the passengers
in the operation, yet, he says, when the facts sworn to are examined, there is a decided preponderance against the safety of
lowering the chimneys. And he remarks, "The very elevated
as well as large chimneys used upon the Cincinnati and Pittsburg packets, and other boats of that class, cannot certainly
with any facility or safety be lowered by hinges at the tops.
They are therefore obliged to lower them at the hurricane-deck,
by means of a derric. The weight of the,.parts of the two
chimneys which must be let down upon those large boats is estimated by the witnesses to be from three to four tons. This

572

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

enormous weight hanging over the cabin, or rather over the
berths of passengers, in process of lowering, would probably
prove disastrous in the extreme if by any accident the chimneys
should come down by the run; which is very likely to occur,
from the carelessness or stupidity of the green hands that the
owners and officers of Western boats are so often obliged to
employ."
And if to the difficulties stated in the report there be added
the darkness of the night, a snow storm, or the falling rain congealing on' the roof of the boat arid covering it with ice, and a
high wind, which generally is experienced in a storm, it would
be impracticable, while the boat was proceeding at the rate of
ten or twelve miles an hour, to lower the chimneys, and this
must be done or the boat must land. During this operation, the
pilot, on whom the safety of the boat and the lives of the passengers in a great degree depend, must, from his position, be in
imminent danger.
The expense of lowering the chimneys, if practicable and
safe, would constitute no inconsiderable item. The time lost in
raising'and lowering chimneys is variously estimated by the
witnesses at from one to three hours. Take the minimum of
such estimate, and, according to the zalculation of Colonel
Long, the expense of the boat amounts to $8.33 per hour. Each
packdt will have to lower its chimneys every time it passes
under the bridge, which will be, ordinarily, sixty times a season,
amounting to the sum of $499.80, a charge on each packet.
To this may be added the apparatus for lowering the chimneys,
estimated at $400, which, with its repairs, may be estimated at
$100 peT annum during the life of the boat, which averages five
years. And it is in proof that stationary chimneys will last five
years, but if subject to be lowered they will only last half that
time. The cost of chimneys for a boat is stated at $1000,
which may be considered as an increased expense to each boat
of $200 per annum. These sums added together make a total
of $799.80, which sum multiplied by seven, the number of the
packets, make the sum of $5,598.60 which the owners of these
packets must necessarily pp.y as an annual tax, .byreason of the
obstruction of the bridge, if they run their boats and lower their
chimneys.
But it is contended that the difficulty of passing under the
bridge may be obviated by shortening the height of the chimneys without lessening materially the speed of the boat.
That high chimneys increase the speed of the boat is proved
in the case practically and scientifically.
Professors 'Renwick, Byrne, and Locke say, that by a law of
nature the force or velocity of a draft depends upon the height

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

573

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.
of the chimney; the force and velocity being measured by the
difference in the weight between the column of air within the
chimney and an outside column of equal height and diameter;
so that a reduction of the height of the chimney involves a diminution of that force with which nature supplies air to combine with fuel for combustion, and by consequence there follows
a diminution of heat developed in the furnace, of steam generated in the boiler, and of power by which the wheel is moved
and the boat propelled.
The commissioner, in his report, says, "the deduction of science also shows that the draft is increased by elongating the
chimneys." In this question economy of fuel is not the object
to be attained, but the greatest practicable speed consistent with
safety. And this is attained, where there is no defect in the
furnace, by the combustion of the largest amount of fuel. Fortythrnee bushels of bituminous coal are consumed per hour by each
of the Pittsburg packets.
The commissioner says, "In relation to the question whether
chimneys as high as those now in use upon the Pittsburg and
Cincinnati packets, and some of the larger boats on the Ohio,
are necessary for obtaining the maximum of speed desirable in
the navigation of the river, there is a diversity of opinion among
the witnesses, especially among those who are not acquainted
with the scientific principles of chimney-draft in reference to the
combustion of fuel for the generation of steam. But I think
there is a. great preponderance of the testimony even of that
class of witnesses in favor of the necessity of very high chimneys upon the large Ohio steamboats."
And he further remarks: "Rejecting the deductions of science
on the subject, the teachings'of experience show, that as boats
upon the Ohio have been gradually improved in their dimensions, from time to time, and the height of their, chimpeys increased, they have been enabled to run- with greater speed, to
the evident advantage of commerce and of travel upon the rivers.
And the fact that several different projects, for procuring artificial draft, such as blowers, as an available substitute for the
draft of tall chimneys, have been tried upon the Western waters,
and have failed'and been abandoned, is very strong evidence in:
favor of the necessity of natural draft for the combustion of
wood and bituninous coal upon the steamboats navigating the
Ohio."
There is no better evidence of utility, than the progress made
in the structure of steamboats and of the machinery by which
they are propelled. Men who are engaged in navigation learn
by experience and adopt that which will be most conducive to
their own interests.

574

SUPREME COURT2.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

It appears, from thestatement of Scowden, an engineer, that
the chimneys of the first boat, called the Cincinnati, were 84
feet high from the surface of the water when light, and about
74 feet high from the centre of the flues. Her chimneys were
shortened 8 feet, and it diminished her speed up stream from a
mile to a mile and a half per hour. Captain Hazlep states that,
adding 8 feet to the chimney of the Telegraph, in 1849, increased
her speed about half a mile an hour up stream. And by Captain
Duval, that the Clipper's chimney being cu.t off 8 feet, in order
to pass the Wheeling Bridge, reduced her speed about three
hours between Cincinnati and Pittsburg. And it may be fairly
inferred, that a reduction of 20 feet would reduce the speed between Cincinnati and Pittsburg about four hours.
According to this estimate, the cost of the boat per hour be.
ing, as above stated, $8.33, if there should be an average loss
of four hours in each trip, it would amount to $33.32. This
sum multiplied by sixty, the average number of trips each season, would amount to the sum of $1,999.20, and this being multiplied by seven, the number of the packets, would make the
sum of $13,994.40, an annual loss by the owners of the packets,
by reducing the height of their chimneys, so as to pass under
the bridge at the different stages of the water.
But it is said these seven packets are the only boats obstructed by the bridge of the two hundred and thirty which ply upon
the Ohio, and run to Pittsburg.
The transportation of goods and passengers by these packets
will show their relative .importance, as instruments of commerce,
between Cincinnati and Pittsburg. From the evidence, it appears that they convey about one half of the goods in value and
three fourths of the passepgers, between those cities. Taking
the Keystone State as a criterion, each packet transports annually thirty thousand nine hundred and sixty tons of freight, and
twelve thousand passengers. The line was established in 1844,
and it appears from the proof, that since that time it has transported between the above cities, nearly a million of passengers.
It is in proof that the life of these packets averages five years,
when their places in the line must be.svpplied by new boats.
If to their original cost.of construction, there be added the expense of running them for -five years, adding nothing for repairs
or accidents, a total sum will'te exugnded of $15680,000. This
amount of capital is a Dropriated every five years in -running
this line-of packets. The structure of the bridge cost less than
one eighth of that sum.
The speed of these boats, their excellent accommodations, and
their general good management, recommend them to the pub.
lic, as is shown by the large amount of goods and passengers

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

575

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

they convey. And any change in their structure, or in the pro.
duction of the propelling power, which shall impede their progress, would not only impose upon their proprietors a most
onerous tax, but it would greatly lessen their profits, by reducing
the amount of freight and passengers. And no part of the
amount would, probably, pass to other boats on the river, but to
the northern or southern lines, where greater expedition is given.
In the report of the commissioner, a statement is made of the
stages of water, at Wheeling, for twelve years, beginning on
the 10th of March, 1838, and ending on the 9th of the same
month, 1850.
The highest part of the bridge, by actual measurement from
the ground, is 91.31 feet. This elevation is only at a single
point, two hundred and eighty-four feet from the face of the
eastern abutment. From the apex it deflects east and west,
being at the distance of forty feet westward only 89.48 feet
above the ground, and at the same distance east only 89.77 feet
above the ground. The chimneys on the seven packets require
a space of about thirty feet in width to pass under the bridge
within the eighty feet allowed, and the depth of 'water and a
sufficient headway, must be deducted, to show the height of the
bridge for the passage of boats. The headway required, as appears from the report of the engineer, should be between the
tops of the chimneys and the lowest parts of the bridge, from
two to three feet. This would reduce the space, say two feet
and a half to 87.27 feet.
In the twelve years above stated, the water was at the stage
of twenty-one feet and over, two hundred and nineteen days;
consequently no boat, whose chimneys were 66. feet high, could
have passed under the bridge. Twenty-one feet of water, are
substituted for twenty feet in the table reported, that statement
allowing a foot of water below the measurement. The water,
in the above period, was tventy-six feet and over, eighty-thre
days, during which time no boat could have passed under the
bridge whose chimneys were 62 feet high.
The water was
twenty-eight feet and over, fifty-five days during the twelve
years, which would have prevented a boat from passing under
the bridge, whose chimneys were 60 feet high. .Within the same
period, the water was sixteen feet and over, five hundred and
thirty-four days; consequently boats, whose chimneys were
72 feet high, during that whole time could not have passed under the bridge.
In his report, the commissioner says, "The bridge is nine
hundred and eighty feet between the bases- of the two abutments. At the highest point of the bridge, for the distance of
about fifty-six feet in width, there is a clear headway, for the'

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

passage of steamboats with their chitineys standing, of 91 feet
above extreme low water. But this space of fifty-six feet in
width is not over any part of the river at extreme low -water.
The water upon the Wheeling Bar must be about four feet deep,
to bring the easterly edge of the stream under the western extremity of the fifty-six feet. And it must be more than fifteen
feet deep upon the bar to enable a steamboat, drawing five feet,
to avail itself of the ninety-one feet headway above low-water
mark, for the whole width of fifty-sLx feet."
"It follows,, from this statement of facts, that a steamboat,
drawing five feet of water, and whose chimneys are 79 feet
high or over, can never pass under the apex of the bridge, at any
stage of the water, without lowering her chimneys."
From the data referred to, the defendants' counsel contend
that in a few years, at most, there will be a concentration of
railroads at Wheeling, aid at other places on the Ohio, connecting the Eastern with the Western country, which, from their
speed and safety, must take from the river the passengers and a
considerable portion of the freight now transported in steamboats. That these roads, crossing the Ohio River, will reach the
commercial ports of the interior, and diffuse a larger amount of
commerce than that which is now transported on the Ohio.
And it is intimated that the Wheeling Bridge may be used by
the railroad cars; but it is clearly proved that the bridge is not
calculated for such a transportation.
However numerous these roads maybe, there can be no doubt,
that, like similar roads in other parts of the country, their cars -will
be loaded with freight and passengers. But it may not follow that
the Ohio and our other rivers will be deserted, or their business
reduced. We have an extent of river coast, counting both
shores, exceeding twenty-five thousand miles, through countries
the most fertile on the globe. This is a greater distance than
the combined railways of the world. That our railroads, as
avenues of commerce, may develop our resources in a greater
degree than is now anticipated, must be the desire of every one.
But the great thoroughfares, provided by a beneficent Provi.
dence, should neither be neglected nor abandoned. They will
still remain the great arteries of commerce.
Past experience teaches us, that however the facilities of
commerce may be multiplied, her tracks will be filled with productions which enriclhthe country and add to the comforts and
enjoyments of its rapidly increasing population. The rewards
of labor will give an .irresistible impulse to enterprise which
must secure to our country a prosperity unequalled in history.
Our internal commerce is mire than three times as great as our
foreign, and the increased lines of titercourse will cause both
-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

577

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &a. Bridge Co. et al.

rapidly to advance. The protection of the river commerce is
by no means hostile to any other. The multiplication of commercial facilities will, in the same proportion, increase the articles of trade.
If viaducts must be thrown over the Ohio for the contemplat-ed railroads, and bridges for the accommodation of the numerous and rising cities upon the banks of the river, it is of the
highest importance that they should not be so built as materially
to obstruct its commerce. If the obstructions which have been
demonstrated to result from the Wheeling Bridge, are to be multiplied as these crossways are needed, our beautiful rivers will,
in a great measure, be abandoned. An experience of forty
years shows how much may be done in the structure of steamboats, in the improvement of their machinery, and the propelling
power, to increase the speed and the comfort of that mode of
transportation, under a continued reduction of expense. But if
the limit of advanoe, in this respect, has already been passed;
and a retrograde movement is necessary, by rejecting the Jmprovements recommended by ingenuity and experience, we close
our eyes to one greai source of our prosperity. What would the
West-now have been if steam had not been introduced upon our
rivers, and their navigation had not remained free? Without an
outlet for the products of a prolific soil and the instruments of
mechanical ingenuity, the country could have made but little
advance.
It is said that the interest of commerce reqdires navigable
waters to be crossed., and that in such a case the inquiry should
be, whether the benefit conferred upon commerce by the cross
route, is not greater than the injury done. In the case of the
King v. Sir John Morris, 1 Barn. & Adol. 441, it was held, that
the injury cannot be balanced against the benefits secured. And
in the case of the King v. George Henry 'Ward, 4 Ad. & El.
384, it was held, where the jury found that an embankment complained of was a nuisance, but that the inconvenience was
counterbalanced by the public benefit arising from the alteration
it amounted to a verdict of guilty.
If the obstruction be slight, as a draiv in a bridge, which would
be safe and convenient for the passage of vessels, it would not
be regarded as a nuisance, where proper attention is given to
raise the draw on the approach of vessels. Of this character is
the complaint of the plaintiff against the bridge, that it obstructs
sea-vessels built at Pittsburg. Sails cannot be used to advantage on the Ohio- br the Mississippi, consequently there can be
n6 necessity of 'raising the masts until .it becomes necessary to
hoist the sails. Such vessels float down the river or are tdweA
by sfeam-vessels.
VOL. XIII.

49

.'t8

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

It is true the injury done to the State of Pennsylvania may
seem to be small, when compared to the magnitude of this subject.
It applies to all our rivers, and affects annually a transportation
of many millions of passengers, and a commerce worth not less
than six hundred millions of dollars. It would be as unwise as
it is unlawful to fetter, in any respect, this vast commerce.
In all the charters, granted for the construction of bridges
over navigable waters, it is believed all the States, not excepting
Virginia, have provided that their navigation should not be obstructed.
The Bridge Company had legal notiee of the institution of
the suit, and of the application for an injunction to stay their
proceedings, before their cables were thrown across the river.
This should have induced them to suspend, for a time, their
great work, alike -creditable to the enterp:'ise of their citizens,
and the genius and science of the engineer who planned the
bridge and superinteiided its construction. It is a matter of
regret that, by the prosecution and completion of the bridge,
they have incurred a high responsibility.
For the reasons and facts stated, we think that the bridge obstructs the navigation of the Ohio, and that the State of Pennsylvania has been, and will be, injured in her public works, in
such manner as not only to authorize the bringing of this suit,
but to entitle her to the relief prayed.
'Believing, from the estimates in the case, that the obstruction
to the navigation.of the river may be removed by elevating the
bridge, at an expense which, when added to the original cost,
will leave a reasonable profit to the stockholders, on the entire
capital expended, we have endeavored to ascertaiA the lowest
point of elevation which will secure this object. And, on a full
view of the evidence, we are brought to the conclusion, that an
elevation of the lowest parts of the bridge for three hundred feet
over the channel of the river, not less than one hundred and eleven
feet from the -low-water mark, will be sufficient -the flooring
of the bridge descending from the termini of the elevation, at
the. rate of four feet in the hundred; this will give a level headway for bbats of three hundred feet in width, and will enable
those whose chimneys are eighty feet high to pass under the
bridge when the water is thirty feet deep from the ground, leaving the tops of the chimneys two feet below the lowest parts of
the bridge. If this or some other plan shall not be adopted'
which shall relieve the navigation from obstruction, on or before
the 1st day of February next, the bridge must be abated.
We do not deem it necessary to provic'e against the floods,
which seldom occur, and which, when at the highest, overwhelm
the lower parts of our cities and towns on the banks of the

DSCEMBER

TERM,

1851.

579

State- of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al

Ohio, and necessaxily suspend, for a short time, business upon
the river.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY dissenting.
As this is a case of much importance to the parties and the
public, and I do not concur in the judgment of the court, it
is my duty to express my opinion. I shall do so as briefly as
" can.

The first question to be decided is, whether this bridge is
a public nuisance or not, which this court has a right to abate.
The State of Pennsylvania, it is true, complains of an interruption to her canals, in which, in her character as a State, she
has a proprietary interest, analogous to that of an individual
owner. She seeks redress for this injury. But she proceeds
upon the ground that the bridge is a public nuisance, from which
the State receives a particular injury to its property beyond that
which the public in general sustain. And the foundation of
her claim, as stated in the bill, is, that the bridge is an unlawful
obstruction to the navigation of a public river, and therefore a
public nuisance. The immense mass of testimony, contained
in this record, is directed almost altogether to that point. In
order, therefore to maintain the bill, it is incumbent upon the
State to show that this bridge is a public nuisance. And, if it
is a public nuisance, it must be because it is a violation of some
law which this court has a right to administer.
In examining this question, it must be borne in mind that,
although the suit is brought in this court, the law of the case
and the rights of the parties are the same as if it had beerr
brought in the Circuit Court of Virginia, in which the bridge is
situated. Pennsylvania, as a State, has the right to sue in this
court. But a suit here merely changes the forum, and does not
change the law of the case or the rights of the parties. And if,
in the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in Virginia,
this bridge could not be adjudged a nuisance, and abated'as such,
neither can it be done in this court. The State, in this controversy, has the same rights as an individual, and nothing more.
And the court is bound to administer to the State here the same
law that would be administered to an individual suitor, suing for
a like cause, in a Circuit Court
of the United States, sitting in
is erected.
the State where the bridge
Assuming, then, that it does obstruct a public navigable river,
and would, at common law, be a public nuisance, I proceed to
inquire whether this court is authorized to declare it to be such,
and order it to be abated.
The Ohio being a public navigable stream, Congress have
undoubtedly the power to regulate commerce upon it. They

580

SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

have the right to prohibit obstructions to its navigation ; to declare any such obstruction a public nuisance; to direct the mode
of proceeding in the courts of the United States to remove it;
and to punish any one who may erect or mairtain it; or it may
declare what degree or description of obstruction shall be a public nuisance: as, for example, the height of a bridge over the
river, or the distance to which a wharf may be extended into its
navigable waters.
But this power has not been exercised. There is no law of
the United States declaring an obstiuction in the Ohio or any
other navigable river, to be a public nuisance, and directing it to
be abated as such. Nor is there any act of Congress regulating
the height of bridges over the river. - We can derive no jurisdiction, therefore, upon this subject, from dny law of the United
States, and if we exercise it we must derive our authority from
some other source.
But we cannot derive it from the common law. For it has
been settled, since the beginning of this government, that the
courts of the United States as such, have na common-law juris;
diction, civil or criminal, unless conferred upon them by act of
Congress. It is tr-e that the courts of the United ,States, when
sitting in a State, administer the common law, where it has been
adopted by the State. But it is administered as the law of the
State, under the authority and direction of the act of Congress,
which makes the laws of the-State the rule of decision in a court
of the United States, when sitting in the State, provided such
laws are not contrary to the Constitution, laws, or treaties, of the
United States. We cannot, under the rule Of decision thus pre.'
scribed, adjudge this bridge to be a nuisance, although it may
obstruct the navigation of the river, unless it is a nuisance by the
common law, as adopted in Virginia and modified by its statutes.
But this bridge was built under the authority of a statute of the
State. The structure, in its present form, has been sanctioned by
the legislature. It is therefore no offence against the laws of the
State; and a Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in the
State and governed by its laws, when not in conflict with the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties, could not
order it to be abated as a public nuisance; and this court has no
higher power over this subject, either at law or in equity, nor any
other rple to guide it, than a Circuit Court sitting in Virginia.
And as the bridge is not a nuisance by the laws of that State,
and there is no act of Congress making the obstruction -of a
public river an offence against the United States, and we have
no comnmoi law to which the court may resort for jurisdiction,
I do not understand by what law, or under what authority, this
court can adjudge it to be a public nuisance and proceed to

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

581

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

abate it, either upon a proceeding in chancery or by a process
at law.
ft it is a public nuisance, it is an offence either against the
United States or the State of Virginia, for which the persons
who erected or who continue it, are liable to be indicted. For
we need go no further than.Blackstone's Commentaries (4 BL
Corn. 167,) for proof that the unauthorized obstruction of a
navigable river is an offence, and may be punished in a criminal
proceeding by indictment. Can the parties who built or continue
this bridge be indicted for it as an offence against the public'?
This appears to me to be the true test. We are inquiring whether
there is any law which the court has the power to administer,
under which this bridge may be adjudged a public nuisance or
purpresture? If there is, then the persons who erected it maybe
punished'in a criminal proceeding.
For if it is a.public nuisance or purpresture, it is an 'offence
against the sovereignty whose laws have been violated. Could
they be indicted for an offence against the United States? This
will hardly be contended for, as common-law offences cannot be
punished in its courts, unless they are declared offences by act
of Congress. And as we have no such act of Congress, it is
clear that an indictment charging the obstruction as an offence
against the United States, could not be maintained. It is equally
clear, that an indictment, charging it as an offence against the
State, could not be supported, for the law of the State sanctions
its construction. It may be asked, in reply to this view of the
subject, is this great river then liable to be obstructed by bridges
whenever the States, through whose territories it passes, choose
to authorize them ? and are the inhabitants above the obstructions to be shut out from its navigation, and without redress?
The argument ab inconvenienti would be entitled to great consideration, if there was any foundation for it, although it would
not alter the law. But this opinion leads to no such result. For
I have already said that Congress have the power to declare the
obstruction of a navigable stream an offence against the United
States, and to authorize the courts of the United States to abate
it as a nuisance; and any law bf a State to the contrary would
be unconstitutional and void.
If, therefore, there be an evil, it may easily be corrected by the
legislative authority of the general government. But if Congress
have not thought proper, or do not think proper, to exercise this
power, and public mischief has arisen, or may arise from it, it
does not follow that the judicial power of the United States may
step in and supply what the legislative aathority has omitted to
perform. It does not by any means follow that the judicial
power may declare an obstruction in or over a navigable stream,
49*

582

SUPREME COURT.

Stateof Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

an offence against the United States before the legislative power
has forbidden it, and conferred authority upon the courts to
punish or remove it.
Undoubtedly this court has original jurisictiQn when a State is
a party. But it cannot exercise that jurisdiction without some law
prescribing the mode of proceeding, the rule of decision, and the
evidence by which the right in dispute is to be tried. The unskilful and careless manner in which a steamboat is navigated may
impede the passage of other vessels, and sometimes endanger their'
safety, yet if Pennsylvania sued here for any injury arising from
this cause, we could exercise no jurisdictioa and give no redres
unless there was some law to guide us. Ar[d when a case of this
kind is not embraced in any law of the United States, we always
resort to the established usages 'of navigation on the river, and
the laws of the State in whose jurisdiction. the injury was suis.tained.
'The cases in which the court has taken jurisdiction in questions of boundary between States, stand on different-ground.
The odginal jurisdiction was conferred by the Constitution.
The evidence upon which the right in controversy must be decided, depended upon the laws and usages of nations in, disputes
of that kind. Congress had no power over the subject. It could
'neither give nor take away the right of either party, nor prescribe
the evidence bywhich it was to be tried. All that Congress was
required to do, or could do, was to authorize the court to issue
the proper process to bring the parties before it, and to conduct
the proceedings to final judgment. This was admitted on all
hands to be necessary before the court could exercise the jurisdiction which the Constitutionhad conferred. And in the case
of New Jersey v. New York, (5 Pet. 287, 288,) it was held thAt
the acts of 1789 and 1792 had clothed the court -with the necessary power.
The rule as to navigable waters is this Every independent
nation has the exclusive jurisdiction over .the navigable waters
lying within-its territorial limits. It has the right to regulate
cbmmerce upon them, and to determine what bridges may be
built over them, or piers or wharves extended into them. And
an erection authorized by the legislature cannot be a nuisance,
public or private. This was the situation cf the old States prior
to the adoption of the Constitution. Each was then an independent sovereign State. But by the Constitution of the United
States, they surrendered to the general government the poweito
regulate commerce. And thus, while they retain their absolute
territorial jurisdiction over their navigable waters in all other
respects, Congress may forbid the erection of any structure in a
navigable stream, which it deems an obstruction to commerce,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

583

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

and may declare it a nuisance, and direct-it to be removed. •But
all the original authority of the State over the river remains subject to that limitation. For otherwise, until Congress thought
proper to legislate, navigation on the river would be under no
control. Boats might be run down with impunity, and obstructions of every kind ereited in or over it, which the State could
not prevent or punish.
The bridge in question is entirely within the territory of Virginia. Prior to the adoption of the Constitution of the United
States, she had an unquestionable right to authorize its erection.
She still possesses the same control over the river, subject to the
power of Congress, so far as concerns the regulation of commerce. The' United States and Virginia are the only sovereignties which can exercise any power over the river where the
bridge is erected. Virginia has authorized it, and Congress have
acquiesced in it. Congress have made no regulation declaring
such a structure unlawful, or authorizing any judicial proceeding
against it. If Congress, to whom the power is granted to regulate commerce, have acquiesced, how can the court, to whom the
power is not granted, undertake to regulate it, and declare this
bridge an unlawful obstruction, and the law of Virginia unconstitutional and void? With all my respect for my brethren, I
think it is an error, and I had almost said, a grave one.
If it should be said that the compact between Virginia and
Kentucky makes the river free independently of the Constitution,
the answer is obvious. The compact does not deprive Virginia
of the power to regulate the police of the river, or to authorize
bridges or piers, or other structures in. it. Such a compact between States has always been construed to mean nothing more
than that the river shall be as free to the citizens or subjects for
which the other party contracts, as it is to the citizens or subjects of the State in which it is situated. But if this compact
or any compact should be construed to prohibit the, erection of
the bridge, the proceeding should be to enforce the observance
of the compact. If erected in violation of a compact, it is still
not a nuisance, because there is no law prohibiting it. It would
be a breach of contract by the State, and. the remedy in a very
different mode of proceeding.
This compact between Virginia'and Kentucky, in relation-to
the navigation of the Ohio, was one of the articles of agreement
under'which Virginia consented that Kentucky should become
a separate State. Kentucky could not become a separate State
without the consent of Congress: Bit the act of Congress,
which gave that assent, makes no reference whatever to the
terms of the agreement, between the States. It does not make
the United States a party to them, nor guarantee their execution.

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvaniia v. The Wh-eeling &ac. Bridge Co. et al.

It simply declares its consent that the district of Kentucky
should, on the 1st of June, 1792, become a State, according to
its actual boundaries, on the 18th of December, 1789. The act of
Congress is in 1 S.tat at Large, 189, and contains no allusionwhatever, direct or indirect, to the navigation of[ the Ohio. It leaves
the compact as it was; that is, a compact between the two
States, and nothing more, and to be enforced by a proceeding upon
it. Nor is there any difference in the rights 3f navigation between
the. rivers and bays of the Atlantid States and those of the
West. The old and the new States in this respect stand upon
an equal footing. It was so decided in this court in the case of
Pollard v. Hagan, (3 How. 212,) and that decision has been sanctioned in subsequent cases, to which it is not now necessary to
refer.
The complainant, however, insists that the law of the United
States for.enrolling and licensing coasting vessels, gives to the
vessel so enrolled and licensed, the right to navigate the river
free from obstructions : that this law, therefore, by necessary implication, forbids the erection of the bridge which obstructs the
navigation; and, conseqaently, defines the rights of the parties.
And if a vessel is obstructed, the law is violated, and the injured, party entitled to his remedy, and to have the obstruction
removed. The case of Gibbons .v.Ogden is relied on to support
this proposition.
This, brings up the question, whether the law of Virginia,
sanctioning the erection of this bridge, is or is not repugnant to
the-Constitation or laws of the United States. Is it repugnant
to the clause of the Constitution which gives Congress the
power to regulate commerce ? or to any law passed under it?
If it is not, then the structure complained of, being within the
territory of the State, and authorized by its legislature, cannot be a public nuisance or a private nuisance in the eye of the
law. Nor has any one a right to complain- of it as an unlawful
obstruction in his way; nor to maintain a suit atlaw or in equity
for any inconvenience or loss he may sustain from it. Assuming that we may exercise jurisdiction on the. ground that the
complainant claims a right under the above-mentioned act of
Gongress, neither the point nor the principles decided in Gibbons
v. Ogden have, in my judgment, any application to the case before us. In that case, the Legislature of New York passed a law
navigating
the exclusive
persons
to certain
granting
boats
of privilege
that" Stateof with
the jurisdiction
within
all the waters
authorizing the Chancellor of the
moved by fire or steam;
State t restrain by injunction any person whatever from navigating these waters with boats of that description. The complainant claimed under the grantees of the rmonopoly, and sought

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

585

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

by his bill to restrain the respondents from navigating the waters
embra:ced in it. And this court held, and correctly held, that
the law of the State was unconstitutional; that a vessel enrolled
and licensed for the coasting trade, under an act of Congress,
had a right to navigate any of the navigable .waters of the
United States; and that no State had a right to forbid it.
There was no questidn in that case as to the authority of a
court of the United States to declare an obstruction in a river,
which a State had authorized, to be a public nuisance, and treat
it as an offence against the United States. The waters in question were navigable, and free from impediments of that description; and the boats of the parties who claimed the exclusive
privilege were daily paszing over them. The only question in
the case was, whether all vessels, enrolled and licensed by Congress, had not the right to pass over the same waters as freely
as the vessels of the monopolists. The court said they had;
that they had an equal right with the complainant to use the
navigable waters of New York. But thecourt do not say that
an obstruction placed in the water, whioh renders navigation inconvenient or hazardous, is a violation of the act for licensing
and enrolling coasting vessels, or in conflict with it; nor do they
say that this act of Congress confers on the court the power to
adjudge it a nuisance, and order it to be abated. There was rio
such question before the court. It was not in the case, nor was
the attention of the court in any way called to it by the argument.
Now, in this case, Virginia has passed no law giving exclusive privileges to navigate the Ohio River through her teiritory.
-If the bridge is an obstruction, her own citizens, engaged in the
navigation of the Ohio, are equally disabled from passing as
the citizens of any other State. The question, therefore, on
which. this case must turn, did notarise in Gibbons v. Ogden.
But it did arise, and was expressly decided in the case of Wilson
v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh Company, 2 Pet. 245. It was
the point in the case. A dam across a navigable creek had been
authorized by the Legislature of Delaware, as this bridge has
been authorized by the Legislature of Virginia. It stopped a
navigable creek, and, as the court said, must be supposed to
abridge the rights of those who were accustomed to use it. So
this bridge is supposed to impede the -navigation of the Ohio,
and abridge the rights of those accustomed to use it. Yet, in
the case referred to, the court said, that as Congress, in the execution of its power to regulate commerce, had passed no law to
control State legislation over these small navigable creeks, thelaw of Delaware was not repugnant to the Constitution, not being in conflict with any law of Congress. It will be remem-

586

SUPREME

COU.3tT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et s],.

bered that the act of Congress for enrolling and licensing vessels,
under which Gibbons v. Ogden was decided, was still in force,
but was regarded by the court as inapplicable to the obstruction
occasioned by the dam. The result of these two cases is this.
The act of Congress gives to,vessels enrolled and licensed under
.it the right to navigate the public Waters wherever they find
them navigable; and any State law prohibiting it, is unconstitutional and void. And, upon this ground, the judgment of .the
State court of New York, which had decided otherwise, was
reversed. But this act of Congress has no application to an obstruction created by a dam across the navigable water, and without further legislation by Congress, the law of Delaware, which
authorized the dam, was constitutional and valid. And upon
that ground, the judgment of the State court of Delaware,
which sanctioned the obstruction, was affirmed. I can see no
difference in principle between the last-mentioned case and the
case at bar. There has been no further legislation by Congre5 on that subject since that case was decided. And as the
principle is the same, the decision should be the same; and the
case of Wilson v. The Bladkbird (reek larsh Company, should,
in my opinion, govern this.
It can hardly be supposed, that the circumstance that a port
of entry is established on the Ohio River, above the bridge, distingulishes this case from the one referred to. The right which
the act of Congress gives co vessels enrolled and licensed for the
coasting trade, is certainly not confined to the navigation between ports of entry. They have the right to enter aily navigable creek or river which may suit their convenience, or the
business and employment in which they are engaged. And
any State. law which forbids them to do so, or attempts to confine the right to particular persons, is anconstitutional. Any
yessel enrolled and licensed had a right to proceed up Blackhird
Creek as far as she found navigable water; and her right was
as perfect as if a port of entry had been established at the head
of navigation. Nor can the size of the creek, or the small number of vessels that'used it, as compared with the Ohio, make any
difference between the cases. It was the right that was in question; and that right was the same whether the navigable water
was narrow or wide, or used only by a single vessel, or frequented by hundreds.
The case of Wilson v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh Company
is entitled to the more weight, because it was decided after the
case of Gibbons v. Ogden, which appears, by the report, to
have been recalled to the attention of the court, and relied upon
in the argument; and the opinion in the last case was delivered
by the same learned judge who delivered the elaborate opinion

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

587

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

in the former one. It shows that he, and the learned court in
which he presided, did not consider the principles on which
Gibbons v. Ogden was decided,- applicable to a case where an
obstruction was placed in a navigable water, impeding, generally, the passage of vessels; and were of opinion that the
courts of the United States had no jurisdiction which would
authorize therm to remove or abate it, or treat it as unlawful,
without further legislation by Congress. I think it more safe
to follow their own construction of their own opinion in Gibbons b. Ogden, than to look for a new one.
Indeed, apart from any decisions on the subject, I cannot
perceiv how the mere grant of power to the legislative depart.
ment of the government to regulate commerce, can give to
the judicial branch the power to declare what shall, and what
shall not, be regarded as an unlawful obstruction; how high a
bridge must be above the stream, and how far a wharf may be
extended into the water, when we have no regulation of Congress to guide us. Nor do I see how we can order a bridge or
a wharf to be removed, unless it is in violation of some law
which we are authorized to administer. In taking jurisdiction,
as the law now stands, we must exercise a broad and undefinable discretion, without any certain and safe rule to guide us.
And sach a discretion, when men of science differ, when we are
to consider the amount and value of trade, and the number of
travellers on and across the stream, the interests of communities
and States sometimes supposed to be conflicting, and the proper
height and form of steamboat chimneys, such a discretion appears to me much more appropriately to belong to the Legislature than to the Judiciary.
Besides, I think there is an insuperable objection to this proceeding in equity even if this bridge should be regarded as a
nuisance, public or private. And it appears to me to be settled
law in 'England, as well as in this country, that chancery will
not interfere by injunction where the evidence is conflicting and
the injury doubtful. I do not speak of informations in chancery
where the attorney-general is a party, for this is not a proceedifig of that kind. But I speak of- cases between individual
parties, like the present one. And the rule above stated, when
there is a conflict of testimony, will be found in 2 Story's Codi.
page 201 to 207, where the subject is fully examined, and the
cases which have been decided referred to. And a case where
there is more conflict in the testimony of men of high character
and undoubted skill and knowledge could hardly be imagined,
than is presented in the record before us; nor a case where the
injury is more doubtful. For, after the experience of two years,
we see how small the loss has been.compared with the immense

SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et &1.

trade and the multitude of steamboats, which, during that time,
have passed under it.
Neither can the jurisdiction of a court of chancery be supported upon the ground that the injury is immediate and irreppyrable, or that any serious embarrassments lie in the way of
an action at law. The injurr, after two years' experience, has
not been found serious enough to lessen the navigation and
commerce of the river. On the contrary, they have been continually increasing since this bridge was built. And if it be an
injury for which the party is entitled to a remedy, he has a
plain and adequate remedy at law; and, therefore, upon general
principles of equity, and more especially under the express provisions of the act of 1789, he has no right to.come into chancery
for relief. And if an action at law were brought by the State
in the Circuit Court of the United States, -sitting in Virginia,
the proceeding at law would be as free from embarrassment and
difficulty as any action at law for any injury for which the law
gives a remedy. And there is no reason to suppose that the
respondents are not. able to answer to any amount of damage,
which, upon the evidence in this case, the State of Pennsylvania
might recover against them.
If it should be said that as the Legislature of Virginia have
sanctioned the erection of this bridge, prejudices in favor of it
might be supposed to influence the jury, the answer is obvious.
The law would be decided by the Circuit Court, subject to the
revision and control of this court; and we are bound to presume
that a jury, in a Circuit Court of the U'nited States, would do
equal justice between citizens of their own State, and another
State or its citizens. The Constitution and laws so presume.
And, certainly, this court would never act upon any apprehension that justice would not be done, by a jury in any State,
when summoned and impanelled according to the laws .of the
United States. And still less could it be induced to assume
extraordinary and unusual powers from fears or suspicions of
that kind.
But Pennsylvania has the right to sue in this court, or in the
Circuit Court, at her election. She has the same right to sue
hee in an action at law as she has to file her bill in equity.
And in an action at law brought here by the State of Georgia
v. Brailsford et al. (3 Dal. 1,) the case was tried by a jury in the
same manner as if the suit had been brought in the Circuit
Court. And the jury, brought here to try this case, would be
altogether free from suspicion of bias or prejudice.
It 'may be said that such a proceeding here would-emuarrass
and retard the business of this court, ani would be expensive
and onerous to the complainant, as the witnesses must be

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

589

State of rennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.
brought from a distance and detained here for a considerable
time. This is true. But if the State sues in this court, instead
of the Circuit Court, it does so by its own choice. And if the
remedy at law in the forum selected is embarrassing anid expensive, it has no right to complain of what is the necessary
consequence of its own act; nor to go into equity to avoid difficulties at law, which arise from the nature of the forufn to
which the State voluntarily resorts; and certainly no inconvenience to the court could alter the law, nor give it equity jurisdiction where the law has denied it. In the language of the
act of Congress, Pennsylvania has in this case a plain and
adequate remedy at law, and has no right, therefore, to. come
to the equity jurisdiction of the court, until her legal right
has been established.
Indeed this case, in my view of it, pushes the jurisdiction
of chancery further than has heretofore been done in England
or in this country.
The bridge hs been erected and completed without any
previous injunction to restrain the respondents from proceeding in the work. It is charged to be a public nuisance. But.
Pennsylvania has no right to proceed against it solely on that
account. She proceeds, and is entitled to proceed,, only for the
private and particulai injury to her property which this public
nuisance has occasioned. If the court order it to be demolished,
it is not to protect the public or any portion of the community
who may be supposed to be injured by it. For the government, which represents the public, and is charged with its interests, is not before the court; and has not complained of this
structure, nor sought to have it removed. Pennsylvania is the only
party asking for relief; and her damage, as proved in the record,
is a-trivial loss of some few dollars in tolls; and the mere possibility of an annual future loss to some small amount, concerning which the testimony is vague and inconclusive, and at best
but conjectural. She has no ,concern with the obstruction to
boats with high chimneys, nor with the amount of trade from
Pittsburg, or any other place, further than such evidence tends
to show the bridge to be a public nuisance. The owners of
steamboats, and the persons engaged in commerce are not
parties to this suit,.and the State of Pennsylvania has no right
to prosecute for them. She must not only show that boats with
high chimneys are more profitable to the owners, and better for
commerce, than those with lower, ones, but she must also show
that the necessity of reducing them will lessen the profits of her
canals. I see no proof in the record by any means sufficient to
establish that fact. And we are called upon to demolish a
structure which cost more than $200,000 to save the State of
VOL. XIII.

50

590

SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

Pennsylvania from this speculative, questionable, and at most,
inconsiderable loss. It seems to me that if the power and jurisdiction of this court were clear, and supported by precedents, yet,
this court, upon settled principles of equity jurisprudenee, would
refuse to destroy property of so much value, and which the public, by its proper officer, does not charge to be a nuisance,
merely to guard against the possibility of an inconsiderable loss
by the State. It is precisely one of those cases in which the
court would, at all events, require the party to establish his right
at law before he comes into equity, or to make the attorneygeneral a party, and g6ive the public an opportunity of being
heard where its interest is so deeply involved.
I do not doubt the powver of the Court of Chancery to abate
a public nuisance, upon an information in chancery, to which
the attorney-general is a party. But even in a case of that
hind there must be danger of irreparable mischief before the tar.
diness of the law cain reach it. This is the doctrine of this court
in the case of the City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal
Company, 12 Pet. 08. But such a case is not now before us.
The attorney-general is not a party. Pennsylvania sues as an
individual for a private right. And in a case of this description
I am not aware of any case entitled to be regarded as an authority in this cotirt, where chancery ever interfered by injunction except;.by way of prevention, that is, to stay the contemplated stru6ture, until it could be decided, in a proceeding to
which the public, wa's a party, whether it was a public nuisance
or not. We must-be careful not to confound cases of public
nuisance with merely private ones. For, in the former, the public have aninterest to abate it if a nuisance, and to protect it,
if it is not, and therefore have a right to be heard, whether the
trial be hi ecjuity or at law.
This was evidently the opinion of this court in the case of the
City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Company, arid
of Lord Eldon, in the case of Crowder v. Tinkler, 19 Ves. 616,
therein cited, with approbation. In the last-mentioned case,
where the court interfered for prevention, and not to abate a
structure already completed, the chancellor placed the injunction
upon the ground that the nuisance about to be erected would
be attended with extreme probability of irreparable injury to the
property of the plaintiffs, including also danger to their existence. And that this was clearly established in that case befbre
he awarded the injunction. Such is the :rule upon this subject
which has been sanctioned by this court. Certainly no one of
the material circumstances which existed in Crowder v. Tinkler,
can be found in this. And if the principies decided here in the
case of the City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Coin-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

pany, are. recognized as the law of this court, I can see no founda.
tion for the injunction in the case before us. For it not only
has none of the circumstances in it, upon which the injunction
was granted in Crowder v. Tinkler, but in that case, strongly as
it appealed to the preientive power of the Court of Chancery,
the court merely suspended the erection until the question of
public nuisance or not could be tried by a jury upon an indictment. It did not grant a perpetual injunction, and still less did
it order what had already been constructed to be abated or removed.
So far I have considered the case upon the assumption
that the bridge, upon common-law -principles, might, upon the
evidence, be determined to be a nuisance. And, admitting that
to be the case, I think, for the reasons above stated, that in the
absence of any legislation upon the subject by Congress, this
proceeding cannot be maintained. I shall, therefore, very briefly
express my opinion on the evidence.
I am by no means prepared to say, that this bridge would be
a public nuisance even at common law. The evidence of the
degree in which it obstructs navigation is exceedingly volumi.
nous, and it is impossible to go fully into an examination of its
comparative weight, in a manner that would do justice to the
subject, without making this opinion itself a volume. It is sufficient to say, that in all questions of this kind, the general convenience and interest of the public in the travel and trade across
the river, as well as on its waters, must be taken into consideration. For whether it is a public nuisance or not, depends upon
whether it is or is not injurious to the public. The cases in the
State Courts, and in the Circuit Courts of the United States, referred to in the.argument, which I shall not stop here to examine, in ray opinion maintain this doctrine. And upon principle,
independently of adjudications, it cannot be otherwise. A structure which promotes the convenience of the public, cannot bea
nuisance to it. And the public, whose interests are to be looked
to in this case, is not the public of any particular town or district of country, or State. or States, but the great public of the
whole Union. Taking this view of the question, and looking to
the testimony as set forth in the, record, and more especially to
that unerring test, experience, which the lapse of time has afforded, I am convinced that the detriment and inconvenience to
the commerce and travel on the river, is small and occasional
only,-while the advantages which the public derives from the
passage over, are great and constant. And if the courts of the
United Steites had common-law jurisdiction, and the question
was legally before us to determine whether this bridge was a
unblic nuisance or not, I am of opinion that it is not; and that

592

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

the advantages which the great body of the people of the Uni.
ted States reap from it, outweigh the disadvantages and inconve.
niience sustained by the commerce and navigation of the river.
Moreover, the jurisdiction exercised in. this case, is new and
without precedent in this court Bridges have been erected over
many navigable rivers, and built so near the water, that vessels
can pass only through a draw. Such bridges are unquestionably obstructions, and impede navigation. For where the vessels are propelled by sails, and the wind is unfavorable, they are
often detained not only for hours, but for days. The courts of
the United States have never exercised jurisdiction over any of
these obstructions, nor declared them to be nuisances., I should
be unwilling, in a case like this, to exercise this high and dell.
cate power without precedents to suppor; me in analogous cases.
The demolition of this bridge would occasion a heavy loss to
the parties, and much inconvenience to a large portion of the
community. The United States are not parties to this proceeding, and the particular injury sustained by the complainafit is
exceedingly small. And it is solely for the protection of her
small, remote, contingent, and speculative interest in tolls, that
this bridge is pulled down. For it must be remembered that,
although we see in the testimony that' injuries 'are alleged to
have been suffered by others, yet the State of Pennsylvania .is
the only party to this proceeding, the only one who appears m
this court as complainant, and her particular loss is the only
ground on which jurisdiction is claimed, and the only injury
which the court is called on to redress; or has a right to consider in this proceeding.
The testimony, too, is conflicting; men of eminence and skill,
and well qualified to speak on the subject, differing widely in
their testimony. And I am the more unwilling to assume this
questionable jurisdiction, because the legislative department of
the general government has undoubted power over the whole
subject, and may regulate the height of bridges over the Ohio,
and of the chimneys of steamboats when passing under them,
and may, while it guards the rights of navigation in the stream,
at the same time protect the rights of passage and travel
over it. That department of the government has better means,
too, of obtaining information, than the narrow scope of judicial
proceedings can afford. It may adopt regulations by which
courts of justice may be guided in an inquiry like this with some
degree of certainty, instead of leaving them to the undefined
discretion which must now be exercised in every case that may
be brought before. us, without being able to lay down any certain rule, by which this discretion may be. limited. It is too
near the confines of legislation; and I think the cdurt ought
not to assume it.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

Entertaining this opinion, I must, with all the respect I feel
for the judgment of my brethren, with whom it is my misfortun6,
to differ, enter my dissent.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissenting.
In entering upon the consideration of the case before us, the
mind is at once impressed with the belief that there never has
been, that there perhaps never can be brought before this tribunal, for its decision, a case of higher importance or of deeper
interest than the present. The subjects which it presses upon
our examination, nay, upon which the judgment of this court has
been demanded, and has inevitably determined, are nothing less
than1st. The jurisdiction or authority of this court, under one of
the heads of Original Jurisdiction, enumerated in the Constitution.
2d. The correct interpretation of the power of commercial
regulation vested in the federal government, either exerted simply
as such by that government, or as affecting the power of internal
improvement in the States.
3d. The policy or influence of particular regulations with respect to commerce, as these may tend to restrict it within circumscribed channels, or to promote its general activity and diffusion, by facilities operating a reasonable and just equality of
right, of competition, and advantage to alL
4th. The character of the proceeding complained of as a unsance, the regularity of the proposed mode of redress, and the
right of the complainant to claim the interference asked for in
any mode.
The magnitude of these topics would seem, in some degree to
excuse, in treating them, the hazard of prolixity, and at any rate,
lying as'tthey do in the direct path to the proper survey of this
case, they cannot with propriety be overstepped, without pausing
upon their examination.
When, at a former period, this c&use was before this court, the
several topics just enumetated were cursorily adverted to by me as,
necessarily involved in its adjudication; and the course then
adopted by the court was formally objected to, because that
course seemed a premature and foregone conclusion upon facts
and legal positions entering essentially into the nature of the
controversy; facts and legal positions not then maturely examined and ascertained, as'the order of the court at that time made,
necessarily iriplies; and which could not, according to established precedent, and the highest adjudications, be properly investigated in the mode proposed. The subsequent proceedings
upon the' order of the court at the January term, 1850, have
500

594

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

greatly strengthened the objections assigned by me on that
occasion. These proceedings have, at an almost incalculable
expenie to the parties, brought hither an immense mass of mat.
ter, much of which on the one hand is not -within the inquiries
directed by the court, whilst on the other, inquiries strictly pertinent seem to have been wholly excluded. It has placed before
us a long and very learned report, to be su:re, in part upon subjects
entirely dehors the order of the court, and in other aspects of the
same report, (I speak it with all respect for the highly intelligent
and respectable author of that report,) palpably opposed, in my
opinion, to the rational and just preponderance of the facts stated
br the witnesses; a report, in fine, which leaves in all its weight
and force, the mischief of withdrawing the trial of the question of
nuisance from its proper forum, in which the witnesses could have
been confronted and cross-examined; and imposes upon the
court the task of passing upon the credibility of those whom
they have never heard nor seen. Even in matters of minor con6ernment, I have always been unwilling, whenever the credibility
of witnesses was to be tested, to interpose between such persons
and the scrutiny of a jury, awakened, as it is sure to be, by the
vigilance of the advocate; where the ess3ntial rights and interests of great communities are at stake, I never will do so, unless
constrained by irresistible authority.
Recurring now to the first head of inquiry, I contend that the
complainant can have no standing here, on the ground that this
court cannot, as is shown, both upon the face of the pleadings
and upon the proofs, take jurisdiction of this cause. If this court
can take-cognizance of the cause before us, it must be in virtue
of the 2d section of the 3d article of the Constitution, which declares that "in all cases affecting aihanassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, ana those in which a State shall be a
party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction."
There is no other provision of the Constitution under which
original cognizance of this cause by the Supreme Court can be
assumed. Now, to arrive at the just interpretation of this clause
of the Constitution, as fixing that position or interest of the State
as a party, which alone creates original jurisdiction in the Supreme Court, At is necessary to settle the import of the word
party, as connected with legal or equaitable proceedings. By b11
correct legal intendment, this term party is. applicable only to
persons sustaining a direct or real interest or right in any pending
*litigation; an interest or right immediately affected or bound by
the issues such litigation involves, This term cannot be extended
to persons who may be arbitrarily and irregularly named in proceedings either at law or in equity, the very description of whose
relation to the case shall evince a total absence of legal or equi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

595

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

table claims upon the subject of litigation; a total absence, too,
of reciprocal duty or obligation with reference to those whose
property and whose possession and enjoyment of that property,
are sought to be affected. Whilst courts of justice, therefore,
will enforce the conventing of all whose interest can properly be
adjudged, they will repel and even rebuke attempts to assail, or
even to canvass, the rights and interests of others, by those who
in effect concede the want of a legal or equitable title in themselves. Courts of justice take no cognizance of imperfect rights,
or such as may be termed merely moral or incidental, as distinguishable from legal or equitable, even when the existence of the
former may be clearly shown. In this controversy, the State of
Pennsylvania, admitted to have no property in or title to the
River Ohio within the limits of Virginia, and no p'operty in or
title to the steamboats which ply upon that river, is confessedly
made use of as a mean, under the shelter of her name, of redressing grievances, which, if they ever had existence, are injuries to
her citizens and to individuals, and the proper and efficient remedy
for which is to be found at the suit of those citizens in the courts
of the State or of the United States. The alleged right of Pennsylvania to sue in this case, for a diminution of profits from her
canals and other works of internal improvement within her own
territory, and many miles remote from the Wheeling Bridge, had
it not been cast into'shade by a still greater extravagance disclosed by the record, (her right of ship navigation with top-gallant royals al standing,) might have awakened some surprise;
but even this tamer and less lofty pretension should fail of the
end it has been designed to effect, for it cannot be pretended,
and is not even intimated in the pleadings in this cause, that
those canals and other public works have been obstructed or
rendered in any respect less fitted for transportation, or in any
way impaired by the erection of the Wheeling Bridge beyond
her territory, and within that of a separate and independent
State. And if the mere rivalry of works of internal improvement in other States, by holding out the temptation of greater
despatch, greater safety, or any other inducement to preference
for those works over the Pennsylvania canals, be a wrong, and
a ground for jurisdiction here, the argument and the rule sought
to be deduced therefrom should operate equally. The State of
Virginia, who is constructing a railroad from the seaboard to
the Ohio River at Point Pleasant, much farther down that river
than either Pittsburg or Wheeling, and at the cost of the longest
tunnel in the world, piercing the base of the Blue Ridge Mountain, should have the right by original suit in this court against
the canal companies of Pennsylvania, or against that State herself, to recover compensation for diverting any portion of the

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

commerce which might seek the ocean by this shortest transit
to the mouths of her canals on the Ohio:, or to the city of Pittsburg; and on the like principle, the Stgte of Pennsylvania has
a just cause of action against the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,
for intercepting at Wheeling, the commerce which might otherwise be constrained to seek the city of Pittsburg. The State of
Pennsylvania cannot be a party to th'.s suit on -the grounds
stated in the bills filed in her name, for the reason, still more
cogent than any yet assigned, viz. that to permit this, would be
to render the clause in the Constitution, relied on in her behalf,
utterly useless, and even ridiculous; would destroy every restriction intended by the enumeriation of instances of original jurisdiction; and would confound this clause with another provision
of the Constitution, designed to cover'cases precisely like the
one now before the court. If in all instances in which the citizens of one State have cause of action against a citizen or a
corporation of a different State, the action can be prosecuted in
the name'of the State in which the claimant resides, although no
peculiar or legal right or cause of action can be shown in such
State sustaining the character of a private suitor, then the restriction as to cases of original jurisdictikn is entirely abolished;
the defending party, too, must be entitled to the same right of
substitution, and all suits between citizens of different States
might, by this process, be transformed into suits between States,
or suits to which States are.parties; cases of original jurisdiction in this court. That provision of the Constitution designed to embrace controversies between citihens of different
States is thus annulled, and the jurisdiction of the District and
Circuit Courts transferred, as falling within its original cognizance,
to the Supreme Court. Such, to my apprehension, appears to
be the inevitable result of asserting what are essentially and
clearly private rights or interests, in the name of a State, or the
prosecution of remote, contingent, and imperfect interests not
amounting to property, though claimed on behalf of a State. I
conclude, therefore, that to constitute a State a party in that
sense which brings her within the meaning of the Constitution,
and indeed within the import of the term party to a cause by
all correct legal intendment, there must be averred and proved
on her behalf, a certain and direct interest, or an injury, ox a
right ofproperty-a perfect right-a rightwhich a court of justice can define, adjudge, and enforce; and that on the part of the
State of Pennsylvania no such right having been. averred even,
much less established in proof, nothing is shown which can
maintain the jurisdiction of this court in this cause. The shadowy pretext of an interest or injury, froin the nature of things
not susceptible of calculation or estimate, can never be the

DECEM1BER TERM,

1851.

597

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

foundation of a right, legal or equitable. And, indeed, so far
as any light can be reflected by facts on this pretended or incidental interest of Pennsylvania, resulting from any supposed
effect upon the tolls on her canals, an actual increase instead of
a diminution of those tolls since the erection of the Wheeling
Bridge, is proved.
Passing from this subject of jurisdiction, and supposing it for
the present to be vested here, I proceed to examine the pretensions of the complainant, as being deducible from, and as guaranteed by, the power delegated to Congress to regulate commerce
between-the several States. The existence of that power, in its
fullest extent, and for every purpose -for which it has been delegated to Congress, need not be questioned, in order to expose
and to repel the pretensions advanced for the complainant. On
the contrary, the assertion of *thatpower in its greatest latitude,
so far as it was ever contemplated by those who gave it, or so
far as it can be exercised for useful purposes, carries with it
necessarily, the condemnation of those pretensions. The power
to regulate commerce was given to the federal government,
whose functions and objects were designed to be general and coextensive with the entire confederacy, because its duties embrace
the equal rights and interests of all the members of the confederacy, and as a mean of the widest diffusion of commercial
facilities and intercourse within the powers vested by the Constitution. It cannot be rationally concluded that, by a provision
palpably intended to protect commerce from unequal or invidious restrictions, the power was given to Congress to advance
so fat towards restriction or monopoly as to limit commerce to
particular channels; thereby crippling ot wholly preventing its
diffusion and activity, and, by the, same process, conferring upon
particular points or sections of the country, arbitrary and unjust
advantages, and riveting, upon all those portions affected by
such a procedure, loss and even ruin. Admitting, then, that Congress had made any regulation affecting the subjects of this
controversy, (and it will hereafter be shown that they have not
done so,) admitting, moreover, that their acts or regulations
might fall within the broad language of the power vested by the
Constitution, it remains still a just and fair inquiry, whether those
acts which are arbitrary or oppressive, which'defeat the great
ends for which the power, thus perverted, may have been within
the legitimate scope of the powers alleged in excuse for their
performance. In other words, whether Congress, as a regulation
of commerce, would, be justifiable in breaking down works of
internal improvement within the States, though calculated in
their character and tendencies for the diffusion of commerce, and
by such destruction limit commerce to particular local points or

598

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

interests? Common sense and common justice would promptly
answer in the negative, and would decids that a rational and
proper, nay, the only rational and proper, exercise of the regu.
lating power in Congress, demands the promotion and protection
of such modes and facilities of commercial intercourse, (so far
as Congress have this, power,) as will insure equality to all, and
the widest diffusion of commercial advantage. 'Surely, then, in
the absence of all action on the part of Congress, this court
should imply no policy or design in that body to fetter or cripple
great interests which they are charged with the power and duty
to protect. But Congress have enacted no regulation whatever
in relation to the subject of this controversy; they have not said
that bridges should nowhere be erected over the River Ohio, or,
if erected, what should be their elevation above the water;
neither have they declared, upon scientific calculatibns or upon
experiments, or on any data, what shall be the height of the
ehimL3ys of steamboats on that river, nor to what degrees, either
from their own calculations of improvement in speed, or from
fancy or local rivalry, the owners or masters of steamboats on
that river may elongate the chimneys of those steamboats. Upon
all these matters Congress have thus far been perfectly silent.
Admitting, then, that the State of Pennsylvania can be regularly before us in the character of a party in interest, this controversy presents to us, in truth, simply a comparison between the
will and the acts of the parties thereto, ind an appeal to tlis
court, in the absence of all action by Congress, - by some rule
which it must deduce from the common law of nuisance, to decide upon the comparative merits or demerits of the parties, - to
decide whether the benefits produced by the Wheeling Bridge
to the surrounding country, and by its connection with extended
lines of travel and commerce, can save it from the character of a
nuisance. Or whether its interference, in certain stages of water,
With the chimneys of seven steamboats, owned by private individuals, the height of whose chimneys is a subject of.much con.
trariety of opinion, both amongst scientific men and practical
builders and captains of steamboats,-can so constitute it a public nuisance, and a cause of such direct injury to the legal rights
and interests of Pennsylvania, as to justify its abatement by this
court. In'the albsence of all action by Congress in relation to
this matter, in the only legitimate mode in which Congress
could affect it, viz., by commercial regulation, or by some express statutory declaration, the act of one of these parties in the
prosecution of their interests must claim intrinsically equal
authority with the acts of the other, except so far as they may
have -ome common arbiter by whom both may be controlled.
In this case, that arbiter would seem to be either the local sove.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

599

State bf Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

feignty, (the State of Virginia,) within wlase territory the
alleged nuisance is situated, or the United States, through some
enactment for the regulafion of commerce; but neither of these
authorities is invoked in this controversy. We have here a suit
in the name of Pennsylvania, occupying the position of every
private suitor, asking the action of this court upon general dommon-law jurisdiction over the subject of nuisances, which jurisdiction the courts of the United States do not-possess. Nori
it enough to draw within our cognizance the subject of this
cause, to affirm merely the competency of Congress to legislate
upon it, and to refer its decision, if they choose, to the federal
courts. I ask upon what foundation the courts of the United
States, limited and circumscribed as they are by the Constitution, and by the laws which have created them and defined their
juisdiction, can, upon any speculations of public polioy, assume
to themselves the authority and functions of the legislative department of the government, alone clothed -with -those functions
by the Constitution and laws, and undertake, of their mere will,
to supply the omissions of that department? Is it either in the
language or th eory of the Constitution, that ths court shall exercise such an auxiliary or rather guardian and paramount authority? Cannot the legislative department of the government be
intrusted with the fulfilment of its peculiar duties ? Such an
act as this court has been called upon to perform; such an act
as it has just announced as its own, is, in my opinion, virtually
an act of legislation, or, in stricter propriety, (I say it not in an
offensive sense,) an act of usurpation. To rest our authority to
adjudicate this matter on the naked proposition just stated,
would be to reject the doctrine by this court heretofore most
expressly ruled. The case of Wilson v. The Blackbird Marsh
Creek Company, (2 Peters, 24-,) .seems to be conclusive upon
this point. This case presented an instance of an absolate obstruction by a dam of a watercourse navigable by vessels of
considerable size, and in which the tide ebbed and flowed. The
person who undertook to destroy or injure the dam constructed
across this navigable water,was the master of a vessel regularly
licensed and enrolled according to the navigation laws of the
United States; and being sued for a trespass committed in breaking or injuring the dam, he pleaded, in justification of his act, the
character of the navigable water as a public and common high.
way, for all the citizens of the particular State, and of the United
States, to sail, pass, and repass over, through and upon, at all
times of the year, at their own free will and pleasure. Upon
comparing this case with the one before us, it is impossible not
to.perceive that in many of their capital features they are strikingly similar- may, indeed, be regarded as identical. In the.

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The- Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et a.

-former case, as in this, the watercourse said to'be obstructed
was a navigable water; in that case, as in this, the locus in quo
was within the jurisdiction of a State; an1 the alleged obstruction, irm each instance, an act of State legislation in exercising the
power of internal improvement; in each instance, the right of
passage to the extent and in the manner claimed, freely and at
will usqup ad cawlum, was in virtue solely of license and enrolment; according to the navigation laws :)f the United States.
Now, what said this court upon the aforegoing state of the
pleadings and evidence ? " If Congress," said they, "had passed
any*act which bore upon the case; any act in execution of the
power to regulate commerce, the object of which was to control
State legislation; over those small navigable creeks into which the
tide flows, and which abound throughout the lower country of the
middle and southern States, we should feel not much difficulty in
saying, that a State law, coming in conflict with such act, would
be void. But Congress has passed no such act. The repugnancy
of the State law to the Constitution, is placed entirely on its
repugnancy to the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States; 'a power which has not
been so exercised as to affect the questian. We do not think
that the act empowering the Blackbird Marsh Creek Company
to place a dam across -the creek, can, under the circumstances
of the-case, be repugnant to the power to regulate commerce in
.#s dormant state, or as being in conflict with any law passed on
fe subject." This decision at once puts 1;o flight the pretext for
ijiterference here to protect and enforce th 3 duties and functions
pf Congress, and equally exposes the fallacy that the grant of a.
'coasting license, of a mere certificate of the domicil of the vessel
bearing it, of evidence prirndfacie,of her capacity or tonnage,
or of her exemption from suspicion of smuggling or piracy, is a
regulation of commerce over every inch of the waters over which,
in her various excursions, she may pass. Just as cogent and tenable is the argument, if argument it deseryes to be called, which
affiris that the establishment of Pittsburg as a port 6f entry, its
mere designation as a point at which merchandise may be
States, is a
landed subjeet to the revenue laws of the United
positive declaration by Congress, prescribing the modes of the
transportation of such merchandise thithzr, and defining what
shall be held to be an interference with such transportati6n.
Equally, or rather more unsound and untrue, is the position
that, by the same designation of Pittsburg, Congress have declared that vessels propelled by wind or steam, vessels of the
greatest capacity, carrying masts or. chimneys of illimitable
height, shall navigate a river whose ordinary regimen, to adopt
a term in this record, scarcely affords a channel broad or deep

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
State of Ponntylvania v. The Wheeling &c: Bridge Co. et al.

enough for the tacking of a shallop, and for long periods of a
few inches only in depth. This attempt, from the mere designation of a port of entry, to bring home to Congress the absurdities the argument implies, would ascribe to them a practical
wisdom much upon a parallel With that of the despot who
attempted to confine the Hellespont in fetters, or of him who
forbade the approach to him of the ocean-tide. But Congress
have in truth enacted nothing in relation to the particlat subject in issue in this controversy; and we have seenj in the explicit 'declaration of this court, in the case from 2 Peters, that
not only must there be some positive enactment by Congress,
but an enactment "the object of which was to control State
legislation over those navigable creeks into which the tide flows."
But again: it has been asserted, in justification of the power
claimed by the majority of the court, that Congress, by adopting
the act of the Virginia Legislature, of December 18th, 1789,
authorizing the erection of Kentucky into a State, have fully
regulated the navigation of the Ohio River. And how is this
position sustained by fact? By the 7th section pf her act of
1789, Virginia declares that, so far as her.own territory and that
of the proposed State shall extefid upon the Ohio, the navigation
of that river shall be free for all the citizens of the United
States. . Congress, by an act passed February 4th, 1791, containing two sections only, (vide 1 Stat. at Large, 189,) consents, by the 1st section, to the-proffer of Virginia of the creation of the new State; and, by the 2d section, declares, that on
the 1st day of June following, the new State, by the name of
Kentucky, shall be admitted a member of the Union. These two
sections comprise the entire action of Congress, fr5m which the
position that has been asserted by the majority of the court is
deduced. Let us try the integrity of this position by reducing
it to the form of a syllogism. The major of that syllogism will
consist of the fact, that Virginia, by her law of 1.789, has agreed
that she and the newly proposed State will permitothe navigation of the Ohio within their respect;v limits, to all citizens of
the United States. Its minor is this, -that Congress have assented to the permission so .declared; the conclusion attempted
to be deduced is, ergo Congress by that assent have completely
regulated the navigation of the Ohio, and by inevitable implication ordained that bridges shall never be thrown across that
river, except in absolute subordination to the interests or the will
of the owners of steamboats upon that river. This may possibly
be logic, irrefragable logic; and tfie failure to comprehend its
consistency may arise from the infirmity of my own perceptions;
bu t I cannot help suspecting, that an acumen, far surpassing anyr
to which 1 will lay clain, would be puzzled to reconcile this proVOL. XIII.

51

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

cess with the laws of induction, as prescribed by Watts, by Duncan, or by Kaims.
The next inquiry, naturally arising in tlis case, an inquiry inseparably connected with the alleged obstruction by the Wheeling Bridge, as constituting it a nuisance or otherwise, an inquiry
equal in magnitude of interest with any other involved, relates
.. as these may
to the policy and effects of commercial regulations,

tend either to the restrition of commercewithin particular channels, or to supplying auxiliaries for its pro ecution, or for the pro.
nmotion of its activity and diffusion by increased facilities, operating a just equality of right andi competition and advantage to

all. And here it may be premised, that throughout the discussion of this cause, a reigning fallacy has been assumed and urged
upon the court, a fallacy, which, if successful, may subserve the
grasping pretensions of the plaintiff, but which, by an enlightened view of this case, must be condemned as destructive to the
extended commercial prosperity of the country. The error assumed as the basis of the plaintiff's pretensions is this, that
commerce can be prosecuted with advantage to the country,
only by the channels of rivers, 'and in all the country intersected
by the western rivers, only through the agency of steanboats;
and hence is"attempted the deduction in favor of the paramount
privileges of steamboats, and the right claimed for this species
of commercial vehicles for exemption from any limit upon the
interests or the fancies of those who may' own or manage them.
Ithas been a curious and somewhat amusing incident, in the
argument of' this cause, that whenever any restraint upon the
management of steamboats (on the Ohio) was intimated, (as
necessary for the protection of other essential rights, both public
and private,) the fixed rdply of the advocate in opposition has
been, that commerce demands these peculiar privileges in the
owners and masters of steamboats. Ali obvious and stricter
propriety of argument would have suggested for that reply the
following language: Steamboat proprietors, local monopoly,
and the peculiar views of interest, real or imaginary, of the plaintiff, supply the t.ue origin and character cf the pretensions here
urged; commerce, enlightened, extended, fair, equal, prosperous,
and beneficial, condt nns all such pretensions ; she demands that
freedom, fairness, competition, and equality, which are the true,
and only true causes of her prosperity; and which the equalizing
power vested by the Constitution, was designed to insure.
Commerce, in its infancy, is of necessity chiefly confined to
the channels of watercourses. 'Weakness, poverty, or the absence of art or science, are unable, ixt the earlier stages of society,
to supply more eligible or efficient modes for its prosecution, or,
to overcome the difficulties attendant 6n transportation off the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

603

State of Pennsylvania v. The. Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

water. Hence we see the rude essays of commerce commencing with the raft, the canoe, or the bateau but, as wealth and
population, science and art advance, we trace her operations to
the magnificent. ship or steamboat; each adapted to its proper
theatre. Does not this very progress, and the advantages which
are their concomitants, glaringly expose the folly and injustice
of all attempts at the restriction of commerce to particular -localities, or to particular interests, or means of circulation? Are her
operations to be confined to a passage up and down the channels of watercourses, impracticable for navigation'for protracted.
periods, and whose capacity is always dependent on the contributions of the cloud, aviditas ewli aut nimius ivzber ? Would
not such a narrow policy be a proclamation to commerce, inhibiting her advancement; and to the hundreds .of thousands
situated without her permitted track, that the wealth, the luxuries, and comforts of civilization and improvement, if-to, be enjoyed by them at all, are-to be obtained only at far greater expense and labor, and in an inferior degree, than they are enjoyed
by more favored classes? These positions are strikingly illustrated by the experience of our own times, and indeed of a very
brief space. Thus, notwithstanding the high improvement in
navigation by steam and by sails, which seems .to have carried
it to its greatest perfection, wd see the railroad in situation's
where no deficiency of water and no artificial or natural obstruc,
tion to vessels exist, or ire complained of, stretching its parallel
course with the track of the vessel, tying together as it were, in
close contiguity, and connecting, in habit and sympathy and
interest, remote sections of our extended countfy, which, for any
aid that the navigation on our rivers could afford, must ever
remain morally and physically remote. The obvious superiority
of the railroad, from its unequalled speed, its greater safety, itsexemption from dependence upon wind or on depth of water,
but above all, its power of linkin together the distant and extended regions interposed between the rivers of the country,
spaces which navigation never can approach, must give it a decided preference, in many respects, to every other commercial:
facility, and cause it to penetrate,. lngitudinally and latitudinally, loxge et late, the entire surface- of the country, unless
arrested in its progress biy the fiat of this court; for, once let it
be proclaimed that the rivers of this country shall, under no circumstances of advantage to the country, be spanned by bridges,
at the trivial inconvenience and cost of adapting' to their elevatibn the chimneys of a few steamboats, even, if the height of
those chimneys had been clearly shown to be nece~sary, or cerlainly advantageous, (a problem nowhere solved in this record),;
let this, I say, be proclaimed, and the effect above mentioned i's

SUPREME COURT.
S-tate of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

at.once accomplished; the rapidly increasing and beneficial system of railroad communication isbroken up, and a system of
narrow local monopoly and inequality sustained. Whether
these things shall now be done; whether, for these purposes, the
citizens of this country shall be restrained in their social and.
business relations, and so restrained under the iibused and perverted name of commerce, -are the questions which this court
have been called on to decide, and which, fLn my view, they have
affirmatively ruled. They
T
are question' too grave, too pregnant
with vital consequences, to have been decided upon the speculations of any one man living.
Itwas with the view, doubtless, of giving plausibility to the
conclusion of the commissioner, or to the strange idea sought to
be enforced in the argument for the complainant, that commerce
signified only a passage up and down the Ohio, that so large a
portion of the commissioner's report is taken up in treating, in
learned phrase, of the dynamic and static capabilities of the
Wheeling Bridge; or, translated into plain English, the capability of that bridge to sustain heavy bodies in motion and at
rest. It does not seem very easy to reconcile this part of the
report.,with the order appointing the commissioner, and prescribing his duties. That order directed the commissioner to ascertain and report whether the Wheeling B:Rdge was, in his opinion,:an obstruction to commerce upon the Ohio; and in the
event that l should so regard it, to suggest any alterations by
which such obstruction might be remedied. The dynamic or
static capabilities of the bridge, introduced to our notice with
some parade.of learning, whether it could support any weight,
either in moti6n or at rest, were- subjects altogether dehors the
order of this court, and without the warrant and powers of the
commissioner. And this difficulty is in no degree lessened by
the fact, disclosed .inthe record, that whilst the commissioner
wandered beyond h'is commission to pronounce upon the capabilities of the bridge for railroad transit, he rejected all the evidence, tendered by the defendants, to prove the usefulness and
importance of the bridge, either to the local population or as a
'public and commercial facility. This irregularity in the commissioner is of no small significance, as it betrays a bias on his
part, however honest, which led him to thtrow the weight of his
opinion against the usefulness of the bridge; a fact entering
essentially into its chagracter, as being a nuisance or otherwise,
and to withhold from this court evidence by which the value of
his opinion might have been tested with precision. This same
irregularity should have had its effect in warning this court to
scrutinize the opinions of the commissioner on matters falling
regularly within the scope of his commission. The evidence re-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

605

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

ceived, and that rejected on this particular point, were, perhaps,
both inadmissible under the terms of the order of this court; but
surely it should have been either wholly admitted or rejected on
both sides.
And this brings me to the last branch of inquiry, which I have
proposed to treat, namely -The character of tire erection complained of; the regularity of the mode of redress proposed, and
the right of the complainant to claim the interference asked for
in any mode. First, then, can the Wheeling Bridge, according
to any correct acceptation of, the term, be regarded as a nuisance ? This inquiry is answered by the solution of another,
which is simply this: is that bridge injurious to the rights and
interests of the public, or of individuals, beyond the benefits that
its erection confers on both? Common sefise and consistency
assuie us, that to pronounce that to be a wrong and an injury
which is in reality beneficial, involves a plain absurdity; and
the language of legal definition fully sustains this conclusion
of common sense; for, according to such definition, there must
be the hurt, the nocumentum, the commune 2wcumentum,'the injury to the public right, to 'constitute it a public nuisance; for,
admitting the fact of injury by any act, still if, in its origin,
character, and extent, it is essentially private, it may be trespass
or some other form of 'injiiry, but not the public offence of nuisance. This position implies no denial of the right to show a
private fiury resulting from a public nuisance; it insists only
upon the necessity of showing where special or Private injury is
alleged as flowing from a nuisance, that nuisance in reality exists. This forces back upon us the inquiries into the nature of
the offence of nuisance; and when ascertained, against what
public authority it has been committed? I have said, that upon
the plainest principles of common sense, no act in reference to
the public, by which a public benefit is conferred, can be denominated a nuisance; and I insist that the rules and conclusions
of the law are in accordance with this proposition.. These are
forcibly stated in the case of the King v. Russell, 6 Barn. &
Cress., particularly by Bayley, J., beginning at page 693 of the
volume. That wa the case of an indictment for a nuisance by
the erection, in the River Tyne, of a peculiar wharf or staging,
called giers or staiths, for the purpose of loading coal on board
ships in the Newcastle trade. The questions before the King's
Bench arose upon the charge of' Bayley, J., who tried the case
at visi ,prius,where his charge concluded in the following terms:
"Thus, gentlemen, I apprehend I have pointed out to you the
true ground on which your verdict is to be founded. If you
think this (that is the wharf or staith,) 'is placed not on a reasonable part of the river, that it does an unnecessary damage to
51*

606

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

the navigation, or that this is not of any public benefit, or that the
public benefit'resulting fr6m it is not equal to the public inconven.
ience arising from it, then you will find a verdict for the crown; if
on these points you are of a different opinion, then for the defendants." This charge of Sir John Bayley was sustained in bank.
The reasoning in support of that charge byth at able judge, is given
more at length than can be conveniently inserted here; but it presents a commentary upon this question so 'lucid, so entirely conclusive, that I cannot forbear to extract a portion of it, as illustrating, much better than I have power to do, the doctrines for which
I contend. "1I subrmitted," says. Sir John Bayley, (page 594,)
to the consideration of the jury, that if, by means of these staiths,
an article of great public&use found its way to the public at a
lower price, and in a better state than i';otherwise would, I
thought these were circumstances of public benefit, and points
they might take into their consideration u.pon that head; and
upon the best attention that I have been able to give the subject, I am bound to say I continue of that opinion. ,The right
of the public upon the waters of a port oi n2avigable river is not
confined to the purposes of passage; trade and commerce are
the chief objects, and the right of passage is chiefly subservient
thereto. Unless there are facilities for. loading and unloading
of shipping and landing, much of the public benefit of a port is
lost. In the infancy of a port, when it is first applied to the
purposes of trade and commerce, unless the water by the shore
be deep, the articles must be shipped in shallow water from the
shore, and landed in shallow water on the -shore. Breakage, and
pilferage, and waste, besides the expense of boating, are some of
the concomitants of such a mode. As trale advances, the inconvenience and mischief of this mode are superseded by the erection of wharves and quays, and what is perhaps an improved spe.
cies of loading wharf, a staith. But upon what principle can
the erection of a wharf or staith be supported? It narrows the
eight of passage. It occupies a space where boats before had
navigated. Itturns part of the waterway into solid ground;
but it advances some of the purposes of a port, its trade and
commerce. Is there any other legal principle upon which they
can be allowed? Make an erection for pleasure, for whim, for
caprice, and if it interfere in the least degree with the public
right of passage, it is a nuisance. Erect it for the purposes of
trade and commerce, and keep it applied to the purposes of trade
and commerce, and subject to the guards with which this case
was presented to the jury, the interests of commerce give it protection, and it isia justifiable erection, and not a nuisance." In
accordance with this doctrine, has the law been propounded by
the Supreme Court of New York, in the case of the People v.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et 'al.

The Rensselaer and Saratoga Railroad Company, reported in the
15th of Wendell, page 113. That was a prosecution against
the company for placing abutments and piers in the bed of the
Hudson River, and erecting a bridge across it, being a public
navigable river. In delivering the opinion of the court, the law
of the case is thus stated by Savage, Chief Justice, pp. 132,
1:3:3, of the volume above mentioned. "I think I may safely
say, that the power exists somewhere to erect bridges over waters
which are navigable, if the wants of society require them, provided such bridges do not essentially injure the navigation of"
the waters they cross. Such power certainly did exist in the
State legislatures before the delegation of power to the federal
government by the federal Constitution. It is not pretended
that such a power has been delegated to the general govern
ment, or is conveyed under the power to regulate commerce and
navigation; it remains then in the State legislatures, or it exists nowhere. It does exist, because it has not been surrendered any further than such surrender may be qualifiedly implied,
that is, the power to erect bridges over navigable streams must
be so far surrendered as may be necessary for a free navigation
upon those streams. By a free navigation must-not be understood a navigation free from such partial obstacles and impediments as the best inter~stN of society may render necessary."
In conformity with the doctrines above quoted, and in support of the views here contended for, 'I might confidently appeal to the language of the judge, by' whom the decision of'
this court has just been announced, on another occasion most
explicitly and emphatically declared. Thus, in the case of
Palmer v. The Commissioners of Cayuga County, which was
an application'for an injunction to prevent the construction of a
draw-bridge over the Cayuga River, upon the ground that it
would obstruct the navigation of the river, that judge, in refusing the application, announces the following, as I conceive, unanswerable conclusions: "AA toll charged for the improvement
of th e navigation, would not be a tax for the use of the river in
its natural tate, but for the increased commercial facilities. A
draw-bridge across a navigable water is not an obstruction. .As
this would not be a work connected with the navigation of the
river, no toll, it .is supposed, could be charged for the passage
of boats. But the obstruction would be only momentary, to
raise the draw ; and as such a work may be very important in
the general intercourse of the community, no doubt is entertained, as to the power of the State* to make the bridge, It is
one~of those general powers'possessed by a State, for the public
onvenience, and may. be exercised, provided it does not infringe
upon the federal powers." These positions require no comment

608

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

from me; they commend themselves by their obvious propriety
and reasonableness. • I would simply remark, in connection
with these positions, and as warranted by them, That any obstruction by the Wheeling Bridge is of course contingent and
not certain ; that even were it certain, under the present elevation
of the bridge, this difficulty might be prevented at a comparatively small expense and inconvenience by lowering, when
necessary, the chimneys of a few steamboats for the purpose of
safe and speedy passage; that this operation, like the raising of
a draw, would be only momentary; and as, to use the language
of the judge, the Wheeling Bridge "may be a work of great importance in a general intercourse, no doubt, is entertained, as to
the power of the State to make the. bridge." It will be admitted, I presume, that the Ohio can clair no higher privileges
than those appertaining to other navigable rivers.
It follows, then, from these adjudications, not less than from
the principles of common sense, that the conclusion, nuisance
or no nuisance, is dependent solely upon the character of the
act complained of as being noxious or beneficial to the public,
and that the ascertainment of that character, where it is doubtful upon the circumstances, or where it is positively denied, is
regularly an investigation of fact to be made and settled, except
under circumstances of peculiar urgency, by the established proc eeding of the common law in relation to l questions of fact; a
trial by jury. This is the doctrine of Lord Hale in reference to
this very subject of obstructions in navigable waters, as quoted
from his Treatise De Portubus, where it is said by that venerable judge, "the caseof building into the water where ships or
vessels might formerly have ridden, whether it be nuisance or
not nuisance, is a question of fact." I will not here deny, nor
is it necessary in any view to deny, that a court of equity will
prevent by injunction the creation of a "rivate injury in the
nature of a nuisance, or the continuation cf such an injury in a
case proper for its .jurisdiction. Thus, where an individual or
private person is about to perform an act, or has performed an
act which is palpably and notoriously in its character a nuisance, from which private and irreparable injury will ensue to
others, or has accrued to others, and will continue, a court of

equity, upon the admitted or notorious cha:acter of the act from
which the private injury is shown to proceed, and from-the irreparable character of that injury, will interpose by injunctior to
relieve the party injured. Such is the pr.nciple ruled by Lord
Eldon, in the case of the Attorney-General v. Cleaver, 18 Vesey,

211, which was upon an information br private pe.rsons for
private injury, though in the name of the attorney-general; and
by the same judge in -the case of Crowder v. Tinkler, in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

609

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. BriAge Co. et al.

19 Vesey, 616. Such, also, I understand to be'tbe rule laid down
by this court in the case of the city of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Company. These cases all proceed upon the grounds
of the ascertained character of the act complained of on the one
hand, and of the private and irreparable nature of the injury shown
on the other. This is as far, it is believed, as -the courts of equity
have ever proceeded. They have never said, that where the act
complained of was dubious in its character, as being a nuisance,
or otherwise, and where that fact 'das a matter of contestation,
they would assume jurisdiction a priori,or-without sending the
question of nuisance to be tried at law, but have ruled the reverse of this; and in the cases just quoted from Vesey, Lord
Eldon declared that he would not decide those cases until the
equivocal -or contested fact was settled at law. Again, it is
ruled in the cases above quoted, and in many others which
might be adduced, that although the courts of equity will, in
order to prevent irreparable private injury, interpose by way of
injunction, that where the abatement of a public nuisance is
the purpose in view, as that is an offence against the government, the attorney-general must be a party to any proceeding
for such a purpose. In .this case the act complained of, if a
nuisance, is a public nuisance, and is so. denominated upon the
record, and by the decision of the majority. Its character, however, as a nuisance ih any sense is denied; and much testimony
has been taken by both parties upon this contested question.
The interests of Pennsylvania, who stands here in the relation of
a private suitor, and the alleged injury to her private interests,
are the sole foundation on which she has sought here the abatement of what she has asserted to be a public nuisance. And
without the participation of any representative of the sovereignty either of the State or the federal government, without
the agency of the attorney-general of the State, or of the United
States, without the reference to a jury of any of the contested
facts of this case, this court, in the professed exercise of original
equity jurisdiction,.upon affidavits, and upon the opinion of a
single individual, who has been, by this court constituted the
arbiter of all questions of public policy, of law, of science, and
of art, and of the cotnpetency and credibility of all the testimonv
in the case, have decided upon the act complained of with reference to its influence upon the rights and powers both. of the
United States and of the local sovereignty; upon the rights and
interests of the complainant in the matter in controversy, and
upon the extent of the injury, if any, done to those interests.
They have, upon the same grounds, and in the like absence of
the legal representative of either the State or federal sovereignity, directed a great public work, disapproved by neither of

610

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. TheWheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

those sovereignties, and by one of them expressly authorized
and approved, to be, in effect, demolished.
I do not deem it necessary, if it were practicable, to examine
here, in detail, the cumbrous mass of statement and speculation
heaped together on this record. Such a task is not requisite in
order to test the accuracy of the decision pronounced in this
case, or to sustain the objections to which that decision is believed to be palpably obnoxious; both these objects appear to
me to be attained by regarding the charac':er of the case as described by the plaintiff herself, and the nature and manner of
the proceedifng adopted by the court as a remedy for the case so
presented. I will give, succinctly,, however, the results to which,
in my view, the court should have been led by th6 facts of the
case, and to which an industrious examination, at least, of the
testimony, has conducted my mind. Before this, however, I
must be permitted to point out a striking inconsistency between the alleged ground of jurisdiction in this cause, as set
forth in the pleadings, and the conclusior. to which the court
has been carried, and the reasons they have assigned for their
conclusion. It will be remembered, that the ground of jurisdiction insisted upon in this case, is the injury alleged to have
been done to the State of Pennsylvania,as a private suitor her peculiar interest alone and none other--for none other could
give jurisdiction to this court under the Constitution; yet
nothing is more obvious, than that the whole argument of the
court is founded upon the injury inflicted by the bridge upon
the owners of certain steam-packets, and upon the trade of
Pittsburg. Calculations are gone into, at length, to show what
number of passengers and what amount of freight are carried
by these particular packets; how much they would lose by beihg deprived of.this business, or by being subjected to the inconvenience and cost of lowering their chimneys, and how muck
the business of Pittsburg would be injured by the obstruction
complained of. Thus the true character of this caus& is betrayed in the very argument and conclusions of the court. The
name and alleged interests of Pennsylvania, as a private suitor,
are used to draw to this court jurisdiction of this cause; but no
sooner is that jurisdiction allowed in the name of Penn~ylvania,
than she, and any peculiar or corporate interests she was said
to possess, are.at once lost sight of, and..those of the steamboat owners, and the local interests of -Pittsburg alone are
enforced.
The results, above alluded to, are as ibllows: 1st. That the
conflicting opinions of those who have been called, as men of
science, to testify in this cause, establish nothing conclusively,
much less ascertain the theory contended for, that, for purposes

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

611

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co, et al.

of economy, of rapid combustion of fuel, or for the generation
and escape of steam, an extraordinary height of chimney is necessary; but leave it doubtful whether the elongation of chimneys
beyond a certain altitude is not calculated to retard the escape
of heated air ana smoke, and also to cause inconvenience and
danger to the boats that carry them. 2d. That, amongst the
practical men, consisting, of those who have experience in constructing boats, and boilers, and other steamboat mahinery,
and also in commanding steamboats on the western rivers and
elsewhere, the preponderance, for several reasons mentioned by
them, is against the extraordinary height of chimneys. 3U
That the cost incident to such a construction of chimneys,
(supposing this great altitude to be advantageous,) as to admit
of their being lowered, and the delay and hazard of lowering
them, are subjects of minor import; have been greatly exaggerated in the statements of some of the witnesses, and should
not be weighed in competition with an important public improvement, itself a valuable and necessary commercial facility,
and cannot convert such a work into a public nuisonce, or, in
any correct sense, an obstruction to navigation. 4th. That the
commissioner erred in yielding to speculation and theory, rather
than to practical knowledge and experience, and to the statements of witnesses, in some instances, whose local position was
calculated, though it may have been honestly and unconsciously,
to influence their feelings and their judgments. With regard to
the right of the plaintiff tb ask the abatement of the Wheeling
Bridge, as a nuisance, by any mode of proceeding, I will here
add another remark, which has in some degree been anticipated
in .preceding views in this opinion; and it is this: A nuisance,
to exist at all, and emphatically a' public nuisance, must be an
offence against the public, or more properly against the government or sovereignty within whose jurisdiction it is committed.
in the case before us, that sovereignty and that jurisdiction
reside either in the commonwealth of Virginia, or in the fedcral
government. If in the former, she has expressly sanctioned t.e
act complained of; consequently, no nuisance has been commit.,ted with respect to her. If the sovereignty and jurisdiction be
in the United States, if is a limited and delegated sovereignty,
to be exerted in the modes and to the extent which the delegating power has prescribed. There can be no other i the government of the Uited States, - none resulting from the principles
of the common law, as inherent in an original and perfect sovereignty. There then can be no nuisance with respect to the
United States, except what Congress shall, in the exercise of
some constitutional power, declare',to be such; and Congress
have not declared an act like that here complained of to be a

SUPREM

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

nuisance. Upon the whole case, then, believing that Pennsylvania cannot maintain this suit, as a party, by any just interpretation of the 2d section of the 3d artich of the Constitution,
vesting this court with original jurisdictior.: Believing that the
power which the majority of the court have assumed cannot, in
this case, be correctly derived to them from the competency of
Congress to regulate commerce between. the several States:
Believing that the question of nuisance or no nuisance is intrinsically a question of fact, which, when contested, ought to
be. tried at law upon the circumstances o:f each case, and that,
before the ascertainment of that fact, a court of equity cannot
take cognizance either for enjoining or abating an act alleged,
but not proven, to be nuisance: Seeing that the commonwealth
of Virginia, within whose territory and jurisdiction the Wheeling Bridge has been erected, has authorized and approvbd the
erection of that bridge; and the United States, under the pretext of whose authority this suit has been instituted, have by
no act of theirs forbidden its erection, and do not now claim to
-have it abated ;-my opinion, upon the best lights I have been
able to bring to this case, is, that the bill of the complainant
should be dismissed. From these convictions, and from the
serse I entertain of the almost incalculable imporfance of the
decision of the majority of the court in this "case, I find myself
constrained solemnly to dissent from that decision.
31otionfor another Reference.
On the above opinion being pronounced, and the two dissenting opinions, Mr. Johnson, of counsel for defendants, suggekted to the court, that the engineer of the bridge had informed
him that the obstruction to the navigation of the Ohio might
be avoided by making a draw in the suspension-bridge, or in
some other manner, far less expensive to the Bridge Company,
and equally convenient to the public, than by elevating the
bridge, as required in the opinion.
On this suggestion, the court observed that, as they were desirous of having the obstruction removed in a manner that shall
be most convenient and least expensive to the Bridge Company,
they requested the counsel to file, in writing, his suggestion s,
and give notice to the other side, that bbth partips may be heard
in regard to them.
In pursuance of the above suggestion from the court, the
counsel for the Bridge Company filed'their suggestions in writing, and an argument took place. Afterwards, Mr. Justice
McLEAN delivered the following opinion of the court.

DECEMBBER TERM, 1851.

618

Stato of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

Order of Reference.
In pursuance of the intimation of the court, the counsel for
the defendants filed, in writing, live plans for the removal of the
obstruction to navigation occasio'ned by the bridge.
1. To elevate it, as required by the opinion of the court.
2. To remove the wooden bridge over the western channel of
the river.
2. To remove the flooring of the suspension-bridge, so that
the tallest chimneys may pass under the cables.
4. To construct a draw in the wooden bridge over the western channel.
5. To make a draw in the suspension-bridge.
It is objected by the complainant's counsel that, after a case
has been argued upon the evidence, and the opinion of the court
pronounced, it is not within any known rules of chancery proceeding to hear additional evidence, with the view of modifying, in any respect, the decree. That some of the plans now
proposed were not embraced by the pleadings or evidence in the
case, and that the effect must be to open the case for additional
evidence and a new argument.
The bill alleged the bridge to be an obstruction to the navigation of the Ohio, and prayed that it might be abated as a
nuisance. The answer denied that it was an obstruction to
navigation.
The commissioner was directed to inquire, "if an obstruction
be made to appear, what change or alteration in the construction
and existing condition of the said bridge, if any, can be made,
consistent with the continuance of the same across said river,
that will remove the obstruction to' the free navigation."
In the opinion'of the court, the bridge is an obstruction to the
navigation of the river, and they held that an elevation of it one
hundred and eleven feet from low-water mark, the width of three
hundred feet across the channel of the river, would remove the
obstruction. Except the elevation of the bridge, no mode was
proposed by the commissioner, for the removal of the obstruction.
Mis instructions limited him to a "change or alteration in the
bridge," which should effectuate that object. Several of the
plans now'proposed, were not within the scope of his inquiry,
and.of course were not embraced by his report.
In giving relief, the court are not bound to abate the nuisance,
as prayed for in the bill, nor to adopt the report of the commissioner, if the obstruction can be removed and the public right
maintained with less expense to the bridge company. This is
a matter within'the judgment of the court, and does tot necessarily constitute a part of the pleadings.
VOL. XIII.

52

614

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsyivania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

It is suggested that the elevation of the bridge, as required in
the opinion of the court, must result in its abatement, as the
stocknolders have 'not the pecuniary means of elevating' it
Whatever. may be the consequences to the stockholders, a great
public right cannot be made -subservient to their interests. Subject to that right, the court will regard and protedt their interests.
* The second plan, which proposed to remove the bridge over
the western channel of the river, we shall refer to the engineer
who acted ,under the commissiomer, and who is familiar withoall
the facts, and having his surveys before him, 'can give promptly
to the court the information they desire.
To remove the flooring of the bridge, as proposed in the third
plan, leavinig the cables in their present position, seems to have
no other practical result than the sale of the cables.
The third and fourth plans propose to construct a draw for the
passage of boats, in the suspension or the western bridge.
Draws are common in bridges across arms of the sea where
the tide ebbs and flows, for the passage of sea vessels, and also
in bridges over rivers with a sluggish current; but we entertain
great doubts whether a draw in either of the bridges, as proposed,
can be constructed so as to afford 14a convenient and safe passage" for the steamboats that ply upon the Ohio. Some of them
are about two hundred and fifty feet long, and from fifty to sixty
feet in width. The current in the Ohio, at high water, is from
five to six miles an hour. A steamboat, to be under the command of the helm, must have a pressure of steam, which, with
the current, would give it a considerable velocity in passing the
draw, and any deviation from the direct lizie by the wind, the
eddies and currents of the river, in high water, might throw the
boat against the bridge on either side. This might be fatal to
the boat and to the lives of its passengers; and the danger
wouId be greatly increased by attempting to pass the draw at
night' especially when the "*eather is unfavorable to navigation.
Jonathan Knight, an engineer-called, by. the defendants, before
the commissioner, said, "my opinion is, decidedly, it would be
better to pass under, (the bridge) by lowerhig chimneys, than to
have a draw; that it would be less dangerous3 and take less time."
And he further states, "where there is a draw, the spjace is necessarily contracted, and it might strike on the one side or the other,
or the wind might be adverse."
The.report of the commissioner contains a report of Charles
Elef, "on a railway suspension-bridge across the Connecticut
(River) at Middletown," in which he says, cthe flooring (of the
bridge) is to be placed one hundred and forty feet above the
river, and the navigation left entirely unobstructed." And he
recommends " a high level to avoid" " the injury to the public con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

615

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

sequent on delays at the draw." In the same. rbport he observes,
"no party would now be so idle as to ask to place a draw-bridge
across the Ohio or Mississippi; no law could be obtained for
such an obstruction, and nothing is hazarded by the assertion
that such a nuisance would be immediately overthrown, if placed
there under the color of any law. The bridges that are established on those streams, must be placed high enough to clear
the steamboats, and must leave the channel open."
We shall direct the decree drawn up in pursuance of the
opinion of the court, which affords to the stockholders of the
bridge the alternative of elevating it, and thereby removing the
obstruction to the navigation of the river, to be filed but not recorded, until the engineer or the commissioner shall report upon
the second, third, fourth, and fifth plans proposed by defendants'
counsel. Notwithstanding the above intimations in regard to a
draNF, -we are desirous of .having the report of a practical and
scientific engineer on that subject, as well as in relation to the
other plans.
It is therefore ordered, that the clerk of this court transmit to
William J. MeAlpine, Esquire, a copy of this opinion, with a
request that he make a report to this court, on or before the
second Monday of May next,1st. Whether a draw can be constructed in the suspensionbridge, that shall afford a safe and convenient passage for the
largest class of steamboats which ply to Pittsburg, having chimneys eighty feet high, at a depth of water thirty feet from the
ground, and if such a draw be practicable, that he give a*particular description in what manner and of what dimensions it
must be constructed.
2d. Whether such a draw may be constructed in *the wooden
bridge over the western channel of the river. '
3d. Whether the removal of the western bridge will open an
unobstructed channel for the packetp which now pass Wheeling,
having chimneys eighty feet high, at all times when they shall
not be able to pass under the suspension-bridge.
4th. Whether the removal of the flooring of the bridge, as proposed, will enable packets to pass having chimneys eighty feet high.
In obedience to this order of the court, Mr. McAlpine filed the
following report.
To the honorable Roger B. Taney, chief justice; John McLean, James M. Wayne, John Catron, John McKinley, Peter
V. Daniel, Samuel Nelson, Robert .C. Grief, and Benjamin
R. Curtis, associate justices of the Supreme Court of the United States.
In pursuance of the order of the Supreme Court of the Uni.

.SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvvnia v.'The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

ted States, dated the first day of Match, 1,852, a copy of which
has been furnished by the clerk of the said court, dated the third
day of March, 1852, 1, William . McAlpine, do make the following report on the several matters directed in the said order,
as follows:
1st. Whether a draw can be constructed in the suspensionbridge that shall afford, a safe and convenient passage for the
largest class of.steamboats which ply to Pittsburg, having chimneys eighty feet high, at a depth of water thirty feet from the
ground; and if such a draw be practicable, that he give a particular description in what nanner, and of what dimensions, it
must be constructed.
24- Whether such a draw may be constmcted in the wooden
bridge over the western channel of the rive::.
3d. Whether the removal of the western bridge will open an
uinobstructed channel for the packets which. now pass Wheeling,
having chimneys eighty feet high, at all times, when they shall
not be able to pass under the suspension-buidge.
4th. Whether the removal of the flooring of the bridge, as
proposed, will enable packets to pdss having chimneys eighty
feet high.
The largest class of steamboats which ply to Pittsburg are
the daily packets, which are from fifty-four to fifty-eight feet in
width, and from two hundred and fifteen -to two hundred and
si-ty-four feet in length.
In a direct channel, with a moderate current, and in favorable
weather, a draw of one hundred feet in width would, with skilful navigation, be sufficient for the safe and convenient passage
of such vessels.
In the high stages of 'water in the Ohio River at Wheeling,
the velocity of the current is from five to sL. miles an hour. A
*steamboat, in passing down the river, must have an additional
velocity: to keep her under the command of the helm, so that she
must pass the draw with a velocity of from. eight to ten miles
per hour; and this speed would be less than the ordihary velo.
city of the vessel in other parts of the river.
In stormy weather, with the.wind blowing across the current
of the river, it would be difficult for a steaml:oat, of the size above
stated, to pass without considerably more allowance than would
be provided for in a draw of one hundred feet in width.
At such times, the danger of passing the draw at night would
be much increased, and it would be necessary to maintain lights
on each side of the draw to guide the pilots in the proper direction to pass it.
Under the ordinary circumstances of high water, a draw of at
least one hundred and fifty feet in width would be necessary,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

617

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

and one of two hundred feet in width to pass at night with
safety.
In dark, stormy nights, and with a rapid current in the river,
the hazard of a passage would be so great that vessels would
probably be laid by, rather than risk the dangers of the passage
of a draw of less than thre& hundred feet in width.
From the accompanying drawing of the present suspension.
bridge at Wheeling, it will be seen that-a draw cannot be placed
in the eastern end of the bridge which will give a clear passageway, beneath the cables, for steamboats having chimneys eighty
feet high, at a depth of water thirty feet above the ground, of
one hundred feet in width.
At the western end of the bridge, adjoining the western abutment, a draw may be placed, which will give a passage for such
vessels in a thirty feet stage of water, of nearly oie hundred feet
in width:
In reply, therefore, to the first question of the court, I have to
state, that a draw of sufficient width for the safe and convenient
passage of steamboats of the dimensions stated, cannot be constructed in the present bridge.
In a five feet stage of water, such a vessel would have a space
of ninety-six feet in width, adjoining the eastern shore, to pass
beneath the flooring of the present bridge, and in a six feet stage
a width of one hundred and twelve feet.
At any stage of water higher than six feet, the width of passage would be reduced in consequence of the steep inclination
of the eastern bank of the river.
In a five feet stage of water, vessels drawing four feet would
strike the bed of the river on the western shore, at a point eight
hundred and eighty feet from the face 'of the eastern abutment.
A steamboat with a chimney eighty feet high would, (allowing two feet for clearance,) on a five feet stage of water, in extremely warm weeauner, clear the cable at a point six hundred
and seventy-one feet from the face of the eastern abutment,
which leaves a clear passage-way of two hundred and nine feet
in width.
In a six feet stage of water, the vessel would strike the bed
of the river at nine hundred feet, and the chimney would clearat si:x hundred and eighty-five feet;.which leaves a clear passage
of two hundred and fifteen feet in width.
In a seven feet stage of water, the vessel would strike the bed
at nine hundred and eighteen feet, and the chimney would clear
at six hundred and ninety-seven feet, leaving a passage-way of
two hundred and twenty-one feet in width.
In an eight feet stage of water, the vessel would strike the bed
52*

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

of the river at nine hundred and twenty-two feet, and the chimney would clear at seven hundred and nine feet, leaving a passage of two hundred and thirteen feet.
In a nine feet stage of water, the vessel would strike the bed
of the river at nine hundred and twenty-six feet, and the chimney would clear at seven hundred and nineteen feet, leaving a
passage of two hundred and seven feet.
In a ten feet stage of water, the vessel would strike the bed
of the river at nine hundred and thirty feet, and the chimney
would clear at seven hundred and twenty-nine feet, leaving a
passage of two hundred and one feet.
In an eleven feet stage of water, the vessel would strike the
bed of the river at nine hundred and thirty-four feet, and the
chimney would clear at seven hundred and thirty-nine feet, leaving a passage of one hundred and ninety-five feet
In a twelve feet stage of water, the vessel would strik
-a
bed of the river at nine hundred and thi.ty-eight feet, and the
chimney would clear at seven hundred ar.,d forty-nine feet, leaving a passage of one hundred and eighty-nine feet.
In a thirteen feet stage of water, the vessel would strike the
bed of the fiver at nine hundred and forty-two feet, and the
chimney would clear at seven hundred "and fifty-nine feet, leaving a passage of one hundred and eighty-three feet.
From the accompanying chart, it will be seen that the shoal
which makes into the river from the west shore above the bridge,
would render it difficult for a vessel to enter the draw on a six
feet stage of water, unless its eastern end were located at least
three huhidred feet from the 'western abutment, and then the
passage-way under the bridge, clear of the bottom of the river
and cable, would be two hundred and fifteen feet in width.
It is necessary that the draw should be arranged for this stage
of watei, because a vessel could not then pass under the flooring
of the eastern end of the bridge, with a sufficient width of clear
space.
For each foot that the water rises, the passage-way is thrown
about ten feet to the west, and its width is diminished about six
feet.
In an eighteen feet stage of water, the chimney would clear
the cables at a point seven hundred and eighty-three feet from
the face of the eastern abutment, which would leave a clear
space of one hundred and ninety-three feet in width.
In a thirty feet stage, the chimney would clear at eight hundred and sixty-six feet, leaving a space of one hundred and ten
feet
The draw would, therefore, require to be made at least ihree
hundred feet long, from the face of the western abutment, to

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

619

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

allow the passage of steamboats of the dimensions stated, in the
several stages of water, from six to thirty feet in depth.
It is, in my opinion, impracticable to construct so large a draw
in a suspension-bridge, because from its flexible character, and
the constant change of position of its cables, which would be
caused by the movement or a mass of so great weight as the
draw, it would not admit of the adaptation of machinery for its
movement.
A draw of this length might be constructed in the Wheeling
Suspension-Bridge, by erecting a pier in the river at the eastern
end of the draw, and carrying the cables over the top of it, in
the manner suggested by Colonel Long, in his testimony before
the commissioner, and suspending the draw from a strong permanent bridge, elevated on the top of the new pier and abutment of the present bridge, similar to the tubular bridges recently
constructed across the Conway and Menai straits, in Great
Britain. The cost of constructing such a draw, and of the
necessary alterations of the bridge, would exceed the cost of elevating it to the height stated in the order of the court.
The inconivenience of the, approach to a draw placed in this
position,. and the uncertainty of its successful operatiobi and
maintenance under all circumstances of weather, exposed to
winds, and with its machinery liable to be deranged by frost, or
by the accidental encounter with passing vessels, render the utility of the plan, in my opinion, so doubtful, that any further detail of its arrangement is deemed unnecessary.
A draw can be constructed in the wooden bridge over the
western channel of the river, which will, under ordinary circumstances, offer a safe and conveniebt passage for the largest class
of steamboats which ply to Pittsburg. This bridge consists
of three spans, each of two hundred feet in length. A drawing
is herewith sent, which exhibits a plan of a draw.placed in the
centre span of the bridge, which opens a clear space of two hundred feet.
The pl'an of this draw is similar to one which has been constructed on the London and Brighton railroad, which has a single draw, moving in one direction, of sLxty-six feet in length.
The plan proposed for the Wheeling Bridge, is in two parts,
opening in the centre, and moving back on the floor of the present bridge. Each draw will open one hundred feet, (being
thirty-four feef more than the single draw above mentioned,) and
making the whole opening two hundred feet, equal to the space
between the centre piers.
The plan proposed will require the removal of the roof, and
the centre trusses of the end spans cf the present bridge, to
allow the draws to move back on the floors. The draws to be

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &e. Bridge Co. et al.

timber; truss frames, each two hundred feet long, the ends supported by timber suspenders from the top of a well-braced centre
frame; the land ends of the draws to be loaded sufficiently to
balance the projecting portion of the same. 'When the draws
are closed, the ends are to be' secured together with iron pins
passing through iron straps, and the land ends fastened to the
end spans of the permanent bridge irt a similar manner. When
the bridge is thus closed and secured, it will form a perfect suspension-bridge of two hundred feet span.
The draws will be moved on wheels moving on iron rails, laid
on the floor of the end spans, which will require to be strengthThe trusses should also be
ened by additional timbers.
strengthened with arch ribs and timbers to support the additional weight of the draws.
The draws to be moved by gearing placed in the piers, working into a rack on the underside of the draw-bridge frame;
the gearings moved by a capstan placed on the side of the bridge
over the piers. The capstan may be worked by man or horse
power.
The floor of the draw will be two and a half feet above the
floor of the permanent bridge, which may be overcome by a
light platform attached to the end of the' draw, that would move
with the draw when opening or closing.
The cost of removing the centre span of the permanent
bridge, strengthening the side or end spans, and constructing the
draw-bridge, is estimated at thirty-three thousand and twentythree dollars and sixty cents, ($33,023.60.)
It is proper that I should state that there would be some difficulty experienced in the opening of this, or any other practicable draw, during very strong gales of wind, and at such times
some delays would unavoidably occur in the passage of vessels.
The present bridge over the western channel would not admit of the construction of a draw of raore than two hundred
feet in width, without the expenditure of a sum nearly as great
as that required for the consfr-ustion of a new bridge.
A draw of three hundred feet in width may be constructed,
either in the present bridge, or in a new bridge over the western
channel, in the same manner as before stated, at the western
end of the suspension-bridge.
The expense of the construction of such a draw would exceed the cost of elevating the'suspension-bridge to the height
stated in the order of the court, and thEre would be the same
difficulties in operating and maintaining it as have been before
stated.
In my opinion, no draw can be constructed in either of the
bridges at Wheeling, which would produce no delay, and pre-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

621

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

sent no obstruction to the safe and convenient passage, at all
times, of the largest class of steamboats which navigate the
Ohio River at Wheeling.
In reply to the third question of the court, I have to state, that
the removal of the western bridge will open an unobstructed
channel for the packets which now pass Wheeling, when the
water is six feet deep on the Wheeling bar.
It has been previously stated that steamboats, with chimneys
eighty feet high, will have a passage-way uiider the flooring of
the suspension-bridge of ninety-six feet in width in a five feet
stage of water, and of one hundred and twelve feet in-a six feet
stage.
By removing the obstructions in the western channel, which
are now caused by a bar at the north end of Zane's. Island, an
unobstructed channel can be obtained for such vessels at all
times when they cannot pass under the suspension-bridge.
A chart is herewith sent, which exhibits the obstructions of the
western channel.
In reply to the fourth question of the court, it is proper to
state, that from the preceding report it will be seen that-the removal of the flooring of the suspension-bridge will enable packets
to pass under the cables, having chimneys eighty feet high, the
clear width of the passage being, as before stated, from one
hundred ten to two hundred and twenty-one feet in width, depending upon the stage of water in the river.
The naked cables would afford no guide to direct the passage
of vessels to the point at which the chimneys would clear the
cables on the one side, and not strike the bottom of the river on
the other side.
to suspend lights on the cables during
It would b, necessary passage.
the night to indicate the
In high stages of the water, and during the night, the passage
of vessels of the size stated would be attended -with difficulty
and danger, in consequence of the narrowness of the space, and
of its being out of the main channel of the river. Respectfully
WILLIAM J. MCALPINE.
snbmitted,
Albany, 11Nay 8, 1852.
This report was made the subject of another argument, in
consequence of exceptions to it being filed by Mr. Campbell, the
Attorney-Gener.,1 of Pennsylvania, and ir. Stanton, also of
counsel for the complainant. The report of the case has already
been extended to such an unusual length, that the reporter cannot find room to notice the arguments of the respective counsel
upon the exceptions.

622

SUPREME

COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling'&c. Bridge Co. et al.

-

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The plans lately proposed, through defendant's counsel, to obviate the obstructions to the navigation of the Ohio River, by
reason of the Wheeling Bridge, complained of by the plai'ntiff,
having been referred to William J. McAlpine, Esquire, civil
engineer, he reports That a draw cannot be made in the suspension-bridge which
shall afford a safe and convenient passage for the largest class
of steamboats, which ply from Pittsburg, having chimneys
eighty feet high, on a depth of water thirty feet from the ground.
And he reports that a draw can be constructed in the wooden
bridge over the western channel of the :iver, which will, under
ordinary circumstances, bffer a safe and convenient passage for
such boats.
That bridge, he states, consists of three spans, each of two
huindred feet in length; and he proposes that the draw shall be
placed in the centre span of the bridge, which will open a clear
space of two hundred feet. He also reports, in answer to the third
question of the court, "that the removal of the Western Bridge
will open an obstructed channel for the packets which now pass
Wheeling, when the water is six feet deep on the Wheeling bar."
On this report the parties have been heard.
The counsel for the defendants complain that no notice was
given to them, of the late action of the engineer. A notice was
unnecessary. The proposed plans were submitted by the defendants, and they were referred to tie engineer, who acted
under the commissioner; and who, having made the surveys and
reports, was in possession of' all the evidence necessary to give
the required information to the court. He had only to look into
his .own work for the data to make the additional report in regard to both bridges and the two channels of the river, over which
they have beeh constructed. His opinion as to a draw and the
other matters referred to him, were strictly within the line of his
profession. - No act done under the late reference was open for
investigation by proof, or subject to be influenced by argument.
The presence of the parties by their cotnsel was neither neces.
sary nor desirable, and notice to the defendant was not, therefore, reiquired to be given.
By the reference the court did not intendI to make the opinion of
the engineer the immediate basis of 'a final decree. They were
desirous of ascertaining all the facts which could' have a beaing
in the decision of the case. They were fully impressed with its
high impotame to the public and to the defendants.- And,
whilst a high sense of duty required thera to maintain the public
right, they were solicitous, as expressed.in their former opinion,
to do so, with ,he least possille expense to the defendants.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

623

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

In their former opinion nothing was said, from which an inference could be drawn, that the right of crossing the Ohio River
by bridges, was incompatible with its navigation. Had this
bridge been constructed, in the language of its charter, so "as
not to obstruct the navigation of the Ohio in the usual manner,
by steamboats and other crafts, as are now commonly accustomed" to navigate the same, when the river shall be as high as•
the highest floods hereinbefore known," this iuit could never
have been instituted. The charter was granted in 1847, long
after the great floods in 1832, and in subsequent years.
The right of navigating the Ohio River, or any other river in
our country, does not necessarily conflict with the right of
bridging it. But these rights can only be maintained when they
are so exercised as not to be incompatible with each other. It
is in their improper exercise, and not in their nature, that any
incompatibility exists.
We can derive but little iiistruction on this subject, from
European experience and practice. The rivers on that continent
are generally diminutive, and of no very great length.. They do
not compare with the great rivers of the West. The bridges
on the Rhine are numerous, and most,if not all of them, have
draws, through which boats are continually passing. But their
boats are small, with low and light chimneys, and some, if not
many of the bridges, rest upon the surface of the water. A boat
of two hundred and ninety-five feet in length, as the Pittsburg,
it is believed, is not to be found engaged in inland
river
e navil
gation in Europe.
The report now before us, in its outlines, is not objected to
by the defendants. On the contrary, they ask the court to
sanction it, leaving open its details. In their former opinion,
after stating the elevation which must be given to the suspension-bridge to remove the obstruction, the court say, "if this,
or some other plan, shall not be adopted, which shall relieve the
navigation from obstruction, on or before the first day of February next, the bridge must be abated." It was supposed that
some plan might be suggested to remove the obstruction, at less
expense than the elevation or abatement of the bridge. The
court had before them only the general plan for relief reported
by the commissioner. Under suc circumstances, they felt
themselves bound to receive and refer the propositions submitted
by the defendants' counsel. The affirmative action on these
propositions belong to the defendants; and also the eventual responsibility.
The court think that the report of the engineer, in its general
aspect, without examining its details, affords such probability
of success as to entitle the defendants to the proposed experi-

SUPREMtE COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling. &e. Bridge Co. et I.

ment. We look to the desired results, and not to the practicability and efficiency of the plan. Of these the defendants must
judge. They have the neans of ascertaining, with the utmost
accuracy, whether a channel can be opened, in the western
branch of the river, so as to afford a safe and an unobstructed
navigation for the largest class of boat, Laving chimneys eighty
feet high, when they cannot pass under the suspension-bridge.
This is the object desired, and any thing short of this would not
be, satisfactory.
When the subject of a draw was first suggested to the court,
it was intimated that no draw was known which exceeded
seventy feet in width, but it was supposed-that one 'of eighty
feet might be constructed. And the, court then said, "we entertain great doubts whether a draw in either of the bridges, as
proposed, can be constructed so as to afford a convenient passage for the steamboats that ply upon the. Ohio River." A
draw of two hundred feet in the clear is now proposed, and one
less than that, would not answer the public demand.
The court will not now examine, whether there be not in the
western channel other obstructions'than the bridge. If such obstruction exist, of whatsoever'nature, they must be known to
the defendants, and must be removed.
With these general remarks, the court will leave the defendants free in the matter, to act as their .oWn judgments shall
dictate.
' The elevation of the bridge, in pursuance of the report of the
commissioner, was ordered by the court, as the best mode of
removing the obstruction, suggested by the evidence. The
abatement of the nuisance was the most direct and ordinary
mode for giving relief in such cases. The alternative of elevating the bridge was adopted, from conside::ations connected with
the interests of the defendants, and the accommodation of the
public, The same views have influenced us, in relation to the
proposition now before us. We do not sanction them farthef
than to leave them to the defendants, to work out and secure,
if they shall think proper, the required results, as stated in this
opinion. The inconsiderable delay of t-wo or three minutes in
passing the draw, and running the increased distance of the
western channel, does not constitute a material objection. From
the statement made the increase of 'time would be less than is
ordinarily consumed in the landing or receiving a passenger at
the shore.
The objection, that the navigation of the eastern channel of
the river has been improved by the government, and that the
plaintiff has a right to its unobstructed use, is admitted to have
much force.

DECEMBtR TBRM, 1851.

625

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

In the multitudinous concerns of commerce, we must view
things practically, and cannot deal in abstractions. It ig not
always in the discretion of a court to measure justice by doing
or requiring to be done the exact-hing which would seem to be
most appropriate. Cases may arise in which great interests are
involved, that may have had their origin in wrongful acts, yet
connecte-I with circumstances which render it extremely difficult,
if not impracticable, t6 do the thing, or cause it to be done,
which is most fit and proper. In such cases, as in the law of
mechanics, equivalents are of necessity substituted. And if the
thing done be all that juktice can require, it may suffice. Such,
Is not unfrequently the necessary action of a court of chancery.
If the western channel of the river shall be made to afford an
equally safe and unobstructed passage for boats, as' .the eastern
channel, before the structure of the suspension-bridge, excepting
the mere passage of the draw, and the increased distance, no
appreciable injury is done to commerce.
The court will direct the decree which has been filed, and
which required the bridge to be elevated, as therein specified, on
or before the first day of February next to be recorded, and that
it shall stand as the order of- this court, unless before that time
the western channel of the river shall be made by the defendants,
to afford an unobstructed passage to boats of the largest class
which ply to Pittsburg, agreeably to this opinion; and leave is
given to either party to move the court in relation to this matter,
on the first Monday of February next.
The costs of this suit are ordered to be paid by the defendants.
Decree.
This cause having been heard in February last, and the opinioli"
of the court pronounced; on the suggestions of the defendants'
counsel. a reference on certain points was made to William -J.
McAlpine, whose report having been made and arguments heard
from the counsel on both sides at the adjourned term, in May,
1852, the cause stands for a final decree, on the original bill, the
amendments thereto, the answers of respondents, and replications
to said answers; and on the proofs in the cause, together with
the report of the commissioner appointed by this court to
examine the premises, and on the exceptions to said report when it appeared -that the respondents, in the year 1849, had
erected a suspension-bridge supported by iron-wire, cables across
that portion of the River Ohio lying between the city of Wheeling and Zane's Island, by virtue, of a charter granted by the
commonwealth of Virginia, the span of said bridge being over
one thousand feet long; and it also appeared that across the
VOL. XIII.

53

626

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling: &c. Bridge C9. et al.

other channel of the river west of Zane's Island, there is a trussbridge so constrvited as altogether to Frevent the passage of
steamboats through that channel, which bridge is owned and
maintained by the defendants. And it further appeared that the
suspension-bridge over the channel of the river east of the isl.nd,,
is so near the flow of thd water in its ordinary stages, as seriously
to hinder and obstruct the largest class o: steamboats from passing and repassing under said bridge, in going to and returning
from the port of Pittsburg, in the State of Pennsylvania; that
large and expensive public improvements made by, and the property of, that State, consisting of canals connecting railroads,
turnpike-roads, and slack-water navigation in said State, constructed years before the said suspension-bridge was erected, all
of which improvements terminate at Pittsburg, on the Ohio River,
and extend throughout the State of Pennsylvania, to the east
and north, connecting the city of Philadelphia,*in said State, and
Lake Erie with the River Ohio. That a large commerce for
several years has been and now is carried on over these public
works of internal improvement, on whi3h Pennsylvania levies
reasonable, tolls to maintain said works, and to compensate her
for their erection. That said bridge impcses serious obstructions
to the largest class of vessels propelled by steam, and which
bring freight and passengers from below said bridge, and which
freight and passehge.rs are intended to pass east and north over
the canals and railroads of Pennsylvania, or to be conveyed
down the Ohio River, having been transported on the public
works of Pennsylvania, a portion of which commerce hap
been hindered and 'prevented, and hereafter must 'be hindered
and prevented from passing over the public works of that State,
because of obstructions to navigation interposed by said bridge.
That the said Ohio River is a navigable stream, the fiavigation
whereof by law is free to all citizens of the United States, and
ought to rehiain unobstructed; and that the said suspensionbridge not only obstructs and hinders navigation on said river
but by means of such obstructions does occasion a special damage to the said State of Pennsylvania as aforesaid, for which
there is not a plain and an adequate remedy at law, but on the
contrary thereof, such injury is irreparable by an action or actions
at common law.
It is, therefore, decreed and adjudged, that said suspension.
mridge is an obstruction and nuisance, and that the complainant
has a just and legal right to have the navigation of the said
river made free, either by the abatement or elevation of the
bridge, so that it will cease to be an obstruction, in ordinary
stages of high water, to the largest class of steam-vessels now navigating the Ohio River, and.which alteration is hereby declared

DECEMBER TEPM, 1851.

627

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al-

to be an elevation of said suspension-bridge, to the height of
one hunded and eleven feet at least, in its undermost parts,
above the low-water mark, by the Wheeling gauge of the Ohio's
water; and that the height of said one hundred and eleven feet
shall be maintained to the extent of three hundred feel on a
level headway over the channef of the said river. And that, from
the respective ends of said headway, of three hundred feet, to
the abutments of each end of the bridge; the descent shall not
exceed at the rate of four feet fall to every hundred feet of exterion on the line of the bridge; and that the same shall be
removed by respondents, or altered, as above stated, on or before
the first day of February, 1853.
Since the above decree was drawn, certain propositions having been made by the defendants to open an unobstructed navigation for boats of the largest class, which ply to Pittsburg,
through the western channel of the river, as is more -particularly
stated in the last opinion of the court in this case,.which may
avoid the obstructions by reason of the bridge complained of
by the plaintiffs; and, as time has Veen given, to the first Monday of February next, for the defendants; should they deem proper, to carry out their propositions, by removing all obstructions
in the western channel, on which day the plaintiff may move
the court on the subject of the decree, and of the proposed alterations in the western channel, which, being before the court,
will enable them to act in the premises as the law and the equity
of tht. case may require.
The court order the costs to be paid by defendants.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY and Mfr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Opinion of .Tr. Justice Daniel and Mr&. Chief Justice Taney.
When this case was formerly before us, my opinion was expressed at length against tb right of this court to take jurisdiction thereof. My opinion upon this question renains unchanged; but the court having taken jurisdiction, I do not
conceive that my objection to the cognizance by the court of
this controversy forbids my concurrence in any modification of
the decree originally proposed in this case, calculated to relieve
the defendants from the operation of exactions, believed by
me to be unwarranted by law. I therefore concur in the proposed modification of the former decree, by which a draw is
authorized in the bridge over the western branch of the River
Ohio. I think, however, that the length prescribed by this court
for the draw is greater than the public exigencies require, and

628

-SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling &c. Bridge Co. et al.

that a draw of one hundred feet, at the utmost, would be ample
to meet those exigencies. It is also my opinion, that the costs
in this cause should be equally borne by the parties.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY also dissented, concurring in the
opinion of Mr. Justice Daniel.

