DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Doe v. Beebe et al.

The statute did not protect the possession of the defendant
below. His patent excepted these lots; of course he had no title
under it, for the lots excepted.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of 'the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Illinois, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,, that
the judgment of the said Circuit COdrt in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

JOHN DOE, Ex. DE,%. HALLETT & WALKER, EXEJUTORS OF
JOSHUA KENNEbY, DECEASED, PLAiNTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ALFRED
R. BEEBE, GEORGE W. HILLIARD, ALEXANDER M. CARR,
CHARLES T. KETCHU',% AND JOHN HORSFELDT.
The principles established in the cases of 3 How. 212, and 9 How. 477, again affirmed,
viz., that after the admission of Alabama into the Unign as a State, Congress could
make no grant of land situated between high and low water marks.

THis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Alabarna by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The plaintiff in error brought an ejectment irr the Circuit
Court of Mobile county, under the circumstances stated in the
opinion of the court. The judgment of that court was against
them, and they then appealed to the Supreme Court of Alabama,
where the judgment was affirmed. They then brought the case
up to this court.
It Was argued-by 01r. Canpbell, for the plaintit

in error.

Al. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment; and the plaintiffs iii error
claim title to the premises under a contract of sale made by
Morales, the Spanishi Intendant at Pensacola, with a certain
William McVoy, for twenty arpents of land on the west side of
the River Mobile, bounding on the river; which contract was
afterwards confirmed by an act of Congress..
The contract with McVoy was made in 1806. He subsequently
assigned his interest to William J. -Kenndy and .Joshua Ken-VOL. XIII.

3

26

SUPREME COURT.
McCormick v. Gray et al.

nedy, and the laater became the sole owner by an assignment
from the former. An act of Congress was passed in 1832, confirming the title of Joshua Kennedy upon two conditions: 1st.
That the confirmation should amount to nothing more than the
relinquishment of the right of the United States at that time in
the land; and, 2dly, That the lands before that time sold by the
United States, should not be comprehended within the act of
confirmation. And in 1837, a patent was issued to Joshua Kennedy, reciting in full this act of Congress under which it was
granted.
It is admitted in the record, that the land in question was below high-water mark when the United St.tes .sold the land on
which Fort Charlotte stood, in the town of Mobile. These
lands were divided into lots and sold in 1820 and 1821, and patents
were issued to the purchasers in the year last mentioned. The
defendants made title to three of these lots, which bounded on
the river, and it was admitted that at the time of the sale high
water extended over their eastern limits; and that the land now
in controversy was reclaimed from the water and filled up by
those under whom the defendants claimed.
The question, therefore, to be decided in this case is, whether
the title obtained under MeVof's contract, confirmed by the act
of Congress in 1832; or the title ottained under the sale of the
lots in 1820 and 1821, is the superior and better title.
The principles of law on which this question depends, have
already been decided in this court in Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How.
212, and in Goodtitle v. Kibbe, 9 How. 477, 478. And, according to the decisions in these two cases, the title under the sale
of the lots is the superior one.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama
must, therefore, be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of the
said. Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.
CYRUs H. McCoRmICx, APPELLANT, CHARLES
WILLIAI B. OGDEN.

Al.

GRAY, AND

Where two partners assigned all their partnership property to a trustee with certain
instrgctions how to dispose of it, and afterwards agreed between thembelves to

