SUPREME
Miller

COURT.

v. Austen et al.

record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to dismiss the petition of the claimants without
prejudice to the rights of either the United States or the alpellees.

HENRY MILLER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. DAVID AUSTEN, WILLIAI S. WILIERDING, AND DAVID AUSTEN, JR., DEFENDANTS.
A statute of Ohio declares all promissory notes, drawn for a sum certain, payable
to any person or order, or to any person or his assignees, negotiable by indorse.
ment.

The following paper, namely, Mississippi Union Bank, Jackson, Miss. February 8, 1840.
"No. 959.
I hereby certify that Hugh Short has deposited in this bank, payable twelve months
from 1st May, 1839, with five per cent. interest till dae, fifteen hundred dollars, for

the use of Henry Miller, and payable only to his order, upon the return of this certificate.

$1,500.

Win. 1'. Grayson, Cashier,"-

was negotiable by indorsement under the statute, and the indorser had a right to
maintain an action against an indorser.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
On the 8th of February, 1840, the Mississippi Union Bank
issued the following certificate :MIIssIssIPPI UNION 3ANE,

Jackson, Miss. Feb. 8th, 1840.
I hereby certify, that Hugh Short has deposited in this bank,
payable, " months from 1st May, 1839, with 5 per cent. interest
due, fifteen hundred dollars, for the use of Henry Miller, and
Still
payable only to his order, upon the return of this certificate.
Wm. P. GRAYsoN,, Cashier.
$1500.
On which are the following indorsements:
Pay to George Lockwood or order.

HENRY MILLER,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

Pay Austen, Wilmerding & Co. or order, without recourse.
GEORrE LoCxwooD.
On the 4th of May, 1840, L. V. Dixon, justice of -the peace
and ex offcio notary-public, presented the paper declared on at
the counter of the. Mississippi Union:Bank, at Jackson, and de-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

219

Miller v. Austen et al.

manded of the teller payment in specie, or its equivalent, which
that officer, after consultation with the other officers of the bank,
refused; but offered to pay in the notes of the bank, which the
notary would not accept. The defendant, Miller, was -dulynotified as indorser, by a written and printed notice, directed to him
at Cincinnati, and deposited in the post-office in time for the
first mail of the next day.
In July, 1847, Austen, Wilmerding & Co., brought an action
against Miller in the Circuit Court of Ohio. The suit was
brought against Miller as indorser, and the declaration contained
three counts.
1st. Alleging it to be a promissory note of the Union Bank,
payable to the order of Henry Miller, and by him indorsed to
George Lockwood, who indorsed it to plaintiffs below.
2d. Alleging it to be a draft drawn by Henry Miller, on the
'Mississippi Union Bank, at Jackson, requesting the said .bank
to pay to George Lockwood, and by him indorsed to the plaintiffs below, and charging a due presentment for payment, and
notice of non-payment.
3d. On a common count for money lent and advanced, paid,
laid out, and expended, money had and received, and on an account stated.
The plea was non assumpsit.
In October, 1850, the cause came on for trial, when the' jury
found a verdict for the plaintiff'for $2,468.86.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff offered the note in evialence, together with the protest, &c. Objection was taken, but the court
overruled it and admitted the evidence. This was the subject
of the first bill of exceptiop.
The second exception was to the refusal of the court to grant
certain prayers asked for by the defendant, of which it is only
necessary to notice the following.
1st. That the paper offered in evidence is not a negotiable instrument under the laws of Ohio, and cannot be sued on by the
plaintiffs in the cause.
6th. That said paper offered in evidence is not a promissory
note, nor is iR a bill of exdhange, but is a mere certificate, acknowledging the receipt and deposit of paper or obligations of
some kind, which are payable twelve months after 1st May
1839, bearing interest at the rate of five per cent. till due.
Upon these exceptions the case came up to this court, and was
argued by Xri&. Fox, for the plaintiff in error, and by _r. Chase
and Mr. Rockwell, for the defendants in error.
Only those parts of the arguments will be noted, which bear
upon the point decided by the court.

220

SUPREME

COURT.

Miller v. Austen et al.

.Mr. Fox. We maintain this is not a promissory note, as
described in the declaration, so as to pass by indorsement,
as a mercantile instrument. That it is not so considered in
a mercantile sense, nor is it a promissory rote under the statute
of Ohio.
Under the statute of Ohio, (Swan's Stat. 587,) "all bonds, promissory notes, bills of exchange, foreign and inland, drawn for
any sum or sums of money certain, and made payable to any
person or order, or to any person or bearer, or to any person or
assigns, shall be negotiable by indorsement thereon; . . . but
nothing in this section shall be construed. to make negotiable
any such bond, note, or bill of exchange, drawn to any person
or persons alone, and not drawn payable .:o order, bearer, or assigns." A check and certificate of deposit are not mentioned in
this statute as being negotiable.
Under this statute, the Supreme Qourt of Ohio has decided
that this identical paper is not a promissory note, negotiable under the laws of Oio, as will be seen by reference to the Western Law Journal, vol. 4, p. 527.
Suit was brought by these plaintiffs against Miller, on the
same certificate, and was decided by Jrtdge Hitchc6ck, Mlay
term, 1847. The case is reported very shortly, but the point decided is fully shown. We claim that this, being a decision upon
a local statfe, the statute must, by this court, be construed in
the same way as the same is construed by the Supreme Court
of Ohio. Whether it iz such a note as is negotiable in Ohio,
depends upon the statutes of Ohio; and the courts of that State
having given a judicial construction to the statute, this court
will adhere to the construction, because tfie very essence of the
contract of indorsement depends upon the laws of Ohio, where
it was made. 6 Cranch, 225; 10 Wheat. 50; 13 Pet. 379; 11
Wheat. 367; 6 Pet. 297.
We suppose, therefor6, that we may safely rely upon the decision of the Supreme Court- of Ohio, on this identical paperf
between the same parties, as deisive of this question.
But independently of that decision, we maintain this is not
such a promissory note as is or can be negotiable under the wellsettled rules of law.
In the first place, there can be no such thing as a negotiable
promissory note, unless there is an express promise to pay a certain amount. An implied promise will not answer. Story on
Promissory Notes, sect. 14.
Where there is "no more than a simple acknowledgment of
the debt, with"such a promise to pay as the law will imply," it
is not a promissory note. Patterson v. Poindexter, 6 'Watts &
Serg. 231. In that case this question is very fully examined by

DEOE74AER TERtM, 1851.
Miller v. Austen et al.

the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, on a certificate of deposit,
exactly like the one now before the court, and which was held
not to be a promissory note, after two arguments. The court
referred to Home *v. Redfearn, 6 Scott, 267, as conclusive on the
subject.
In Fisher v. Leslie, 1 Esp. Rep. 426, it was held that a slip of
paper " I 0 U eight guineas," is not a promissory note; The
court held the paper was the mere acknowledgment of the debt,
but was neither a promissory note nor a receipt.
Ali instrument acknowledging the receipt of Y200 in drafts,
for the payment of money, and promising to pay the money
specified in the drafts, is not a promissory note. Williamson v.
Bennett, 2 Camp. R. 417.
In the next place, it is not a promuissory note, because it is
payable upon a contingency and ftot at all event . It is payable only upon the order of Henry Miller, and upon the return of
the certificate.
A promissory note must not depend upon any contingency
whatever. Story on Prom. Notes, 22; Williamson et al. v. Bennett et al., 2 Camp. Rep. 417; Roberts v. Peake, 1 Burrow, 323.
This point was also decided in the case already alluded to, of
Patterson v. Poindexter, 6 Watts & Sergeant, 232, where the
court say the promise is a contingent one, depending upon the
return of the certificate.
We Zcall the attention of the court particularly to this case,
because it was precisely like the present. The certificate was
issued by the same bank, and the language is precisely the same,
as are also the indorsenents. It is the only well-considered case
in the books, on this subject, and it decides that the paper is
neither a promissory note, nor a bill of exchange, nor a check
upon a bank, but is only what it purports to be, a mere certificate of deposit, which is neither a bill, note, or check.
Again, if this is a promissory note and negotiable, can the
consideration be inquired into ? If it can, in the handc of an
assignee it ceases to be a negotiable promissory note. And we
claim that the consideration of this note may be inquired into;
that it may be shown for instance, that the statement that Hugh
Short had deposited the amount named, is not in fact true. That
pprtion of the note is like the statement of a bill of lading, ackiowledging the receipt of goods, and may, like all statements
of receipt, be explalfed or contradicted.
And we maintain that in a suit against the Mississippi Union
Bank, the bank might shdw that instead of money being deposited, worthless bank-notes were deposited, and an offer to return
the same notes would discharge the obligation.
Again, to whom (if this is a promissory note) is it payable ?
19 *

SUPREME

COURT.

Miller v. Austen et izl.

It acknowledges the receipt from Hugh Short, payable in twelve
months with interest, of $1,500, for the use of Henry Miller, and
payable only to his order. The amount received is from Short.
It is payable, by the first part of the note, in twelve months, to
Short, and not to Miller. The subsequent words "for the use
of Henry Miller," do not alter t he legal effect of the note. It is
still a receipt of money from Short. It is payable to him in
legal contemplation, notwithsanding the words "for the use
of Henry Miller." These words do not vary the legal obligation. Supposing it had been a note promising to pay $1,500 to
Hugh Short or order, for the use of Herry Miller, could it be
pretended that any one, besides Short or his indorsee, could have
recovered on the note at law'? Under such circvmstances, Ail,
ler would have had an equitable interest, but not the legal interest, and he or his assignee could not have recovered in a suit
at law.
In order to sustain this suit as on a promissory note, the promise has to be implied, for there is no express promise to pay.
Supposing that an implied promise to pay is sufficient, (which
we think it is not,) to whom is this implied promise to be raised
on this particular instrument?
As before remarked, if the promise had been express, to pay
to Short, for the use of Miller, the legal title would 'have been
in Short. Now, if in the absence of an express promise, we
substitute an implied promise, must it not have the same effect?
The plaintiffs below claimed the word payable was equivalent
to an express promise to pay. Supposing it is so, for the sake
of argument, how does the case stand ? The certificate certifies
that Hugh Short has deposited in the bank, payable in twelve
months fiom 1st May, 1839, with 5 per cent. interest till due,
$1,500. From this statement the promise to be implied, from
the word payable, would be to Hugh Short. The subsequent
statement, "for the use of Henry Miller," would n6 more in this
case than in the case of an express promise, change the nature
of the legal obligation. The words "for the use of Henry Miller" would in each case be of no further efficacy than to point
out the equitable owner of the paper.
But it is claimed that the additional words used, "and payable only to his order, upon the return of this certificate," change
the whole legal character of the instrument, and make what before was payable to Hugh Short, now payable to Henry Miller,
We contend that such is not tke fair construction of
or order
the instrument, but that it must be construed in the saine way
as though an express promise had been made to pay to Hugh
Short, and if that express promise'had been inserted, the paper
would read thus:

DECEM13ER TERMI,

1851.

223

Miller v. Austen et al.
"I certify that Hugh Short has deposited in this bank $1,500,
which is promised to be paid 12 months from 1st May, 1839,
-with 5 per cent. interest till due, to the order of said Short, (for
the use of Henry Miller,) upon the return of this certificate."
In other words, we contend that the words "for the use of
Henry Miller," only indicate the qquitable rights of the parties,
and do not in any way affect the legal character of the paper.
And to test this matter more fully, let us suppose that Hugh
Short was owing Henry Miller $1,600, and that supposing tfat
Henry Miller would be willing to accept his pay in -this certificate of deposit, he obtains -it in the form of the paper now in
suit. Suppose further, that on his offering it to Mr. Miller, the
latter refused to accept it, in whose name could the amount have
been recovered in a court of law, of the bank ? Miller could not
have recovered, because he had refused to become the holder or
owner of the paper. Is it not clear, then, that in such a state
of case, Short could have received the amount? But if the construction is as contended for by counsel, Short could not have
recovered, because the implied promise was not to him. We,
however, contend that the promise, if expressed, would have
been to -Short, and if implied, it is also to him, and the other
words, "for the use of Henry Miller," is only to designate the
equitable course, which the legal owner or depositor, intends the
money shall take, and that the words payable to his order, relate
back to the original depositor, Short, and not Aliller, just in the
same way and manner as if there had been an express promise
to pay. Short would then be the promisee and would be a
trilstee for Miller, if the latter saw proper to receive the certificate.
So that we think it clear that this was not a promissory note;
that it was not a promissory note to Henry Miller, but was an
obligation of an equitable character, aid he might have used
the name of Hugh Short, in order to recover at law. That his
indorsement of the certificate was no more than a mere authority to receive the money, and did not subject him to the payment of the sum mentioned in the certificate in case of default
by the bank. Story onProm. Notes, §§ 128, 129.
.31r. Chase and Mr. Bockwell.
The first exception only remains for consideration, namely,
that the paper declared on, is not a negotiable promissory note
under the laws of Ohio.
There is nothing peculiar in the legislation of Ohio in relation to promissory notes. The statute "making certain instruments of writing negotiable," provides that " all promissory
notes drawn for any sum. or sums of money certain,. and mad d

224

SUPREME COURT.
Miller v. Austen

et al.

payable to any person or order, or to any person ort bearer, or
to any person or assigns, shall be negotiable by indorsement
thereon," &c. Swan's Stat. This legislation does not at all
affect the general principles so firmly established by repeated
decisions in respect to negotiable paper.
"A bill or note is not confined to any set form of words. A
promise to deliver or to be accountable, or to be responsible for
so much money, is a good bill or note." 3 Kent's Com. 75;
Chitty on Bills, 40, and notes.
" No particular words are necessary; the form may be varied
at the pleasure of the individual, so, always, that it amounts to
a written promise for the payment of money absolutely and at
all events, and interferes with no statute regulat'on. Thus, an
order or promise to deliver a certain sum of money to A, or to
be accountable or responsible to A, for a certain sum of money,
or that A shall receive it from the maker, is a good promissory
note; so a receipt for money to be returned when called for, or
an acknowledgment, due to A a certain sum of money payable on demand; or a promise to pay or cause to be paid to A
a certain sum of money; or an instrument acknowledging the
receipt of money of A, promising to pay it on demand with interest; or acknowledging the receipt of money to be repaid in
one month; or acknowledging to have borrowed a certain sum
of money, in promise bf payment thereof." Story on Prom.
Notes, 15, § 12.
A promise implied by law, founded upon a mere acknowledged indebtment, will not be sufficient. Thus, where A wrote
upon a slip of paper "I 0 U eight guineas," it was held to.be
a mere due-bill, and not a promissory note. But if the promise
were "Due to A B £20, payable to him or order," it would be
a promissory note, for it contains more than the law would imply, and becomes negotiable. Story on Prom. Notes, 17, § 14;
Curtis v. Rickards, 1 Mann. & Grang. 46; Russell v. Whipple,
2 Cowen, 536.
The decisions in Ohio are in strict accordance with these
priniples.
In Moore v. Gano, 12 Ohio R. 302, the following instrument was held a promissory note Bridgeport, 12th month, 30th, 1836.
Received of John Moore, five thousand one hundred and ten
dollars, which we promise to replace to -:he said Moore on demand., with interest from date. GANO, Tio.zs, & TALBOTT.
In McCoy v. Gilmore, 7 Ohio R. Pt. 1, 268, it was held that
"no special form of words is necessary to constitute a promis-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

225

Miller v. Austen et al.
sory note. It is enough if the intent appear, and the sum can
be made certain by calculation."
In Ring v. Foster, 6 Ohio R. 279, a contract by which A agreed
to pay to B one hundred and forty dollars, "provided B delivers the crop of tobacco raised by him and C, then B is tohave one fourth of the above sum in hand, and in addition three
dollars per hundred weight for that part yet to be delivered,
payable one fourth in hand, and the balance in one hundred 'and
twenty days," was held to be a promissory note.
These cases show the doctrine in Ohio on this subject; and
that it is quite as liberal in favor of commerce as that of England, or her co-states.
The plaintiff in error relies upon a brief note of a decision
said to have been made by the Supreme Court of Ohiq in
Hamilton county. The case is not reported, but merely the
point supposed to have been decided; and this not byan authorized reporter, in any book of reports, but as an item of intelligence for a" law journal. Those conversant with the stirrup
practice of the Supreme Court on the Circuit in Ohio, would
not claim the weight of authority for this paragraph in the Law
Journal.
There is, however, it must be admitted, a decision, not of an
Ohio court, but of a Pennsylvania court, both respectable and
respected, which sustains the doctrine insisted on by the plaintiff in error. In the case of Patterson v. Poindexter, 6 Watts &
Serg. 227, it was held that a certain certificate of, deposit, in
all respects like that noxv in controversy, was not a negotiable
note. The opinion of the court maintains three propositions:
1st. That the w6rds "payable to order" do not import a promise to pay; which is in direct opposition to the whole current
of English and American authority.
2d. That a promise to pay on "return of the certificate," is a
contingent and conditional promise, and therefore the tote by
which such promise is made is not a promissory note; and this,
although the court is immediately after, forced to admit that
"true it is that such a contingenoy is no more than is implied
in every promissory note."
3d. That the words "payable twelve months from 18th May,
1839, with five per cent. interest till due," constitutes a special
agreement for interest, which is'inconsistent with the character
of a promissory note; and this, also, is in direct opposition to
the current of authority.
Upon these three propositions the court rested their conclusiqn
that the paper in question was not a negotiable promissory note.
The only authority cited in support of this conclusion was
Home v. Redfearn, 6 Scott's Cases, 267.

226

SUPRE

E, COURT.

Miller v: Auste4 et al.

This was a decision under the Stamp Act. Suit was brought
on the following letter:
December 25, 1829.
SiR: I have received the sum of £20, which I bgrrowed of
you, and have to be accountable for the same with legal interest.
PETER REDFEARN.
I am, &c.,
It was stamped as a special agreement; and was sued on as
such. It was objected that it was a promissory note, and not being stamped as such, could not be given in evidence. But Chief
Justice Tindal said: "1Ithinkthis case may be decided by referring to the provisions of the Stamp Act, without referring to
the cases which have been cited." He then proceeded to hold
that the instrument, being stamped as a special agreement, and
not as a promissory note, fell within the exermption of the act
55 Geo. 3, c. 184, from the promissory note stamp "of all other
instruments bearing in any degree the form or style of promissory notes, but which shall in law be deemed special agreements,
except those hereby expressly directed to be deemed promissory
notes." Thd Chief Justice added, "It would be a yery harsh
construction of the act to hold the document to be a promissory
note, after the commissioners on stamps have impressed it with
an agreement stamp, upon payment of the usual penalty."
This brief statement clearly shows that the case of Home v.
Redfearn went entirely upon a construction of the Stamp Act;
and it is emarkable enough that, by this very act, simple certificates of deposit, issued by banks, without any words such as
"payable," and the like, importing a promise to pay, are declared to be promissory notes. So that there cannot be a doubt
that in England the paper now in controversy would be held to
be a promissory note, whether the question was decided upon
general principles or statutory provisions.
The Pennsylvania decision, then, is Without the support of
any English case, as it is without the support of any general
principle of law applicable to promissory notes.
We shall proceed to show that it is in direct conflict with
American authorities.
In the case of Kilgore v. Bulkley, i4 Conn. Rep. 363, the Supreme Court of Connecticut held the fcll6wing certificate of
deposit to be a promissory note:
Chelsea Bank, July 6, 1839.
$10,608.75.
I do hereby certify that David E. Wheeler, Robert S. Taylor,
and Noah Bulkley, have deposited in this bank the sum of ten
thousand six hundred and eight dollars seventy-five cents, payable on the first day of December next, to their order, on the return
D. E. WHEELER, President.
of this certificate.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

227

Miller v. Austen et al.

And the following writing, indorsed upon the paper, was held
to be an indorsement by which the parties made themselves
liable as-indorsers of a negotiable note:
"For value received, we hereby assign to S. F. Maccracken,
Joseph S. Lake, and Daniel Kilgore, Commissioners of the Ohio
Canal Fund, or their successors, the amount of the within certificate."
The case of the Bank of Orleans v. Merril, 2 Hill, N. Y. Rep.
295, is also in direct conflict with the case of Patterson v. Poindexter. In that case, the action being brought on a certificate
of deposit, the court said, "the instrument in question, is in
effect a negotiable promissory note.
Thus, then, stands the case. The paper in controversy has all
the requisites which an unbroken current of decisions has pronounced essential to a promissory note. It is a promise to pay
a sum of money certain, at a fixed. time, for value received. *It
was regarded by the maker, by the defendant, apd by the plain-,
tifs, as a negotiable promissory note. By the maker, for it was
in the language of the Ohio statute, "drawn payable to order;"
by the defendant, for he issued it payable to the order of his indorsee, and he added to his signature the place of his residence,
obviously that, in the event of non-payment, it might be known
where to direct notice; by the plaintiffs, for they caused it to.be
presented for payment, and protested as negotiable paper. Two
American courts, of distinguished ability, have expressly held
similar instruments to be negotiable paper. One American
court has held otherwise.
This statement-would seem to be decisive. We do not think
it worth while to comment on the positions of the counsel for
the plaintiflf in error, that the paper in question is not a promissory note, because subject to the condition of the return of the
certificate; and that, if it is a note at all, it is a note to Hugh.
Short, and not to Henry Miller. The first is refuted by the remark of the court which suggested- it, that it is a condition
which is implied by law in every promissory note; and the
second is refuted by the language of the instrument, and .the
act of the defendant himself.
We will only add two or three cases, which illustrate somewhat strikingly the disposition fo which the Supreme Court'of
New York referred, when they said, "the great commercial advantages growing out of negotiable instruments, have induced
the courts to adopt a most liberal rule in constuing them." The
first case is that of Walker v. Roberts, 1 Cdrr. & Marsh. 590,
(41 Eng. Corn. Law Rep. 321.) The follbwtig document was
held to be a promissory note:

228

SUPREME COURT.
MIiller v. Aiusten et al.

"February, 1831. William Walker lent to James Roberts
£19, 19s. lid.; to pay five per cent for the same £19, 19s. lid.;
to pay on demand to the said William Walker, giving James
Roberts six months' notice of the same. James Roberts, Mary
Roberts."
The other case is that of Henschel v. Mahler, 3 Hill's N. Y.
Rep. 132. The action was upon the following instrument:
"For francs 8,755.60, payable on the 31st of December, 1839.
On the 31st of October, of this year, pay to the order of ourselves, 8,755 francs 60 centimes, payable in Paris, the 31st of
December, of this year."
It was held a valuable negotiable bill of exchange, notwithstanding the ambiguity; the words, "on the 31st of October, in
this year," being rejected as repugnant, and the bill held payable
"on the 31st of December."
We refer the court, also, to I Greenl. Rep. 535; 2 Cow. Rep.
536; 10 Wend. 675; and, in deciding the last of which cases,
Nelson, J., said," the instrument is a promissory note within the
statute, as it contains every quality essential to such paper.
The acknowledgment of indebtedness on its face implies a promise to pay the plaintiffs," and the payment, by its terms, was.
to be in money, absolutely. The instrument on which this last
action was brought was as follows: "Due Kimball & Kiniston
three hundred and twenty-five dollars, payable on demand."
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question this case presents that we deem worthy of
notice is, whether the paper sued on is a negotiable instrument;
it is as follows :
" No. 959. Mississippi Union Bank, Jackson, (Miss.) Feb. 8,
1840. I hereby certify, that Hugh Short has deposited in this
bank, payable twelve months from 1st May, 1839, with 5 per
cent. interest till due, fifteen hundred dollars, for- the use of
Henry Miller, and payable only to his order upon the return of
this certificate. $1,500. Win. P. G-ayson, Cashier."
The suit was by the last indorsee against his immediate indorser, and brought in Ohio. The statute of that State declares
all promissory notes, drawn for *a sum certain, payable to any
person or order, or to any person or his assigns, negotiable by
indorsement.
The established doctrifie is, that a promise to deliver, or to be
accountable for, so much money, is a good bill or note. Here,
the sum is certain, and the promise direct. Every reason exists

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Saltmarsh v. Tuthill.

why the indorser of this paper should be held responsible to his
indorsee, that can prevail in cases where the paper indorsed is
in the ordinary forni of a promissory note; and as such note,
the State courts generally, have treated certificates of deposit
payable to order; and the principles adopted by the- State courts
in coming to this conclusion, are fully sustained by the writers
of treatises on bills and notes. Being of opinion that the Circuit Court properly held the paper indorsed, negotiable, it is
ordered that the judgment be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript-of the
record from the Circuit Court of ilie United States for the District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. - On coneideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed with costs and damages, at the rate
of six per centum per annum.

ALANSON SALTMA SH, PLAINTIFF iN
TUTHILL.

ERROR

V. JAIMES W.

In a suit by the indorsee against the indorser of a bill, where the defcnce was nsur,
* the drawer and drawee were incompetent witnesses, when offeredt'io prove certain
facts, which, when taken in conjunction with certain other facts, to be proved by
other witnesses, would invalidate the instrument.

Being incompetent witnesses to establish tl e whole defence, they are also incompotent to establish a part.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama.
The only question was one of evidence, which is fully explained in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 1Zi1r. X A. Campbell and .Mr.Seward, for the
plaintiff in error, and 11r. -Pryor,for the. defendant in error.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Hill drew a thirty days' bill, dated at Mobile, on William Bower
& Co.,-for four thousand dollars, payable to Coleman. It was
indorsed by Coleman to Saltmarshand by him to James W.
Tuthill, who sued Saltmarsh. The parties went to trial on the
general issue, and the defence relied on was usury. By the laws
VOL.

XIII.

20

