488

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Caswell et al.

CORNELIUS

W. LAWRENCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. JOHN
CASWELL AND SOLOMON T. CASWELL.

By the Tariff of 1846, the duty of one hundred per cent., ad valorem, upon brandy,
ought to be charged only upon the quantity actually imported, and nor on the contents stated in the invoices.
illegally exacted arc those which are paid under protest, and where there is an
Duties
. appeal
to the judicial tribunals.
The Revenue Act of 1799, (1 Stat. at Large, 672,) directd that an allowance of two
per cent. for leakage, should be made on the quantitr of liquors which were subject to duty by the gallon. Where brandy was subjected to a duty adtrlorem, it.
was no longer within the provisions of this act, and the allowance of two per cent.
ceased.

-THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from tlle Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
It was a suit brought by John Caswell and Solomon T. Caswell merchants of New York, against Lawrence, the collector,
to recover an excess of duties upon brandy, paid under protest.
The whole case is set forth in the-bill of exceptions, which was
as follows:
Bill of Exceptions. The counsel for the plaintiffs, after prov.ing that the plaintiffs were partners, engaged in tfade and commerce in the city of New York, further to maintain the issue on
their part, 'gave in evidence divers warehouse entries, and withdrawal entries, and calculations of duties thereon, invoices, and
gaugers' returns of certain importations of brandy, made by the
plaintiffs into the port of New York, by the several vessels in the
table, or statement, hereinafter set forth, particularly mentioned;
which said several vessels arrived in the said port of New York
at the respective dates, also in said table, or statement, mentioned; in and by which said documents it appeared that said
several importations of brandy were, on the arrival thereof, respectively deposited in the public stores in iaid port of New
York, in pursuance of the act of 'Congress establishing a warehousing system, approved August 6th, 1846; that upon the
gauging of said several importations of brandy by the United
States gaugers, made at the time of the arrival thereof respectively, the actual content3 of each of said importations
were found to be less than the contents stated in the invoices
thereof respectively; the difference in each case between such
invoice contents, and the actual contents as ascertained by the
said gaugers, being specified in the said table or statement; that
fhe said goods so imported were aftenvard., from time to time,
withdrawn from such public stores, and duties paid thereon by
the plaintiffs to the defendant, as collector of the port of New

DECEMBER

TERM,

Lawrence v. Caswell

1851.

489

et al.

York, who demanded, as such duties, under schedule A of the
Tariff Act of July 30,1846, one hundred per centum ad valorerm
upon the cost of the contents of said importations as such contents were stated in the invoices thereof respectively, amounting
in the whole, as also appears in said table, to the sum of $41,658; which said duties, so exacted, were paid by the plaintiffs
to the said defepdants as such collector, under protest in writing, (indorsed on the withdrawal entries,) against the payment
thereof, the said plaintfffs claiming that the duties should be
comliited not upon the said invoice contents of said importations, but upon the actual contents thereof, as shown by the
aforesaid gaugers' returns, after deducting from the actual
contents shown by such retqrns the allowance of two per
centum thereon, directed by the 59th section of the Revenue
Collection Act of March 2, 1799.
The following is the Torm of the protests referred to, and they
were all alike :"We claim deduction for all deficiency from the quantity
shipped, also two per cent. allowance for leakage as heretofore
customary, and protest against the collector exacting the whole
JOHN CASWELL & Co."
amount of the invoice.
proved that the duties
also
said
plaintiffs
for
the
The counsel
so as aforesaid paid to and received by the said defendant, as
such collector, were by him duly paid, at the time of the receipt
thereof, into thd Treasury of the United States.
The table, or statement, above referred to, contained also a
specification of the excess of duty alleged by the plaintiffs to
have been exacted by the defendant. as such collector, upon each
of the said several importations, amounting, in the aggregate,
to the sum of $1,609 ; the said table, or statementi being in the
words and figures following.
(The table is omitted, as not being necessary to be inserted.)
The plaintiffs' counsel then proved, that under the act of
March, 1799, and from the passage of said act until the Tariff
Act of July 30, 1846, took effect, it was the uniform practice in
the New York custom-house, upon the entry of such linportations of liquors subject to duties, to procced as follows
1st. The United States gaugers, after ascertaining the capacity of each cask, deducted the "outs," or number 6f gallons
deficient, and, from the actual contents thus ascertained, made
a further deduction of two per cent. on such actual contents for
the allowance of leakage, directed by tfhe 59th section of said
act of March 2, 1799, and made a return to the collector, ex-hibiting the result.
2d. The duties were then calculated and exacted upon the

SUPREME COURT.
ILawrence

v. Caswell

ct al.

net dutiable quantity so exhibited by the gaugers' return, and
upon that quantity only, and without regard to any statement
of quantity in the invoice.
To this evidence the counsel for the defendant objected, in
due season, as inadmissible; but his honor, the presiding judge,
then and there overruled the said objection, and decided that
such evidence was admissible: to which ruling and-decision of
the said judge, the coEunsel for the said defendant then and
there excepted.
.The plaintiffs' counsel claimed'to rec6ver against the defend-.
ant the sum of $1,609, above stated, and interest thereon to the
day of trial, amounting in the whole to $2,039.35.
The counsel for the plaintiffs there rested.
The counsel for the defendant then insisted that the only allowances which could be considered in this case for deficiencies
in said brandy, had been provided for by acts of Congress, and
had already been made at the custom-house, and that by law
the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover; and he prayed the
court so to charge the jury.
But the court charged the jury that the United States were
only entitled to collect duties upon the importations in question upon the quantity remaining, after deducting from the
actual contents aicertained and exhibited by the gaugers' returns the aforesaid allowance of two per cent. for leakage; and
that the plaintiffs were therefore entitled to recover the amount
so as aforesaid claimed by them.
To which charge of his honor the judge, and to every part
thereof, the defendant's counsel then and there excepted.
The jury thereupon found a verdict Ibr the plaintiffs for the
sum of $2,039.35 damages and six cents costs.
And because the prayer of the said defendant, by their said
counsel, and the several rulings and decisions, and instructions
and charge of the said judge, and the several exceptions taken
to the same, do not appear by the record of the verdict aforesaid, the defendants have caused the same to be written on this
bill of exceptions, to be annexed to such record, and have
prayed the said judge to set his hand and seal to the same.
Whereupon the said Samuel R. Betts, the judge before whom
the said issues were tried, and the said exceptions taken, has
hereunto set his hand and seal, the 6th day of February, in the

year of our Lord, 1852.

SAMUEnL

R.

BETTS. [L. S.]

Upon this exception, the case came up to this court, and was
argued by '11r. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the plaintiff
in error, and Ir. Butler, for the defendants in error.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Lawrence v.

Caswell et al.

Mr., Crittenden, for plaintiff in error.
I. (First point omitted.)
II. In the cases of Marriott v: Brune, and The United States
v, Southmayd, (9 How. 619, 637,) cases of drainage of sugars in
the course of the voyage from the place of production, this court
held that the duties were to be assessed on the actual quantity
or weight wirhich .arrived in the United States; and the same
rule would seem to be applicable to the case of brandy.
The further question in this case, however, is, whether importers of brandy are entitled to the additional allowance of two per
cent. on the actual quantity imported, which the court below
directed to be made? This allowance is claimed under the 59th
section of the Collection Act of 1799, (1 Stat. at Large, 672,)
which is as follows: "That there shall be an allowance of two
per cent for leakage on the quantity which shall appear by the
guage to be contained in any cask of liquors subject to duty by
the gallon; and ten per cent. on all beer, ale, and porter in bottles; and five per cent on all other liquors in bottles, to be deducted from the invoice quantity in lieu of breakage; or it shallbe lawful to compute the duties on the actual quantity to be
ascertained by tale, at the option of the importer, to be made at
the time of entry."
The late Mr. Justice Woodbury, in delivering the opinion of
the court in the sugar cases, above cited, refers to the above section of the act of 1799, and says: "The former cases referred to
for ilustration rest on their peculiar principles, and allowances in
them are made by positive provisions in acts of Congress, even
though the quantity and weight of the real article meant to be
imported, should arrive here. Because, well knowing that the
whole is te
not ordnary
likely to los
arrive,in and
being
able
to fix
by a general
average
those
cases
with
sufficient
exactness, the matter has been legislated on expresly."
The learned judge referred to these instances merely as illustrations; and it w ll not be here contended that the dutiable
quantity of brandy in the present case is the invoice quantity,
less the allowance of two per cent.; for the court will observe
that the section enacts that the two per cent. is to be allowed
"on the quantityvhich shall appear by the gauge." But, on
the part of the United States, it is contended that the allowance
cannot be made on importations of brandy under the ad valorem
tariff of 1846, because the operation of the section is limited
and confined to cases of specific tariffs. The law has so commanded; the words are express and positive. The allowance is
to be made on liquors "subject to duty by the gallon."
Besides, the claim for the allowance cannot be maintained
under the act of 1846, because it is repugnant to the principle

SUPREME

COU:RT

Lawrence v. Caswell et al.

of that act. Thus this court has held, that imporfs cover
only what is brought within our 'limits and goes into the consumption of the country. Now, as by the act the duties upon
these imports are to be assessed at so much per cent. upon the
forei n value, how can it be said that they are so assessed upon,
that value if the whole quantity actually imported is not taken
into account?
Mr. Secretary Walker, in a treasury circular of 30th January,
1847, (1 Mayo, 391,) seems to have considered the 59th section
of the act of 1799 in force, and directed the allowance therein
mentioned to be continued. Subsequently, however, by a Pircular of the 24th March, 1847, he seems to have reconsidered,
the subject, and instructed the collectors as contended for in this
paper. 1 Mayo, 360. The importations in this case were made
during the time this circular was in force. See also another
circular,. of 31st December, 1847, voce, Allowances. 1 Mayo,
405.
It is therefore ubmitted, on behalf of the United States, that
the claim for the allowance of two per cent. on the quantity ascertained by the gauge, is not sanctioned by law, and the jury
ought to have been so instructed.
.ir. Butler, for defendants in error.
I. Upon the facts proved upon the trial, the plaintiffs in the
court below were at least entitled to recover back the amount
of duties exacted by the collector upon the differences between
'the invoice contents and the actual contents of the several importations of brandy mentioned in the record.
(a.) The cases of Marriott v. Brune, (9 How. 619,) and The
United States v.Southmayd, (Id. 637,) decide,1st. That ad valorem duties, under the act of 1846, should be
assessed, not upon the quantity whic" appears by the invoice
to have beea shipped, but only on the quantity which actually
arrives in our ports; 'and
2d. That the proviso in the 8th section, "that under no circumstances shall the duty be assessed upon an amount less than
the invoice value," is not in hostility with the above construction, because the proviso refers only to the. price and not to
the quantity.
(b.) In respect to the point now under consideration, there is
no ground whatever for distinguishing the piesent case from the
cases in 9 Howard, above referred to.
IL The plaintiffs in the court below were entitled to the fur.
ther deduction of two per cent. on the actual contents of the importations in question, as ascertained and exhibited by the gaugers' returns, for the allowance of leakage directed by the 59th

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.Lawrence

493

v. Caswell et al.

section of the Revenue Collection Act of March 2d, 1799. 1
672.
Large,
Stat.
Ist.atBy
the very
words of the, section, "that there be an
allowance of two per cent. for leakage on the quantity which
shall appear by the guage to be contained in any cask of liquors
subject to duty by the gallon," this allowance is to be computed
and made upon the actual contents ascertained by the gauger.
2d. This allowance of two per cent., as manifestly appears by
the words quoted, was not intended to coyer leakage on the
voyage of importation, but to cover that which will occur after
the arrival of the liquor, and before its actual sale by the importer.
(a.) Leakage on the voyage was already provided for by requiring the actual contents at the port 'of importation, to be
ascertained by the United States gauger.
(b.) In commercial language, "leakage ". is an allowance
granted to importers of liquors for the waste the goods are supposed to receive by keeping after their arrival and before their
sale. MeCulloch's Commercial Dictionary, title" Leakage," and
title "Warehousing System," Eng. ed. of 1834, p. 1223.
(c.) The 59th section of the act of 1799, (following in this respect the 36th section of the ;ict of 1790, 1 Stat at Large, 166,)
conforms to this commercial sense by directing the allowance in
question to be made on the quantity which shall .appear by the
gauge to have arrived in the United States.
See, in connection with this section, the following sections of
the same act: § 21, (p. 642,) as to the duties -of the surveyor.
Also, §§ 37 to 43, (pp. 655, 660,) as to entry, inspection, and
landing of liquors. Also act of April 20th, 1818, (3 Stat. at
Large, 469,) "providing for the deposit of wines nd distilled
spirits in public warehouses."
3d. The 59th section of the act of 1799 is not repealed by
any thing contained in the Tariff Act of 1846; but the import-.
ers of liquors are still entitled to the allowance given thereby.
(a.) There is no express repeal of sect. 59 in the act of 1846.
(b.) Repeals by implication are not favored, and are only
allowed when the provisions of the old law are plainly repug;
nant to those of the new. 6 Bacon's Abr. title Statute D.,
p. 373; Dwarris on Statutes, pp. 673, 674; Wood v. The United
States, 16 Pet. 362, 363.
(c.) Tie only part of the 59th section of the act of 1799
which is claimed to be repugnant to the act of 1846 is the clause
which directs the allowance of two pei cent. to be made on
"liquors subject to duty by the gallon," which, it has been suggested, renderg the section inapplicable to liquors imported under a law subjecting them to an ad valorem rate of duty.
VOL. XIII.

42

494

SUPREME

COURT.

Lawrence v. Caswell

et al.

4th. The repugnancy suggested is only apparent, and not
sufficient to work the repeal of this part of the law of 1799.
I (a.) There is nothing in the change from a specific duty to an
ad valorem duty on liquors, which should abrogate the allowance
of two per cent. directed by the act of 1799.
(b.) If this allowance was just and proper under specific duties, it is also equally just and proper under ad valorem duties.
(c.) If this allowance be not made, the importer may, under
the act of 1846, be subjected to a highei duty upon liquors than
that prescribed by the preexisting Tariff Act, of August :30th,
1842, contrary to the main object of the act of 1846, which, as
expressed in its title, was to "reduce the duty on imports."
5th. The act of 1846 contains several provisions strongly implying an intention in its framers .to rstain allowances of this
nature given by preexisting laws.
(a.) The fourth section expressly provides "that in all cases in
which the invoice or entry shall not contain the weight, or quantity, or measure of goods, wares, or merchandise now weighed,
or measured, or gauged, the same shall be weighed, gauged, or
measured at the expense of the owner, agent, or consignee."
(b.) The eighth section requires the collectors, in the particular
case therein mentioned, to cause the dutiable value to be estimated and ascertained, as well as to be appraised, "in accordance with the provisions of the existing laws.'
(c.) These .enactments refer to and retain in force, among
other provisions contained in the prior laws, the 59th section of
the act of 1799, above referred to.
See report of Secretary Walker to House of Representatives,
dated Dec. 30th, 1846, (Exec. Does. of H. of R. No. 25, 2d Sess.
29th TCong.) showing it still necessary, notwithstanding the
change in the mode of assessing duties, to employ weighers,
gaugers, and measurers. Pages 2, 4, 5, 9; Treas. Cir. Nov. 25th,
1846, p. 176 to 182.
6th. The Warehousing Act of August 6th, 1846, (9 Stat. at
Large, 53,) extends the principle of the act of April 2d, 1818, in
relation to the deposit of liquors in public warehouses, to all imported goods.
This act being passed contemporaneously with the Tariff Act
of July 20th, 1845, the -two should be construed together as
parts of one system; and the allowances made by the act of
1799 in respect to liquors deposited in the public stores under
the act of 1818, must be deemed applicable to liquors deposited
under the Warehousing Act of 1846.
7th. The foregoing view has in effect been acquiesced in by
the Treasury Department, and establist ed by this court.
(a.) It was deliberately and distinctly adopted and promul-

DECEMBER

TERM,

Lawrence v. Caswell

1851.

495

et al.

gated by the Treasury Department in its instructions to collectors issued immediately after the Tariff Act of 1846 took effeet.
See instructions to the Collector of New Orleans, under date of
30th January, 1847, given at length in 9 How. 620.
(b.) This instruction was afterwards modified by the department, but the principle on which it proceeded was established
as correct by the decisions of this court in Marriott v. Brune, 9
How. 619, and The United States v. Southmayd, Id. 637.
(c.) In those cases the court decided that the ad valorem duties under the act of 1846 should be assessed on the quantity
which actually arrives in our ports. The "quantity" of liquors
can be reckoned only by the measure, - the number of gallons.
To take duty on the "quantity" imported is therefore to take
duty on the number of gallons imported. Liquors being subject to duty by the "quantity" or number of gallons, are therefore "subject to duty by the gallon," The difference between
previous laws 'and the act of 1846 is, that under previous laws
liquors were "subject to duty by the gallon," without regard to
the value of the gallon; while under the act of 1846 they are still
"subject to duty by the gallon," but according also to the value
of the gallon. This is a difference merely of form and not of
substance, and cannot work a repeal of the former law.
(d.) The decisions of the court in 9 Howard do, therefore,
control and dispose of this point, as well as the former one; and
such was, at first, admitted by the Treasury Department to be
its legitimate effect. See Treasury Circulars of July 5th, 1850,
August 10th, 1850, and June 14th, 1851.
'M. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by the defendants in error against
the collector of the port Of New York, to recover certain sums
of money alleged to have been illegally exacted as duties.
The defendants in error are merchants of New York, and imported a large quantity of brandy in the years 1847 and 1848,
which were deposited in the public stores, under the Warehousing Act of 1846. Upon gauging these several importations, at
the time of their arrival, the contents were found to be less than
the quantity stated in the several invoices.
As the brandy was from time to time withdrawn by the importers, the collector demanded the duty of one hundred per
cent. ad valorem upon the whole invoice quantity, and it was
paid by the importers under protest.
The impoiters claimed in their protest that the duties should
be compated upon the actual contents, as shown by the gauger's
returns, after deducting two per cent. from such contents. And
the court was of opinion, and so directed the jury, that this was

496

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Caswell at al.

the correct mode of ascertaining the duties; and a verdict was
accordingly rendered and judgment given for the amount overcharged. This writ of error is brought to revise that judgment.
Two questions arise in the case: 1st, whether the duty ought
to be computed on the quantity stated in the invoices, or on the
contents as ascertained by the gauger's returns: and 2dly,
whether the two per cent. ought to have been deducted for
leakage.
As relates to the first question, it is substantially the same
with that decided by the court in the case of Marriott v.
Brun e, 9 How. 619. The duty of 100 per cent. ad valorem was
chargeable on the quantity of brandy actually imported, and not
on the contents stated in the invoices. This overcharge was
therefore illegally exacted, and the defendants in error were entitled to recover back the amount. The judgment of the Circuit
Court is in this respect correct.
But it is proper to say, in order that the opini 6 n of the court
may not be misunderstood, that when we speak of duties illegally exacted, the court mean to confine the opinion to cases
like the present, in which the duty demanded was paid under
protest, stating specially the ground of objection. Where no
such protest is made, the duties are not illegally exacted inthe
legal sense of the term. For the law has confided to the Secretary of the Treasury the power.of deciding in the first instance
upon the amount of duties due on the importation. And if the
party acquiesces, and does not by his prbtest appeal to the judicial tribunals, the duty paid is not illegally exacted, but is paid
in obedience to the decision of the tribunal to which the law
has confidcd the power of deciding the question.
Money is often paid under the decision of an inferior court,
without appeal, upon the construction of a law which is afterwards, in some other -ase in a higher and superior court, determined to have been an erroneous construction. But money
thus paid is not illegally exacted. Nor are duties illegally exacted where they are paid under the decision of the collector,
sanctioned by the Secretary of the Treasury, and without
appealing from that decision to the judicial tribunals by a proper and legal protest. Nor are they within the principle decided by the court in the case before us.
We proceed to the second point - that is, to the claim of a
further deduction of tvo per cent,
The Revenue Collection Act of 1799, c. 22, § 59,under which

it is claimed, provides, "That there shall be an allowance of
two per cent. for leakage, on the quantity which shall appear
by the gauge to be contained in any cask of liquc -- subject to
duty by the gallon."

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

497

Lawrence v. Caswell et al.

At the time this law passed, brandy and sundry kinds of wine
were subject to a specific duty upon the gallon; but various
other wines were charged with an ad valorem duty, not to exceed in amount a certain rate per gallon, specified in the law.
And as the two per cent. deduction was made to depend on the
character of the duty, and not upon the nature of the liquor
imported, the brandy aid wines which then paid a duty by the
gallon, were entitled to it -- but the wines which paid an advaorern.duty were not entitled. The right to the allowance did not
depend upon the fact that the importation consisted of brandy or
wines of a particular description, but upon the duty to which the
article was subject. If it was charged by the gallon, this deduction was to be made, but otherwise if charged advalorem. Afterwards, by the act of May 13, 1800, the ad valorem duties, which
were before charged on certain kinds of wine, were changed to
specific duties; and all wines were charged with duty by the
gallon. And from the passage of this act until the act of 1846,
all importations of liquors of any description paid a specific
duty. Ths will account for the usage in the custom-house to
allow the deduction on all liquors, as stated in the record. For,
when the ad valorem duty on certain
ines was changed to a
duty by the gallon, these wines, like brandy and other wines
came within the provision in the act of 1799, and consequently
were entitled to the two per cent. deduction.
So, also, when the act of 1846 changed the duty upon brandy
from a specific one upon the gallon, to a duty ad vaorem, it was
no longer wthin the provsion of the act of 1799, and consequently no longer entitled to the deduction of two per cent.
The provision in the act of 1799 is not repealed; but brandy is
not now within it, because it is ot subject to a duty by the
gallon.
this deduction
It is said there is th same reason for allowing
valorem or specific;
for loss by leakage, whether the duty is ad
between
discrimination
any
make
unjusuto
be
and that it would
argument
this
whether
inquire
to
them. But, w'thout stopping
be
notsay,
may to
reasons
or not, or whether sufficientfor
is well founded
he court
assigned for the difference, it is sufficient
the
within
not
it is
that the law makes the distinction. And
to decide upon
thecourt
or
Department
Treasury
the
province of
which it is
tariff
a
of
the reasonableness or unreasonableness
evident Congress intended to impose.. The words of the law
since brandies do not pay a duty by the galare plain. areAnd,
not entitled to the'deduction of two per cent.
lon, they
must therefore be reversed,
The judgment of the Circuit Court directing
it to proceed to
issued
mandate
a
with costs, and
opinion.
this
Iudgment upon the principles stated nf
42*

498

SUPREME

COURT.

Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Cout, with directions to award a venire facias de novo, and to
proceed therewith in conformity to the opinion of this court

JUAN BAUTISTA JECKER, Luis JECKERi, THOMAS DE LA ToRRE,
GEIDERO DE LA TORRE, AND JOSE E. FERNANDEZ, MERCHANTS,
TRADING UNDER THE NAME AND STYLE OF JECKER, TORRE &
COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN B. MONTGOMERY. - AND JOHN
B. MONTGOMERY, APPELLANT, V. JUAN BAUTISTA JECKER, Luis
JECKER, THOMAS DE LA TORRE, GEIDERO DE LA TORRE, AND
JOSE E. FERNANDEZ, MERCHANTS, TRADING UNDER THlE NAME
AND STYLE OF JECKER, TORRE & COMPANY.
During the -warwith Mexico, the Admittance, an American vessel, was seized in a
port of California, by the commander of a vessel of war of the United States,
upon suspicion of trading with the enemy. She was condemned as a lawful prize
by the chaplain belonging to one of the vessels of war upon that station, who had
been authorized by the President of the United States to exercise admiralty jurisdiction in cases of capture.
The owners of the cargo filed a libel against the captain of the vessel of war, in the
Admiralty Court for the District of Columbia. Being carried to the Circuit Court,
it was decided:
1. That the condemnation in California was invalid as a defence for the captors.
2. That the answer of the captors, having averred sufficient probable cause for the
seizure of the cargo, and the libellants having demurred to this answer, upon the'
ground that the District Court had no right to adjudicate, because the property
had not been brought within its jurisdiction, the demurrer was overruled, and judgment was entered against the libellants.
The judgment of the Circuit Court, upon the first point, was correct, and upon the
second point, erroneous.
The Prize Court established in California was not authorized by the laws of the United
States or the laws of nations.
The grounds alleged for the seizure of the vessel and cargo in the answer, viz., that
the vessel ailed- from New Orleans with the design of trading with the enemy.
and did, in fact, hold illegal intercourse with them, are sufficient to subject both to
condemnation, if they are supported by testimony.
And, if they were liable to capture and condemnation, the reasons assigned in the
answer for not bringing them into a port of the United States and libelling them
for condemnation, viz., that it was impossible do so consistently with the public
interests, are sufficient, if supported by proof, to justify the captors in selling vessel and cargo in California, and to excmpt them from damages on that account.

