DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Goodall v. Tucker.

CHARLES P GOODALL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR , V. JOSEPH W.
TUCKER, EXECUTOR OF ABNER ROBINSON, DECEASED.

The principles laid down in the preceding case of HiLl v. Tucker, again affirmed.

THIS case, like the preceding one, of Hill v. Tucker, was
brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
They were argued together, and differed only in there being
different plaintiffs. The cause of action in this case is stated
in the opinion of the court; and the reader is referred to the
report of the preceding case for the arguments of counsel.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the uourt.
This cause was tried by the judge without a jury and the
legal propositions raised by counsel in the course of the trial
were decided by him, to which exceptions were taken, as if they
had been instructions to a jury.
The cause of action is- the following single bill, which was
executed at Richmond in Virginia:
"On demand, we, Abner Robinson, Isham Puckett, and J. P.
Wilkinson, promise to pay to Charles P. Goodall, his executors
or administrators, the sum of four thousand nine hundred and
twenty-six dollars and twenty-seven cents, ($4,926.27,) lawful
money of these United States, for the faithful performance of
which promise we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, as witness our hands and seals, this 6th day
ISEAL.]
ABNER ROBINSON.
of September, 1839.
[SEAL.
ISHADI PUCKETT.
J~k s P. WILKINSONY" [SEAL.

It may as well be here stated that it was proved upon the trial
that Wilkinson and Puckett were sureties and that the debt had
been reduced to $1,432, with interest from the 1st January, 1846.
In October, 1842, Goodall brought suit in the Henrico County
Court against the three obligors. Robinson was too illto attend
to the process, and afterwards died. The suit was prosecuted to
judgment against Wilkinson in March, 1843, and abated as to
the other defendants.
Execution was awarded upon the judgment and a return
made "no effects found."
In February, 1848, Goodall filed his petition against Tucker
in thp Circuit Court of the United States for Louisiana, alleging
the above facts; when the same proceedings took place which
are mentioned in the case of Catharine Hill.
VOL. XIII.

40

470

SUPREME COU]RT.
Goodall v. Tucker.

There is a good deal of documentary evidence in the, record,
which we shall not notice, as it does not in any way affect the
decision which should have been given upon the prayers of the
plaintiff. See preceding case of Hill v. Tucker.
Those prayers were, with the defendan; prayers, as follows:
"After the evidence was offered the plaintiff asked, the court
to decide, as if instructing a jury upon the evidence:
1st. Thai if the testator Robinson by his will left four executors, that Joseph Allen and W. R. Johnson, citizens of Virginia,
were two of those executors; and if they only qualified in Virginia, in the county of the domicil of the testator; and if the
plaintiff, upon a valid and subsisting cause of action, instituted
suit in the Henrico County Court, in Virginia, against the only
executors of the testator who had qualified; and if the plaintiff
had obtained judgment regularly in that court, and ,it v as a
court of competent jurisdiction to hear and determine said cause;
and if the plaintiff, having thus obtained judgment against the
only qpalified executors of the domicil of the decedent, regularly
issued his execution on that judgment, and had thereon a return
by the sheriff of nulla bona; and if the defendant was also an
executor of the same testator appointed by the same will, and
as such had taken upon himself the execution of said will according to the laws of Louisiana, where he resided; and if, as
executor of Robinson, the defendant has ample estate of his testator in his hands to pay the debts; and if all these facts are
proven and established by the evidence, that then the 'plaintiff
is entitled to recover judgment against "he defendant fdr the
amount of the judgment against the executors who qualified in

Virginia.
2d. That the bxemplification of the record and the judgment
obtained by the plaintiff against the executors Allen and Johnson, and the return of nulla bona thereon, are evidence against
the defendant, a co-executor in Louisiana.
3d. That co-executors, unlike co-admirilstrators, axe privies in
estate, because they derive the same privities over the same
estate from the samb will; and that under the will of Robinson,
which was read- and the proofs of the qualification which were
offered in this case, the plaintiff is entitled to recover-against the
defendant the amount of the judgment obained by him against
the only acting executors of the domicil of the decedent.
4th. That if the plaintiff is not authorized to recover against
the defendant on the mere production of the record of the judgment against his co-executers in Virginia, who alone made probite of the will there, and qualiaed, that he is entitled to recover,
on proving that the original cause of actioa on which that judgnient was founded was. a just, valid, and subsisting demand

DECEMBER TERA 1851.

471

Goodall v. Tucker.

against the testator Robinson, and the additioflal fact that the
estate in the hands of the executors of the domricil of the testator
in Virginia was exhausted, and that the defendant or co-executor
has ample estate in his hands in Louisiana.
5th. That independent of the record of the judgment in Virginia, the plaintiff has a right to recover against the defendant
as executor of Robinson, upon the bond filed and proven, the
amount of the balance due on that bond.
6th. That the original cause of action on which the judgment
in the Henrico County Court is established and proven and a recovery thereon is not barred by the prescriptive laws' of Louisiana.
7th. That upon all the evidence offered, the plaintiff is entitled
to a judgment in his favor.
8th. That the suit in Virginia against the co-executor was a
judicial-interpellation which would stop the running of prescription against the demand which was the cause of action in that
suit. All of which the court overruled, and the plaintiff excepted.
And upon the facts proven the defendant asked the court to
decide: 1st. That the Virginia judgment against the co-executors
was not evidence against the defendant; 2d. That the original
cause of action on which that judgment was rendered was barred
as to the defendant by prescription; and, 3d. That upon the
whole evidence the defendant was entitled to judgment in his
favor. To all which plaintiff objected, and the court overruled
his objections, and gave the decisions as asked by defendant;
and to these several opinions plaintiff excepted.
And the defendant objected to each and all of said propositions, and the court sustained severally the objections of defendant, and refused to decide any one of said propositions as asked
by the plaintiff. To each of which several opinions and decisions
the plaintiff at the time excepted."
The court in sustaining the latter has erred.
We think that all of the prayers for the plaintiff were properly
made, and that conjointly they make an issue decidedly in his
favor. See opinion in case of Hill v. Tucker.
We shall not notice them more particularly than to say, that
the suit upon the bond in Virginia, was a judicial interpellation
which stopped the Louisiana prescription from running against the
cause of action in that suit and in this suit
Further the record shows that this suit was brought in Louisiana within the time that its law fixes for prescribing actions
upon such a demand.
The judgment is reversed, and the case will be remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this decision.

SUPRiEME COURT.
Pillow v. Roberts.

Order.
This cause came on .to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the 'United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was- argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged bythis court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to proceed therein in conformity to
the opinion of this court.

JEROME

B.

PILLOW, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. TRUbiAN

R6BERTS.

Where a deed, executed in Wisconsin, and attested by the seal of a court, stamped
upon the paper, instead of wax dr a wafer, was offered in evidence upon a trial in
itcrkansas,
was properly received.
Where a deed from the sheriff, for land sold at a tax-sale, recited an assessment for
of the land, and offering it for
taxes which remained unpaid; the advertisement
the highest bidder, who paid theinpurchase-money
evidence. The
saleu its being struck own to deed
have bernreceived
to
oght
this
certificate;
a
and received
law of Arkansas says, that the deed shall be evidence of the regularity and legality
of the sale.
But± even if this deed had been insufficient as a proof title, it ought to have been
received, in connection with proof of possession, to establish a defence under the
statute of limitations.

'Possession under this deed would have been sufficient proof for adverse nossession.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The circumstances of the case, and the points of law upon
which it came up to this court, are fully stated in its opinion.
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence and 21r. Pike, for the plaintiff in error, and l1r. Critte7den,for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Roberts, the defendant in error, was plaintiff below, in an action of ejectment for 160 acres of land. Pillow, the defendant
below, pleaded the general issue, and two specia pleas: The
first, setting forth a sale of the land in dispute, for taxes more
than five years before suit brought: The second, pleading the
statute of limitation of ten years. These pleas were overruled.
on special demurrer, as informal and insufficient; and the judgment of the court on this subject-is here alleged as error. But
as the same matters of defence were afterwards offered to be
laid before the jury on the trial of the general issue and over-

