216

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. McCullagh et al.

discharge the bail form no part df the legal record in the
proceedings on the scirefacias and ought iot have been inserted
hi the record transmitted to this court.
There is no foundation therefore for any of the errors assigned
in this case, and the judgment of the Circuit Court must be
affirmed with costs.
Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court, of the United States, for the District of Maryland, and was argued by couinsel. On consideration whereof, it is, now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with cost and damages, at
the rate of six per centum per annum.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAM AND ALEXANDER MCcCUTLAGH AND JAIES CORNAHAN, TRUSTEES OF THE
HEIRS OF ALEXANDER MCCULLAGH AND DAVID MOCALEB.
4

'he act of June 17, 1844, (5 Stat. at Large, 676,) reviving the act of 1844, gives
jurisdiction to the District Courts in cases only where the title set up to lands, under
grants from former governments, is equitable and inchoate, and where there is no
grant purporting to convey a legal title.
G:ants from the British government, as well as tho.e of France and Spain, are
equally within this restriction.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The opinion of the court sets out the facts of the case so far
as to raise the question of jurisdiction.
It was argted by Mr. Lawrence and Ar. Crittenden, (Attorney-General) for the United States, and by Messrs. Javfdn and
Taylor, for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arises on a petition filed by the appellees in the
District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, praying that
their title to a certain tract of land containing one thousand
acres, situated on the Mississippi River, to the westward of Baton
Rouge, may be declared valid and confirmed. They claim title
under Alexander MWCullagh, Sen., who obtained a grant from
the British authorities while, they were in possession of the coun-

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

217

The United States v. McCullagh et al.

try and before it was ceded to Spain. The grant was made on
certain conditions therein specified, which it is not necessary to
state, as the court ,is of opinion that the District Court had no
jurisdiction in the questions upon which the validity or invalidity
of the title claimed by the appellees against the United States,
depends.
The proceeding is under the act of June 17th, 1844, and this
court have always held that under that act the District Court
has jurisdiction in those cases only where the title set up by the
petitioner is equitable and inchoate; and where there is no grant
purporting to convey a legal title as contradistinguished from an
equitable one. It is true that the cases heretofore decided have
arisen under titles derived from the French or Spanish authorities while they respectively held the territory and' exercised
dominion over it. And this is the first case that has come before the court in which the title sought to be confirmed is derived from the government of Great Britain. But as respects
the jurisdiction of the District Court, claims of this description.
are placed by the act of 1844, on the same footing with those
which are derived from France or Spain. The jurisdiction conferred in either case is that of a court of equity only; and the
titles which the court is authorized to confirm, are inchoate and
imperfect ones, which upon principles of eqfity, the government
of the United States are bound to confirm and make perfect.
In this case, all of the questions upon which the title of the
appellees depend, are strictly legal questions, to be decided in a
court of law, in a suit at law. They are not, therefore, within
the equity jurisdiction given by the acts of 1824 and 1844.
There are no equitable considerations' involved in the controversy; and the validity or invalidity of this claim, can be tried
and determined in aniy court having competent jurisdiction to
try and decide a disputed title to land between individual
claimants. There was no necessity, therefore, for any special
jurisdiction to try them, and on that account they were not embraced in the acts of Congress above mentioned.
It appears, in this case, that the District Judge had an interest
in the land in question, and the cause was certified to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, under the act
of March 3, 1821, and the decree affirming this title was passed
by the Circuit Court. This decree must be reversed; and a
mandate- issued to the Circuit Court to dismiss the petition
without prejudice to the rights of the United States or the appellees.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
VOL. XIII.

19

SUPREME
Miller

COURT.

v. Austen et al.

record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to dismiss the petition of the claimants without
prejudice to the rights of either the United States or the alpellees.

HENRY MILLER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. DAVID AUSTEN, WILLIAI S. WILIERDING, AND DAVID AUSTEN, JR., DEFENDANTS.
A statute of Ohio declares all promissory notes, drawn for a sum certain, payable
to any person or order, or to any person or his assignees, negotiable by indorse.
ment.

The following paper, namely, Mississippi Union Bank, Jackson, Miss. February 8, 1840.
"No. 959.
I hereby certify that Hugh Short has deposited in this bank, payable twelve months
from 1st May, 1839, with five per cent. interest till dae, fifteen hundred dollars, for

the use of Henry Miller, and payable only to his order, upon the return of this certificate.

$1,500.

Win. 1'. Grayson, Cashier,"-

was negotiable by indorsement under the statute, and the indorser had a right to
maintain an action against an indorser.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
On the 8th of February, 1840, the Mississippi Union Bank
issued the following certificate :MIIssIssIPPI UNION 3ANE,

Jackson, Miss. Feb. 8th, 1840.
I hereby certify, that Hugh Short has deposited in this bank,
payable, " months from 1st May, 1839, with 5 per cent. interest
due, fifteen hundred dollars, for the use of Henry Miller, and
Still
payable only to his order, upon the return of this certificate.
Wm. P. GRAYsoN,, Cashier.
$1500.
On which are the following indorsements:
Pay to George Lockwood or order.

HENRY MILLER,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

Pay Austen, Wilmerding & Co. or order, without recourse.
GEORrE LoCxwooD.
On the 4th of May, 1840, L. V. Dixon, justice of -the peace
and ex offcio notary-public, presented the paper declared on at
the counter of the. Mississippi Union:Bank, at Jackson, and de-

