DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
McAfee et al. v.

447

Crofford.

should be reversed, and the proceedings remitted; with directions
to enter a decree that the complainant is entitled to the fund in
court collected upon the judgment against Bennett, together
with vosts of suit in this court and in the court below.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court- of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama. and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to that court to enter a decree in favor
of the complainant for the fund in court collected upon the
judgment against Bennett, together with the costs of this suit
in this court and in the said Circuit Court.

MoRGAN

MCAFEE,

MAADisoN

McAFEE, AND, JAMES ALFOrp,
T. CROFFORD.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JAMES

In an action of trespass, for forcibly invading a plantation, carrying off'some slaves,
and frightening others. away. it was proper for the plaintiff to give in evidence the
consequential damages which resulted to his wood and corn.
It was proper, also, to allow the defendant to give in evidence a judgment against
the own& of the plantation, as principal, and himself as surety, and his own paynent of that judgment. It was allowable, both as an explanation of his motives,
and to show how much he had paid both reasons toncurring to mitigate the
damages.
Evidence was also allowable to show that arrangements had been entered into between the principal and surety, whereby time would be given for the payment of
the debt. This was allowable, as a palliation of the conduct of the principal in
removing his slaves without the State.
Evidence was also admissible to show that the surety had not been compelled to pay
the debt, by showing that the creditor had been enjoined from collecting it. This
was admissible, in oider to rebut the evidencer previously offered on the other
side.
It was proper for the court to charge the jury that, in assessing damages, they had a
right to take into consideration aft the circumstances.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of MissiSsippi.
It was an action of trespass brought
by Crofford, who described himself as a citizen of Tennessee, but who had a plantation in Arkansas. The suit was brought against the McAfees

SUPREME COURT.
McAfee

et al. v.

Crofford.

and Alford, for acts which are described by the testimony stated
in the first exception. In the course of the trial there was but
one bill of eceptions taken, which included the whole case. It
will be better understood by dividing the rulings of the .court
below, which is rendered necessary by the great 'length of the
exception.
There were three exceptions to the admission of evidence, anxd
one to the charge of the court to the jury. The declaration contained four counts to the following effect:
1st. For entering upon the defendant's plantation, in the
State of Arkansas, and forcibly carrying off and converting to
the use of plaintiffs in error, a number of slaves of the value of
$15,000.
2d. For entering, and by threats and violence, chasing and
frightening away from said plantation, otLer slaves of the value
of $40,000, whereby said slaves were greatly damaged and lessened in value.
3d. For the injury done to the defendant's business of planting, and ctitting and selling cord-wood, by thus forcibly carrying
off some of the slaves and frightening away others.
4th. For the value of the services of the slaves during the time
they were gone from the defendant's plantation and wood-yard.
,The plea was the general issue witlf an agreement, entered
of record, that any matter constituting a good plea in bar might
be given in dvidence upon reasonable notice.
First Exception. Upon the trial, Crofford, the plaintiff,-offered
to read the depositions of three of his neighbors, Parker, Driver,
and Kafkemeyer, who testified in substance to the -following
facts: - About the last of October, or 1st of November, 1845, the
McAfees and Alford, assisted by several other persons, all armed, crossed the Mississippi River in skiffs, and forcibly carried
off twenty-one slaves from Crofford's plantation. Crofford was
absent. His overseer remonstrated, but the assailants replied
that they intended to take all the negroes, and would kill any
one who interfered. There were forty-two negroes, men, women,
and children, on the plantation; but, as the assailants were engaged for several days in catching and transporting them to the
opposite bank of the river, four women and seventeen men were
so frighteffed that they ran off into the swamps, and remained
out five or six weeks. Crofford had some 1,800 or 2,000 cords
of wood cut at the time of these occurrences, which, on account
of the absence of the slaves, was either floated off or greatly injured by a subsequent rise in the river. :[n addition to this, the
neighbor's hogs, cattle, horses, and mules broke into the plantation, and- nearly destroyed 120 acres of growing corn; all of
which was the consequence of the absence of the hands.

DECEMBER TER.m, 1851.
McAfee

et al. v.

Crofford.

These witnesses testify, that the slaves carried over the river;
being twenty-one in number, were worth $12,680; wood worth
.$2.50 per cord, and corn 50 cents per busheL
To all this testimony the plaintiffs in error objected, but the
court overruled the objection, and the depositions were read.
The counsel for the defendants below excepted.
Crofford then proved that his plantation was in Crittenden
county, Arkansas, and then closed his case.
Second Exception. The defendants below, on their part, offered in evidence the record of a judgment, rendered in one of
the courts of Mississippi, in favor of the Commer~ial Bank of
Manchester against James T. Crofford and Morgan McAfee, for
the sum of $4,143.93, together with divers writs offi.fa. issued
thereon, levied upon Crofford's property, delivery-bond given and
forfeited, and fieri facias issued upon this. By virtue of this
last fi.fa,. the slaves forcibly carried away from the plantation,
in Arkansas, were levied upon and most of them sold, producing
the sum of $6,132, which fully satisfied the said execution.
The MeAfees also proved that Morgan McAfee was only security for Crofford in the aforesaid judgment, and that at the
time of executing the delivery-bond mentioned above, Crofford
promised not to remove his negroes from Tallahatchie county,
until said debts should be paid.
The MeAfees-then introduced awitness whose evidence, drawn
out upon cross-examination, constituted the subject of this exception. The witness was introduced to prove various admissions made by Crofford in reference to the amount of his corn
crop and his cord-wood; which witness, upon cross-examination, stated, that in the same conversations Crofford said that
Morgan MeAree had agreed with him to obtain from the said
Bank of Manchester an extension of one, tvo, and three years,
in which to pay the said debt, and also to credit thereon a judgment of Croflbrd against Morgan McAfee, in the United States
District Court at Pontotoc, for about $1,500-or $2,000. To this
evidence, elicited on cross-examination, the McAfees excepted;
Thfird Exception. The McAfees then proved that before the'
trespass complained of, Morgan McAfee had paid the debt to
the Bank of Manchester, which had assigned the judgment to
Madison McAfee.
As rebutting testimony, Crofford offered to introduce the record of a proceeding by quo warranto in one of the courts in
Mississippi, by which it appeared that at the time of the sale of
the negroes upon said execution, thd said bank, its agents, and
-its assignees, were enjoined from collecting any of its demands,
though the levy upon a part of the negroes was made before the
execution of the writ of injunction. Crofford also offered to
38*

SUPREME COURT.
McAfee

et al. v. Crofford.

introduce records showing that he had existing unsatisfied judgments to the amount of $2,847 against Morgan McAfee. The
defendants below objected to the admission of this rebutting testimony, but the court overruled the objection and admitted it,
whereupon the McAfees excepted.
The charge of the court was .as follows: The court instructed
the jury that a trespass had been committed by the defendants,
"if the jury believe from the testimony that the defendant had
a judgment in Mississippi against the plaintiff, the defendant
would not be authorized to collect said judgment by forcibly removing the property.of the plaintiff from the State of Arkansas
to the State of Mississippi."
" That in assessifig damages the juty had a right to take into
consideiation all the circumstances ;" to which said first charge
the counsel for the defendants at the time excepted, before the
jury returned from the bar of the court; and to which several
matters and things the said defendants, by their said counsel,
excepted, and tendered their said bill of exceptions as hereinbefore stated, and before the jury retired from the court, and
.prayed that the same might be signed and sealed by the court
and made part of the record herein; all which is done accordingly."
S.J. GHOLSON. [S EAL.]
-The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff and assessed the
damages at. $10,613.72.
The cause was argued in this court by Mr.Brooke and 31r.

Tolney E. Howard, for the plaintiffs in error, and 11t. Snethen
and Mr. F. P. tanton for the defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in errox contended, that the
*erdict is imanifestly against the testimony. The principle
upon which damages are given in an action of trespass is to in.
demnify the plaintiff for what he has actually suffered, taking
into con0ideration all the circumstances o- the case. Bateman
v. Goodwyn, 12 Conn. 575. In this case Crofford in reality
sustained no damage, as the property taken was disposed of in
discfmrge of his own debt. "In an action of trover, when the
property converted has been sold and the proceeds applied to
the payrnnt of the plaintiff's debt, or otherwise to his use, it
goes in mitigation of damages." Pierce 4, Benjamin, 14 Pick.
506 ; Prescott v. Wright, 6 Mass. 20 ; Caldwell v. Eaton, 5,Mass.
399; 14 Shep. 126.
"Whateverdamages Crofford sustained, if any, were the con-sequences of his own wrong in removing this property beyond
the limits of the State of Mississippi, in violation of his agreement with his surety, McAfee. If this verdict is permitted to

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
McAfee

et al. v.

451

Crofford.

stand, Crofford ivill be suffered to take advantag'e of his owni
wrong in having his debt paid, amounting, at that time, to over
six thousand dollars, and in addition receive, as a bounty for
his dishonesty, the large amount assessed by the jury.
The estimate put upon the negroes by thl witness, Parker, is
proven to be too great by the result of the sale, they only bringing, at said sale, about half of said estimate. There is no proof_
or pretence that the sale was not fair. It was made by the
sheriff, and is to be presumed to have been made in a legal
manner, after due notice given.
The evidence as to the consequential damages to the corn
and wood is too loose and indefinite to have received the consideration of the jury. It should have been ruled out by the
court.

" Consequential damages are not recoverable in an action of
trespass vi et arm is, for taking away goods." Alston v. Huggins,
2 Const. Rep. 688.
" Opinions of witnesses as to the amount of loss inadmissible."
23 Wend. 425.
McAfee may not have acted strictly vithin legal bounds in
going to Arkansas, and taking the negroes by force; but when
it is recollected that he was Crofford's surety, that Crofford had
dcbeived and defrauded him by taking the negroes out of the
State, thus leaving his surety to suffer, and this, too, in violation
of an express agreement, surely Crofford, the original wrongdoer, whose criminal acts superinduced the necessity of M~eAfee's
proceedings, cannot be heard to complain.
Crofford recognized the payment and satisfaction of the bank
judgment by endeavoring to take advantage of it in defence to
a suit brought against him in equity, wherein the lien of this
judgment was complained of. The deposition of J. J. Hughesl
the cashier of the bank, proves the suretyship of McAfee.
The record of the proceedings against the bank is wholly
irrelevant, and the court erred in admitting it. At the time of
the transfer of the judgment to Madison McAfee, the proceeding
had not been commenced. No judgment of forfeiture was ever
rendered. The other judgments introduced are also irrelevant,
and have no bearing whatever on the case. At most they offset
one another, and, as far as they are coicerned, show but little
indebtedness either way.
In cases of this sort, appealing to principles of natural justice
more than to strict rules of law, it is conceived that the equity
maxim, that the complaining party should come into court with
clean hands, applies here as well as in a court of chancery.
It may be said that the bank judgment was satisfied by the
payment by McAfee, and that the transfer to his brother was

452

SUPREME COURT.
McAfee

et al. v.

CroffDrd.

thereupon inoperative. Be this as it may, the moral obligation
on Crofford remained the same. The attempt to evade the payment of a just debt, and suffer the burden of it to fall on his
surety, is the wrong complained of on our part-the wrong that
gave occasion to the trespass and its consequences.
The charge of the court is manifestly incorrect. It assumes
the fact that a trespass had been committed, and leaves nothing
for the jury to determine in this particular. .The remainder of
the charge,-that "if the jury believe, frcm the testimony, that
the defendant had a judgment in Mississippi against the plaintiff, the defendant would not be authorized to collect said judgrient by forcibly removing the property of the plaintiff from the
State of Arkansas to the State of Mississippi," may be, and
doubtless is, a correct proposition of law; but it does not necessarily follow that the existence of the judgment might not
have been properly adduced to show 'that no actual damage
had accrued. The manner in which the charge was given was
well calculated to impress the jury with the idea that, although
they "had a right to take into consideration all the circumstances," yet that the judgment was no circumstance at all worthy of their consideration.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended that the
oily questions arising upon this record are - first, upon the charge
to the jury; and, second, as to the several items of proof made
by the defendant in error, and excepted tc by the -plaintiffs.
As to the first of these questions, no authorities can be necessary. There is obviously no erroX in the instructions of the
qourt to the jury. No bad faith on the part of Crofford, nor any
breach of contract, could have justified the plaintiffs in error in
going with an armed band into -the State of Arkansas, and
taking property by force, in order to subject it to an executin,
in Mississippi. This was a trespass, and if the judge said so to
the jury, he was fully sustained by the proof. But this court
has said, "it will not examine the charge of the inferior court to
the jury upon mere matters of fact and its commentaries upon
the weight of evidence. Observations of that nature are understood to be addressed to the jury merely for their consideration
as the ultimate judges of the matters of fact." Carver. v. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al., 4 Peters, 80, 81 ;. Evans v. Eaton, 7
Wheaton, 426 ;.Garrard v. Lessee of Reynolds et al., 4 How.
123; Games et al. v. Stiles, 14 Pet. 322; Hyde & Gleis.es v.
Boraem & Co. 16 Pet.. 169.
The exceptions to the testimony of the witnesses who proved
the trespass, and the damages resulting to the crops and cordwood, were evidently not well taken. All the direct and neces-

DECEBER TERM,

1851.

45

McAfee et al. v. Crofford.

sary consequences of ii *espass may be given in evidence, to
enable the jury to estimate the full amount of damages incurred.
Dickinson v. Boyle,i17 Pick. 78. In this case the court say:'
"Where the act complained of is admitted to have been done
with force, and to constitute a proper ground for an action of
trespass vi et armis, all the damage to the plaintiff, of which
such injurious act was the efficient cause, and for. which the
plaintiff is entitled to recover in any form, may be reeovered in
such action, although in point of time such damage did "not
occur till some time after the act done." Johnson v. Courts, 3-.,
Harris & McH. 510; Ogden v. Gibbons, 2 South. 536; Duhcan
v. Stalcup, 1 Dev. & Bat. 440; Hardin et al. v. Kennedy, 2
McCord, 277; Damron v. Roache, 4 Humph. 134; Wilcox v.
Plummer, 4 Pet. 172, 182; Barnum v. Vandusen, 16 Conn. I.
200. All the circumstances of aggravation may be proved without minute averment. Warfield v. Walter, 11 G.'& J. 80;
Hammatt v. Russ, 4 Shepl. 171; Carrington v. Taylor, 11 East,
571; Keeble v. Hickeringill, Id. 574, n.; Id. 11 Mod. 74, 130;
Id. 3 Salk. 9; 2 Greenl. Ev. ยง 268, a, 254, 270, 272, 63&, a.
See note, 2 Greenl. ยง 243, and the authorities there quoted.
The exception to the statements of Crofford, drawn out upon
cross-examination, isequally untenable. 'They were parts of
the same conversations which the witness detailed in his examination in chief. But the testimony was not material in any
point of view, and could not have influenced the verdict of the
jury. 1 Greenl. Ev., ยง 201, and the authorities quoted in the
note thereto.
As to latitude of cross-examination, see 1 Greenl. 449, 450,
and notes.
As to immateriality of testimony, Turner v. Fendall, 1 Cranch,
131.
Erroneous instructions, if imniaterial, not cause of reversal.
United States v. Wright, 1 M'Lean, C. C. R. 509; Forsyth v.
Baxter, 2 Scam. 9.
Exceptions taken to the records introduced as rebutting testimony-the proceeding by quo warranto, and the judgments
in favor of Crofford v. McAfee. As to the first of these, it is
certain the Bank of Manchester, at the time of the execution
sale of Crofford's negroes, was enjoined by a competent tribunal
from making that sale. It was competent to show this fact, riot
to invalidate the sale, but to show the reckless disposition of the
parties, and their contempt of lawful authority. It does not
appear what effect this testinony had upon the case, or what
instructions the judge gave in regard to it. The jury seem to
have deducted the debt of $6,000, which was paid by the sale
of the slaves, from the whole amount of damages, and given

454,

SUPREME

COURT.

M6Afee et al. v. Crofford.

their verdict for the balance. This appears from the fact that
the amount of the verdict is not equal to the value of the slaves
actually taken away and sold, as that value was proved by three
uncontradicted witnesses, besides the damage to the crop, the
wood, and'the slaves who took refuge irt the swamps. The
proof of the injunction could not have operated to prevent this
mode of adjustment by the jury; it was admissible evidence
only to show the animus of the plaintiffs in error; their disregard of the laws of their own State as well as those of Arkansas, throughout the whole of these violent proceedings.
The judgments of Crofford v. Morgaii McAfee were wholly
,immaterial to the case, except po far as they tended to pa lliate
the bad faith of Crofford in leaving his security to pay. his debt.
In this point of view they were admissible as rebutting testimony; feeble and unimportant it may be, but still admissible.
Havis v. Taylor, 13 Ala. 324; Gilpins v. Ccnsequa, Pet. C. C. P.
85; Pettibone v. Deringer, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 215. Even if th admission of this testimony was erroneous, the court will not
reverse, when it is plainly immaterial and inoperative in the case.
Za~harie & wife v. Franklin, 12 Pet. 151.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us on a writ of &ror, to the District Court
for the Northern District of Mississippi.
A judgment was obtained in favor of the Commercial Bank
of Manchester against James T..Crofford and Morgan McAfee,
in the State Court of Tallahatchie county, Mississippi, the 24th
of November, 1840, for the sum of $4,143.93, on which an execution was issued, and levied on sundry slaves of Crofford, who
owed the debt; McAfee, the other defendant, being his security,
a delivery-bond for the property was executed, -which -was forfeited the 22d of November, 1841, by which forfeiture the bond
had the effect of a judgment. On this'latter judgment an execution was issued, which was levied on- twenty-one negroes
owned by Crofford, all of whom, except three, were sold by the
sheriff for $6,132.
Some time after the first levy, it appears that Crofford removed
with his slaves across the Mlississippi, and settled on a plantation on that river, in .Arkansas, not far from his former residence
in Mississippi.
A short time before the last levy, Morgan McAfee, with an
armed force, in the absence of Crofford, crossed the river, seized,
from day to day, twenty-ome. of. the negroes on his plantation,
and brought them into Mississippi. ThE.other slaves of Crofford were alarmed and absconded, and were not reclaimed before
the-lapse of from four to six weeks. The overseer of Crofford

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
McAfee

et al. v.

455

Crofford.

remonstrated, and some steps were taken to arrest the proceedings of McAfee, but his force was too strong, and he threatened
to kill any one who should interfere with him in taking off the
negroes. For this trespass an action was brought against the
plaintiffs in error. In the declaration, it was alleged, that by
reason of the trespass, the plaintiff lost the -services of thirty negro men and as many women, &c., which, through fear, absconded, besides the number taken by McAfee, and that he was
subjected to great expense in reclaiming them; that by taking
the slaves, chasing, and frightening the others from his farm and
wood-yard and from and about the business of the plaintiff, he
was greatly damaged, &c. The defendants pleadd, not guilty,
&c. A verdict for $10,613 was rendered by the jury, on which
a judgment was entered. To reverse that judgment the writ of
error was brought.
The exceptions arise out of the rulings of the court and the
charge to the jury.
The trespasswas proved as charged in the declaration. The
party were several days in searching for and arresting the
negroes, and all on the plantation not taken were frightened and
fled.
The male slaves ;were employed in cutting cord-wood, and
supplying Crofford's wood-yard. He had, at the time of the
trespass, it was proved, from eighteen hundred to two thousand
cords of wood cut on the low ground back from the river, which
was worth two dollars per cord, and sold at the yard for two
dollars and fifty cents; the hauling cost fifty cents per cord;
that the river became swollen by rain, and having no hands to
remove the wood to the yard, much of it was carried off by the
flood, and what remained, was so injured by. being under water
as to make it unsalable; that having no hands to attend the
crop, the horses, mules, and other stock of the neighborhood,
broke into the cornfield and destroyed a large part of it; that
corn was worth fifty cents a bushel at that time. There were
one hundred and twenty acres in corn, which, with proper attention and protection, would have yielded forty bushels to the
acre.
The defendant offered in evidence the judgment of the Commercial Bank against Crofford, as principal, and himself as
surety, and a receipt for the payment of the judgment, amounting to the sum of $6,233.38, in mitigation of the damages
claimed on account of the trespass, which, though objected to
by the plaintiff, was admitted.
The evidence was admissible on two grounds. First, to explain tlie motive of the plaintiffs in error in committing the
trespass, and thereby, in some degree, to mitigate the damages

456

SUPREME COURT.
McAfee et al. v. Croffcrd.

,claimed. Second, to reduce or abate from the damages the
amount paid in discharge of the judgment, not as an offset, but
in mitigation of the injury done. This rght resulted from the
relation between the parties. McAfee was a co-defeihdant with
Crofford in the judgment, but he w;as security only, and he had
a right to expect, from the forthcoming bond and the assurances
of Crofford, that the negroes first levied on would be delivered up
in stisfaction of the second execution. In an answer in chancery, he alleged that the bank judgment h-d been satisfied. A
stranger could not take the property of his neighbor, have it sold
under process, and apply the proceeds in discharging the debts
of his neighbor, and then claim the right to have such payments
received as a set-off, or in mitigation of the damages done by
the trespass.
,The plaintiff below then introduced the transcripts of two
judgments-in the District Court against Morgan McAfee, one
in favor of Crofford, the other assigned to him, amounting to
twenty-one hundred dollars and upwards, which, though objected to by the dqeendants, was admitted by the court. For what
purpose-this evidence was introduced was not stated; and under
such circumstances, if the records of the judgments were admissible for any purpose, the exception to the evidence cannot be
sustained.
It was proved, that at New Orleans, before the trespass was
committed, McAfee agreed with Crofford to return to Mississippi and make an arrangement with the bank to give one, two,
and three 'years, for the payment of the judgment against Crofford and himself; and he agreed to credit on said judgment the
above judgments against himself.
'We think that those judgments were properly admitted as
evidence, because they conduced to shbw that Crofford, in removing with his slaves to Arkansas, was less blamable than
charged by the defendant McAfee,.as he had grounds to believe
that a part of the bank judgment would be paid by McAfee, and
that an indulgence of some years would be obtained, for the nayment of the balance.
The judgments being admissible on this ground,it- is unnecessary to inquire whether they were not evidence to reduce the
bank judgment paid by VcAfee, under his agreement. This
point might have been made, if the court had been requested to
instruct the jury that this effect could not be given to the evidence by the jury. The judgments being admissible for the purpose first stated, it is unnecessary to inquire, if it were practicable to do so, which it is not, how the evidence was applied by
the jury.
The 'record of certain proceedings against th Commercial

DECEMBER TERM*, 1851.
McAfee

457

et al. v. Crofford.

Bank of Manchester, in the nature of a quo warranto,was offered
by the plaintiff in evidence, to show that the bank was enjoined from proceeding to. collet debts. This proceeding was
had in the Circuit Court of Yazoo county. An injunction was
issued as stated. And at November term, 1846, the court decided on the demurrers filed 'in favor of the bank, from which
decision an appeal was taken to the High Court of Errors and
Appeals of the State. The court admitted the evidence, overruling the objections made to it.
These proceedings, it is presumed, were pending in the Court
of Appeals at the time the trespass was committed, as the contrary does not appear; but it is not perceived that the evidence
could have had any other effect than to rebut the mitigating
circumstances relied on by the defendants. In this view the
evidence was admissible.
The loss of the services of the slaves, by the trespass, necessarily resulting from the abduction of a part of them, and driving off the others, are clearly within the rule of damages in
trespass; and we think-the loss of the cord-wood, as proved,
and the injury to the corn-crop, were also within it.
It is argued, that unless the inclosure for the protection of
the crop was such as the law required, no damages could be
allowed for the trespasses charged, and that the owners of the
trespassing animals were liable, and consequently the, plaintiffs
in error were not liable.
Whether there was, at the time, a law in Arkansas regulating
inclosures, we have not exainined, as it is a matter which can
have no influence in the case. The question was fairly submitted to the jury, whether, under the facts and circumstances
proved, the injury to the corn-crop resulted from the loss of the
hands. This was a matter of fact for the jury, whether the
fence of the plaintiff was good or bad; if, by reason of the loss
of the slaves, the breaches in the inclosure could not be repaired,
or the plaintiff was unable to guard his field, as was his custom,
was an inquiry for the jury;. and in making up their verdict,
they must have considered the facts and circumstances connected with this branch of the case.
The same remarks apply to the cord-wood. Had the plaintiff
not been deprived of his hands, he might have removed, sold, or
in some other manner secured, the wood from being floated
off by the flood. In regard to the corn and the wood, if the
damage was a consequence, which necessarily followed the loss
of the hands, the plaintiffs in error were liable. The instructions of the court were general and correct. 5 Phil. Ev. 188,
189; Barnum v. Vanduson, 1P Conn. 200; Carrington v. TayVOL. XIII.

39

458

SUPREME

COURT.

Hill v. Tucker.

tor, 11 East, 571; 2 Greenleaf, Co. sect. 253, 254, 268 and 270,
272, 635 a.
The trespass was of an aggavated nature; notwithstanding
the mitigating facts set up by the defendants, it was lawless
and wholly inexcusable. It was a resort to physical force in
defiance of law, and under such 'circumstances as to endanger
life and property. Such a procedure should be reprehended by
every good citizen. It gives a high claim ".o the injured party for
exemplary damages. We think there was no error in the proceedings, consequently, the judgment of the District Court is
affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said6 District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of six per centum per annum.

CATHARINE HILL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, Z . JOSEPH W.
EXECUTOR OF ABNER ROBINSON, DECEASED.

TUCKER,

The relations or privity between executors and their testators in Louisiana, do not
differ from those which exist at common law.
The interest of an executor in the testator's estate is what the testator gives him;
that of an administrator, only that which the law of bis appointment enjoins.
Hence, executors in different States are, as regards the creditors of the testator,
executors in privity, bearing to the creditor5&, the same responsibilities as if there
was only one executor.
Although a judgment obtained against an executor-in one State is not conclusive
upon an executor in another State, yet it may be admissible i4 evidence to show
that the demand had been carried into judgment, and thattche other executors were
precluded by it from pleading-prescription or the statute of limitations upon the
original cause of acti6n.
Therefore, where a person appointed executors in Virginia, and also in Louisiana,
and the creditors obtained judgments against the Virginian executors, without being
able to obtain payment, and then sued the executors in Louisiana, the Virginian
judgments were admissible evidence for the above-mentioned purposes.
The law of Louisiana bars, by prescription, all actions brought upon instruments
negotiable or transferable by indorsement or delivery, unless such actions are
brought within five years. But this does not include due-bills or judgments.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.

