DECEMBER TER4 1851.

363

Day v. Woodworth et al.

'HORACE U. DAY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. W. JAMES WooDWORTH, MILLER TURNER, WILLIAM W. PYNCHoRN, ROBERT
L. FULLER, ANDREW SissoN, HARvEY CLEMENCE, THOMAS
BOLTON, MERRET BRISTOL, JOSEPH BOWEN, ANDREW ELMANDORF, SETH G. POPE, EDWARD GORHAm, EPnRAIm C. BRETT,
_ARNOLD TURNR_,
MARCUS TOBY, GEORGE J. KIPP, JOHN B.
BumP, ATTHOUSE, ERXSTUS BROWN, ER~sTus F. RUSSELL,
JOHN 0. RUSSELL, AsA C. RUSSELL, EDWARD P. WOODWORTH, LORING G. ROBBINS, LORENzo H. RICE, AND MARK
ROSSITER.
Where an action of trespass quare cusum freqit was brought, and the defendants
justified, and the court allowed the defendants, upon the trial, to open and close
the argument, this ruling of the court is not a proper subject for a bill of exceptions.
The suit being brought by the owner of a mill-dam below, against the owners of a
mill above, for forcibly taking down a part of the dam, upon the allegation that it
injured the mill above, it was proper for the court to charge the jury, that, if they
found for the plaintiff, upon the ground that his dam caused no injury to the mill
above, they should allow, in damages, the cost of restoring so much of the dam as
was taken down, and compensation for the necessary delay of the plaintiff's mill i
and they might also allow such sum for the expenses of prosecuting the action,
over and above the taxable costs, as they should find the plaintiff 'had necessarily
incurred, for counsel-fees, and the pay of engineers in making surveys, &c.
But if they should find for the plaintiff, on the ground that the defendants had taken
down more of the dam than was necessary to relieve the mill above, then, they
would allow in damages the cost of replacing such excess, and compensation for
any delay or damage occasioned by such excess ; but not any thing for counsel-fees
or extra compensation to engineers, unless the taking down of such excess was
wanton and malicious.
In actions of trespass, and all actions on the case for torts, a jury may give exemplary or vindictive damages, depending upon the peculiar circumstances of each
case. But the amount of counsel-fees, as such, ought not to be taken as the measure
of punishment, or a necessary element in its infliction.
The doctrine of costs explained.
Whether the verdict-would carry costs or 'not, was a question with which the jury had
nothing to do.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
It was an action of trespass quare clausum fregit brought by
Day, a citizen of New York, ' against the defendants- in error,
citizens of Massachusetts, for pulling down a mill-dam within
the town of Great Barrington, in the county of Berkshire,
Massachusetts.
The defendants put in a plea of not guilty, and also a special
plea of justification, viz.:

And the defendants further say, that at the time when the
said trespasses are alleged to have been committed, and for a
long time previously thereto, and prior to, and at the time of the

erection of the said plaintiffs said dam, certain mills and a certain mill-dam, the property of, and in the use and possession of

864

SUPREME COURT.
Day v. Woodworth ot Al.

the Berkshire Woollen Company, (a corporation duly established by the laws of the State of Massachusetts,) had been and
were then lawfully erected and maintained, by, upon, and across
-said stream on which plaintiff's dam was built; that while said
mills and dam were thus erected and maintained, and used by
said corporation, the plaintiff unlawfully caused to be erected
in said stream, and below said dam, and at the time of said alleged trespass, unlawfully caused to be maintaiied therein the
said dam in his declaration mentioned, in such manner as to
injure the said mills and dam of the said corporation; that the
defendants, by direction of said Berkshire Woollen Company,
and as their agents and servants, did enter upon the said plaintiff's close, and did break down and demolish said plaintiff's
dam, in the manner least injurious to said dam; that they broke
down and demolished no more of said dam than was necessary
to remove or relieve the injury to said company's mills and dam
caused by the maintenance of said plaintiff's said dam as aforesaid, and that said defendants did not break and enter the plaintiff's close, any further or otherwise, nor thereupon use more force
or violence, than were reasonably necessary to relieve the injury
aforesaid.
The plaintiff joined issue upon the plea of not guilty, and replied to the special plea as follows:
And as to the said plea of the said defendants by them first
above pleaded, the said plaintiff says, that he ought not to be
barred from having and maintaining his aforesaid action thereof
against them; because he says, that although true it is that at
the said time when, &c., the said Berkshire Woollen Company
were then the owners and possessed of the said mills and dam
in the said plea mentioned, and although true it is that the said
mills and dam were upon and across the same stream on which
the said plaintiff's dam then was, and although true it was that
the said defendants committed the said trespasses by command
of the said corporation, for replication nevertheless in this behalf, the said plaintiff says, that the said defendants of their own
wrong and without the residue of the cause in their said plea
alleged, broke and entered the close of the said plaintiff, and tore
down and destroyed the said dam, and committed the said trespasses in the introductory part of the said plea mentioned, in
manner and form as the said plaintiff hath above complained,
and this he prays may be inquired of by the country. Wherefoie he prays judgment and for his costs.
By B. R. CuR'ris, Esq., his Attortev.
And the defendants do the like.
By WILLIAM WurTS, Esq., their Attorne.

R851..

SD1CEMBR

865

Day v. Woodworth et al.

Upon the trial, the jury came into court once for instructions,
and afterwards returned three times with verdicts.
The final verdict was as followsIn the above-entitled cause the jury find ihat the reduction of
the said dam of the said plaintiff, to the extent of three inches
for its entire length, was justified; but that the further reduction
was not justified; and so the jury find that the said defendants,
of their own wrong, and without the residue of the cause by the
said defendants in their said first plea alleged, committed the'
trespasses in the said plea mentioned, in manner and form as
the said plaintiff hath, in his said declaration, complained; and
thereof assess damages in the sum of two hundred dollars.
RoBERT ORE, Foreman.
Whereupon the court entered up judgment for two hundred dollars damages, without costs. The reason why the judgment was
entered "without costs" may be seen by a reference to a book
recently published by Stephen D. Law, Esq., p. 256. The book
is upon the jurisdiction and practice of the United States Courts.
The bill of exceptions contains the proceedings of the court
with respectto these several verdicts, and was as follows:
Bill of Exceptions.
This is an action of trespass for breaking and entering the
plaintiff's close and tearing down his mill-dam. The. defendants justified under an .alleged right to enter, &c., because the
dam was a nuisance to mills above, on the same stream, belonging to the Berkshire Woollen Company, whose servants the
defendants were, and that, by command of the said company,
the defendants entered and took down so much and no more of
the said dam as was necessary to relieve the mills above.
At the trial the defendants claimed the right to begin and offer
their evidence first, and open and close the argument. The plaintiff claimed the same right. The presiding judge ruled in favor of
the defendants, and the plaintiff's counsel excepted to the ruling.
The presiding judge instructed the jury in his first summing up,
that the defendants had. a right by law to enter the plaintiff's
close, and to take down so much of the plaintiff's dam as wad
necessary to relieve the mills -above from all practical injury
occasioned by that dam; but thax f the defendants had taken
down more of the dam than was necessary for that end, or if
none was necessary' to be taken down for that end, the jury
must find for the plaintiff
That if the jury should find for the plaintiff on the last
ground, viz. that the plaintiff's dam caused no injury to the.
mills above, the plaintiff was entitled to a complete indemnity,'

366

SUPRE

E COURTe.

Day v. Woodworth et al.

and the jury would allow in damages the cost of restoring so
much of the dam as was taken down, and -compensation for
necessary delay of plaintiff's mill; and they might also allow
such sum for the expenses of prosecuting the action, over and
above the taxable costs, as they 'should find the plaintiff had
necessarily incurred for counsel-fees and the pay of engineers in
making surveys, &c. But if the jury should find for the plaintiff on the first ground, viz. in that the defendants had taken
down more of the dam than was necessary to relieve the mills
above, unless such excess was wanton and malicious, then the
jury would allow, in d2ages the cost of replacing such excess,
and compensation for any delay'or damage occasioned by such
excess, but not any thing for counsel-fees or extra compensation
to engineers.
The plaintiff's counsel requested the court to instruct the jury
that they might allow counsel-fees, &c. if there was any excess
in taking down more of the dam than was justifiable, and gave
as a reason that the defendants thereby became 'trespassers ab
initio. The presiding judge instructed the jury as above set
forth on this point.
After being charged by the presiding judge, the jury retired,
and subsequently came into court for instructions, preferring a'
written request, as follows:
U S. .
Ju.y.Room, Dec. 8, 1849.
To nis HONOR JTTDGE SPRAGUE:
If the jury find that the plaintiffs dam was too high and
ought to be reduced, but not to the extent of the- reduction by
the defendants, can the jury find a verdict to that effect for the
plaintiff according to law? if so, can they find damages for the
excess of such reduction?
R. ORR, Foreman.
Thereupon' the presiding judge gave anew the instructions
above set forth, except that he instructed them not to allow any
thing for counsel-fees, &c. if they should find that the redubtion
of the dam to any eztent was justifiable. The jury again retired, and subsequently returned into court with a written paper,
in the words following:
U . a
. Jury Boom, Dec. 8,1849.
In the case of L H. Day against Woodworth et al. the jury
find that the reduction of the plahitiff's dam -to the extent of
three inches for its entire length justifiable. The jury further
find that the defendants pay to the plaintiff the sum of one
thousand dollars in full for such excess of reduction and delay.
ROBERT ORR,

Foreman.

The plaintiff asked to have a verdict presented to the foreman

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

367

Day v. Woodworth et al.

for his signature, following the words of the issue. The presiding judge stated- that he was not prepared to say to the jury
that that would be the same in substance as their finding, and
ruled that the verdict, to be presented to the foreman for his signature, should also set forth that part of the finding that the
plaintiff's dam was lawfully reduced to the extent of three inches
throughout its entire length. There was no evidence that the
defendants had reduced the plaintiff's dam through its entire
length, but it appeared that the plaintiff's dam was one hundred
and twelve feet long, and that the part cut down by the defendants was the most westerly part, about fifty-four feet in length,
inches, and
and that this fifty-four feet was cut down about
that this would have the effect of reducing the obstruction presented by the dam more than three inches for its entire length.
To the above rulings of the presiding judge the plaintiff ex-.
cepted.
in this stage of the proceedings, the defendants' counsel desired of the presiding judge to inquire of the jury whether something for counsel-fees was not included in the sum of one thousand dollars mentioned in said finding of the jury.
The presiding judge being of opinioh that there was no'evidence which would warrant the jury in finding damages to the
amount of one thousand dollars for the said excess of reducing
the dam, without expressing this opinion, made the inquiry requested, to which the foreman answered, that they did not allow
any thing for counsel-fees, but only for the excess and delay, as
appeared by the writtea verdict. The d6fendants' counsel then
urged that the written verdict said that the sum of one thousand
dollars was to be in full, and requested the presiding judge to
ask the jury if they did not allow that sum in. the expectation.
that the plaintiff was to recover no more. The foreman of the
jury responded in substance as before but one of his fellows
said he understood the plaintiff was to recover no more, and
that each party was to pay his own costs, and that he had
agreed to the verdict on that understanding. This understanding was denied by another of the jury, and the presiding judge
then said that it must be the verdict of eachjuror, and that this
was not the verdict of the one who said he had agreed to it on
the misunderstanding, and therefore the presiding judge proceeded to sum up anew on the subject of damages, referring to
the evidence, and giving to the jury substantially the instructions, in point of law, before given, and adding that, if the plaintiff should recover $1,000 damages, he would, as the prevailing
party, by law recover his taxable costs; and having so done,
directed the jury again to retire; to this proceeding the plaintiff's
counsel excepted. Subsequently, the jury again returned into

368

SUPREME COURT.
Day v. Woodworth et al.

court, and brought in a second verdict, in writing, in the words
following:
U. S. C. C. Tury Room, Boston, Dec. 8, 1849.
In the case of Horaca H. Day v. Woodworth et al. the jury
find that the reduction of the plaintiff's dam to the effect of
three inches for its entire length wag justifiable.
The jury further find, that the defefidants pay to the plaintiff the sum of two hundred dollars for such excess of reduction
and delay.

-

ROBERT ORR,

Foreman.

This verdict was put in the form in which it appears on the
record, but before it was, signed the plaintiff's counsel suggested
to the presiding judge, that, as the jury had been instructed that
in one event the plaintiff would recover costs, some of the jury
might have agreed to this verdict with that understanding, and
requested that this inquiry might be made of the jury; thereupon the presiding judge inquired of the jury whether, in rendering this verdict, they had any reference to costs, and the foreman of the jury, having replied that they had not, was about to
sign the verdict, when one of his fellows objected, and stated
that he had agreed to toe verdict in the belief that, as prevailing
party, the plaintiff could recover his costs; thereupon the presiding judge charged the jury a third time on the subject of
damages, referring to the evidence, and repeating in substance
the instructions in point of law before given; and further instracted them that the plaintiff, recovering only two hundred
dollars, would not recover costs, and that it would be a violation
of their oaths to have any regard to the costs, it being their duty
to find the actual damage proved, and no more, and directed
them again to retire; which having done, they brought in the
verdict which appears of record. To all ihese proceedings the
plaintiff excepted, and prayed that his exceptions might be
allowed, and that this bill of exceptions might be signed and
sealed by his honor the judge; all of which being found 'trne,
the same is accordingly signed and sealed.
PELEG -SPRAGUE,

[SEAL.]

Judge of the U. S. Mass. District.
Upon this exception the case came up to this court, and was
argued by Mr. Gillet, for the plaintiff in eror, no counsel appearing for the defendants.
Mr. Gillet made the following points:
First. The affirmative was with the plaintiff, and he had the
right to introduce evidence first, and the right to open and close
the argument. Burrill's Practice, 283.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

869

Day v. Woodworth et &l.

Where the general issue is pleaded, the plaintiff has always
the right to begin. Carter v. Jones, 6 Canr. & Payne, 64; Colton v. James, 1 Moo. & Mal. 273, 275, and 505; Cooper v.
Wakley, 3 Car. & Payne, 474 and note; Fish v. Travers, 3
Carr. & Payne, 578 ; Price v. Seaward, I Carr.& Marsh. 23; Booth
v. Millns, 15 Mees. & Wels. 669; Cripps v. Wells, 1 Carr. & M.
489; Mercer v. Whall, 5 Adol. & El. (N. s.) 447; Harrison v.
Gould, 8 Can:. & P. 580; Ayer v. Austin, 6 Pick. 225; Brooks
v. Barrett, 7 Pick. 94; Ware v. Ware, 8 Maine, 42; Lunt v.
Wormell, 19 Maine, 100, 102; Sawyer v. Hopkins, 22 Maine,
268; Robinson v. Hitchcock, 8 Met. 64; 'Sullivant v. Reardon,
5 Pike, 140; Le.ington Ins. Co. v. Paver, 16 Ohio, 324.
Second. The judge erred in reffising to instruct the jury, that
if the defendants cut down the plaintiff's dam more than was
necessary to relieve the mills above, that they were not authorized to allow any thing in addition to cover c6unsel-fees or
extra compensation paid by him to engineers. •
Third. The judge erred in charging the jury that it would be
a violation of their oaths to have any regard to whether their
verdict would carry costs or not.
Fourth. This being an action of tort the plaintiff was not
limited to the actual damages proved; but the jury were autuorized to give him such as the circumstances of the case might indicate as proper; Allen v. Blunt, 2 Woodb. &'Min. 121; Jennings
v. Maddox, 8 B. Mon. 109; Whipple v. Tae Cumberland Man,
Co., 2 Story, 661; Washburn v. Gould, 3 Story, 136; Whitmore v. Cutter 1 Gall. 478; 1 Bald. 328; The Apollon, 9 Wheat.
379; Staats v. Ex. of Teneyck, 3 Caines, R. 111; Kingsbury v.
Smith, 13 N. H. R. 122; 4 Johns. 1; Sfreetv. Patrick, 12 Maine,
9; Beal v. £hompson, 3 B. & P. 407; Pitkin v. Leavitt, 13
Verrn. R. 379; Earle v. Sawyer, 4 Mass. 1, 12; Boston Mah.
Co. v. Fiske, 2 Mason, 119, 120; Sedgwick on Damages; Curtis
on Patents, &c.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was plaintiff below in an action of trespass, charging the defendants with tearing down and destroying
his mill-dam. The defendants pleaded in justification that the
Berkshire Woollen Company owned mills above the dam of
plaintiff, who illegally erected and maintained the same, so as
to injure the mills above; that by direction of said company,
and as their agents and servants, they did enter plaintiff's close,
and did break down and demolish so much of the plaintiff's dam
as was necessary to remove the nuisance and injury to the mills
above, and no more, and as they lawfully might. To this plea.
the plaintiff replied de injuria,&c.

R70

SUPREME COUR.T.
Day v. Woodworth et al.

On the trial of this issue, the defendants "claimed the right
to begin and offer their evidence first, and open and close the
argument.. The plaintiff claimed the same right. The court
ruled in favor of the defendants, to which the plaintiff excepted."
This ruling of the court is now alleged as error.
Our attention has been pointed to numerous decisions of
English and American courts on this subject, which we think it
unnecessary to notice more particularly, than to state, that the
question whether a defendant in tiespass who pleads a plea i
justification only, has a right to begin and conclude, has been
differently decided in different courts. It is a question of practice only, and depends on the peculiar rules of practice which
the court may adopt. The English courts have regretted that
an objection to the ruling of the court at nisi prius on this question should ever have been permitted to be received as a ground
for a new trial. But although a court may sometimes grant a
hew trial where the judge has not accorded to a party certain
rights to which, by the rules of practice of the court, he may be
justly entitled, we are of opinion that the ruling of the court
below on such a point is not the proper subject of a bill of exceptions or a writ of error. A question as to the order in which
counsel shall address the jury doed not affect the merits of the
controversy. As a matter of practice, the Circuit Court of
Massachusetts had a right to makes its own rules. The record
does not show that the rule of the court is different from their
judgment on this occasion. So that the plaintiff has failed to.
show any error in the decision, assuming it to be a proper sub.
ject of exception.
The great question, on the trial of this case, appears to have
been whether the plaintiff's dam was higher than he had a right
to maintain it, and if so, whether the defendants had torn down
more of it, or made it lower than they had a right to do.
The plaintiff's counsel requested the court to instruct the jury
that "they might allow counsel-fees, &c., if there was any excess in taking down more of the dam than was justifiable, and
give as a reason that the defendants thereby became trespassers
ab initio."
The court instructed the jury "that if they should find for the
plaintiff on the first ground, viz., that the defendants had taken
down more of the dam than was necessary to relieve the mills
above, unless such excess was wanton and malicious, then the
jury would allow in damages the cost of replacing such excess,
and compensation for any delay or damage occasioned by such
excess, but not any thing for counsel-fees or extra compensation
to engineers."

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

371

Dsy v. Woodworth et al

This instruction of the court is excepted to, oit two grounds.
First, because "this being an action of trespass, the plaintiff was
not limited to actual damages proved," and secondly, that the
jury, under the conditions stated in the charge, should have been
instructed to include in their verdict for the plaintiff; not only the
actual damages suffered, but his counsel-fees and other expenses
incurred in prosecuting his suit.
It is a well-established principle of the common law, that in
actions of trespass and all actions on the case for torfs, a jury
may inflict what are called exemplary, punitive, or vindictive
damages upon a defendant, haiing in view the enormity of his
offence rather than the measure of compensation to the plaintiff.
We are aware that the propriety of this doctrine has been questioned by some writers but if repeated judicial decisions for
more than a century are to be received as the best exposition
of what the law is, the question will not admit of argument.
By the common as well as by statute law, men are often punished for aggravated misconduct or lawless acts, by means Qf a
civil action, and the damages, inflicted by way of penalty or
punishment, given to the party injured. In many civil actions,
such as libel, slander, seduction; &c., the.wrong done to the
plaintiff is incapable of being measured by a money standard;
and the damages assessed depend on the circumstances, showing the degree of moral turpitude or atrocity of the defendant's
conduct, and may properly be termed exemplary or vindictive
rather than compensatory.
In actions of trespass, where the injury has been wanton aid
malicious, or gross and outrageous, courts perrit juries to add
to the measured compensation of thc plaintiff which he would
have been entitled to recover, had the injury been inflicted
without design or intention, something farther by way of
punishment or example, which has sometimes been called
"smart money." This has been always left to the discretion
of the jury, as the degree of punishment to be thus inflicted
must depend on the peculiar circumstances of each cas&. It
must be evident, also, that as it depends upon the degree of
malice, wantonness, oppression, or outrage of. the defendant's
conduct, the punishment of his delinquency cannot be measured by the expenses of the plaintiff in prosecuting his suit.
It is true that damages, assessed by way of example, may thus
indirectly compensate the plaintiff for money expended in
counsel-fees; but the amount of these fees cannot be taken
as the measure of punishment or a necessary element in its infliction.
This doctrine about the right of the jury to include in their
verdict, in certain cases, a sum sufficient to indemnify the plain-

872

SUPREME COURT.
Day v. Woodworth et al.

tiff for counsel-fees and other real or'stpposed expenses over
and above taxed costs, seems to have been borrowed from the
civil law and the practice of the courts of admiralty. At first,
by the common law, no costs were awarded. to either party,
eo nomine. If the plaintiff failed to recover he was amerced pro
falso clarnore. If he recovered judgment, the defendant was in
misericordiafor his unjust detention of the plaintiff's debt, and
was not therefore punished with the expensa litis under that
title. But this being considered a great hardship, the statute of
Gloucester, (6 Ed. 1, c. 1,) was passed, which gave costs in all
cases when the plaintiff recovered damages. This was the
origin of costs de incremento; for when the damages were found
by the jury, the judges held themselves obliged to tax the moderate fees of counsel and attorneys that attended the cause. See
Bac. Abr. tit. Costs.
Under the provisions of this statute every court of common
law has an established system of costs, which are allowed to
the .successful party by -way of amend, for his expense and
trouble in prosecuting his suit. It is true, no doubt, and is
especially so in this country, (where the legislatures of the different States have so much reduced attorneys' fee-bills, and refused to allow the honorarium paid to counsel to be exacted
from the losing party,) that the legal taxed costs are far below
the real expenses incurred by the litigant; yet it is all the law
allows as expensa litis. If the jury may, Itif they see fit," allow
counsel-fees and expenses as.a part of the actual damages incurred by the plaintiff, and then the court add legal costs de in-*
cremento, the defendants may be truly said to be inmisericordia;
being at the mercy both of court and jury. Neither the common
law, nor the statute law of anji State, so far as we aie informed,
has invested the jury with this power or privilege. It has been
sometimes exercised by the permission of courts, "but its results have not been such as to recommend it for general adoption either by courts or legislatures.
The only instance where this power of increasing the "actual ,
damages" is given by statute is in the patefit laws of the United
States. But there it is given to the courtland not to the jury.
The jury must find the ".aetual damages" incurred by the plainin the opinion of
tiff at the time his suit das brought i and if,
the court, the defendant has not acted in gqod faith, or has been
stubbornly litigious, orhas caused unnecessary expense and
trouble to the plaintiff, the court may increase the amount of
the verdict, to the extent of treling it. But this penalty cannot, and ought not, to be twice inflicted; first, at the discretion
of the jury, and again at the discretion of the court. The expenses of the defendant over and above taxed costs are usually

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Fowler v.

373

Hart.

as gTeat as those of plaintiff; and yet neither court nor jury can
compensate him, if the verdict and judgment be in his favor, or
amerce the plaintiff profalso clam ore beyond tax costs. Where
such a rule of law exists allowing the jury to find costs de incremnento in the shape of counsel-fees, or that equally indefinite and
unknown quantity denominated (in the plaintiff's prayer for instruction) "&c.," they should be permitted to do the same for
the defendant where be succeeds in his defence, otherwise the
parties are not suffered to contend in an equal field. Besides,
in actions of debt, covenant, and assumpsit, where the plaintiff
always recovers his actual damages, he can recover but legal
costs as compensation for his expenditure in the suit, and as
punishment of defendant for his unjust detention of the debt;
and it is a moral offence of no higher order, to refuse to pay the
price of a patent or the damages for a trespass, which is not
wilful or malicious, than to refuse the payment of a just debt.
There is no reason, therefore, why the law should give the plaintiff such an advantage over the defendant ihone case, and refuse
it in the other. See Barnard v. Poor, 21 Pickering, 382; and
Lncoln v. the Saratoga Railroad, 29 Wendell, 435.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the instruction given by
the court in answer to the prayer of the plaintiff, was correct.
The instruction to the jury, also, was clearly proper as respected the measure of the damages, and that the jury had nothing
to do with the question whether their verdict would carry costs.
The judgment is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideratiou
-whereof; it is now here ordered and adjudged by tnis court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
-same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, for the defendants in error.

JosEPH FOWLER, JUNIOR, APPELLANT, V. NATHAN HART.

Real property, inLouisiana, was bound by a judicial mortgage.
The owners of the property then took the benefit of the Bankrupt Act of the United
States.

A ereditor of the bankrupt then filed a petition against the assignee, alleging that he
-tad a mortgage-upon the same property, pror in date to the judicial mortgage, but
that, by some error, other property had been naimnd, and praying to have the error
correcttd. Of this proceeding the judgment creditor had no notice.
VOL. XIII.

32

