198

SUPREME COURT.
Lord et al. v. Goddard.

and costs; because, by art. 1929 of the Code of Louisiana,
"the damages due for delay in the performance of an obligation
are called interest. The creditor is entitled to these damages
without proving any -loss, and whatever loss he may have
suffered he can recover no more." But we'are of opinion that
this objection is founded on 'a mistake of th6 nature of the
action, which is not brought on the notes mentioned in the
petition, but for damages suffered by the plaintiffs below, on
account of the non-performance by the defendant of his stipulations contained in his act of partition. This case, therefore,
comes within the art. 1924 of the code, -which says: "The
obligations of contracts extending to whatsoever is incident to
such contracts, the party who violates them is liable, as one of
the incidents of his, obligations, to the payment of the damages
which the other party has sustained by his default."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the -transcript of the record Yrom the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisinia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages,
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

SAtPsoN B. Lopb

AND GEORGE W. JENNESS,
ERROR V. JOHN GODDARD.

PLAINTIFFS IN

Where an action was brought against certain persons for giving a commercial letter
of recommendation with intention to defraud and deceive, wherebi the party to
whom the letter was addressed gave credit and sustained a loss, the question for the
juiy ought to have been whether or not there was fraud and an intention to deceive,
in giving the letter.
If there was no such intention, if the parties honestly stated their own opinion, believing at the time that they stated the truth, they are not liable in this form of
action, although the representation turned out to be entirely untrue.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the District of New Hampshire.
,Goddard was the plaintiff below, and Lord and Jenness the
defendants.
The declaration in two counts alleged that the plaintiffs in
error, October 28, 1847, intending to deceive and defraud the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

199

Lord et al. v. Goddard.

defendant in error, wrongfully and deceitfully made and signed
a letter of recommendation in favor of E. K. West and A. W.
Daby, addressed to the defendant in error, in which they represented they had full confidence in West & Daby, dealers in
coal, lumber, &c., that they were men well worthy of credit, and
good for what they wished to purchase, and that West was
visiting Bangor for the purpose of purchasing lumber for the
New York market, and dtd thereby falsely, fraudulently, and
deceitfully cause and procure the defendant in error to sell, and
that-he, confiding in the statements, on the 9th of No*vember,
1847, did sell to7 West & Daby certain timber on credit, &c.
Whereas, in fact, West & Daby were not worthy of credit,
and that the plaintiffs in error well knew the same, and that
West & Daby have not paid, &c.
The plaintiffs in error pleaded severally, not guilty, on which
issue was joined.
The defendant in error offered, in support of his declaration,
the letter addressed to him, as follows, viz.:
"To John Goddard, Esq., Bangor, Me.
"Sir, - We the undersigned have full confidence in Messrs.
E. K. West and A. W. Daby, dealers in coal, lumber, lime, &c.
They are men well worthy of credit, and good for what they
wish to purchase. The bearer of this, Mr. E. K. West, is visiting your city for the express purpose of purchasing lumber for
the New York market.
Yours respectfully,
S. B. LORD,
GEORGE W. JENNEss.

"Portsmouth, N. H., October, 28th, 1847."
In July, 1850, the cause came on for trial, when the jury, under
the instructions of the court, found a verdict for the plaintiff for
$2,300.
The bill of exceptions was very comprehensive. It began
with reciting the writ, the declaration, and other pleadings, then
recapitulated the evidence of two persons with all the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, and also the evidence of seven
persons taken upon the stand. It is not necessary to recite any
of this, as the point stated in the instructions of the court was
the only matter broutght into discussion.
The evidence being closed, the counsel for the defendants
then prayed the honorable court to instruct the jury, that, in
order to maintain the plaintiff's declaration, it must be proved
that the representations made were false, and that the defendants made them knowing they were false, and intending to
defraud the plaintiff; and that, if the defendants made the
representations on such information as they believed to be true,

200

SUPREME COURT.
Lord et al. v. Goddard.

whether that information was true or false, this action cannot be
maintained.. The defendants further requested the honorable
court to charge the jury, that if the plaintiff had not proved, to
the satisfaction of the jury, either that the defendants gave the
recommendation in this case knowing that it was false, and intending to defraud the plaintiff, or that they gave it without any
information of the credit or means of West & Daby; or if the
jury believe that the defendants gave such information respecting said West & Daby as said defendants believed to be true
and sufficient, whether that information was true or false, and
whether it was sufficient or not, the defendaiits were entitled to
a verdict.
But the honorable court declined to do this, and did not
charge the .jury in the terms and manner, and to the extent
prayed; but the honorable court did ifistruct thd jury upon the
,subject-matter so prayed for as follows: that, as a general rule,
one ground upon which to maintain the plaintiff's declaration
is,it must be proved that the representations made were false,
and that the defendants made them knowing they were false,
end intending to defraud the plaintiff; and that if the defendants made the representations on such information as they berieved to be true, whether that information was true or false, the
action cannot be maintained; but a party, if stating positively
that a person is entitled to credit, should do it from his own
knowledge, or from full and proper inquiries; and then he is
not liable if the debtor is insolvent, unless the jury see circumstances in the case, of real fraud. But if a party state this positiyely as to the credit of -n individual, and does it ignorantly,
not knowing the credit of the person recommended, and without
making full and proper inquiries, and the statements turn out to
be false, the jury may infer that those so recommending did
wrong, and deceived, because they must know that third persons
are likely to rely on their stating what they personally know, or
had duly inquired about, or what they had good reason to suppose their information as to it was sufficient and true. If the
defendants in this case did not make the recommendation upon
such authority or information as you may think, under the
instructions, they ought to have acted upon, you will charge
them.
Whereupon the counsel for the defendants did then and there
except to the aforesaid refusal, and the instructions and charge
of the honorable court.
Upon this exception the case came up to this court.
It was argued by"Mr. Norris, for the plaintiffs in error, and
W1~. Washburn, for the'defendant in error.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Lord et al. v. Goddard.

Mr. Norris, for the plaintiffs in error.
L Both counts in the declaration allege, not only that the
plaintiffs in error, intending to deceive and defraud the defendant in error, wrongfully and deceitfully made the representations
alleged, and did thereby falsely, fraudulently, and deceitfully
cause him to sell the lumber to West & Daby on a credit; but
they allege, also, that the plaintiffs in error well knew the representation to be false.In making these averments the pleader but complied with the
ordinary rules of pleading. It was necessary that the declaration should allege in some form, substantially, that they had
knowledge of the falsity of their representations, or an actual
intent to defraud under circumstances that made knowledge
immaterial.
It is essential, in order to support an action of this character,
that such knowledge should be proved, and found by the jury,
or at least that an actual intent to defraud should be shown.
That knowledge of the falsity must be averred and proved,
where the actual intent to defraud does not exist, is very clear.
Pasley v. Freeman, 3 D. & E. 59, 60, 62, 63, &c.; Haycraft v.
Creasey, 2 East, 92; Ashlin v. White, Holt, N. P. R. 387; Amee
v. Milward, 8 Taunt. 637; Foster v. Charles, 6 Bing. 396; 7
Bing. 105; Freeman v. Baker, 5 Barn. & Adolph. 79 ; Moens
v. Heyworth, 10 Mees.' & Welsby, 147; Clifford v. Brooke, 13
Vesey, 133.
The case of Collins v. Evans, in error, 5 Ad. & ElliS, N. S. 820,
827, although not upon a representation, fully sustains the
principle.
The American cases are equally explicit. Russell v. Clarke's
Executors, 4 Cranch, 92, 94; Tryon v. Whitnarsh, 1 Met. 1;
Stone v. Denny, 4 Met. 159, 161 ; Fooks v. Waples, 1 I-arring.
(Del.) Rep. 131; Young v. Hall, 4 Ga. R. 95; Boyd's Executors v. Brown, 6 Barr's (Penn.) R. 316.
Perhaps this declaration might be supported by eviaence of
an actual intent to defraud, without proving knowledge of the
falsity of the representations.
But there must be fraud. Lord v. Colley, 6 N. H. Rep. 99,
102; Taylor v. Ashton, 11 Mees. & Wels. 401; Stafford's Administrator v. Newsom, 9 Ired. (N. Car.) Rep. 507; Munroe v.
Gardner, 3 Brevard, (S. Car.) Rep. 31; Allen v. Addington, 7
Wend. 9; Addington v. Allen, 11 Wend. 074, 382, 388, 402,

408.
All these cases are express to the point, that a mere false
representation is insufficient.
In case for a false warranty, the scienter need not be alleged
and proved. 2 East, 446; 1 How. (Miss.) Rep. 288. But this is

SUPREME COURT.
Lord et al. v. Goddard.

because the gravamen of the action is the undertaking of the
defendant, and not his fraud. 2 East, 451, 452. In the present
case the plaintiffs in error are not parties to a contract, and the
gravamen is fraud.
II. The evidence has no tendency to prove the scienter, or an
intent to defraud any one.
The representation by the plaintiffs in error, that they had full
confidence in West & Daby, and that they were well worthy of
credit, and good for what they wished to purchase, has no
tendency to prove the fact to be otherwise. And the proof of
the fact that it was otherwise, if proved, has no tendency to show
such knowledge, or to show fraud.
But this is all the evidence to charge them. There is nothing
having eyen a remote tendency to show that they had any suspicion that the representation was not strictly true.
There is evidence to show that they made the representation
fairly.
Suppose they made it incautiously, without any such inquiry
as would have been made by more careful and suspicious men?
It is clear that this cannot charge them. Young v. Covell, 8
Johns. R. 23; 11 Mees. & Wels. 415.
The case put by Pothier, and cited -withapprobation by Chief.
Justice Kent, in Upton v. Vail, 6 Johns. R. 184, goes even beyond this case. "If," says Pothier, "you had only recommended Peter to his creditor as honest and able to pay, this was but
advice, and not any obligation;, and if Peter was at the time
insolvent, you are not bound to indemnify the creditor for the
sum which he loaned to Peter, by means of your advice, which
he has lost, Nemo ex consilio obligatur. The rule is the same
if the advice was given rashly and indiscreetly, without being
duly informed of the circumstances of Peter, provided it was
sincerely given. Liberun est cuique apud se explorare an expediat sibi consilium. But if the recommendation was made in
bad faith, and with knowledge that Peter was insolvent, in this
case you are bound to indemnify the creditor."
I1. The representation in this case is, in its very nature, but
the expressiun of an opinion, and for thi reason the action cannot be.maintAined without showing affirmatively knowledge of
its falsity. If the plaintiffs in error had made a positive assertion, as of their own knowledge, it would have been but the
assertion of a strong opinion, without evidence to show knowledge of its falsity. Haycraft v Creasey, 2 East, 92, which is
the leading case upon this point, is explicit. See also Page v.
Bent, 2 Met 374; 6 N. H. Rep. 102, 103.
IV. There was n6thing to leave to the jury, there being no
evidence to prove knowledge or fraud .by the plaintiffs in error.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

203

Lord et al. v. Goddard.

V. The charge to the jury does not require them to inquire
whether the plaintiffs in error had any knowledge that the representation was false, or any fraudulent purpose. But it atthorizes them to find a verdict for the plaintiff in that action, notwithstanding they had no such knowledge- or suspicion, and
acted in entire good faith.
It leaves to the jury, in effect, the question, whether, in their
opinion, the plaintiffs in error acted without sufficient caution;with directions, in that case, to charge them. Nothing, it is believed, having the character of authority, sustains such a positiori.
If there had been evidence to be weighed by the jury, tending
to show that the plaintiffs in error acted in bad faith, (which
there was not,) the jury were not instructed to consider it, and
did not consider it. The allegation in the original writ that
they well knew the falsity of what they represented, was neither.
proved nor found by the verdict.
Nothing has been tried except the question whether the jury
were of opinion that the plaintiffs in error were imprudent.
VI. There are cases where a representation has been held to
be fraudulent, although the party had no knowledge at the time
of"its falsity, and no actual intent to defraud was shown. Hazard v. Irwin, 18 Pick. Rep. 96; Stone v. Denny, 4 Met. 151;
Hammatt's Executorv. Emerson, 27 Maine, 308; Snyderv. Findley, I Coxe, (N. J.) Rep. 48, 78; Barnett v. Stanton, 2 Alabama,
181; Buford v. Caldwell, 3 Mis. 477; Warner v. Daniels, 1 Woodb.
& Minot, 91, 107; Mason v. Crosby, 1 Id. -343, 353; Smith v.
Babcock, 2 Id. 246.
It is understood that the defendant in error relies upon this
class of cases.
With the exception of the case in Coxe, (which raised a question respecting the payment of a note,) the cases just cited were
founded upon representations by vendors of property, or by their
agents.
How far the principle of some of these cases may be regarded
as brought in question-by Omrod v. Huth, 14 Mees. & Wels.
651, (in which, cotton being sold by the sample, upon representation that the bulk corresponded with the sample, it was held,
that an action on the case by the purchaser, for 'a false and
fraudulent representation, was not maintainable without showing that such representation was false to the knowledge of the
seller, or that he acted fraudulently or against good faith in
makiiing it,) we need not stop to inquire. See also Atwood v.
Small, 6 Clark & Finnelly, 233, 338, 447; Early v. Garret, 9
Barn. & Cress. 928.
It is sufficient that, taking the cases above cited as they stand,
to the full extent, they do not apply to this case.

SUPREME COURT.
Lord et al. Y. Goddard.

1. They are 6ases where the party had some interest to make

the representation. Here the cause of action is not connected
'with any sale by the plaintiffs in error, or with any thing by
which the assertion can have the character of a false warranty.
The action has no foundation in a contract between the parties.
Iai. Humphreys v. Pratt, 5 Bligh, Rtep. N. S.154, which might seem
at first to have some tendency tor sustain this action, the learned
counsel for the defendants in error contended for no more than
"a principle of law that he who affirms that which he does not
know to be true, or that which he knows to be false; to another's
prejudice, and his own gain, is a wrongdoer," and expressly
admittdd that, "if the party making the representation has no
interesf, the action may not lie, unless it is done maliciously,"
pp. 162, 163. The reasons of the judgment are not stated in
the report, but the grounds upon which the case is to be sustained, as stated by Mr. Chief Justice Tindal, 5 Ad. & Ellis,
N. s. 829, are very far from sustaining the reporter's abstract;
which has no support from the report of the same case, 2 Dow
& Clark, 288; Adamson v. Jarvis, 4 Bing. 66, may lead to the
belief that the considerations suggested by Chief Justice Tindal were in truth the grounds of Lord Windford's opinion in
Humpireys v. Pratt.
In Taylor v. Ashton, 11 Mees. & Wels. 415, Mr. Baron Parke
says, "It is insisted that even that" [gross negligence] "accompanied with a damage to the plaintiff, in consequence of that
gross negligence, would be sufficient to give him a right of action. From this proposition we entirely dissent, because we are
of opinion that, independent of any contract between the parties, no one can be made responsible for a representation of this
kind, unless it be fraudulently made."
2. In those cases the party asserted the fact as of his own
knowledge, either in terms, or in a manner which implied that
he had such actual knowledge, and this is relied on as a ground
for the opinion that he was liable. 4 Met. 151, 156. In the
present case the representation begin8 by merely stating the
and it is not stronger
confdence of the parties who made it,
than that in Tryon v. Whitmarsh, 1 Met. 1.
3. From the nature of most of those cases, the party might
naturally have had actual knowledge of what he asserted, and
he was bound to know it before he made a positive assertion,
from which he was to derive a benefit, and which entered into
the contract constituting part of the res geste. It was because
he might well have had the knowledge that he professed to have,
that the representation was held fraudulent. 3 Mis, 477. In
this case, as the plaintiffs in error lived in Portsmouth, and
West & Daby in New York, there was no reason to suppose
actual knowledge.

DECEMBER TERM, 185"1.
Lord et al. v.

. 205

Goddard.

4. The difference between the case at bar and the cases referred to, is further shown by'what has been already suggested.
Without evidence to show that the representation was known'
to be false, actual knowledge of the matter stated is not to be
inferred by the party to whom it is made. The representation
is but the expression of an opinion, and is to be so understood.
In Pasley v. Freeman, 3 D. & E. 56, Grose, J., held the representation to be matter of judgment and opinion. Buller, J., said,
"My brother Grose considers this assertion as mere matter of
opinion only, but I differ from him in that respect." We naturally inquire why? And the reason immediately follows: "For
it is stated in this record that the defendant knew that the fact
was false." 3 D. & E. 57.
This distinction is adverted to and recognized in Hazard v,
Irwin, 18 Pick. 95, 105, and in numerous cases before cited. In
Kidney v. Stoddard, 7 Met. 252, the defendant had knowledge
of the falsity, and was not entitled, therefore, to say that he had
merely expressed an opinion. So in Clopton v. Cozart, 13
Sinedes & Marshall, 363, the representation, which had the form
of an assertion made as of personal knowlEdge, was held not
to have the character of opinion. But the decision is directly
upon the ground that the defendants had knowledge of the
falsity of the representation.
VIL The plaintiffs in error had in fact information that led
them to the belief of the truth of the representation which they
made. They had as much knowledge as they assumed to have
good ground for the confidence they expressed. This is'
shown by the letter to one of them from his son in New York.
It is submitted that here is a most perfect defence. The representation was not made "under circumstances which manifested a recklessness of truth," but upon all the information
which the defendant in error could reasonably have supposed.
to be in the possession of those who made it. Collins v. Evaris,
in error, 5 Ad. & Ellis, 820, 826, 827; Williams v. Wood.
14 Wend. 126, 130; 2 Alabama R. 187.
VIII. If there was any ground upon which the case could
rightfully be submitted to the jury, it was for them to inquire
whether the plaintiffs in error did or did not believe what they
represented, or whether they made the assertion with the exliress intention of enabling West & Daby to obtain credit;
whether they were able to pay or not, the plaintiffs in error be"
ing parties to an -actual fraudulent intent. (The preliminary
question for the court, would be, whether there was any evideiee whatever to support the action on either ground.) But
the charge" submits no question of that character to the jury.
If it had, the result must have been different.
VOL.XIIL

18

206

SUPREME COURT.
Lord ct al

v. Goddard.

-Unless the representation of a matter as true, which was in
fact false, the assertion having been made in good faith, without knoNvAedge of its falsity, and being one in which the party
neither had, nor appeared to have any interest, is sufficient to
charge him in damages, as for a fraud, the defendant in error
has no cause of action. This .is the extent of the proof. But
it is believed that no authority can be found to sustain such a
proposition. The case of Evans v. Collins, 5 Ad. & Ellis, N. S.
804, wvhich comes nearest to the enunciation of such a principle, is .followed immediately by its antidote, in the shape of a
reversal, of the judgment, by the unanimous opinion of the
judges in the Exchequer Chamber, on the very ground that
kn6wledge of the falsity of the representation was essential to
the, maintenance of the action, 5 A. & R. N. s. 620. And iri
Barley v. Walford, 9 Ad. & Ellis, N. s. 208, Lord Denman,
who delivered the opinion in Evans v. Collins, not only recognizes the reversal as settling the law, but admits the reasonableness of the doctrine. The Court of Queen's Bench had been
misled by supposing that the case of Humphreys v. Pratt, in the
House of Lords was. an authority for the principle laid down in
E. ans *v.. Collins.
It may be. said of the cases which distinctly assert, or distinctly. recognize the principles contended for by the plaintiffs
in 6rror, that their name is legion, for they are many.
To those "already cited may be added, Eyre v. Dunsford,
1 East, 327; Tapp v. Lee, 3 Bos. & Pal. 367, 371; Hamer v.
Alexander, 5 Bos. & Pul. -241, 245 ; Wood v. Waine, 1 Esp."R.
442; Scott v. Lara, Peake's R. 226; lHutchinson v. Ball, 1 Taunt.
558, 564; Corbett v. Brown, 8 Bing. 33; Polhill v. Walter,
3 Barn. & Adolph. 114; Cornfoot v. Fowke, 6 Mees. & Wels.
85S; Rawlings v.,Bell, 2 Man. Gran. & Scott, 951, 960; Carr,
ex parte,. 3 Ves. & Bea. 110; McDonald v. Trafton, 15 Maine,
227; Holbrook v. Burt,-22 Pick. 554; Lobdell v. Baker, 1 Met. 93;
3 Met. 472; Benton v. Pratt, 2 Wend. 38:5; Gallager v. Bruncl,
6 Cowen) 346, 352;, Weeks v. Burton, 7 Vt. 67, 70; Ewins v.
Calhoun,- Id. 79; West v. Emery, 17 Vt. 583, 586; lcCraken v. West, 17 Ohio, 24; Perkins v. Sterritt, Littell's Sel.
Cas. 218; Chisholm v. Gadsden, 1 Strobhart, 220; Foster v.
Swasey, 2 Woodb. & Minot, 217.
If the plaintiffs in error had given a guaranty, there is no evidence in the case, upon which they could have been held responsible. It will be more than passing strange, if they are to,
be Ifeld ex delictof for the'payment of th- debt, in the shape of
damages, without evidence of express fraud, intentional wrong,
actual bad faith.

DECEMBER TERM, 185-1.
Lord et al. v.

207

Goddard.

11r. Washburn, for defendant in error.
1. The recoid shows L That the defendant in error lived in Bangor, Maine, and
the plaintiffs in error, in Portsmouth, N. H. The distance between these places is about two hundred miles.
2. That the defendant was. acquainted with the plaintiffs,
and would be likely to rel -- e confidence in their representations;
and that this was understood by the plaintiffs themselves. The
letter from the latter, in which the representation complained of
w-ws made, was addressed to the defendant by name.
3. That West & Daby, wishing to purchase lumber, were
directed by plaintiffs to defendant, with the following positive
and unqualified'representation -" They" (West & Daby) "are
men well worthy of credit, and good for what they wish to purchase."
.4. That upon this representation, West & Daby were able to
Urchase, and did purchase, of the defendant, a quantity of
lumber, amounting in value to about $2,000.
6. That the representation was wholly untrue. That West
& Daby were neither worthy of credit, nor good for what they
wished to purchase.
6. That Lord had means to.know the facts. That if he did not
know of the insolvency of West & Daby, he was probably entirely ignorant of their situation, unless he may be supposed to
have derived information respecting it from the letter of his
son, who was, as the record says, proved to be unworthy of
belief, and that Jenness's position was no better than Lord's.
11. If the evidence shows, or the verdict necessarily implies,
as I respectfully submit is the case, all that has been stated, the
following propositions and deductions are fully warranted.
The plaintiffs made an unequivocal and unquilified representation, which the defendant might well rely upon as true,
and known to be true by the plaintiffs. Relying upon it he
sold his lumber to West & Daby, and lost the value of it. The
wrongful conduct of plaintiffs occasioned that loss, and they
should be held responsible for it
A positive declaration like this carries -with it the other declaration, (implied,) that the party making it knew what the
pecuniary circumstances and credit of the persons recommended
.were; and; particularly, when he believes that another party
*ill act upon the strength of it. It is as if the plaintiff had
said to defendant, "We know all about the pecuniary circumstances and credit of West & Daby; they. are well worthy of
,credit, and good for what they wish to purchase."
The plaintiffs did not undertake to assert a mere opinion, but
they stated a fact as of their own knowledge. That statement.
was grossly untrue.

208

SUPREME COURT.
Lord et a!. v. Goddard.

It is as false and fraudulent to state positively as true, as a
fact, what one knows nothing about) as what one knows to be
false. The same injury would be done in the former case as in
the latter.
"To state what is not known to be true is just as criminal,
in the eye of the law, as to state whal; is known to be false,"
under circumstances like those in this case. Buford v. Caldwell,
3 Mis. R. 477.
" It is perfectly immaterial, so far as regards the question of
law, whether Findley knew or did now know the falsity of the
facts which he represented." Snyder v. Findley, 1 Coxe, (N. J.)
R. 48, 78; 1 Doug. R. 654. But were the plaintiffs ignorant?
They were, or worse. They had no reason. for believing
what they asserted. The evidence throws the strongest suspi."
cion upon their act. Jenness stands wi-,h Lord. Lord had the
means of knowing the condition of West & Daby. The leiter
from his son, whose character he must have known, cannot relieve him. The son had "failed in business, and was unworthy
of belief." Who would think to ask for a letter of recommendation from such a man as Lord, junior, but one of like
character and condition? What would speak more suggestively and suspiciously of West & Daby than the letter from
young Lord? Noscitur a sociis. It is submitted that the circumstances of the letter from the son, of the letter to the defendant, written by the daughter-in-law, who knew West in
York, as she says, of the character of the son, have a tendency
to raise the presumption that the plaintiffs were not entirely
ignora nt or innocent; that they must have known or suspected
enough to dissuade them from the use of the strong language
employed in the letter to defendant, if they had meant fairly by
him. Did the plaintiffs make "full arid proper inquiries ?" or
did they "make the recommendation upon such information as
they ought to have acted upon?" Is the verdict of the jury
negatively answering these questions, (unless they found positive
knowledge on the part of the defendants,) unwarranted by the
evidence ?
But the plaintiffs are concluded by the'terms of their letter;
they cannot be permitted to say that they did not know of the
insolvency of West & Daby; or to allege that their representation was not false and fraudulent.
When, to repeat, one makes a positive representation to
another, who, he presumes, may act thereon, and who, he
knows, has no other means of information, he cannot be permitted, after the injury is done, and done solely by reason of his
act, to allege that he was ignorant, and knew nothing of what
he had said, and affirmed in the most explicit language to be

DECEMBER TERM,
Lord. et al. v.

1851.

Goddard.

true, and true of his own knowledge; for if he does not know
the truth of what he says, he has no right to use terms of positive
affirmation; the use of which, in such case, would be evidence
of recklessness, tantamount to fraud.
Nor can he be permitted to say that he believed what he
affirmed; for if he had nothing but belief or opinion in reference to the matter, he should have so expressed himself, and not
employed language, the import of which was so unequivocal
and decisive, as to lead the party addressed to understand that
he wrote from intimate acquaintance and actual knowledge.
Herein this case differs from many of the cases cited by plaintiffs. Goddard could not have supposed that the language of
the plaintiffs was adopted simply to express an opinion founded
on such a miserable basis as they now allege. Are not men
to be held responsible for such reckless and wanton disregard
of the rights of others as is shown in this case, even when considered in the most favorable aspect for the plaintiffs?
Where the legitimate consequence of a positive assertion,
false in fact, is to cause an injury to an innocent party, every
principle of morality and every rule of law, forbids its being
made with impunity. The form of the statement implies a
falsehood---implies knowledge, and belief founded on knowledge. The falsehood in such case is wilful, and wilful falsehood imports fraud. It would be a reproach to the law if it did
not furnish a remedy in a case like this.
The cases relied upon by the plaintiffs are dissimilar to this.
It is believed that not one of them is applicable to the state of
facts appearing upon this record. But it is believed that some
of the cases cited, under the head VI., fully sustain the positions
of the defendant.
Under-the charge of the judge, the jury must have found, and
were authorized by the evidence to find, all the facts as to
knowledge, intent, belief, &c., necessary to support the action.
The law, as applicable to the facts, was correctly given,to the jury.
For the facts bearing upon the questions before the court, I
would refer to the 'r-ecord at large, rather than to the abstract
made by the plairitiffs.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Goddard sued Lord & Jenn'ess in the Circuit Court of New
Hampshire, alleging that the defendants by letter recommended
West & Daby as men well worthy of credit, and good for' what
they wished to purchase; that they were dealers in coal, lumber, lime, &c., and that West, one of the firm, was visiting
Bangor, Maine, for the purpose of purchasing lumber for the
New York market.
18,

SUPREME
Lord et al. v.

COURT.
Goddard.

The letter, set forth in the declaration, was dated at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and directed to Goddard' at Bangor,
Maine. West & Daby resided in New York.
On. the faith of this letter Goddard credited West & Daby
for a cargo of lumber worth nearly two thousand dollars, giving
them four months time: for which lumber West & Daby never
paid, having been insolvent when the letter of recommendation
was given, and so continued afterwards. It is clear that they
were.mere insolvent adventurers, without property, and entitled
to no credit.or confidence.
The declaration alleges that the letter was given by Lord &
Jenness with an intention to deceive and defraud Goddard; and
that they did procure credit for West & Daby falsely and fraudulently. On the plea of the general issue the parties went to
trial, when it appeared that Lord had a son residing in New
York, who, on the 28th of October, 1847, gave a: letter of introduction to West, dated at New York, and directed to Lord, the
father, at Portsmouth, N. H. - The letter recommended the firm
of West & Daby, as fully worthy of credit, and requested that
Lord, the defendant, should recommend West & Daby to others.
West delivered this letter, and on the same day got the one on
which the suit is founded. It was written by the wife of the
younger Lord, who was in Portsmouth, at the instance of West;
he being known to her, but not known to Lord or Jenness the
defendants. They seem to have acted on the information contained in the younger Lord's letter and on the representations
of his wife.
On this state of facts, the court charged the jury -1. That,
as a general rule, it must be proved that the representations
made were false'; and that the defendants made them, knowiing
they were false, and intended to defraud the plaintiff; and if the
defendants made the representations, believing them to be true,
they were not liable. "But' a party, if stating positively that
a person is entitled to credit, should do it from his own knowledge, or from ftll and proper inquiries; and then he is not liable
if the debtor is insolvent, unless the jury see circumstances in
the case of real fraud. But, if a party states this positively as
to the credit of an individual, and does it ignorantly, not knowing the credit of the person recommended, and without making
full and proper inquiries, and the statenlents turn out to be
false, the jury may infer that those so recommending did wrong,
and deceived, because they must know that third persons are
likely to rely on their stating what they personally know, or
had duly inquired about, or what they had good reason to suppose their information as to it was *ufficicnt and true. If the
defendants in: this case did not make the recommendation upon

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Lord et al. v. Goddard.

such authority or information as .you may think under the instructions they ought to have acted upon, you will charge
them."
The jury found for the plaintiff on this charge, and the only
question is whether it was proper.
The gist of the action is fraud in thu defendants, and damage
to the plaintiff. Fraud means an intention to deceive. If
there was no such intention ; if the party honestly stated his
own opinion, believing at the time that he stated the truth, he
is not liable in this form of action, although the representation
turned out to be entirely untrue. Since the decision in Haycroft v. Creasy, 2 East, made in 1801, the question ha been
settled to this effect in England.
The Supreme Court of New York held likewise in Young v.
Covell, 8 Johns. 23.
That court declared it to be well settled that this action could
not be sustained, without proving actual fraud in the defendant,
or an intention to deceive the plaintiff by false representations.
The simple fact of making representations, which turn out not
to be true, unconnected with a fraudulent design, is not sufficient.
This decision was made forty years ago, and stands uncontradicted, so far as we know, in the American courts
Taking the foregoing instruction together, we understand
it to mean this: That if the jury believed due inquiry as to the
credit of WAest & Daby had not been made by Lord & Jenness, aid that they had signed the letter ignorantly, and regardless of the fact, whether the persons recommended were or were
not entitled to credit, then the jury should charge the defendants: The real test of conduct, according to the charge, obviously being, whether Lord & Jenness ought to have accorded
confidence to the younger Lord's letter, and to its sanction by
his wife; and whether this information was of such a character
as to justify them in writing the letter to Goddard, without
further inquiry.
That this instruction, taken in its proper sense, was evasive of
the true rule, and calculated to mislead the jury, is manifest,' and
therefore the judgment must be reversed, and the cause sent
down for another trial.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of New Hampshire, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court

SUPREME

12

COURT.

Morsell v. Hall.

that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause
be, and the game is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venire faeias de mavo.

JAMES S. MORSELL, SPECIAL BAIL OF WILLIAM SMIT11, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR, V. HENRY A. HALL:

In pece.
Maryland, it is correct to take a recognizance of bail before two justices of the
Where

scire faefas was issued against special bail, v'ho pleaded two pleas, to the

first of which the plaintiff took issue, and demurred to the second i and the cause
went to trial upon that state of the-pleadings without a.joinder in demurrer i and
the court gave a general judgment for the plaintiff, tf is was not error.
The refusal or omission to join in demurrer was a waiver of the plea demurred to.
In this case, if the plea had been before the court, it vwas bad; because being a plea
that the note was paid before the original judgment, it called upon the party to
prove a second time what had been once settled b, a judgment. The omission

of the court to render a judgment upon the plea could not be assigned as error.
of a court upon a motion to enter an exoneretur of-bail is not the proper
subject of a writ of error.

A judgment

THis case was brought up, by writ of' error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland.
.The facts were these,
In 1843, Henry A. Hall, a citizen of Maryland, brought a
suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for Maryland,
against William' Smith, a citizen of the State of Mississippi.
James S. Morsell was one of two persons who became jointly
and severally, special bail; anO the recognizance of bail was
taken before two justices of the peace for Calvert county.
. In April, 1847, Hall obtained a judgment, in consequence of
an opinion given by this court at the preceding term, which is
reported in 5 How. 96.
In May, 1847, he sued.out a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum
against Smith, which was returned "von es."
Ih November, 1847, he issued a scire facias against Morsell.
In April, 148, Morsell appeared and filed two pleas, viz.,
1. Nul tiel record. This plea was based upon the fact that the
recognizance of bail was taken before two jkistices of the peace.
In the argument before this court'this objection wvas not urged;
but as the opinion of the Circuit Court was thus established, it is
proper that a record of it should be made. The opinion was
short and may be inserted, viz.:
9"This mode of taking bail conforms to the long-established
practice of this court. An act of assembly of Maryland, passed

