458

SUPREME

COURT.

Hill v. Tucker.

tor, 11 East, 571; 2 Greenleaf, Co. sect. 253, 254, 268 and 270,
272, 635 a.
The trespass was of an aggavated nature; notwithstanding
the mitigating facts set up by the defendants, it was lawless
and wholly inexcusable. It was a resort to physical force in
defiance of law, and under such 'circumstances as to endanger
life and property. Such a procedure should be reprehended by
every good citizen. It gives a high claim ".o the injured party for
exemplary damages. We think there was no error in the proceedings, consequently, the judgment of the District Court is
affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said6 District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of six per centum per annum.

CATHARINE HILL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, Z . JOSEPH W.
EXECUTOR OF ABNER ROBINSON, DECEASED.

TUCKER,

The relations or privity between executors and their testators in Louisiana, do not
differ from those which exist at common law.
The interest of an executor in the testator's estate is what the testator gives him;
that of an administrator, only that which the law of bis appointment enjoins.
Hence, executors in different States are, as regards the creditors of the testator,
executors in privity, bearing to the creditor5&, the same responsibilities as if there
was only one executor.
Although a judgment obtained against an executor-in one State is not conclusive
upon an executor in another State, yet it may be admissible i4 evidence to show
that the demand had been carried into judgment, and thattche other executors were
precluded by it from pleading-prescription or the statute of limitations upon the
original cause of acti6n.
Therefore, where a person appointed executors in Virginia, and also in Louisiana,
and the creditors obtained judgments against the Virginian executors, without being
able to obtain payment, and then sued the executors in Louisiana, the Virginian
judgments were admissible evidence for the above-mentioned purposes.
The law of Louisiana bars, by prescription, all actions brought upon instruments
negotiable or transferable by indorsement or delivery, unless such actions are
brought within five years. But this does not include due-bills or judgments.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

459

Hill v. Tucker.
It was argued in conjunction with the succeeding case of
Goodall v. Tucker, but the facts being somewhat different, they
are reported separately.
On the 6th of December, 1842, Abner Robinson, of the city
of Richmond, Virginia, made his last will, and appointed William R. Johnson and Joseph Allen, of Virginia, and Thomas
Pugh and Joseph W. Tucker, of Louisiana, his executors. On the 21st bf December, 1842, the will was proved in Virginia, and letters testamentary granted to Johnson. and Allen,
the executors.
Tucker qualified as executor in Louisiana, but at what time
the record did not show.
On the 29th of February, 1848, Catharine Hill filed her petition in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana against Tucker, as executor.
The proceedings in the Circuit Court, together with the points
excepted to, are all stated in the opinion of the court, and need
not be repeated.
It was argued in this court by 31'r. Johnson and Mr. Duncan,
for the plaintiff in error, and Thr. Tayflor, for the defendant in error.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiff were the
following:
1. That the judgments in Virginia were evidence against the
defendants, they being coexecutors with the defendants in such
judgments.
Stacy v. Thrasher, 6 How. 58; 1 Salk. 299; 1
Com. Dig. Adm'r, B. 9; 2 Bla. Com. 507; Dixon's Ex'rs v.
Ramsay's Ex'rs, 3 Cra. 319, 1 Cond. Rep. 547; 3 Bac. Ab:
Ex'rs and Adm'rs, p. 30, 52.
2. That if the judgments were not evidence, the plaintiffs
were entitled to recover upon the original causes of action, they
being proved, and not being barred by the Louisiana law of
Article 3505 of the Civil Law says: "Actions
prescription.
on bills of exchange, notes payable to order or bearer, except
bank-notes, those of all effects negotiable or transferable by indorsement on delivery, are prescribed by five years, reckoning
from the day when these engagements were payable." Article
2517 provides that "a citation served upon one joint-debtor, or
his acknowledgment of the debt, interrupts prescription with
regard to all others, and even their heirs."
In Goodall's case the suit was brought on the 29th February,
1828, less than ten years after the bond sued upon matured.
In Louisiana ten years is the limitation, and the law upon
the subject is always the law of the forum. Lacoste v. Benton,
3 La. An. Rep. 220; Spiller v. Davidson, 4 Id. 171; Graves v.

SUPREME COU:1T.
Hill v.

Tucker.

Routh, Adm'r, 4 Id. 127; Young v. Crossgrove, Id. 234, 235;
Wheeling v. Preston, 12 Rel. 141; 2 La. An. Rep. 015, 646;
Story's Conflict of Laws, 576.
In Hill's case the same authorities are referred to, and she had
a right to sue in her own name, she having been recognized by
the District Court as universal legatee, and being assignee of the
judgments. 10 Mart. Rep. 117; 2 N. Series, 296.
Mr. Taylor, for defendant in error.
lJpon the trial of the cause, the court decided, as if instructing a jury, these two propositions:
1st. That the Virginia judgment against Joseph Allen and William R. Johnson, executors of the last will and testament of
Abner Robinson, appointed and qualified under the will in Virginia, was not evidence against the defendant; and
2d. That the original cause of action as to the defendant was
barred by prescription, and the plaintiff excepted to the two decisions. If there be no error in these decisions, the judgment
of the court below must be affirmed.
L In Louisiana, testamentary executors are merely administrators, in the most limited sense of the term. They have none
of the qualities, capacities , or rights of executors under the common law. No argument, however extended, would make this
clearer than a simple reference to the articles of the Louisiana
Code, relating to the administration of estates of decedents
under the authority of law. Articles 1C91, 1106 to 1123, 1126
to 1148, provide for the appointment of persons to administer
the estates of persons dying intestate. Articles 1651 to 1655,
1670, 1671 and 1672, 1659, 1661, 1662, 1663 1666 to 1668 provide for the appointment of persons to administer the estates of
persons who leave testaments, and define their powers. From
an examination of. these articles, it will be at once apparent
that a testamentary executor differs in no respect, so far as to
his rights, powers, and duties, from the ordinary administrator.
And if this be true, then it is certain that the record in question
could not be evidence against the defendant, for, as the learned
Story has remarked in his Conflict of Laws, sect. 522, "When
administrations are granted to different persons, in different
States, they are so far deemed independent of each other, that a
judgment obtained against one will furnish no right of action
against the other, to affect assets received by the latter in virtue
of his own administration; for in contemplation of the law
there is no privacy between him and the other administrator."
Without citing other authorities on this point, I will merely refer to the case of Stacy v. Thrasher, decided by this court, (6
Howard, 58,) in which the doctrine is fully recognized. .See De-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

461

Hill v. Tucker.
neale v. Stumps's Ex'rs, 8 Peters, 531. If it be true, as there
stated by Chief Justice Marshal], that "it is understood to be
settled in Virginia, that no judgment against the executors can
bind the heirs, or in any manner affect them," and that "it
could not be given in evidence against them," it is not easy to
perceive that there was error in this decision.
II. The law of the forum applies as to prescription. Code of
Practice, 13; Story's Conflict of Laws, sect.. 576, 578; LeRoy
v. Crowninshield, 2 Mason, 151; Huber v. Steiner, 29 Eng. C. L.
Rep. 308, (2 Bingh. N. C. 202.)
Actions "on all effects negotiable or" transferable by indorsement or delivery, are prescribed by five. years, reckoning from
the day when these engagements were payable." C. C. of La.
3505. And this prescription runs "against persons residing out
of the State." C. C. 3506.
To make our law of prescription applicable, it is 'necessary
that the obligation sued on be one transferable by indorsement
or delivery, and the question whether it be in fact so transferable is to be decided by the law of the place where the contract
was entered into. Story's Conflict of Laws, sect. 242; Code of
Practice of La. 13. Is the bond sued on negotiable or transferable by indorsement or delivery? This must be determined by
the common law, as received and in force in the State of Virginia, where the instrument under consideration was executed.
I will not weary the court by going into an examination of
the original effects of assignments of incorporeal rignts under the
common law, or of the modes of enforcing them. Nor will I.
give an account of the origin and peculiar character of bills of
exchange, growing out of the necessities of trade. It is suficieqt for my present purpose to remark that promissory notes,
notwithstanding the exigencies of commerce, did not acquire
this peculiar feature,---the capacity of being transferred by indorsement or delivery, -until it was given to them by the statute of Anne, when, for the first time under the common law,
they were made assignable at law, and were placed on the sarme
footing as bills of exchange. Bonds and other instruments in
writing were made assignable In the same manner in Virginia,
by statute, in 1748, which was confirmed by the act -of 1786. 1
Rev. Code, 484. Such bhds as the one sued on became, from
the adoption of these statutes in Virginia, transferable by simple indorsement, or by mere delivery. Seymour v. Van Slyck,
8 Wend. 421; Downing v. Backenstoes, 3 Caines, R. 136.
And the very point has been determined in Virginia. Makies's
Ex'rs v. Davis, 2 Washington, 219; Drummond v. Crutcher,
Id. 218.

462

SUPREME COURT.
Hill v. Tucker.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Easterr. District of Louisiana.
It was argued with the case of Goocall v. Tucker, but the
facts being somewhat different, and the prayers to the court not
exactly alike in both cases, it will be necessary to consider'them
separately.
First then as to Catharine Hill's case.
She filed a petition in February, 1848, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana against
Tucker, the executor of Robinson. ShE was the wxddow and
sole devisee of James P. Willdnson, who resided in Richmond,
Virginia, and after his death intermarried with Hill, by whose
authority she prosecuted this suit.
Robinson lived also in Richmond, although his property was
chiefly situated in Louisiana. In December, 1842, Robinson
died in Richmond, having made a, will a few days before his
death, and appointed, as executors, William R. Johnson and
Joseph Allen, of Virginiaf and Thomas Pugh and Joseph W.
Tucker, of Louisiana. Johnson and Allen qualified as e.kecutors
in Virginia, and Tucker in Louisiana.
The causes of action, in the suit brough by Catharine Hill,
were the four following, which will be separately noticed under
the letters A, B, C, D,
[A] On the 9th of December, 1839, Archer Cheatham made
a promissory note, payable ninety days after date, promising to
pay to the order of Abner Robinson and Isham Puckett, one
thousand dollars, negotiable and payable at the Bank of Virginia. It was indorsed by Robinson and Puckett, and came
into the possession of Wilkinson. Not being paid at maturity,
it was protested.
In March, 1840, Wilkinson brought E.n action against the
drawers and indorsers, in the Circuit Superior Court of Henrico
county, Virginia, and recovered a judgment.
In July, 1840, he issued an execution, which, in August, was
suspended until further orders. Cheatham and Puckett soon
afterwards took the benefit of the Bankruit Act passed by Congress. Nothing further was done as to this claim until Catharine Hill filed her petition as above stated.
[B] On the" 20th of November, 1840, Robinson gave the following due-bill.
"1$575. Richmond, November 20, 1840. Due James P. Wilkinson, for value received (viz., cash loaned) five hundred and
seventy-five dollars. Given under my hand this day ald date
as abbve written. Abner Robinson."
In February, 1843, Wilkinson brought a suit in the Henrico

DECEMBER TERM, 18"51.

463

Hill v. Tucker.

County Court, against Johnson and Allen, the Virginia executors of Robinson, and in the ensuing June obtained a judgment.
A ft. fa. was issued, but the return was "no effects found."
[C]. On the 19th of August, 1842, Robinson made the following single bill.
"$200. Richmond, August 19th, 1842. Due James P. Wilkinson, two hundred dollars for money borrowed this day, as per
check on the Farmers Bank of Virginia, of the same date, &c.
Given under my hand and seal as above." Abner Robinson.
(Seal.)"
In February, 1843, Wilkinson brought a suit against Johnson
and Alien, upon this bill, and obtained a judgment in the following June. Afi.fa. was issued upon this and the same return made as in the preceding cases, viz. "no effects found."
[D] In October, 1843, one Bolling S. Dandridge brought a
suit against Robinson for tio hundred dollars, being one year's
wages as overseer. After Robinson's death, it was revived
against his executors. In August, 1843, Dandridge obtained a
judgment, and issued aft. fa.; but the same return was made as
above, viz. "xno effects found." On the 1st of February, 1845,
Dandridge assigned this judgment and execution to Wilkinson.
Not long after this, Wilkinson died. The record does not
show when, but in April, 1846, a succession was opened in Louisiana, upon his estate, and after sundry proceedings in opposition, which it is not material to mention, his widow, Catharine,
was recognized as the rightful representative of the estate. But
this did not take place until May, 1847. In the mean time she
had taken out letters testamentary in Virgiia, in August, 1846,
and married Hill in December, 1846.
On the 29th of February, 1848, Catharine Hill filed her petition against Tucker, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, claiming the several sums
of money mentioned in the four preceding classes.
Tucker filed his answer, alleging "that the judgments set forth
were obtained in Virginia, in proceedings to which, he, in his
capacity of executor, was no party, and that they are therefore
not binding on the succession of Robinson in Louisiana. That
on one of the obligations, to wit, that made by Cheatham for
$1,000, dated 9th December, 1839, Robinson, if he indorsed at
all, was joint indorser with one Puckett, and was in law bound
only for one half of the sum. That the actions on the demands
upon which these judgments rest, are barred by the prescription
of five years."
The cause came up for trial before the court without a juty,
in November, 1849, when a judgment was given against Tucker.
This was afterwards stricken out and a ne* trial granted;

SUPREIE COUR;T.
Hill v. Tucker.

Tucker then filed a supplemental answer by'way of peremptory
exceptions to the petition, as a plea of prescription. It stated,
in substance, that as to the judgment for $1,000 against Robinson, which was rendered during his lifetime, the plea of limitations wa, interposed; that Allen and Johnson were qualified as
executors in Virginia, on the 21st of December, 1842, and that
more than five years elapsed between the date bf such qualification and the institution of this suit; and that by the statutq of
limitations of the State of Virginia, the claim was barred by the
expiration of five years.
In May, 1850, the cause came up for argument a second time
before the court. At the trial, thie causes of action designated
as B, C, and D, were proved by' evidence in Virginia, taken under a commission, and records of the court as to the several judgments were given in evidence. The other facts, above stated,
were also proved.
After the evidence was closed the plaintiff asked the court to
decide, as if instructing a jury upon the evidence, as follows:
"1st. The" testator, Robinson, resided and died in Viiginia,
leaving a will, which was duly proven in the proper tribunal after
his death, in and by which he appointed the defendant and
others his executors, and two only of his executors made probate, and qualified in the proper court in Virginia; and if suits
were instituted by the plaintiff, and by others-who have assigned
their judgments and the causes of action on which their judgments were founded to the plaintiff, against the executors of
Robinson, who qualified in Virginia, and obtained judgments
against those executors in the apprSpriate courts of Virginia
having jurisdiction 6f sfich matteps; and if upon those judgments executions issued andwi ere returhed by the proper officers
in substance nulla bona; aid if the defendant, a citizen of Lou.
isiana, who never qualified as executor in Virginia, is a co-executor of the same estate, who has proved -the will in Louisiana,
and taken on himfiself the execution thereof in Louisiana, has in
hands ample assets in Louisiana, to pay all debts; and if the
evidence fully establishes these facts, that then the judgments so
rendered in Virginia, are evidence against the executQr in Louisiana in this suit.
2d. That by the laws of Louisiana judgments are assignable,
and that upon assigned judgments the assignee can maintain an
action in his or her own name therefor.
3d. That under such a will as that of Robinson, produced in
this cause, the co-executors, although in different States, that
qualified and acted, derived the same powers from the same
source over the same estate, and that unlike administrators, they
are to such estate of the decedent privies in estate; and the

DECEMBER
Hill v,

TERM, 1851.

465

Tucker..

exemplifications of the records of the courts of Virginia, duly au.
thenticated, which have been read in this cause, showing judgments against the only executors of Robinson who qualWIed in
Virginia, in the appropriate court of probate of the domicil of
the deceased, are evidence against the co-e~ecutor who .qualified
in Louisiana, and holds abundant assets in Louisiana.
4th. That if plaintiff were not entitled to recover again'st defendant on the production of the records showing the judgments
against the co-executors in Virginia, and that those judgments
were unsatisfied, because of a lack of assets in the hands of The
Virginia executors to satisfy the same, that they would be entitled to recover, on producing the further evidence to prove that
those judganents in Virginia were rendered on good and valid,
and subsisting and unsatisfied, cajuses of action against the testator, Robinson.
5th. That the plaintiff has produced sufficient proof of the
several causes of action, on which the 'judgments read in evidence were founded, to justify a jury in finding for the plaiatiff
upon those several original causes of action.'
6th. That the several causes of action set forth in the petition, independent of the judgments rendered thereon against the
co-executors in Virginia, are not, upon the testimony in this
cause, barred by prescription.
7th. That upon all the evidence in this cause a jury might and
should find a verdict for the plaintiff.
8th. That the several suits in Virginia, of which the records
have been read, operated as a judicial interpellation to stop the
running of prescription upon those several demands'in favor of
the defendant.
And the defendant objected to said several propositions, and
the court sustained his objections, and decided all and each of
the several propositions against the plaintiff, except the aforesaid
proposition, No. 2; and to each of said decisions separately the
plaintiff excepted.
And the defendant asked the court to decide 1st. That no one of the records, read to the court in this cause,
showing judgment against his co-executors in Virginia, was evidence against the defendant.
2d. That each and every one of the causes ot action, se' forth
in the 'petition, and. to which evidence had been adduced, was
barred as to said defendant by prescription.
3d. That upon the whole evidence offered the plaintiff was not
entitled to recover; and that upon the evidence a jury could
rightfully, and should, find a verdict for the defendant; to each
of which plaintiff objected.
And tHe court overruled the several objections of plaintiff, and

SUPREME
Hill v.

COURT.

Tucker.

decided as askedby the defendant; and to each of said opinions
of the court, the plaintiff excepted." .
We 9A'not concur in the suggestion made in the argument
of this case, that the relations or privity between executos and
testators in Louisiana differ from such as exist at common law.
Louisiana, in her code, without adopting the terms of the civil
law, makes the same distinction as is made at common law, between one called upon to administer the estate of an intestate,
and one appointed to the office of executor by a testator. The
responsibilities of both, as to the manner of settling the estate
which they represent, depend upon the law of the State; but
the relation between executor and testator is altogether different.
The executor's interest in the testator's, estate is what the testator gives him. That of an administrator is only that which
the law of his appointment enjoins. The testator may make
the trust absolute or qualified in respect to his estate. It may
be qualified as to the subject-matter, the place where the trust
shall be discharged, and the time when the executor shall begin
and'continue to act' as such. He may be executor for one or
several purposes- for a part of the effec'ts in possession of the
testator at the time of his death, or for such as may be in action,
if it be only for a debt due. But though the executor's -rust or
appointment may be limited, or though there are several executors in different jurisdictions, and some of them limited executors, they are, as to the creditors of the testators, executors in
privity, bearing to the creditors the same responsibilities as if
there was only one executor. The privity arises from their obi'-.
gations to pay the testator's debts, wherever his effects may be;
just as his obligation was to pay them. The executor's interest
in the testator's estate is derived from the will, and vests from
the latter's death, whatever may be the form which the law requires to be ol-.3erved before an executor enters upon the discharge of his functions. When within the same political jurisdiction, however many executors the testato' may appoint, all
of them may be sued as one executor for the debts of the tes-'
tator, and they may unite in a suit to recover debts due to their
testator, or to recover property out of possession.
All of them, then, having the same privity with each other and
to the testator, and the same responsibility to creditors, tho'gh
they may have been qualified as executors in different sovereignties, an action for a debt due by the testator, against any one of
them in that sovereignty where he undertook to act as executor,
places all of them in one relation concerning it, and as to the
remedies for its recovery: what one may plead to bar a recovery,
another may plead; and that which will not bar a recovery
against any of them, applies to all of them. Between adminis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

467

Hill v. Tucker.

trators deriving their commissions to act from different politicat
jurisdictions, there is no such privity. This court has treated of
this fully in two cases: In the case of Aspden and others v.
Nixon and others, 4 How. 467, and in Stacy v. Thrasher,
6 How. 44. We refer to the former without citing any part of
it, but it is full upon the point, and may be instructively read.
But we shall cite a passage from Stacey v. Thrasher on account
of its appropriateness to what has just been said in respect to
the want of privity between administrators deriving their powers
in different jurisdictions.
" An administrator under grant of administration in one State
stands in none of these relations - of privity - to another administrator in another State. Each is privy to the testator, and
would be estopped by a judgment against him, birt they have
no privity with each other in law or estate. They receive their
authority from different sovereignties, and over different property.
The authority of each is paramount to the other. Each is administrator to the ordinary from which he receives his comrpission. Nor does the one come by succession to the other into the
trust of the same property, incumbered by the same debts, as in
the case of an administrator de bonis non, who may truly be said
to have an official privity with his predecessor in th@ same trust,
and therefore liable to the same duties." In that case, as a consequence of such reasoning, it was determined that an action
of debt will not lie against an administrator in one of the United
States, on a judgment obtained against a different administrator
of the same intestate, appointed under the authority of another
State.
For the same reasons, notwithstanding the privity that there
is between executors to a testator, we do not think that a judgment obtained against one of several executors would be conclusive as to the demand against another executor, qualified in
a different State from that in which the judgment was rendered.
But such a judgment may be admissible in evidence in a suit
against an executor in another jurisdiction, for the purpose of
showing that the demand had been carried into judgment in
another jurisdiction, against one of the testator's executors, and
that the others were precluded by it from pleading prescription
or the statute of limitations upon the original cause of action.
Such is the case certainly in Louisiana, as may be seen from
the case of Jackson v. Tiernan,'in 15 Louis. Rep. 485. The
Supreme Court of that State, speaking by Judge Martin, says,
that the plea of prescription cannot prevail in behalf of one
joint debtor, if a suit has been brought against another in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Marylanc
meaning thereby, we presume, if it had been commenced in any

468

SUPREME COrTRT.
Hill v. Tucker;

other court in the United States. When. then, the court below
rejected, as inadmissible in evidence in this case, the judgment
obtained in Virginia against Allen and Johnson, the executors of
Robinson in that State, we think it erred, and that it should
have been admitted for the purposes mentioned. The court also
instructed the jury, that the causes of action in this suit against
Tucker, the co-executor of Allen and Johnson, were barred by
prescription. In this we think there was error. The article of
her code upon which that instruction was given, 3505, is in
these words: "Actions on bills of exchange, notes payable to
order or bearer - except bank notes - those of all effects negotifible or transferable by indorsement or delivery, are prescribed
by five years, reckoning from the day when these engagements
are'payable." It is not applicable to either of the causes of. aclion set out in the plaintiff's petition. It is not so to Cheatham's
note, indorsed by Robinson, because, being carried into judgment
in Robinson's lifetime, it estops all his executors anywhere, from
denying it, and obliges them to pay it out of his assets wherever
they may be. So it would be if, instead of executors, they were
administrators in different States,. as was said in Stacey and
Thrasher's case, that each administrator is privy to the testator,
and would be estopped by a judgment against him. The prescription of Louisiana, also, is not applicabl6 to the due-bill
given by Robinson to Wilkinson, for $575, or to that for $200
for money borrowed fr6m Wilkinson, neither of them being negotiable by the law of Virginia or by the law of Louisiana, and
therefore not within the article of prescription. For the samd
reason it is not applicable to the judgment obtained by Dan,
dridge for $200, for overseer's wages due by Robinson, and
which was assigned to Wilkinson. In this view of the case, we
shall direct the judgment given by the court below to be reversed,
and.that the case shall be remanded for further proceeding, in
conformity with this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remamded to the said Circuit Court, -with directions to proceed therein in conformity to
the opinion of this court:

