115

DE-CEMBER TERM, 1851.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

I

tial injury, repairing,,and detention of the injured boat occur.
Contests before the courts have been numerous where the precise question of compensation here claimed was involved, and
yet in an experience of twenty-five years, I have never known
it raised until now. The bar, the bench, and those engaged in
navigation, have acquiesced in the rule, that full damages for the
injury at the time and place when it occurred, -with legal interest on the amount, was the proper measure; nor do I think it
should be disturbed; and that therefore the judgment of the Circiiit Court should be reversed, because the jury were improperly
instructed, in this particular.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is- now here ordered, and adjudged, by this . court,
that the judgment of said Circuit Court,. in this cause, be, and
the same is hereby affirmed with costs, and damages at the rate
of six per centum, per annum.

DAVID

D.

MITCHELL, PLAINTIPF IN ERROR, V. MANUEL
]MONY.

X.

1IAR-

In some of the States it is the practice for the court to express its opinion upon facts,
in a charge to the jury. In these States, it is not improper for the Circuit Court
of the United States to follow the same practice.
During the war between the United States and Mexico, where a trader went into the
adjoining Mexican provinces which were in possession of the military authorities
of thLe United States. for the purpose of carrying on a trade with the inhabitants
which was sanctioned by the executive branch of the government, and also by the
commanding military officer, it was improper for an officer of the United States to
seize the property upon the ground of trading with the enemy.
Private property may be taken by a military commander to prevent it from falling
into the hands of the enemy, or for the purpose of converting it to the use of the publie; bat the danger must be immediate and impending, or the necessity urgent for
the-public service, such as will not admit of delay, and where the action of the civil
authority would be too late in providing the means which the occasion calls for.
'The facts as they appeared to the officer must furnish the rule for the application of
these Principles.
But the officer cannot take possession of private property for the purpose of insuring
the success of a distant expedition upon which he is about to march.
Whether or not the owner of the goods resumed the possession of them at eny time
after their seizure, was a fact for the jury. In this case, they found that he 'lid not
resume the possession and in this they were sustained by legal evidence.
The officer who made the seizure cannot justify his trespass by showing the orders of
his superior officer. An order to commit a trespass can afford no justification to
the person by whom it was executed.
The trespass was committea out of the limits of the United States. But an actionfor it
may be maintained in the Circuit Court for any district in which the defendant may
be found upon process against him, where theeitizenship of the respective parties
gives jurisdiction to a court of he United States.

116

SUPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

Under the 18th rnle of this court, the mode of calculating interest, when a judgment
of the Circuit Court is affirmed, is to compute it at tile rate of six per cent. per annum, from the day when judgmefit was signed in the Circuit Court until paid. (See
report of the clerk and order of court at the end of this case.)
THIS case was brought up, by a wit of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York.
Mitchell was an officer of the army, and was sued in an action
of trespass by Harmony for seizing his property in the Mexican
State of Chihualma.
By an act passed on the 3d March, 1845, (5 Stat. at Large, 750)
Congress allowed a drawback on foreign merchandise exported
in the original packages to Chihuahua and Santa F6, in Mexico.
Harmony was a trader engaged in this business, and on the 27th
of May, 1846, had transported to Independence, in Missouri, a
large amount of goods imporled under this law, and in conformity
with the regulations of the Treasury Department. On the 27th
of May he left Independence, with several other traders, before the
passage of the act of Congress of 13th May, recognizing the existence of war with Mexico, was known there,
The whole history of Colonel Doniphan's expedition was
given in the recoid, being collected from official documents and
the depositions of persons who were present. A brief narrative is
given in the opinion of the court of all the facts which bore upon
the present case.
The declaration was in the usual form and contained three
counts, all of them charging the Same trespass, namely, that the,
defendant, on the 10th of February, 1847, at Chihuahua, in the
Republic of Mexico, seized, took, drove, and carried away, and
converted to his own use, the horse*, mules, wagons, goods, chattels, and merchandise, &c., of the plaintlff, and compelled the
workmen and servants of the plaintiff having charge, to abandon
his service and devote themselves to the defendant's service. The
property so alleged to have been taken is averred to be of the
value of $90,000, and the damages, $100,000. .
Besides the general plea of not guilty to the whole action, the
defendant, Mitchell, pleaded several special pleas.
rst. That war existed at the time between the United States
and Mexico; that he was a lieutenant-colonel, &c., forming .a
part of the military force of the United States, employed in that
war, and under the command of Colonel A.- W. Doniphan, and
he justifies the taking, &c., under and in virtue of the order, to
that effect, .of- his superior and commanding officer, Colonel
Doniphan; that'the order was a lawful one, which he was bound
to obey, and that he was no otherwise instrumental in the alleged trespass.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

117 .

M itahell v. Harmony.

2d. Alleging the same preliminary matter, avers that the
plaintiff, Harmony, was a citizen of the United States, and, with
a full knowledge of the war, had gone with his wagons, merchandise, &c., into Mexico with design to trade with the people
of Mexico, and to afford aid to the same in said war; that said
Doniphan, as he had a right to do, commanded the defendant
to seize, take, &c., the said wagons, &c., and that he did, in
obedience to said order take, &c., doing nothing more than was
necessary to the execution of that order.
"3d. With the same preliminary matter as in the second plea,
justifies the taking by his own (Colonel Mitchell's) authority as
an officer.
The three special pleas above stated are to the first count of
the declaration.
To the second count the defendant pleaded of like effect with
the above; and three like pleas were plead to the third count.
To the three first and three last pleas, that is, the pleas to the
first and third counts, issues were joined to the country.
To the special pleas to the second count, the plaintiff Yeplied
as follows, to wit: - To the first, that the said Doniphan did not
command the said horses, wagons, &c., to be stopped, taken,
&c., nor were the same taken in contemplation of any proceeding hi due course of law for any alleged forfeiture thereof,
but to apply the same to the use of the United States without
compensation to the plaintiff, of which-the defendant had
notice.
To the second, that the plaintiff did not carry his goods, &c.,
out of the United States, for any purpose of trading with the
enemy, or elsewhere than in places subdued by the arms of the
United States, and by license and permission; and that said
Doniphan did not command the defendant to take the same for
or on account of any supposed unlawful design of the plaintiff
to trade with the enemy, &c., but to apply the same to the use
of the United States, without compensation to the plaintiff.
To the third, that he did not, after notice of the war, carry his
goods into Mexico, "except to and into such place and places
as had been, and was, or were captured, subdued, and held in
subjection by the forces of the United States," &c., and by the
permission of the coinmanding.officer of said forces; nor with
design to carry on any friendly intercourse or trade with the
citizen of Mexico hostile to the United States; and that the defendant did not, in the performance of his duty as lieutenantcolonel, seize, take, &c., said property, by reason of any supposed ufflawful design of the plaintiff to trade with the enemy,
&c. but the same was taken by the defendant of his own
wrong, &c.

118

SUPREME COUR.T.
Mitchell v.

Harmony.

On all these pleas and replications, issues were joined to the
country.
When the testimony was-closed, the judge charged the jury.
The whole of the charge is set forth in the dissenting opinion of
ir. Justice Daniel, and therefore need not be recited here. The
bill of exceptions brought the whole charge up to this court.
The jury*found a verdict for the plaintiff for $90,806.44 ; for
which and the costs, amounting to 5,048.94, the caurt gave
judgment for Harmony.
The cause was argued in this court by Mr. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Cutting and
Mr. Vinton for the defendant in error. Mr. Moore also filed a
printed brief.
31. Crittenden,for the plaintiff in error, contended that 'he
charge was incorrect throughout, and founded upon misconception of the facts and the law, and that the judgment ought
therefore to be reversed.
The principal points, as. stated in -the charge, and decided by
the judge, are as follows :1st. " One ground on which the defen& is placed, is, that the
plaintiff was engaged in an unlawful trade with the enemy, and
that, being engaged in an unlawful trade, his goods were liable
to confiscation, and any person, particularly an officer of the
army, could seize the same."
After thus stating the point, the judge tells the jury, "this
ground has, as I understand the evidence, altogether failed."
The true point of the defence is here misconceived and misstated. It is not that the plaintiff was Ieigaged in unlawful
trade with the public. enemy," but that he had the " desin," to
engage in such trade, and thereby afford aid to the enemy, and
that this authorized the means of prevention used by defendant.
The pleadings show that the issue is expressly made on the
"design," and not on any actual unlawful trade. The mind of
the jury was thus misled from the true issue by the judge's misapprehension. If he had observed that the true issue and point
of defence rested on the "design" of the plaintiff, could he
have said that Harmony's repeated solicitations and manifest
wishes to precede the army, and finally his secret preparations,
attempted to be concealed by falsehood, to separate himself from
that army in the midst of the enemy's country, were no evi.dence of a "design" to trade with that enemy, under the protection of his Spanish passport ?- Or could he have said that
such a "design" would not, in point of law, have justified the
seizure of his wagons, goods, &c., and their detention, till the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

119

Mitchell v. Harmony.

danger was passed? I believe that the learned and honorable
judge would have answered both these questions in the negative.
The unlawfulness of trade with the enemy, and the right, under
circumstances like those of the present case, to detain goods,
designed for the enemy, and which might be "useful" to him,
are doctrines supposed to be established by authority and reason.
2 book
Wildman's
International
Law,
8; 1 Kent's
Grotius,
8, ch. 1,.
pp. 1-11, and
particularly
p. 6. Cor. 66;
The charge of the judge, therefore, on this first point, was inapplicable to the defence specifically made
by plea, and, to saythe least, was misleading.
2dly. The judge tells the jury: " Another ground taken by
the defendant, and relied upon, depends upon another principle
of public law, viz., the taking possession of the goods at a time
and place when it was necessary for the purpose of preventing
them from falling into the hands of the enemy."
If this is understood to imply that, to justify the taking of
goods only where it is certain that they will otherwise fall into
the hands of the enemy, then it seems to me that the principle
of law is too strictly laid down. The principle, if there be use
or reason in it, must extend to cases wherever a reasonable apprehension may be entertained that goods may fall into the
enemy's hands.
But take the law to be as stated by the judge. He proceeds
to say : " Taking the whole of.he evidence together, and giving
full effect to every part of it, we think this branch of the defence
has also failed. No case of peril or danger has been proved
which would lay a foundation for taking possession of the goods
of the plaintiff," &c.
He adds, "the peril must be immediate and urgent," &c.;
"in this case there was no immediate or impending danger'.'
&c.
With respect, I must say that this part of the charge is not a
comment on the evidence, it is a peremptory decision, a positive
conclusion of facts from the evidence, which ought to have been
left to the jury; and the law and the fact are so blended that no
jury could well distinguish the one from the other
The judge tells the jury that no "immediate and urgent
peril" was proved in this case. It seems to me that the depo.
sitions of Doniphan and Clark, before referred to, do prove such
a peril, in the strongest manner, and'in the most eminent degree; and that tne judge, mistaking the evidence, misled the
jury as to the fact.
The charge is furthermore erroneous in requiring that the
peril should .be "immediate," "impending," "urgent."
The
principle of public. law which the judge lays down does not re-

120

SUPREME COURT
Mlitchell v. Harmony.

quire it. But the radical error is, that the charge throws the
burden upon the defendant of proving in court all the circum.
stances that conduce to make up the required peril, and that it
makes the court or jury, judges of- those circumstances, as of a
res integra, without.allowing any effect to the decision of the
defendant, or his commander, by whose authority the goods of
the plaintiff are alleged to have been received.
The law made it the business of the commander to decide,
in the'first instance, whether the peril we.s such, and the condi.
tion of his army and of the enemy such, Es required their seizure
and detention, and his decision inust be entitled to some respect.
Unless the integrity of his judgment can be impeached, that deeision stands as proof and protection for him, against any suit
or legal proceeding against him. He, no more than a judge on
the bench, can be sued for a mere mistake.of judgment, if mistake he has made. This is as true in respect to military, as it
is m respect to civil officers, and as true in respect to the exercise. of military, as of civil authority. Crowell et al v. McFadon, 8 Cranch, 94; 9 Cranch, 355; Martin v. Mott, 12
Wheat. 19-33; 9 Peters, 134; Willies v. Dinsman, 7 How.
128, 129; Luther v. Borden; Id. 45, et scq.
These authorities fully, I think, establish the doctrine for
which I contend, and the incorrectness of the instructions given
to the jury in this respect.
3dly. The next and third point of the charge is this: "The
next ground of defence, and which constitutes the principal
question in the case, and upon which it must probably ultimately turn, is the taking of the goods by the public authorities for public use."
In respect to this the judge admits the "right of a military
officer, in a case of extreme necessity-of .the government of the
army, to take private property for the public service." But
then the judge lfrther tells the jury, "in my judgment, all the
evidence taken together does not make out an immediate peril
or urgent necessity existing at the time of the seizure, which
would, justify the officer in taking-private property and impressing it into the public service; the evide:.ice does not bring the
case within the principle of extreme necessity," &c.
Against this particular charge the plaintiff in error relies upon
and urges all the exceptions and objections made to the preceding charges, aid upon the authorities cited above. The seizure,
as it is called, was in this case made by a military officer; he
must decide in the first instance whether an ".extreme necessity," (if that be required,) "for the safety of the army," made it
proper to make the seizure. If the law made it his duty to decide it, and he gave an honest, though mistaken, judgment on

DEC.EMBER TERM, 1851.

121

Mitchell v. Harmony.

the subject, will the same law hold him personally responsible
for it?
Let the reason of the case, and the authorities last cited,
answer the question. Yet, by the charge, the military question
decided by the general in the field, and in the midst of danger,
is to be rejudged in court, de novo. This cannot be either
justice or law.. To make the military officer in such a case
liable, it must be shown that his decision was corrupt, malicious,
or, at least, without any reasonable ground.
If this view of the subject be in any degree right, the charge
must be erroneous.
4thly. The judge says, "as to the remaining grounds of defence, the liability of the defendant for taking the goods and
appropriating them to the public service, accrued at the time of
the seizure. If it was an unlawful taking, the liability immediately attached; and the question was, whether that liability
had been discharged or released by any subsequent act of the
plaintiff. Colonel Mitchell, who executed the order, was not
alone responsible; Colonel Doniphan, who gave the order, was
also liable; they were jointly and severally responsible. Then,
was any act done by the plaintiff which waived the liability, or
by which he resumed the ownership and possession of the
goods ?" On this question the judge doubts "if there be any
evidence showing an intent, on the part of the plaintiff, to resume ownership over the goods, &c., or any act done by him
that would, when properly viewed, lead to that result."
In reviewing this last charge, it is to be remembered that
Harmony was never deprived of the ownership, or even the possession, of his property, otherwise than constructively, by force
of the order of the 10th February, 1847,, which required him
to accompany the army, and which order he obeyed. He retained ownership and possession, but was constrained to use
those rights in a particular manner, and he did so use them.
There is more and better ground to " doubt" whether he was
ever deprived of ownership or possession, than to "doubt"
whether he ever "resumed" that ownership and possession. He
certainly, and by all the evidence, did have uncontrolled possession, and exercised uncontrolled ownership of the goods, from
their arrival at the city of Chihuahua.' There is no room for
any doubt as to this fact. It is in effect admitted, and the
attempt is made to qualify it, by alleging that Harmony took
possession of said goods, and made sales of.them, under agreement and arrangement with Colonel Doniphan; Now, if this
was so, by what series of implications, by what accumulation
of constructions construed, can the defendant, Mfitchell, be
made responsible, under the arrangement, for the whole value
VOL. XIII.

" 11'

122

SUPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

of the goods, merely because of the trespass, if trespass it was,
committed by him on the evening preceding the 10th of February, 1847? It might as reasonably be pretended by Harmony,
if he had retailed his goods in Chihuahua, and any of the purchasers had failed to pay the price, that Mitchell was responsible for that price, because it all came from his old trespass,
Yet the plain import of this charge is to make Mitchell liable
for all the goods, notwithstanding that said Harmony had made
them the subject of a subsequent contract with Doniphan, under
which, as Harmony has attempted to prove, these same goods
were lost by the inattention and negligence of Doniphan.
There seems, therefore, that there was no legal ground to
make Mitchell liable to the extent to which he is made so by
this charge, and that it is therefore erroneous.
But, as it appears to me, the great error of this part of the
judge's charge is in his telling the jury, in effect, that the order
of Colonel Doniphan afforded no legal defence or protection to
Colonel Mitchell. The judge said that" 'olonel Mitchell, who
executed the order, was not alone responsible; Colonel Doniphan, who gave the order, was also liable; they were jointly
and severally responsible," &c.
On the part of Mitchell, it is most respectfully, but earnestly,
contended that this instruction to the jury is not warranted by
law, but is directly contrary to law.
The order was such a one as Mitchell was bound by law to
obey; and it would be contradictory in the law to bind him to
obey, and then to punish him for obeying.
In addition to the cases and authorities cited on the 2d point,
and which are relied on as particularly applicable to this, the
court is referred to the act of Congress of the 10th of April,
1806, "for establishing rules and articles for the government of
the armies of the United States," and particularly the 9th
article of the 1st section, which makes disobedience to the "law'ful command of his superior dfficer" punishable, at the discretion of a court-martial, with death. 2 Stat. at Large, 361.
If the judge, by his charge, meant to say that, in his opinion,
there was nc evidence -

no competent evidence-before the

jury to miaintain the two grounds of defence first alluded to by
him, then the questions he decided were questions of law, just
as much as questions arising on demurrers to eridence, and
were proper to be decided by the judge, and not by the
jury.
Considering it, then, as a question of law, like that arising
on a demurrer to evidence for some material defect, it becomes
necessary to examine the evidence, to ascertain whether the
question of law has been correctly determined. To that exa-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

123

Mitchell v. Harmony.

mination the plaintiff in error confidently appeals, to show that
the charge in this particular is plainly erroneous.
The points made by-the counsel for the defendant in error
were the following:
First. In respect to any justificationf of the seiztre and
use of the property, based upon an alleged unlawful trading
with the enemy.
1. The evidence tended to prove, and the jury found, that the
plaintiff below was not engaged in illegal trading, or, in the
language of the pleadings and authorities, "in affording aid or
assistance to the enemy;" that neither the defendant nor Colonel Doniphan arrested his property as beihg forfeited, nor had
grounds for so doing; but that this was merely an after-thought,
other grounds having been alleged; aiid that the plaintiff, for
all the trading he pursued or contemplated, had the sanction
and license of Colonel Doniphan and of the defendant himself,
and their superior officers, up to the President; and was acting
to "aid and assist" the United' States, and the policy of our
government, attaching himself to its interests, trading under its
protection, facilitating its supplies, and uniting himself with its
fate; and simply declining (as he well might) to devote his property gratdlitously to what an inferior agent supposed was the
public service.
2. The law involved in the charge on this point was correctly
stated. The plaintiff, a citizen of the United States, acting
under such sanction and permission as he had, could rightfully
and legally trade with the Mexicans:
(a.) In a territory and with inhabitants reduced to sultjection.
The United States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. Rep. 246; 2 Gall. Rep.
501; Fleming v. Page, 9 How. Rep. 603, and authorities there
cited :
(b.) Under such license to trade as was given; which was
within the competency of the officers who granted it and a
common course in prosecuting a campaign under a variety of
circumstances; "so to modify the relations of a state of war
as to permit commercial intercourse." The William Penn, 3
Wash. C. C. R. 484; The George, 1 Mason, Rep. 24; The Julia,
8 Cranch, Rep. 181 ; Scholefield v. Eichelberger, 7 Pet. R. 592.
The Secretary of War was the proper organ of government.
The United States v. Eliason, 16 Pet. 302.
3. The defendant could not arrest for examination, and then
proceed with the property in pursuit of other objects, without
deciding to seize as forfeited, or to restore. No delay for examination was necessary; nor can delays be tolerated which
may operate oppressively. The Anna Maria, 2 Wheat. Rep.
327; Maley v. Shattuck, 3 Cranch, 458.

SUPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmony,

4. Defendant cannot be permitted to treat the property~as
arrested for the cause alleged, or, for the purpose of trial and
condemnation, as forfeited, or as in fact forfeited, when the conduct of all throughout has been so inconsistent with that idea;
when he did not, in fact, arrest it for that cause and purpose.
He cannot deprive the plaintiff of the rights to which he is entitled on such a trial, nor dispose of the property as if condemned. The cause alleged for the seizure is important and
issuable. If an officer even have legal process in his hands,
and do not act under it, it is no justification. If he legally arrest
property for probable cause of forfeiture, he cannot damage it,
or convert it to his use with impunity. See cases above cited.
Lucas v. Nockells, 4 Bing. Rep. 729; The Eleanor, 2 Wheat.
345; Del Col v. Arnold, 3 Dall. Rep. 333.
Second. In respect to the justification set up on the trial, but
not in the pleadings, of taking the property, lest it should fall
into the hands of the enemy.
1. The evidence tended to prove, ana tne jury found, the facts
to be as understood and referred to by the judge; that El Paso
and its neighborhood, including the presidio or fort of San
Eleasario, at which the; property was at the time of seizure,
were in the possession of the arms of this government; that there
was no public force of the enemy at the time in its neighborhood which put the goods in danger of being captured; that the
plaintiff's property stood in the same condition as that of any
other trader in the country; that there was- no immediate or
urgent peril of its falling into the enemy's hands, and, at the
most, only a contingent and remote peril; that there was no
impending danger no enemy present or advancing; and that
the plaintiff was able and willing to defend himself against
marauding parties
2. The rules of law'stated were correct; the peril rhust be
greati immediate, and urgent,such as an enemy near or advancing; not remote, and the attack uncertain and contingent. A
mere general exposure of the property to capture, from a hostile
public force, not near nor advancing, but at rest 200 miles distant, or from irregular marauding parties, to which all property
is exposed during war, and particularly so on a frontier, cannot
be sufficient to justify the seizure. Mayor, &c. of New York v.
Lord, 17 Wend. 285; 18 Id. 126; and cases referred to; so
"to prevent the spreading of a fire, the ravages of a pestilence,
the advance of a hostile army,or any other great public calamity," per Chdncellor Walworth, Ibid. p. 129. A jettison during
an impending peril, Ibid. p. 130.
3. The person or property of a citizen cannot be seized and
carried away, by an inferior offcer, and the latter be justified by

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

125

Mitchell v. Harmony.

a mere order of his official superior, not stating any cause, and
being in fact without cause. Such an order during war is different from one during peace, only as it affords a justification
against the public enemy, or against one acting, at the time,
with or in the garb of an enemy.
4. The pleadings do not sufficiently set up the present defence
to admit of it. Two of the pleas to each count axe confined to
the cause of illegal trading, and do not even allege a forfeiture
for that cause. See Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246; Hall v.
Warren, 2 McLean's Rep. 332.
The other one (the first one of each set) is radically defective.
It neither avers any forfeiture or cause of arrest, nor sufficiently
states the facts and circumstances to show the authority and
jurisdiction of Colonel Doniphan.
(a.) Such facts are necessary to be averred in 6rder that'issue
may be taken upon them; and that the plaintiff may not have
his property taken for one pretence, and be exposed to the hazard
of'a trial upon various different pretences, of which he had no
notice. See Precedents, 3 Chitty's Plead. 1081- 1094, &c.
(b.) The stopping, seizing, taking, driving, and carrying away
of the personal property of -a citizen, damaging and converting
it, cannot be justified by a mere order of a military officer during
war. Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246, originally 13 Johns. Rep.
561; Murray v. The Charming. Betsy, 2 Crafich, Rep. 64. [Express orders of the President to capture in a quasi war. No
justification of an arrest and bringing in for trial. Officer excused, under the circumstances, only from vindictive damages.]
(c.) It results that, if the existence of a military necessity be
requisite to make the command lawful, that fact should have
been pleaded, and must be established. If, under any conceivable circumstances of danger, 'Colonel Doniphan's or the defendant's own judgment of the existence of such a necessity
would have an effect to make the seizure justifiable, (and without such a judgment it clearly cannot be justified, even if it can
with it,) then the circumstances of danger, and the fact of such
judgment having been given, and the order and action based
only upon that cause, should have been distinctly pleaded, (so
that the defendant might be held to prove them, and the
plaintiff be prepared to controvert them); and all these
thould have been clearly established, which they were not.
Under whatever culor the acts may have been committed, the
truth, good faith, and sufficiency of the cause alleged are the
subjects of investigation as questions of fact without regard to
the official station. Wilson v. Mackenzie, 7 Hill, Rep. 95, citing Stton v. Johnstone; 1 Term Rep. 544, and 1 McArthur
on Courts Martial, 268, 4th Ed., and 436, Appendix, No. 24
III

126

SUPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

Percival v. Hickey, 18 Johns. Rep. 257; and see cases cited under
the 3d and 4th subdivisions of the 1st point.
Tdrd. In respect to the remaining ground set up on the
trial, but not in the pleadings, viz.: that the taking the property,
its damage, or conversion, was for public use, and was justified,
without other authority, by necessity.
1. The evidence tended to prove, and the jury found, that
there was no such necessity; that there was no immediate, ex,
isting, impending and urgent occasion for the seizure; but that
the property was taken on the frontier, (by an inferior officer,
not instructed by the government, por even by any general officer,
and in the contingency that happened of General Wool not being in Chihuahua,) for the purpose of strengthening an invading
force against Chihuahua, and of attacking a fortification more
than 200 miles distant, in the interior of the enemy's country;
and even for this it was not urgently necessary. The finding
of the jury, if it admitted that the property was taken for and
applied to the public use, declared that it was so taken and so
used without the requisite authority to justify it. It appeared
there had been an application to Congress to declare or recognize the necessity, which had not been successful.
2. The limitations of the charge, as to the character of the
necessity requisite to justify such a seizure, were just, and did not
prejudice the defendant. " An immediate, existing, impending
and urgent, necessity" as explained and exemplified in the
charge, was at least indispensable. See authorities under 2d
subdivision of the 2d point.
3. A forced service beyond the realm has always been condemned. The war cofild not legally be, presumed to be urged
for purposes of conquest, nor for the capture or acquisition of
Chihuahua even by ordinary means. The use of extraordinary
mean- for an invasion and capture of a city and by: an inferior
officer acting without orders, was in every respect unauthorized
and illegal. Fleming v. Page, 9 How.Rep. 603; 1 Rolle, Abr.
116, 1. 10, ad. 30; 2 Inst. 47; 1 Black. Comm. 139; Lyon v.
Jerome, 26 Wend. 485,491, 492, 494.
4. Private property cannot be taken for public use without
compensation and against the consent of the owner. The officer
who so takes it is subject to an action for its value. The duty
of the government to compensate for property taken and applied to the public service is well establis~aed; but compensation cannot be given without legislative sanction; and no discretionary power existing in any executive officer (much less
an inferior one acting without orders) to compel the citizen to
furnish property or funds, or to suffer from its being taken, can
be tolerated under our system of government. The legislature

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

127

Mitchell v. Harmony.
cannot be put under such an obligation or duty, to indemnify
the sufferer, nor the citizen be turned over to Congress, by any
one, compulsorily, for such redress. The actor against the citizen
must be responsible until compensation be given. He may also
be liable to an extent which the government may not sanction,
by reason of his resorting to a. unjustifiable course, or taking
too much, or of a wrong kind, or wasting oi using it. The indemnity which the government may or ought to afford him, is
no defence to a suit. The defendant, therefore, is responsible
to the plaintiff even if the supposed necessity had clearly existed,
and the charge on this point is wholly in favor of the defendant,
and not exceptionable. Art. 4 and 5 of Amendments 'to Constitution; Van Horne's Lessee v. Dorrance,
Dall. Rep. 311;
Compensation Act of 9th April, 1816, sect. 6, 3 U. S. Stat. at
Large, 262; Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246; 13 Johns. Rep.
139,561; Ship American Eagle and cargo, seized by order of the
President, as fitted out for illegal purposes: verdict, $107,000;
American State Papers, Claims, p. 601; Report of Committee,
No. 427; also p. 476, No. 311; Appropriation Act, 9 April,
1818, 3 U. S. Stat. at Large, 418; Act for relief of Gelston's
Ex'r, 7 July, 1838, c. 200, 6 U. S. Stat. at Large, 728; Case
of Major Austin and Lieut. Wells, seizing disafficted persons
under orders of Gen. Pike, American State Papers, Claims,
p. 545; Reports of Committee, 15th Cong. 1st Sess. Nos. 379,431;
Act for their relief, April 20, 1818, c. 75, 6 U. S. Stat. at Large,
210; Case of General Swartwout, impressing boats in an
emergency, by order of General Wilkinson, Ameiican
tate
Papers, Claims, p. 649; Report of Committee, No. 44, and
p. 7 3 1 ; Report, No. 526 ; Act for his relief, 3d March, 1821, c. 55,
6 U. S. Stat. at Large, 261; Case of teamster in Canada,
seizing run by order of Col. Clark, American State Papers,
Claims, p. 523; Report of Committee, 14 Cong. 2d Sess. No.
350. Other cases of impressments, &c., 6 U. S. Stat. at Large,
146, 162, 171, 240, c. 26, 162, 173, 125, 38; Report, No. 294,
p. 462. Bloodgood v. Mohawk & H. R. R. Co. 18 Wend. Rep.
16, 17, 31, 42.
5. The pleadings and the proofs were subject to the same
objection under this point, as stated in the last subdivision to
the third point.
6. The cause- of action being transitory, and not merely
against the peace, but afficting property, there is no objection to
impleading the defendant wherever he can be found. McKenna
v. Fisk, 1 How. Rep. 248; 18 Johns. Rep. 257 ; 7 Hill, Rep. 95,
before cited.
Fourth. The directions as to the time when the liability attached, and as to the transactions with Colonel Doniphan, not

SUPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

being sufficient to discharge the defendant were correct. The
evidence tended to prove, and the jury found, that there had
been no intent to resume ownership, nor any release of liability.
There was nothing in placing the goods subject to the order of
Colonel Doniphan, when the plaintiff could no longer attend to
or watch them, that amounted in itself to any release or resumption of ownership inconsistent with the liability of the defendant. Plaintiff was not bound to trade with the enemy, nor
to accept the property in such a different and hostile place,
under such different circumstances, damaged, scattered, destroyed, and impossible to be saved; and he did not so accept
it. Whatever he could save he had a right to save, without impairing his right of action, or deducting any thing more than he
could realize. Conrad v. Pacific Ins. Co. 6 Peters, 274, and cases
there referred to.
Fifth. The discussion by counsel and opinion by the court,
after the testimony was closed, before the counsel summed up
in form, were without objection or 'exception ; it was convenient
and appropriate in such a case of voluminous written testimony and peculiar circumstances; it involved the necessity of
commenting upon facts, before a formal summing up by counsel; but this also was without objection or exception. The
comments of the court are to be treated as if made by way of
hypothesis, and for purposes of illustration ; they took nothing
from the jury. It was left to the jury to say whether their views
of the evidence accorded with the judge's review of them, addressed to the jury for their consideration; they cannot be the
ground of exception or review. Carver v. Astor, 4 Peters, Rep.
1, 23, 80, &c.
There was, in fact, no exception. These and various other
matters are out of place in the bill of exceptions. Rule 38 of
January Term, J832; Zeller v Eckert, 4 How. Rep. 297; United
States v. Morgan, 11 How. Rep. 158.
Mr.Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This isan action of trespass brought by the defendant in error,
against the plaintiff in error, to recover the value of certain
property taken by him, in the province of Chihuahua during the
late war with Mexico.
It appears that the plaintiff, who is a merchant of New York,
and who was born in Spain, but is a naturalized citizen of' the
United States, had planned a trading expedition to Santa F6,
New Mexico, and Chihuahua, in the Republic of Mexico, before
hostilities commenced; and had set out from Fort Independence, in Missouri, before he had any knowledge of the declaration
of war. As soon as the war commenced,' an expedition was

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

prepared under the command of General Kearney, to invade
New Mexico; and a detachment of troops was set forward to
stop:the plaintiff and other traders until General Kearney came
up, and to prevent them' from proceeding in advance of the
army.
The trading expedition in which the plaintiff and the other traders were engaged, was, at the time they set. out, authorized by
the laws of the United States. And when General Kearney
arrived they were permitted to follow in the rear and to trade
freely in all such places as might be subdued and occupied .by
the American arms. The plaintiff and other traders availed
themselves of this permission and followed the army to Santa
F6.
Subsequently General Kearney proceeded to California; and
the command in New Mexico devolved on Colonel Doniphan,
who was joined by Colonel Mitchell, who served under him, and
against whom this action was brought.
It is unnecessary to follow the movements of the troops, or
the traders particularly, because, up to tho period at which the
trespass is alleged to have been committed at San Elisario, in
the province of Chihuahua, it is conceded that no control was
exercised over the property of the plaintiff, that was not perfectly justifiable in a state of war, and no act done by him that
had subjected it to seizure or confiscation by the military authorities.
When Colonel Doniphan commenced his march for Chihuahua,
the plaintiff and the other traders continued to follow in the rear
and trade with the inhabitants, as opportunity offered. But
after they had entered that province and were about to proceed
in an expedition against the city of that name, distant about
300 miles, the plaintiff determined to proceed no -furthery and to
leave the army. And when this deteimination was made known
to the commander at San Elh~ario he gave orders to Colonel
Mitchell, the defendant, to compel him to remain with and
accompany the troops. Colonel Mitchell executed the order,
and the .plaintiff was forced, against his will, to accompany the
American forces with his wagons, mules and goods, in that
hazardous expedition.
Shortly before the battle of SAcramento, which was fought on
the march to the town of Chihuahua, Colonel Doniphan, at the
request of the plaintiff, gave him permission to leave the army and
go to the'hacienda of a Mexican by the name of Parns, about eight
miles distant, with his property. But the plaintiff did not avail
himself of this permission; and apprehended, upon more reflection, that his property would be in more danger there than with
the army; arid that a voluntary acteptance on his part, and

180

SUPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmohy.

resuming the possession at his own risk, would deprive him of any
remedy for its loss if it should be taken by the Mexican authorities. He remained therefore with the troops until they entered
the town. His wagons and mules were used in the public service in the battle of Sacramento, and on the march afterwards.
And while the town remained in possession of the American
-forces he endeavored, but without success, to dispose of his
goods. When the place was evacuated they were therefore unavoidably left behind, as nearly all of his mules had been lost in
the march and the battle. He himself accompanied the army,
fearing that his person would not be safe if he remained behind,
a he was particularly obnoxious, it seems, to the Mexitans,
because he was a native of Spain, and came with a hostile invading army.
When the Mexican authorities regained possession of the
place, the goods of-the plaintiff were seized and confiscated, and
were totally lost to him. And this action was brought against
Colonel Mitchell, the defendant, in the court below, to recover
the damages which the plaintiff alleged he had sustained by the
arrest and seizure of his property at San Elisario, and taking it
from hiscontrol and legal possession.
-This brief outline is sufficient to show how this case has
arisen. The expedition of Colonel Doniphan, and all its incidei.ts,
are already historically known, and need not be repeated here.
At the trial in the Circuit Court the verdict and judgment
were in favor of -the plaintiff; and this wit of error has been
brought upon the ground that the instructions to the jury by the
which the verdict was found, were erroneous;
Circuit
SomeCourt,
of theunder
objections taken in the argument here, on behalf
of the defendant, have arisen from -a misconception of the instructions given to the jury. It is supposed that these directions
embraced questions of fact as well as of law, and that the court
took upon itself the decision of questions arising on the testi.
mony, which it was the exclusive province of. the jury to determine. But this is an erroneous construction of the exception
taken at the trial. The passages in -elation to questions of fact
are nothing more than the inferences .which in the opinion of
the court were fairly deducible from the testimony; and were
stated to the jury not to control their decision, but submitted
for their consideration in order to a.sist them in forming their
judgment. This mode of charging the juxy has always prevailed in the State of New York, and has been followed in
the Circuit Court ever since the adoption of the Constitution.
The practice in this respect differs in different States. In
some of them the court neither sums up the evidence'in a charge
to the jury nor expresses an opinion upon a question of fact. Its

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

181

Mitchell v. Harmony.

charge is strictly confined to questions of law, leaving the evidence to be discussed by counsel, and the facts to be decided by
the jury without commentary or opinion by the court
But in most of the States the practice is otherwise; and they
have adopted the usages of the English courts of justice, where
the judge always sums up the evidence, and points out the
conclusions which in his opinion ought to be drawn from it;
submitting them, however, to the consideration and judgment of
the jury.
It is not necessary to inquire which of these modes of proceeding most conduces to the purposes of justice. It is sufficient to
say that either of them may be adopted under the laws of Congress.
And as it is desirable that the practice in the courts of the United States should conform, as nearly s practicable, to that
of the State in which they are sitting, that mode of proceeding
is perhaps to be preferred which, from long established usage and
practice, has become the law of the. courts of the State. The
right of a court bf the United States to express its opinon upon
the facts in a charge. to the jury was affirmed by this court in
the case of M'Lanahan v. The Universal Insurance Co., 1 Pet.
182, and Games v. Stiles, 14 Pet. 8-22. Nor can it be objected
to upon the ground that the reasoning and opinion of the court
.upon the evidence may have an undue and improper influence
on the minds and judgment of the jury. For an objection of that
kind questions their intelligence and independence, qualities
which cannot be .brought into doubt without taking from that
tribunal the confidence and respect which so justly belong to it,
in questions of fact.
It was in pursuance of this practice, that the proceedings
set forth in the exceptions took place. 'When the testimony
was closed and the questions of law had been raised and
argued by counsel, the court stated to them the view it proposed to .take of the evidence in the charge about to be given.
And it is evident, from the statement in the exception, that this
was done for the purpose of giving the counsel for the respective
parties an opportunity of going before the jury, to combat the
inferences drawn from the testimony by the court, if they. sup.
posed them to be erroneous or open to doubt.
It appears from the record that the counsel on both sides declined going before the jury, dvidently acquiescing in the opinions expressed by the court, and believing that they could not
be successfully disputed. And the judge thereupon charged the
jury that if they agreed with him: in his view of the facts that
they would find for the plaintiff, otherwise for the defendant; and
upon this charge the jury found for the plaintiff, and assessed the
damages stated in the proceedings. It is manifest, therefore, that

132

SUPREME COURT.
Mit'chell v. Harmony.

the Circuit Court did not, in its instructions, trench upon the province of the jury, and that the jury could not have been misled as
to the nature and extent of their own duties and powers. The
decision of the facts was fully and plainly submitted to them.
*And their verdict for the plaintiff, upon the charge given to them,
affirms the correctness of the views taken by the cour.t; and the
opinions upon the evidence as therein stated must now be regarded as facts found by the jury; and as such are not open to
controversy in this court.
This statement of the ma .ner in which the case was disposed
of in the Circuit Court was necessary to disengage it from objections which do not belong to it, and to show what questions
were decided by the court below, and are brought up by this
writ of error. We proceed to examine them.
It is admitted that the plaintiff, against his will, was compelled
by the defendant to accompany the troops with the property in
question when they marched from San Elisario to Chihuahua;
and that he was informed that force would be used if he refused.
This was unquestionably a taking of the property, by force,
from the possession and control of the plaintiff; and a trespass
on the part of the defendant, unless he can show legal grounds
of justification.
He justified the seizure on several grounds.
1. That the plaintiff was engaged in trading with the enemy.
2. That he was compelled to remain with the American forces,
and. to move with them, to prevent the property from falling into
the hands of the enemy.
:3. That the property was taken for public use.
4. That if the defendant was liable for the original taking, he
was released from damages for its subsequent loss, by the act of
the plaintiff, who had resumed the possession and control of it
before the loss happened.
5. That the defendant acted in obedience to the order of his
commanding officer, and therefore is not liable.
The first objection was. overruled by the court, and we think
correctly.
There is no dispute about the facts which relate to this part
of the case, nor any contradiction in the testimony. The plaintiff entered the hostile country openly for the purpose of trading,
in company with other traders, and under 0he protection of the
American flag. The inhabitants with whomi he traded had submitted to the American arms, and the country was in possession
of the military authorities of the United States. The trade in
which he was engaged was not only sanctioned by the commander of the American troops, but, as appears by the record)
was permitted by the Executive Department of the government,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

188

Mitchell vt. Harmoliy.

whose policy it was to conciliate, by kindness and commercial intercourse, the Mexican provinces bordering on the United
States, and by that means weaken the power of the hostile government of Mexico, with which we were at war. Itwas oneof
the means resorted to to bring the war to a successful conclusion.
It is certainly true, as a general rule, that no citizen can lawfully trade with a public enemy; and if found to be engaged in
such illicit traffic his goods are liable to seizure and confiscation.
But the rule has no application to a case of this kind; nor can
an officer of the United States seize the property of an American citizen, for an act which the constituted authorities, acting
within the scope of their lawful powers, have authorized to be
done.
Indeed this ground of justification has not been pressed in the
argument. The defence has been placed, rather 6n rumors
which reached the commanding officer and suspicions which
he appears to have entertained of a secret design in the plaintiff
to leave the American forces and carry on an illicit trade with
the enemy, injurious to the interests of the United States. And
if such a design had been'shown, and that he was preparing to
leave the American troops for that purpose, the seizure and detention of his property, to prevent its execution, would have been
fully justified. But there is no evidence in the record tending to
show that these rumors and suspicions had any foundation.
And certainly mere suspicions of an illegal intention will not
authorize a military officer to seize and detain the property of
an American citizen. The fact that such an intention existed
must be shown; and of that there is no evidence.
The 2d and 3d objections will be considered together, as they
depend on the same principles.. Upon these two grounds of
defence the Circuit Court instructed the jury, that the defendant
might lawfully take possession of the goods of the plaintiff, to
prevent them from falling into the hands of the public enemy; but
in order to justify the seizure the danger must be immediate
and impending, and not remote or contingent And that he
might also take them for public use and impress them into the
public service, in case of an immediate and pressing danger or
urgent necessity existing at the time, but not otherwise,
In the argument of these two points, the circumstances under
which the goods of the plaintiff were taken have been much discussed, and the eidence examined for the purpose of showing
the nature and character of the danger which actually existed
at the time or was aqprehended by the commander of the American forces. But this question is not before us. It is a question of fact.upon which the jury have passed, and their verdict
has decided that a danger or necessity, such as the court dscribed,
VOL. XIII.

12

134

SUPREM E COURT.
Mfitch11 v. Harmony.

did not exist when the property of the plaintiff was taken by
the defendant And the only subject for inquiry in this court is,
whether the law was correctly stated in the instruction of the
court; and whether any thing short of an immediate and impending danger from the public enemy, or an urgent necessity
for the public service, can justify the taking of private property
by a military commander to prevent it from falling into the
hands of the enemy or for the purpose of converting it to the
use of the public.
The instruction is objected to on the ground, that it restricts
the power of the officer within narrower limits than the law will
justify. And that when the troops are employed in an expedition into the enemy's country, where the dangers that meet them
cannot always be foreseen, and where they are cut off from aid
from their own governmefit, the commanding officer must necessarily be intrusted with some discretionary power as to the
measures lie should adopt; and if he acts honestly, and to tae
best of his judgment, the law will protedt him. But it must be
remembered that the question here, is not as to the discretion
he may exercise in his military operations orin relation to those
who are under his command. His distance from home, and the
duties in which he is engaged, cannot enlbrge his power over
the property of a citizen, nor give to him, in that respect, any
authority which he would not, under similar circumstances, pos.
sess at home. And where the owner has done nothing to forfeit his rights, every public officer is bound to respect them,
whether he finds the property in a foreign or hostile country, or
in his own.
There- are, without doubt, occasions in which private property
may lawfully be taken possession of or destroyed to prevent it
from falling into the hands of the public enemy; and also where
a military officer, charged with a particular duty, may impress
private property into the public servi~e or take it for public use.
Unquestionably, in such cases, the go emiment is bound to make
full compensation to the owner; but the officer is riot a tres.

passer.
But we are clearly of opinion, that in all of these cases the
danger must be immediate and impending; or the necessity
urgent for the public service, such as will not admit of delay,
and where the action of the civil authority would be too late in
prov*ding the means which the occasion calls for. It is impossible to define the particular circumstances of danger or necessity in which this power may be lawfully exercised. Every case
must depend on its own circumstances. It is the emergency
that gives the right, and the emergency must be shown to exist
before the taking can be justified.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

In deciding upon this necessity, however, the state of the
facts, as they appeared to the officer at the time he acted, must
govern the decision; for he must necessarily act upon the information of others as well as his own observation. And if,
with such information as he had a right to rely upon, there is
reasonable gound for believing that the peril is immediate and
menacing, or the necessity urgent, he is justified in acting upon
it; and the discovery afterwards that it was false or erroneous,
will not make him a trespasser. But it is not sufficient to show
that he exercised an honest judgment, and took the property to
promote the public service; he must show by proof the nature
and character of the emergency, such as he had reasonable
grounds to believe it to be, and it is then for a jury to say,
whether it was so pressing as not to admit of delay; and the
occasion such, according to the information upon which he acted,
that private rights must for the time give way to the common
and public good.
But it is not alleged that Colonel Doniphan was deceived by
false intelligence as to the movements or strength of the enemy
at the time the property was taken. His camp at San Elisario
was not threatened. He was well informed upon the state of
affairs in his rear, as well as of the dangers before him. And
the property was seized, not to defend his position, nor to place
his troops in a safer one, nor to anticipate the attack of an
approaching enemy, but to insure the success of a distant and
hazardous expedition, upon which he was about to march.
The movement upon Chihuahua was undoubtedly undertaken
from high and patriotic motives. It was boldly planned and
gallantly executed, and contributed to the successful issue of
the war. But it is not for the court to say what protection or
indemnity is due from the public to an officer who, in his zeal
for the honor and interest of his country, and in the excitement
of military operations, has trespassed on private rights. That
question belongs to the political department of the government.
Our duty is to determine under what circumstances private
property may be taken from the owner by a military officer in a
time of war. And the question here is, whether the law permits it to be taken to insure the success of any enterprise against
a public enemy which the commanding officer may deem it ad.
visable to undertake. And we think it very clear that the law
does not permit it.
The case mentioned by Lord Mansfield, in delivering his
opinion in Mostyn v. Fabrigas, 1 Cowp. 180, illustrates the
principle of which we are speaking. Captain Gambier, of the
British navy, by the order of Admiral Boscawen, pulled down
the houses of some sr.tlers on the coast of Nova Scotia, who

186

STPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmoniy.

were "supplying the sailors with spirituous liquors, the health of
the sailors being injured by frequenting them. The motive was
evidently a laudable one, and the act done for the public service. Yet it was an invasion of the rights of private property,
and without the authority of law, and the officer who executed
the order was held liable to an action, and the sutlers recovered
damages against him to the value of the property destroyed.
This case shows' how carefully the rights of private property
are'guarded by the laws in England; and they are certainly not
less valued nor less securely guarded und3r the Constitution and
laws of the United States.
We think, therefore, that the instructions of the Circuit Court
on the 2d and 3d points were right.
The 4th ground of objection is equally untenable. The lia.
bility of the defendant attached the moment the goods were
seized, and the jury have found that the plaintiff did not afterwards resume the ownership and possession.
Indeed, we do not see any'evidence-in thie record from which
the jury could have found otherwise. From the moment they
were taken possession of at San Elisario, they were under the
control of Colonel Doniphan, and held subject to his order. They
were no longer in the possession or control of the plaintiff, and
the loss which happened was the immediale and necessary consequence of the coercion which compelled him to accompany
the troops.
It is true, the plaintiff remained with his goods and took care
of:them, as far as he could, during the march. But whatever he
did in that respect was by the orders or permission of the military authorities. He had no independent control over them.
Neither can his efforts to save them from loss, after they
arrived at the town of Chihuahua, by sale or otherwise, be construed into a resumption of possession, so as to discharge the
defendant from liabilty. He had been brought there with the
property against his will; and his goods were subjec.ted to the
danger in which .they were placed by the act of the :defendant.
And the defendant cannot discharge himself from the immediate
and necessary consequences of his wrongful act, by abandoning
all care and control of the property after it reached Chihuahua,
and leaving the plaintiff to his own efforts to save it. He could
not discharge himself without restoring the possession in a place
of safety; or in a place where the plaintiff was willing to accept
it. And the plaintiff constantly refused to take the risk upon
himself, after they arrived at Chihuahua, as well as on the
march, and warned Colonel Doniphan that he would not.
Neither can the permission given to the plaintiff to leave the
tfoops and go to the hacienda of Parns, affect his rights. He

DECEfMBER TERM,

1851.

.137

Mitchell v. Harmony,

was then in the midst of the enemy's country, and to leave the
American forces at that point might have subjected his person
and property to greater dangers than he incurred by remaining
with them. The plaintiff was not bound to take ipon himself
any of the perils which were the immediate consequences of the
original wrong committed by the defendant in seizing his property and compelling him to proceed with it and accompany
the troops.
The 5th point may be disposed of in a few words. If the
power exercised by Colonel Doniphan had been within the limits
of a discretion confided to him by law, his order would have
justified the defendant even if the commander had abused his
power, or acted from improper motives. But we have already
said that the law did not confide to him a discretionary power
over private property. Urgent necessity would alone give him
the right; and the verdict finds that this necessity did not exist.
Consequently the order given was an order to do an illegal
act; to commit a trespass upon the property of another; and
can afford no justification to the person by whom it was executed. The case of Captain Gambier, to which we have just referred, is directly in point upon this question. And upon principle, independent of the weight of judicial decision, it can never
be maintained that a military officer can justify himself for doing
an unlawful act, by producing the order of his superior. The
order may palliate, but it cannot justify.
But in this case the defendant does not stand in the situation
of an officer who merely obeys the command of his superior.
For it appears that he advised the order, and volunteered to
execute it, when, according to military usage, that duty more
properly belonged to an officer of inferiqr grade.
We do not understand that any objection -is taken to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the matters in controversy. The trespass, it is true, was committed out of the limits
of the United States. But an action might have been maintained for it in the Circuit Court for any district in which the
defendant might be found, upon process against him, where the
citizenship of the respective parties gave jurisdiction to a court
of the United States. The subject was before this court in the
case of McKenna v. Fisk, reported in 1 How. 241, where the
decisions upon the question are referred to, and the jurisdiction
in cases of this description maintained.
Upon the whole, therefore, it is the opinion of this court, that
there is no error in the instructions given by the Circuit Court,
and that the judgment must be affirmed with costs.

SUPREME COU:RT.
Mitchell v. Harmon,?.

Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
In this case I find myself constrained to disagree with the
opinionof the court just pronounced. This disagreement is not
so much the result of any view taken by me of the testimony in
this case, in conflict with that adopted by my brethren; for, with
respect to the character of the testimony, were that the subject
regularly before us, there perhaps would exist little or no difference of opinion. With some modifications, perhaps unimportant,
I might have agreed also to the legal propositions laid down by
the court, so far as I have been able to extract them from the charge
of the judge. My disagreement with the majority, relates to a
great principle lying at the foundation of all legal inquiries into
matters of fact; lying indeed at the foundation of civil society
itself: the preservation, in its fullest scope and integrity, unaf.
fected, and even unapproached by improper influences, direct or
indirect, of the venerable, the sacred, thd unappreciable trial by
jury. In the emark just made, or in any criticism which may
be attempted as to the charge of the judge at circuit, in this case,
I would have it understood that there is no officer to whose
learning, or to whose integrity of purpose, I would with greater
confidence intrust either -the rights of the citizen, or the exposition of the law, than I would to the judge whose opinion is before us; but in this instance, it seems to me, that in accordance
with a practice which, although it has obtained in some of the
courts, is regarded as irregular and mischievous, he has stepped
beyond the true limits of the judicial province. Duty demands of
me, therefore, however ineffectual the effort, that I should oppose
my feeble resistance to the aggression.
I object to the charge of the judge in this case, as I would to
every similar charge of a court presiding over a jury trial at
common law, because it is not confined to a statement of the
points of law raised by the pleadings, and to the competency or
relevancy of the testimony offered by either party in reference
to those points; but extends to the weight and efficiency of the
evidence, all admissible, and in fact admitted, and declares to
the jury minutely and emphatically, what that testimony do~s
or does not prove. And now let us examine the language of
the charge. It is as follows:
" One -ground on which the defence is placed is, that the plain.
tiff was engaged in an unlawful trade with the public enemy,
and that, being engaged in an unlawful trade, his goods were
liable to confiscation; and any person, particularly an officer of
the army, could seize the same.
This ground, as I understand the evidence, has altogether failed.
He was not only not so engaged, but was engaged in trading

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

139

Mitchell v. Harmony.

with that p6rtion of the territory reduced to subjection by our
arms, and where his trading with the inhabitants was permitted
and encouraged. The army was directed to hold out encou.
ragement to the trad6rs. There is no foundation, therefore, for
this branch of the defence. Anoth6r ground taken by the de.
fendant, and relied upon, depends upon another principle of public law, viz., the taking possession of the goods at a time and
place when it was necessary for the purpose of preventing them
from falling into the-hands of the enemy. This has been urged
as particularly applicable to the plaintiff's goods, some of which
consisted of articles which might be used as munitions of war,
wagons for transportation, &c.
Taking the whole of the evidence together, and giving full
effect to every part of it, we think this branch of the defence has
also failed.
No case of peril or danger has .been proved which -would lay
a foundation for taking possession of the goods of the plaintiff
at San Elisario, on that ground, either as it respects the state
of the country, or the force of the public enemy. On the contrary, it was in the possession of the arms of this government
There was no enemy, no-public force at the time in the neighborhood, which put the goods in the danger of being captured.
The plaintiff's goods, therefore, stood in the same condition as
the goods of any other trader in the country. The testimony
does not make out a case of seizure of property justified by the
peril of its falling into the enemy's hands. The peril must be
immediate and urgent, not contingent or remote; otherwise
every citizen's property, particularly on the frontiers, would be
liable to be seized or destroyed, as it must always be more or
less 'exposed to capture by the public enemy. The principle
itself, if properly applied, of the right to take property to prevent
it from falling into the hands of the enemy, is undisputed. But in
this case there was no immediate or impending danger, no
enemy advancing to put the goods in peril. They were more
exposed to marauding parties than to any public force, the danger from which the plaintiff considered himself able to take care
of. The next ground of defence, and which constitutes the
principal question in the case, and upon which it must probably
ultimately turn, is the taking of the goods by the public authorities for public use. I admit the principle of public law; but
this rests likewise upon the law of necessity. I have no doubt
of the right of a military officer, in a case of extreme necessity,
for the safety of the government or of the army, to take private
property for the public service.
An army upon its march, in danger from the public enemy,
would have a right to seize the property of the citizen, and use

140

SUPREM1E COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

it to fortify itself against assault while the danger existed and
was impending, and the officer ordering the seizure would not
be liable as a trespasser; the owner must look to the Government for indemnity. The safety of the country is paramount,
and the rights of the irdividual must yield in case of extreme
necessity. No doubt, upon the testimony, if the enemy had
been in force, in the neighborhood of the United States troops,
with the disparity which existed at Sacramento, and the same
danger for the safety of the troops existed at San Elisario that
threatened them there, the commanding offider might, for the
safety of this army, seize and use, while the danger continued,
the wagons and teams of the plaintiff that could be immediately
brought into the service, to meet and overcome the impending
danger.justify
An immediate,
existing,
and of
overwhelming
necessity
would
the seizu~re for
the safety
the army.
Looking, however, at te testimony, .t seems to me quite
clear that these goods were seized, not on account of any impending danger at the time, or for the purpose
of being used
the enemy, by which the comassaultbutofthat
an immediate
againstmight
mand
be endangered,
they were seized and taken
into the public service for the purpose of cobperating with the
army in their expedition into the enemy's country, to Chihuahua. The mules, wagons, and goods were taken into the
public service for the purpose of strengthening the army, and
aiding in the accomplishment of the ulterior object of the
expedition, which was the taking of Chihuahua; it was not to
repel a threatened assault, or to protect the army from an impending peril; in my judgment, all the evi-4 -nce taken together
does not make out an immediate peril or urgent necessity existing at the time of seizure which would justify the officer in
taking private property and impressing it into the public service; the evidence does not bring the case within the principle
of extreme necessity; it does not make cut such a dase, or one
boming within the principle; there is not only no evidence of an
impending peril to be resisted by the public force, but the goods
were taken for a different purpose, viz., for the purpose of cooperating with the army against Chihuahua; the army had to
march over two hundred miles before it reached or found the
enemy; the danger, if any, lay in the pursuit, not in remaining
at San Elisario or returning to Santa F6; there had been a
sudden insurrection against the authority of the government in
that neighborhood, but it was immediately suppressed.
As to the remaining grounds of defence, the liability of the
defendant for taking the goods and appropriating them to the
public service accrued at the time of the seizure ; if it was an
unlawful taking, the liability immediately attaphed, and the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

141

Mitchell v. Harmony.

question was whether that liability had been discharged or released by any subsequent act of the plaintiff; Colonel Mitchell,
who executed the order, was not alone responsible, Colonel TDoni.
phan, who gave the order, was also liable; they were jointly
and severally responsible; then, was any act done by the plain.
tiff which waived the liability, or by which he resumed the 6wnership and possession of the goods? Certainly the abandonment of the goods to Colonel Doniphan cannot be regarded as an
act of resumption of ownership; on the contrary, it was consistent with the assertionof his liability; there had been a negotiation between them; Colonel Doniphan advised him to sell the
goods at Chihuahua and look to the government for indemnity,
and, in pursuance of this, measures were taken for their protection and safe-keeping. I doubt if there be' any evidence showig an intent on the part of the plaintiff to resume ownership
over the goods as his private property after they had been seized
by the army, or any act done by him that would, when properly
viewed, lead to that result."
The bill of exceptions concludes as follows:
"After the judge expressed his views of the case as above
stated, the counsel on both sides declined going to the jury.
The presiding judge accordingly charged the jury that the
law was as had been stated by him, and that if they agreed
with .him in his view of the facts, that tbey would find for the
plaintiff, otherwise for the defendant.
The counsel for the defendant did then and there except to each
of the four propositions mentioned in the charge above stated.
The jury, without leaving their seats, returned a verdict for the
plaintiff for $90,806.44.
And because none of the said exceptions, so offered and made
to the opinions and decisions of the said associate justice, do
appear upon the record of the said trial; therefore, on the prayer
of the said defendant, by his said. counsel, the said associate
justice hath to the bill of exceptions set his seal, April term,
S. NELSON. [SEAL.]"
one thousand eight hundred and fifty.
The record, above cited, informs us that after the judge had expressed his views of the case as above stated, the counsel on both
sides declined going to the jury. And surely, after such an expression, no other result could well have been anticipated. In the
first place, the counsel for the plaintiff could not have made to the
jury so authoritati -ean argument 'in behalf of his client; and
in the next place the counsel for the defendant must have been
a rash man could he have attempted to throw his individual
weight (whatever might have been his ability) in opposition to
this authoritative declaration and influence of the court. Nay,

142

SUPREME

COURT.

Mitchell v. Harmony.

it may be insisted, that if the cour in passing upon the
weight of the evidence, was acting within its legitimate sphere,
the counsel would have been justly obnoxious to -the imputation
of indecorum, if not of contempt, in assailing before the jury the
judge's decision; for the respective provinces of the court, the
counsel, and the jury, are separate, distinct, and well defined,
and
neither
should
be subject
to invasion
by the and
other.
But
after the
counsel
had been
thus silenced,
the weight
of the evidence fully and minutely pronounced upon by the
cout it is insisted, that the alleged irregularity was entirely
cured, by a declaration from the court to the jury, "that if they
agreed with him in his view of the facts, they should find for
the plaintiff, otherwise they might find for the defendant." But
the natural -and obvious inquiry here is, what the judge's view
of the facts had to do with this matter. It was the jury who
were to find the facts for the judge, and not the judge who was
to find the facts for the jury; and if the -verdict is either formally,
or in effect, the verdict of the judge, it is neither according to
truth nor common sense, the verdict of the jury; and these
triers of fact had better be dispensed with, as an useless, and indeed an expensive and cumbersome formula in cofuts of law,
than be preserved as false indicia of what they in reality do
not show. Moreover, this determination of facts by the court
does not place the parties upon fair and equal grounds of contest before the minds of-the jury; it is placing the weight of the
court, which must always be powerfully felt, on the side of one
of the parties, and causifig the scale necessarily to preponderate
by throwing the sword, which, under such circumstances, can
hardly be called the sword of justice, into one of the scales in
which the rights- of the parties are hanging.
The practice of passing upon the weight of the evidence and
of pronouncing from the bench what that evidence does or does
not prove, accords neither wirn the nature and objects of jury
trial, as indicated by its very name, nor as affirmed by the fathers
of the law who have defined this institution and proclaimed it
to be the ark of safety for life, liberty, and property. Thus'it is
called the trial per pais, or by the country, to distinguish it as a
determination of the rights of the subject or citizen by his fellow
subjects or citizens, from a determination thereon by the action
of mere officials or creatures of. the government. And with respect to the peculiar intent and effects of this tribunal of the
people we read thus: Justice Blackstone, speaking of this institution, says: "The trial by jury has ever been, and, I .trust,
ever will be, looked upon as the glory of the English law. 'And
if it has so great an advantage over others in regulating civil
property, how much must that advante.ge be heightenec when

DECEM'BER TERM, 1851.

143

Mitchell v. Harmony.

it is applied to criminal cases! It is the most transcendent privilege which any subject can enjoy or wish for, that he cannotbe affected, either in his property, his liberty, or his person, but
by the unanimous consent of twelve of his neighbors and equals."
Again he says: " Great as this eulogium may seem, it is no
more than this admirable constitution, when traced to its principles, will be found in sober reason to deserve. The impartial
administration of justice, which secures both ourpersons and our
propert y, is the great end of civil society. But if that be entirely
intrusted to the magistracy, a select body of men, and those
generally selected by th6 prince, or such as enjoy the highest
offices in the state, their decisions, in spite of their own natural
integrity, will have frequently an involuntary bias towards those
.of their own rank and dignity. It is yisely ordered, therefore;
that the principles and axioms of law, which are general propositions flowing from abstracted reason, and not accommodated
to times or men, should be deposited in the breasts of the judges,
to-be occasionally applied to such facts as come properly ascertained before them. For here partiality can have little scope:
the law is well known, and is the same for all ranks and degrees; it follows as a regular conclusion from the premises of
facts .pre~stablished. But in settling and adjusting a question
of fact, when inftusted to any single magistrate, partiality and
injustice have an ample field to range in, either by boldly asserting that to be proved which is not so, or by more artfuliy suppressing some circumstances, stretching and warping others,
and distinguishing away the remainder." And again: "Every
new tribunal erected for the decision of facts without the intervention of a jury (whether composed of justices of the peace',
commissioners of the revenue, or judges of a court of'conscience,
or any other standing magistracy,) is a step towards establishing aristocracy, the most oppressive of absolute governments.
It is, therefore, upon the whole, a duty which every man owes
to his country, his friends, his posterity, and himself, to maintain, to the utmost of his power, this valuable constitution in all
its rights; to restore it to its ancient dignity if at all impaired
by the different value of property, or otherwise deviated from
its first institution; and above all to' guard it against the introduction of new and arbitrary methods of trial, which, under
aL variety of plausible pretences, may in time imperceptibly
undermine this best preservative of English liberty."
With regard to the legitimate and proper mode of operation,
and effect of the trial by jury, the language of Lord Coke
should ever be kept in mind, as furnishing the true and only
true standard by which to measure this valuable institution.
After giving his derivation of the terms verdict and judgment,

144

SUPREME COU-RT.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

this great common lawyer proceeds, "Etsicut ad quaestionemjuris
o respondentjuratoressed judices; sic ad quwstionemfacti, non
respondentjudices sedjuratores." For jurors are to try the fact,
Lad the judges ought to judge according to the law that ariseth
upon the fact, for ex facto jus oritur. The mamer of stating
the above proposition by this great lawyer and commentator
is worthy of particular attention, as defining and illustrating
with clearness and precision, the powers and duties of the court
and the jury. He has not simply said, ad qu stionem juris respondentjudices,nor in like manner ad questionemfacti respondentjuratores,but he has placed them in a striking opposition
and contrast, and drawn a well-defined limit around the fune.
tions of both the courk and the jury, and informed them, in
terms too unequivocal for misapprehension, that the limit, thus
prescribed, neither has the power to transcend; has declared to
each what it shall not do. Thus, literally translated, his annunciation is "And as with respect to the questions of law, the
jury :must not respond, but only the judges; so, orin like
manner, or under like restriction, the judges must not respond
to questions of fact, but only the jury." There can be no
escape from- the force of the positions thus laid down by Lord
Coke, by the argument that the jury are not absolutely bound
by the opinion pronounced by the court upon the weight
of the evidence. The proper inquiry here is, not as to the
absolute and binding authority of the court's opinion upon
the weight of evidence, but that inquiry is, what are the legitimate and appropriate functions of the court and the jury; whether the former, in pronouncing upon the weight of the evidence, can, within any rational sense, be responding only to
questions of law, or whether it is not controlling the free action
of the jury by the indirect exertion of a power which all are
obliged to concede that it does not legitimately possess; the
power of responding to the facts of the case. This is one of the
mischievous consequences against which we are assured by
Justice Blackstone, that the trial by jury was designed to guard,
when he remarks that, "in settling and adjusting -a question of
fact when intrusted to any single magistrate, partiality and injustice have an ample field to range in, either by boldly asserting that to be proved which is not so, cr by more artfully suppressing some circumstances, stretching and warping others, and
distinguishing away the remainder." And if this power of interpretation or of weighing the evidence cannot safely be deposited within the regular commission of the judge, much less
should -an attempt to wield that power be tolerated, when confessedly beyond his commission. The objection here urged to
the interposition '5f the court as to the weight of evidence, is by

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

145

Mitchell v. Harmony.

no means weakened by the excuse or explanation that sucfi
declaration by the court is not binding, but is given in the way
of advice to the jury; the essence of the objection is perceived
in the control and influence which an interposition by court is
almost certain to produce upon the otherwise free and unembarrassed action of the jury, and the restraint it imposes upon tie
views and efforts of the advocate, who, in a great majority of
instances, will hardly venture to throw himself openly into a
conflict with the court. And again the maxim which declares
that ad qucsstionem facti non respondent judices, would seem to
forbid this advice altogether, or to render it officious or irregular
at least. The court can exercise a legitimate and effectual control over the verdict of juries by the award of new trials, and
should be restricted to this regular exertion of its acknowledged
power. Let us test this interposition by the court, by comparing it with a similar irregularity on the part of the jury.
"Ad qz estione m juris non respondent juratores sed judices"
says the maxim. Now, suppose the jury sworn in a cause
should declare to the court what evidence was competent or
relevant to the issues they were to try, and what, in their
view, should be the law governing the contest between the
parties. NVould not such a proceeding be regarded as extremely irregular and wholly unjustifiable ? And why would it
be so regarded? Simply because in so acting the jury would
transcend the province assigned them by their duty; because
they would not be conforming to the maxim ad questionem legis
vo rrespondent juratores sedjudices. And yet, perhaps, there
would be greater color for this proceeding than can be found to
excuse the interference by the court in questions of fact ; for it is
undeniable that from the earliest periods of the practice of jury
trials, the jury, of right, could find a general verdict, thereby constituting themselves judges both of law and fact.
In accordance with the maxim quoted from Lord Coke, may
be cited other authorities of great weight. Thus, in the case
of Rex v. Poole, to be found in Cases in the King's Bench, in
the time of Lord Hardwicke, it is said by Hardwicke, C. J.,
that "it is of the greatest consequence to the law of England,
and to the subject, that the powers of the judge and the jury be
kept distinct; that the judge determine the law, and the jury"
the fact; and if ever they comle to be confounded, it will prove
the confusion and destruction of the law of Bngland." So
likewise in Foster, p. 256, it is said, that "tbc construction of
the law, upon the facts found by the jury, is in all cases undoubtedly the proper province of the court." It has been said,
that the course pursued by the judge in this case is in confotfmity with the practice of the courts' of England, and in the
VO. XIII.

13

SUPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

majority of the States of this Union. For the establishment of
the position assumed, either with regard to the English courts,
or with respect to the tribunals of the several States, no authorities have been cited; but, even, if this position should be conceded, it is not the less clear that the rule it is invoked to sustain is a flagrant departure from the great principle so emphatically asserted by the fathers of the'law, and should not the less
be viewed and shunned as an abuse rather than an example
worthy of imitation. In what number of States of this confederacy such a practice (such an abuse, as I would term it,)
way prevail has not been shown; certain it is, that in many of
the Southern States it does not obtain, and would not be tolerated. It has also been said, that the right of the judge to
instruct the jury upon the weight of testimony has been ruled
as the established doctrine of this court. If this be so, it is a
revelation which the friends of jury trial, in its full integrity and
independence, will grieve to learn, and will be-disposed to regard
as 'ademolition by this court of that sacred ark of civil liberty,
d rv ichy y the greatest services it may render, it can hardly
lever be able to atone. It is true that, in the case of Carver v.
Ji'ckson, 4 Pet 80, there is an -expression of Ar. Justice Story,
in delivering the opinion of the court, broad enough to cover
this irregular exercise of power by the court in its widest extent.
But, upon exaination,'it will be seen that this expression
had no real connection with thq points regularly before the
court, and, as a mere dictum, was entirely without authority.
In the introductory pait of his opinicn, Mi. Justice Story,
meaning merely to express his disapprobation of a practice of
bringing up for review the entire charge oof the court below,
without stating specific points or grounds of exception, as extremelY inconvenient, takes occasion to-use the following remark,
namely, -that, "with the charge of the court to the jury upon
mere matters of fact, and -ith its commentaries upon the weight
of evidence, this court has nothing to do." But it is remarkable that this judge goes on to say, with respect to these commentaries, that they are of no binding legal effect; thus, in realN ity,pronouneing their condemnation in the same breath which
sanctions teir admission to affect, if it can be done without
legal'or binding obligation, the minds of the jurors. Surely it
may be assumed as a postulate, that a cb~prA of justice, in adjudicating upon the rights of the citizen or of the State, should
do, and can have power to do, -nothing which is irregular, oi
vain, or useless. Its duty and its office is to do the law, and
nothing but the law. The anomalous and contradictory doctrine above noticed has, I think, been condemned by a more
recent and a far more correct decision of this court; a decision

N

DECEMBER TERM,
Mitchell

v.

1851.

147

Harmony.

directly in point upon this subject, -I
allude to the case of
Hanson v. Eustace, 2 How. 706. In that case, the late Justice
Baldwin, under the rule which admits of secondary evidence
when the primary evidence is not within the power of a party,
or is withheld improperly by his adversary, went so far beyond
the just application of the rule as to say to the jury what the
secondary or presumptive evidence did actually prove; but still
accompanied his declaration with the salvo, " that if they agreed
with him in opinion." This is his language: " Should youropinion agree with ours on this point, you will presume that
there was a deed from Robert Phillips, or his heirs, competent to
vest the title to the sixth street lot in the firm of Robert &
Isaac Phillips; that it so remained at the time of the assignment, and that it was by such conveyance as would enable
them to enjoy the property against Robert Phillips and his heirs."
And this court reversed the decision of the Circ .'t Court, upon
the ground that the judge's charge declared to the jury what
their conclusions, from the secondary evidence, ought specifcpally
to be. This decision I regard as in strict conformity with the
doctrines promulged by the fathers of the law, the doctrine
which alone can prevent the inestimable trial by jury from becoming a mere mockery and a deception to those who have
been taught to revere and rely upon it as the best safeguard of
these rights. Transforming this institution from what it was
intended to be, and once was in reality, - a trial by the country,
-into
a'mere formula, to be moulded at-the discretion of the
court. I think that the judgment of the Circuit Court should
be reversed.
David D. Mitchell, Plaintiff in Error, In obedience to the orv.
der of the court in this
Manuel X. Harmony.
case, yesterday, the clerk
of this court having filed the following report, namely: Supreme Court of the Unipd States.
'
No. 178. -December
Term, 1851.
David D. Mitchell, Plaintiff in Error, In error to the Circuit
Court of the United
v.
States for the Southern
Manuel X. Harmony.
District of New York.
In calculating the interest on the judgment of affirmance i
the above-entitled cause, the clerk respectfully presents, at the
instance of the respective counsel, the following different modes
for the consideration of the court: * 1. Interest, at the rate of six per cent, on the judgmen of
the Circuit Court, frum the 9th November, 1950, the daythe
judgment was signed, to this date.

SUPREME COURT.
Mitchell v. Harmory.

2. Interest, from the 1st April, 1850, the first day of the term
at which the judgment was rendered, to this date.
- 3. Interest, at the rate of 7 per cent., from 9th November,
1850, to 26th February, 1851, (the date of the writ of error,)
and then at 6 per cent. on the aggregate, to this date.
4-. Interest, at the rate of 7 per cent., from 1st April, 1850, to
26th February, 1851, and then at 6 per cent. on the aggregate,
to this date.
The clerk feels bound to confine his calculations to the 18th
rule of the court, irrespective of the act of Congress of 23d
August, 1842.

Wi.

THOMAS CARROLL, C. S. C. U. S.

"14th May, 1852.
Calculation No. 1.
$95,855.38 Judgment of Circuit Court, U. S., for New York,
signed 9th November, 1850.
8,706.85 Interest, at 6 per cent. per annum, from 9th November, 1850, to 14th May, 1852,- one year,
$104,562.23
six months, and five days.
Calculation No. 2.
1$95,855.38 Judgment of Circuit Court, U. S., for New York,
rendered 1st April, 1850.
12,204.57 Interest, at 6 per cent. per annum, from 1st April,
1850, to 14th May, 1852, - two years, one
$108,0 5 9 .95 1 month, and fourteen days.
Calculation No. 3.
$95,855.38 Judgment of Circuit Court, U. S., for. New York,
signed 9th November, 1850.
1,994.35 Interest, at 7 per cent. per annum, from 9th November, 1850, to 26th February, 1851, - three
97,849.73
months and seventeen days.
7,139.51 Interest on this amount at 6 per cent. per annum,
from 26th February, 1851, to 14th May, 1852,
$104,989.24
- one year, two months, and eighteen days.
$95,855.38
6,076.15
$101,931.5.3
7,440.99
$109,372.52

CalculationNo. 4.
Judgment of Circuit Court, U. S., for New York,
rendered 1st April, 1850.
Interest, at 7 per cent. per annum, from 1st April,
1850, to 26th February, 1851,-ten months
and twenty-six days.
Interest on this amount, at 6 per cent. per annum,
from 26th February, 1851, to 14th May, 1852,
-one year, two months, and eighteen days.

149

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

And Xr. Vinton having filed the following exceptions,
namely : The defendant in error, M. X. Harmony, excepts to the
report of the clerk, touching the computation of interest on the
above-named judgment of the Circuit Court, U. S., for the
Southern District of New York, in this, namely 1st. That, by the act of Congress of the 23d of August,
1842, the said defendant in error is entitled to the same rate of
interest on said judgment (being 7 per cent.) as he would be
entitled to if said judgment had been rendered in a State
court of the State of New York; whereas, the said computation allows 6 per cent. only on said judgment. See 5 Statutes
at Large, 518.
2d. That the said interest ought to be computed, on said
judgment, from the 1st Monday in April, 1850, instead of from
the 9th of November of that year. See printed record, pages

S. F.

19 and 20.

VINTON,

For Defendant in Error.

May 14, 1852.

And the said defendant in error, also, at the same time,
moves the court to open up the judgment of affirmance (rendered
in this court at its present term) of said judgment of said Circuit Court, touching the damages allowed in said judgment of
affirmance; and in lieu of 6 per cent. per annum, therein given
on said judgment below, to allow 7 per cent. per annum there1850, in
day of
in, to be computed from the
conformity to said act of Congress, of the 23d of August,

S. F.

1842.

VINTON,

For Defendant in Error.
It is thereupon now here ordered by the court, that the said
report and exceptions be set down for argument next Monday,
the 17th instant.
The court declined to bear any argument on the motion of
,1r. Vinton,'and the exceptions filed by him to the clerk's report,
and took the same under advisement.
On consideration of the motion made by I'Mr. Attorney-General Crittenden, on the 13th instant; of the report by the clerk,
filed the 14th instant; of the exceptions to said report, by Mr.
Vinton, filed the same instant; and of the motion filed by Mr.
Vinton, the 15th instant, it is the opinion of the court, that the
first calculation, by the clerk in his report is the proper mode
of calculating the damages given under the rule of court.
Wherefore, it is now here ordered by the court, that the judgment entered, in this case, on the 12th instant, do stand as the
judgment of. this court.
13*

150

SUPREME COURT.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

Order.
,This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages,
it the rate of six per centuam per annum.

JOHN S. BUCKINGHAM ANI. MARK BUCKINGHIAm, APPELLANTS, V.
NATHANIEL C. MCLAz.N, ASSIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JOHN
MAHARD, JR.
Where a defehdant in error or an appellee wishes to have a case dismissed becaiso
no citation has been served upon him, his counsel shotid give notice of the motion
when his appearance is entered, or at the same term ; and also that his appearance is
entered for that purpose. A general appearance is a waiver of the want of notice.
An appeal in equity brings up all the matters which were decided in the circuit court
to the prejudice of the appellant; including a prior decree of that court from which
an appeal was then taken, but which appeal was dismissed under the rules of this
court.
BEFORE this case was reaehed upon the docket, a motion was
made to dismiss it upon the ground that the appellee had not
been served with a citation, and also upon another ground,
'which is stated in the following opinion of tie court as pronounced by Mr. Justice McLean.

Mr. Justice McLEAN.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Ohio District,
and a motion is made to dismiss it on two grounds.
1. Because no-citation has been issued.
2. "Because the appeal is from the decree of 1848 .and interlocutory decrees, whereas all the matters contested by the appellants were finally adjudicated and decreed at the November
term, 1846, from which decree an appeal was taken which was
dismissed by this court, and no appeal has been since taken."
At November term, 1846, a decree was entered against the
appellants. In January term, 1847, an appeal was prayed by
them from that decree, which was granted, and bond was given.
But the appellants failing to file the record and docket the cause
in this court, as required by the rules, it was, on motion of the
appellee's counsel docketed and dismissed at December term,
1847. At the same term a motion was made to reinstate the
cause upon the dock-.t; which motion was overfuled.

