CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.

BROTHERHOOD OF RAILROAD TRAINMEN v.

VIRGINIA

EX REL.

VIRGINIA STATE BAR.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS
OF VIRGINIA.

No. 34.

Argued January 13, 1964.-Decided April 20, 1964.

An injunction issued by a state court, prohibiting, as the unlawful
solicitation of litigation and the unauthorized practice of law, a
labor union from advising injured members or their dependents to
obtain legal assistance before settling claims and recommending
specific lawyers to handle such claims, infringes rights guaranteed
by the First and Fourteenth Amendments. NAACP v. Button,
371 U. S. 415, followed.
Judgment and decree vacated, and case remanded

Beecher E. Stallard and John J. Naughton argued the
cause for petitioner. With them on the briefs were
Edward B. Henslee and Arnold Elkind.
Aubrey R. Bowles, Jr. argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Aubrey R. Bowles IH.
Wayland B. Cedarquist, Holcombe H. Perry, Warren
H. Resh and Earl Sneed filed a brief for the American
Bar Association, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Virginia State Bar brought this suit in the
Chancery Court of the City of Richmond, Virginia,

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

377 U. S.

against the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, an investigator employed by the Brotherhood, and an attorney
designated its "Regional Counsel," to enjoin them from
carrying on activities which, the Bar charged, constituted
the solicitation of legal business and the unauthorized
practice of law in Virginia.! It was conceded that in
order to assist the prosecution of claims by injured railroad workers or by the families of workers killed on the
job the Brotherhood maintains in Virginia and throughout the country a Department of Legal Counsel which
recommends to Brotherhood members and their families
the names of lawyers whom the Brotherhood believes to
be honest and competent. Finding that the Brotherhood's plan resulted in "channeling all, or substantially all," the workers' claims to lawyers chosen by
the Department of Legal Counsel, the court issued an
injunction against the Brotherhood's carrying out its plan
in Virginia. The Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
affirmed summarily over objections that the injunction
abridges the Brotherhood's rights under the First and
Fourteenth Amendments, which guarantee freedom of
speech, petition and assembly. We granted certiorari to
consider this constitutional question in the light of our
recent decision in NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415.2
372 U. S. 905.
The Brotherhood's plan is not a new one. Its roots go
back to 1883, when the Brotherhood was founded as a
fraternal and mutual benefit society to promote the welfare of the trainmen and "to protect their families by the
exercise of benevolence, very needful in a calling so
1The investigator and the Regional Counsel were not served with
process and are not parties.
2 We do not find it necessary to consider the Brotherhood's additional argument that the decree violates the Brotherhood's right to
represent workers which is guaranteed by the Railway Labor Act,
44 Stat. 577, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 151-188.

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. VIRGINIA BAR.

3

Opinion of the Court.

hazardous as ours . . . ."' Railroad work at that time
was indeed dangerous. In 1888 the odds against a railroad
brakeman's dying a natural death were almost four to
one; 4 the average life expectancy of a switchman in 1893
was seven years.5 It was quite natural, therefore, that
railroad workers combined their strength and efforts in
the Brotherhood in order to provide insurance and financial assistance to sick and injured members and to seek
safer working conditions. The Trainmen and other
railroad Brotherhoods were the moving forces that
brought about the passage of the Safety Appliance Act 6
in 1893 to make railroad work less dangerous; they also
supported passage of the Federal Employers' Liability
Act of 1908 to provide for recovery of damages for
injured railroad workers and their families by doing away
with harsh and technical common-law rules which sometimes made recovery difficult or even impossible. It soon
became apparent to the railroad workers, however, that
simply having these federal statutes on the books was
not enough to assure that the workers would receive the
full benefit of the compensatory damages Congress intended they should have. Injured workers or their
families often fell prey on the one hand to persuasive
claims adjusters eager to gain a quick and cheap settle3 Constitution

of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen and
Railroad
Trainmen Insurance Department, Preamble.
of
Brotherhood
4 Interstate Commerce Commission, Third Annual Report (1889),
85.
5Griffith, "The Vindication of a National Public Policy Under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act," 18 Law and Contemp. Prob. 160,
163.
627 Stat. 531, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 1-43.
7 35 Stat. 65, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51-60. An earlier version
of the law passed two years earlier, 34 Stat. 232, had been held
unconstitutional. Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463. The
constitutionality of the 1908 statute was sustained in the Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

377 U. S.

ment for their railroad employers, or on the other to
lawyers either not competent to try these lawsuits against
the able and experienced railroad counsel or too willing to
settle a case for a quick dollar.
It was to protect against these obvious hazards to the
injured man or his widow that the workers through their
Brotherhood set up their Legal Aid. Department, since
renamed Department of Legal Counsel, the basic activities of which the court below has enjoined. Under their
plan the United States was divided into sixteen regions
and the Brotherhood selected, on the advice of local lawyers and federal and state judges, a lawyer or fi'm in each
region with a reputation for honesty and skill in representing plaintiffs in railroad personal injury litigation.
When a worker was injured or killed, the secretary of his
local lodge would go to him or to his widow or children
and recommend that the claim not be settled without
first seeing a lawyer, and that in the Brotherhood's judgment the best lawyer to consult was the counsel selected
by it for that area.8
There is a dispute between the parties as to the exact
meaning of the decree rendered below, but the Brotherhood in this Court objects specifically to the provisions
which enjoin it
"... from holding out lawyers selected by it as the
only approved lawyers to aid the members or their
families; . . .or in any other manner soliciting or
encouraging such legal employment of the selected
lawyers; . . . and from doing any act or combination of acts, and from formulating and putting
into practice any plan, pattern or design, the
8 The Brotherhood also provides a staff, now at its own expense, to
investigate accidents to help gather evidence for use by the injured
worker or his family should a trial be necessary to vindicate their
rights.

5

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. VIRGINIA BAR.
Opinion of the Court.

result of which is to channel legal employment to
any particular lawyer or group of lawyers .

.

.

."

The Brotherhood admits that it advises injured members
and their dependents to obtain legal advice before making settlement of their claims and that it recommends
particular attorneys to handle such claims. The result
of the plan, the Brotherhood admits, is to channel legal
employment to the particular lawyers approved by the
Brotherhood as legally and morally competent to handle
injury claims for members and their families. It is the
injunction against this particular practice which the
Brotherhood, on behalf of its members, contends denies
them rights guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth
Amendments. We agree with this contention.
It cannot be seriously doubted that the First Amendment's guarantees of free speech, petition and assembly
give railroad workers the right to gather together for
the lawful purpose of helping and advising one another
in asserting the rights Congress gave them in the Safety
Appliance Act and the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
statutory rights which would be vain and futile if the
workers could not talk together freely as to the best
9 Certain other provisions of the decree enjoin the Brotherhood
from sharing counsel fees with lawyers whom it recommended and
from countenancing the sharing of fees by its regional investigators.
The Brotherhood denies that it has engaged in such practices since
1959, in compliance with a decree of the Supreme Court of Illinois.
See In re Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, 13 Ill. 2d 391, 150
N. E. 2d 163. Since the Brotherhood is not objecting to the other
provisions of the decree except insofar as they might later be construed as barring the Brotherhood from helping injured workers or
their families by recommending that they not settle without a lawyer
and by recommending certain lawyers selected by the Brotherhood, it
is only to that extent that we pass upon the validity of the other
provisions. Because of our disposition of the case, we do not consider the Brotherhood's claim that the findings of the court were not
supported by substantial evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

377 U. S.

course to follow. The right of members to consult with
each other in a fraternal organization necessarily includes
the right to select a spokesman from their number who
could be expected to give the wisest counsel. That is
the role played by the members who carry out the legal
aid program. And the right of the workers personally or
through a special department of their Brotherhood to
advise concerning the need for legal assistance-and,
most importantly, what lawyer a member could confidently rely on-is an inseparable part of this constitutionally guaranteed right to assist and advise each other.
Virginia undoubtedly has broad powers to regulate the
practice of law within its borders; " but we have had
occasion in the past to recognize that in regulating the
practice of law a State cannot ignore the rights of individuals secured by the Constitution." For as we said in
NAACP v. Button, supra, 371 U. S., at 429, "a State
cannot foreclose the exercise of constitutional rights by
mere labels." Here what Virginia has sought to halt is
not a commercialization of the legal profession which
might threaten the moral and ethical fabric of the administration of justice. It is not "ambulance chasing."
The railroad workers, by recommending competent lawyers to each other, obviously are not themselves engaging
in the practice of law, nor are they or the lawyers whom
" The Bar relies on the common law, the Canons of Ethics of the
American Bar Association, adopted into the rules of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia, 171 Va. xviii, and several Virginia
statutes prohibiting the unauthorized practice of law. The Canons
of Ethics to which the Bar refers prohibit respectively stirring up
of litigation, control or exploitation by a lay agency of professional
services of a lawyer, and aiding the unauthorized practice of law.
Canons 28, 35, 47. The statutes respectively set the qualifications
for the practice of law in the State and provide for injunctions against
"running, capping, soliciting and maintenance." Virginia Code,
1950, §§ 54-42, 54-83.1.
n NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415; Konigsberg v. State Bar, 353
U. S. 252; Schware v. Board of Bar Examiners, 353 U. S. 232.

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. VIRGINIA BAR.

7

Opinion of the Court.

they select parties to any soliciting of business. It is
interesting to note that in Great Britain unions do not
simply recommend lawyers to members in need of advice;
they retain counsel, paid by the union, to represent members in personal lawsuits, 2 a practice similar to that
which we upheld in NAACP v. Button, supra.
A State could not, by invoking the power to regulate
the professional conduct of attorneys, infringe in any way
the right of individuals and the public to be fairly represented in lawsuits authorized by Congress to effectuate
a basic public interest. Laymen cannot be expected to
know how to protect their rights when dealing with practiced and carefully counseled adversaries, cf. Gideon v.
Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335, and for them to associate
together to help one another to preserve and enforce
rights granted them under federal laws cannot be condemned as a threat to legal ethics." The State can no
more keep these workers from using their cooperative
plan to advise one another than it could use more direct
means to bar them from resorting to the courts to vindicate their legal rights. The right to petition the courts
cannot be so handicapped.
Only last Term we had occasion to consider an earlier
attempt by Virginia to enjoin the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People from advising prospective litigants to seek the assistance of particular
attorneys. In fact, in that case, unlike this one, the
attorneys were actually employed by the association
which recommended them, and recommendations were
made even to nonmembers. NAACP v. Button, supra.
We held that "although the petitioner has amply shown
that its activities fall within the First Amendment's
See
42-43.
13 Cf.
36 Cal.
Cal. 2d,
12

Feather, The Essence of Trade Unionism (London, 1963),
Drinker, Legal Ethics (1953), 167; Hildebrand v. State Bar,
2d 504, 515, 225 P. 2d 508, 514 (Carter, J., dissenting), 36
at 521, 225 P. 2d, at 518 (Traynor, J., dissenting).

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

377 U. S.

protections, the State has failed to advance any substantial regulatory interest, in the form of substantive
evils flowing from petitioner's activities, which can
justify the broad prohibitions which it has imposed."
371 U. S., at 444.14 In the present case the State again
has failed to show any appreciable public interest in preventing the Brotherhood from carrying out its plan to
recommend the lawyers it selects to represent injured
workers. The Brotherhood's activities fall just as clearly
within the protection of the First Amendment. And the
Constitution protects the associational rights of the
members of the union precisely as it does those of
the NAACP.
We hold that the First and Fourteenth Amendments
protect the right of the members through their Brotherhood to maintain and carry out their plan for advising
workers who are injured to obtain legal advice and for
recommending specific lawyers. Since the part of the
decree to which the Brotherhood objects infringes those
rights, it cannot stand; and to the extent any other part
of the decree forbids these activities it too must fall.
And, of course, lawyers accepting employment under this
constitutionally protected plan have a like protection
which the State cannot abridge.
The judgment and decree are vacated and the case is
remanded for proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR.JUSTICE STEWART

took no part in the disposition of

this case.
14 See also Gibson v. Florida Legislative Investigation Comm., 372
U. S.539; Louisiana ex rel. Gremillion v. NAACP, 366 U. S.293;
Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U. S. 479; Bates v. City of Little Rock, 361
U. S. 516; NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U. S. 449;
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147.

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. VIRGINIA BAR.

9

CLARK, J., dissenting.

MR.

JUSTICE CLARK,

whom MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

joins,

dissenting.
By its decision today the Court overthrows state regulation of the legal profession and relegates the practice
of law to the level of a commercial enterprise. The Court
permits a labor union-contrary to state law-to engage
in the unauthorized practice of soliciting personal injury
cases from among its membership on behalf of 16 regional
attorneys whom its president has placed on the union's
approved list. Local officials of the union call on each
member suffering an injury and seek to secure employment of these approved attorneys in the prosecution of
claims for damages arising therefrom. Moreover the
union, through its president, not only controls the appointment and dismissal of the approved attorney but also
has considerable influence over his fees and often controls
the disposition of cases. Furthermore, from 1930 to at
least 1959, the union had required these approved attorneys to pay to it a portion of their fees, usually 25%.
Such an arrangement may even now be in effect through
the ruse of reimbursement for investigatory services rendered by the union. This state of affairs degrades the
profession, proselytes the approved attorneys to certain
required attitudes and contravenes both the accepted
ethics of the profession and the statutory and judicial
rules of acceptable conduct.
The Court excuses the practice on the policy ground
that the union membership needs a corps of attorneys experienced in personal injury litigation because ordinary
"lawyers [are] either not competent to try these lawsuits
against the able and experienced railroad counsel or too
willing to settle a case for a quick dollar." To me this
is a serious indictment of the profession. In the cases
that I have passed on here-numbering about 177 during
the past 15 years-I dare say that counsel for the railroad
employee has exhibited advocacy not inferior to that of

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
CLARK,

J., dissenting.

377 U. S.

his opponent (although I do not remember that any one
of the 16 approved attorneys appeared in these cases).
Indeed, the railroad employee has prevailed in practically
all of the cases and the recoveries have ranged as high as
$625,000. See Gallick v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 372
U. S. 108 (1963); Transcript of Record, p. 7. Under
these facts the Court's rationale will not stand up, even as,
a policy ground for approving this patent violation of the
cardinal ethics of our profession and flagrant disobedience
to the law of most of our States.
The Court depends upon NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S.
415 (1963), to support its position. But there the vital
fact was that the claimed privilege was a "form of political expression" to secure, through court action, constitutionally protected civil rights.' Personal injury litigation
is not a form of political expression, but rather a procedure
for the settlement of damage claims. No guaranteed civil
right is involved. Here, the question involves solely the
regulation of the profession, a power long recognized as
belonging peculiarly to the State. Button, as well as its
ancestry cited by the majority in the footnotes, is not
apposite.
Finally, no substantive evil would result from the activity permitted in Button. But here the past history of the
union indicates the contrary. Its Legal Aid Department
(now the Department of Legal Counsel) was set up in
1930 for the admitted purposes of advising members "relative to their rights respecting claims for damages" and
assisting them "in negotiating settlements . . . ." The
Department had a complete reporting service on all major
I "In the context of NAACP objectives, litigation is not a technique
of resolving private differences; it is a means for achieving the lawful
objectives of equality of treatment by all government, federal, state
and local, for the members of the Negro community in this country.
It is thus a form of political expression." NAACP v. Button, supra,
at 429.

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. VIRGINIA BAR.
CLARK,

11

J., dissenting.

injuries or deaths suffered by its members, regional investigators to whom such reports were referred, and the 16
approved regional counsel (many of whom remain the
same today) to whom the cases were channeled for prosecution and who split their fees with the union. And,
what is of even more significance, the trial court in this
case found "that the defendant Brotherhood still adheres
to the pattern and design of the plan formulated and
implemented in 1930."
The union admits that it did operate in this manner
until 1959 but says that it has now reformed its operation.
But the record shows that this identical union plan has
been before several other courts 2 and, while the union has
repeatedly promised to reform, as here, it has consistently
renewed the same practices. But even if the union has
sincerely reformed, which I doubt, the plan it now proposes to follow is subject to the same deficiencies. It
includes: the approval of 16 regional attorneys by the
president of the union, who also has power to discharge
them at his pleasure; the solicitation of all injured nembers by the local officials of the Brotherhood who urge the
employment of an approved counsel; the furnishing of
the name of the approved counsel to the injured brother
as the only attorney approved by the Brotherhood; the
furnishing of the names and addresses of injured members to the approved attorneys; the furnishing of investigative services to the approved attorney, the cost of
which, it is indicated, comes from the fees received by the
latter; and, finally, the "tooting" of the approved attorneys in union literature and meetings.
E. g., In re Petition of Committee on Rule 28 of the Cleveland Bar
Assn., 15 Ohio L. Abs. 106 (1933); In re Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen, 13 11. 2d 391, 150 N. E. 2d 163 (1958); In re O'Neill, 5 F.
Supp. 465 (E. D. N. Y. 1933); Young v. Gulf Al. & 0. R. Co., No.
3957 (E. D. Mo. 1946); Reynolds v. Gulf M. 0. & Texas Pac. R. Co.,
No. 772 (E. D. Tenn. 1946); North Carolinaex rel. McLean v. Hice,
Superior Ct. of N. C., County of Buncombe (1948).
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
CLARK,

J., dissenting.

377 U. S.

I do not read the decree approved by the State as prohibiting union members from recommending an attorney
to their brothers in the union. Virginia has sought only
to halt the gross abuses of channeling and soliciting litigation which have been going on here for 30 years. The
potential for evil in the union's system is enormous and,
in my view, will bring disrepute to the legal profession.
The system must also work to the disadvantage of the
Brotherhood members by directing their claims into the
hands of the 16 approved attorneys who are subject to the
control of one man, the president of the union. Finally,
it will encourage further departures from the high standards set by canons of ethics as well as by state regulatory
procedures and will be a green light to other groups who
for years have attempted to engage in similar practices.
E. g., Chicago Bar Assn. v. Chicago Motor Club, 362
Ill. 50, 199 N. E. 1; Rhode Island Bar Assn. v. Automobile
Service Assn., 55 R. I. 122, 179 A. 139; cf. Semler v.
Oregon State Board of Dental Examiners, 294 U. S. 608
(1935); Williamson v. Lee Optical of Oklahoma, Inc.,
348 U. S. 483 (1955).

