MARSHALL v. BARLOW'S, INC.

1347

Opinion in Chambers
MARSHALL, SECRETARY OF LABOR v.
BARLOW'S, INC.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-600.

Decided February 3, 1977

Application by the Secretary of Labor for stay of a three-judge District
Court's injunction against further searches pursuant to ยง 8 (a) of the
Occupational Safety and Health Act, which allows warrantless entry and
inspection of work places for OSHA violations, is granted, pending the
timely filing of an appeal and the disposition thereof by this Court,
insofar as it affects persons other than respondent. The Act, being
presumptively constitutional, should remain in effect pending this
Court's final decision on the merits.

Justice.
The Solicitor General, on behalf of the Secretary of Labor,
applies for a partial stay of an injunction issued by a threejudge District Court for the District of Idaho. That court
held that ยง 8 (a) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act
of 1970, 84 Stat. 1598, 29 U. S. C. ยง 657 (a), allowing warrantless entry and inspection of work places for OSHA violations, is in conflict with the Fourth Amendment of the United
States Constitution, and enjoined further searches by the
Secretary's representative pursuant to that section. The applicant does not seek a stay of the order insofar as it protects
the respondent from future searches, but only as it protects
persons not party to this suit. On January 25, 1977, I
granted a stay of the order to the extent that the order
restrains the applicant's conduct outside of the District of
Idaho.
Upon consideration of the response subsequently filed, I
now grant in full the applicant's request for a stay of the
three-judge court order as it affects persons other than the
respondent. On the merits of the Fourth Amendment question, the District Court relied on our decisions in Camara v.
MR. JusTicn REHNQUIST, Circuit

1348

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

Municipal Court, 387 U. S. 523 (1967), and See v. City of
Seattle, 387 U. S. 541 (1967). The applicant relies on our
decisions in Colonnade Catering Corp. v. U'ited States, 397
U. S. 72 (1970), and United States v. Biswell, 406 U. S. 311
(1972), to urge a contrary result. The proposed stay will not
affect the respondent in any way, and there are no equities
weighing against it which may be asserted by persons actually
before the Court. In such a situation, where the decision of
the District Court has invalidated a part of an Act of Congress, I think that the Act of Congress, presumptively constitutional as are all such Acts, should remain in effect pending
a final decision on the merits by this Court.
The Secretary's application for a stay is accordingly granted
pending the timely filing of a notice of appeal and jurisdictional statement, and the disposition of the 'same by this
Court.

