HOUCHINS v. KQED, INC.
Opinion in Chambers

HOUCHINS, SHERIFF OF THE COUNTY OF
ALAMEDA, CALIFORNIA v. KQED,
INC., ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-594. Decided February 1, 1977
Application by a county sheriff for stay of the District Court's injunction
granting personnel of respondent television-radio station and other news
media representatives access to the county jail, is granted pending applicant's timely filing of a petition for certiorari and disposition thereof by
this Court. The issue to be raised in the petition as to whether the
doctrine of Pell v. Procunier, 417 U. S. 817, and Saxbe v. Washington
Post Co., 417 U. S. 843, that the press is entitled to no greater access
to a jail than the public applies to this case is of sufficient importance
to surmount the threshold barrier confronting stay applications, viz.,
reasonable likelihood that the petition for certiorari will be granted.
MR. JUSTICE REENQuiST, Circuit Justice.

Applicant Houchins is the Sheriff of Alameda County in the
State of California and in that capacity controls access of
the press and public to the Alameda County jail. Respondents KQED, Inc., a nonprofit educational television-radio
station, and the Alameda and Oakland branches of the
NAACP, sued applicant in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of California in order to obtain an
injunction granting KQED personnel access to the Alameda
County jail at Santa Rita. The District Court granted
respondents a preliminary injunction on November 20, 1975,
which restrained applicant
"from excluding as a matter of general policy plaintiff
KQED and responsible representatives of the news media
from the Alameda County Jail facilities at Santa Rita,
including the Greystone portion thereof, or from preventing KQED and responsible representatives of the news
media from providing full and accurate coverage of the
conditions prevailing therein.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

"... [F]rom denying KQED news personnel and responsible representatives of the news media access to
the Santa Rita facilities, including Greystone, at reasonable times and hours.
"... [F]rom preventing KQED news personnel and
responsible representatives of the news media from utilizing photographic and sound equipment or from utilizing
inmate interviews in providing full and accurate coverage
of the Santa Rita facilities.
[Applicant] may, in his discretion, deny KQED
and responsible representatives of the news media access
to the Santa Rita facilities for the duration of those
limited periods when tensions in the jail make such media
access dangerous."
Applicant sought a stay of this order in the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and a two-judge panel of the
court granted the stay on December 24, 1975, observing:
"[T]he injunction appears to exceed the requirements of
the First Amendment as interpreted in Pell v. Procunier,
417 U. S. 817 (1974) and Saxbe v. Washington Post Co.,
417 U. S. 843 (1974). Should the injunction be modified
by the District Court, this Court will entertain a motion
to lift the stay."
Applicant's appeal was thereafter heard by a different panel
of the Court of Appeals which affirmed the order of the
District Court. Applicant filed a petition for rehearing and
suggestion for rehearing en banc, and a motion for stay of
mandate, all of which were denied. He now requests that I
stay the injunction pending the filing and disposition of a
petition for certiorari to review the judgment of the Court
of Appeals. For the reasons set forth below, I grant his
application.
The dispute between the parties centers upon questions of
law, rather than of fact. The principal dispute involves the

HOUCHINS v. KQED, INC.
1341

1343

Opinion in Chambers

interpretation of our opinion in Pell v. Procunier, 417 U. S.
817 (1974). Applicant would urge that we reach the same
result in this case as we did in Saxbe v. Washington Post Co.,
417 U. S. 843, 850 (1974):
"We find this case constitutionally indistinguishable
from Pell v. Procunier,ante, p. 817, and thus fully-controlled by the holding in that case. '[N] ewsmen have no
constitutional right of access to prisons or their inmates
beyond that afforded the general public.' Id., at 834."
Respondents, on the other hand, rely upon the Court's
observation at the outset of the opinion in Pell that the prison
regulation there involved was
"not part of an attempt by the State to conceal the conditions in its prisons or to frustrate the press' investigation
and reporting of those conditions. Indeed, the record
demonstrates that, under current corrections policy, both
the press and the general public are accorded full opportunities to observe prison conditions. . . . In short,
members of the press enjoy access to California prisons
that is not available to other members of the public."
Pell, supra, at 830-831. (Footnote omitted.)
Concededly the access of the public and the press to the
Alameda County jail is less than was their access to the
California prisons in Pell. Public access to the Alameda
County jail at Santa Rita presently consists of monthly public
tours which, in the words of the Court of Appeals, "were limited to 25 people, booked months in advance, prohibited use
of cameras or sound equipment, prohibited conversations with
inmates, and omitted views of many parts of the jail, including the notorious Greystone Building." Here the injunction
did grant to the press greater' access to the jail than the
public is granted, a result seemingly inconsistent with our
ISee 546 F. 2d 284, 294 (CA9 1976) (Duniway, J., concurring).

1344

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

holding 2 in Pell that the press is not entitled to greater
access. But respondents suggest that the access given to
the press in this case by the injunction may, as a factual
matter, not significantly exceed that given to the press in Pell
before the injunction and after our disposition of that case.
The Court of Appeals struggled with the resolution of this
issue. Judges Chambers and Sneed, in granting the stay
before argument, felt that the injunction went beyond that
which we countenanced in Pell. The panel that decided the
issue on the merits unanimously affirmed the District Court,
but each member of the panel wrote separately. In discussing the injunction, which he felt clearly granted the press
greater access than is granted to the public, Judge Duniway,
in his concurring opinion, was moved to conclude:
"I cannot reconcile this result [the injunction] with the
decisions in Pell, supra, and Washington Post, supra."
546 F. 2d 284, 294 (CA9 1976).
Judge Hufstedler, concurring specially, viewed the reconciliation of the injunction in this case with the holdings in Pell
and Washington Post as a "thorny question." Id., at 19.
The legal issue to be raised by applicant's petition for
certiorari seems quite clear. If the "no greater access" doctrine of Pell and Saxbe applies to this case, the Court of Appeals and the District Court were wrong, and the injunction
was an abuse of discretion. If, on the other hand, the holding in Pell is to be viewed as impliedly limited to the situation where there already existed substantial press and public
access to the prison, then Pell and Saxbe are not necessarily
dispositive, and review by this Court of the propriety of the
injunction, in light of those cases, would be appropriate, although not necessary. In my opinion at least four Justices
of this Court would vote to grant certiorari to resolve this
2 See

Saxbe v. Washington Post Co., 417 U. S., at 850.

HOUCHINS v. KQED, INC.
1341

1345

Opinion in Chambers

issue, if for no other reason than that departure from unequivocal language in one of our opinions which on its face
appears to govern the question ought to be undertaken in
the first instance by this Court, rather than by the Court of
Appeals or by the District Court.
Of course, I accord due deference to the judges of the
Ninth Circuit who declined to grant the stay. See Winters v.
United States, 89 S. Ct. 57, 21 L. Ed. 2d 80 (1968) (Douglas,
J., in chambers). But such deference does not relieve me of
the obligation to decide the issue:
"Although a judge of the panel which entered this order
refused to grant a stay, I would nevertheless stay the
order if persuaded by the record that the questions
presented for review in the petition for certiorari had
sufficient merit to make review by this Court likely."
Board of School Comm'rs of Mobile County v. Davis, 84
S. Ct. 10, 11, 11 L. Ed. 2d 26, 27 (1963) (Black, J., in
chambers).
For the reasons set forth above, I think that the issue in this
case is of sufficient importance to surmount the threshold
barrier confronting all stay applications: reasonable likelihood that the petition for certiorari will be granted. E. g.,
English v. Cunningham, 80 S. Ct. 18, 4 L. Ed. 2d 42 (1959)
(Frankfurter, J., in chambers).
Respondents suggest that, regardless of the correctness of
the decision below, the equities do not favor the applicant,
and that it is they, the respondents, who will suffer the irreparable injury should a stay be granted. Respondents contend that they are irreparably injured each time they are
denied news coverage; applicant suggests that in the District
Court hearing "there was uncontradicted evidence that jail
operations come to a virtual standstill in the presence of a
media tour." Respondents' intimation that the interim
denial of their access to the prison, in violation of their asserted First and Fourteenth Amendment rights, will inexor-

1346

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

ably injure them in a way that applicant cannot be injured
by the injunctive restraint-which he asserts is based on a
misapprehension of the Constitution-is one with which I
cannot agree. There are equities on both sides of the case.
I would be more hesitant to disturb the District Court's
preliminary injunction if it were evident that the injunction
were actually "preliminary" to substantial further proceedings which might substantially modify that injunction. But
the injunction was issued some 15 months ago, after a full
evidentiary hearing, and none of the parties suggests that
there are any new factual or legal issues which would cause
the District Court to modify it. The injunction has in fact
been stayed virtually since its issuance, and I conclude that,
in light of the present posture of the case and given the substantial chance that the petition for certiorari will be granted,
the preservation of that status quo is an important factor
favoring a stay. This is preferable to forcing the applicant
to develop new procedures which might be required only for
a short period of time. See Edelman v. Jordan, 414 U. S.
1301, 1303 (1973) (RDHwQuiST, J., in chambers).
The preliminary injunction issued by the District Court in
this case on November 20, 1975, should therefore be and
hereby is stayed pending the filing of a timely petition for
certiorari by applicant, and the disposition of the petition
and the case by this Court.

