OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Per Curiam

UNITED STATES v. SANFORD

429 U. S.
ET AL.

ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

No. 75-1867. Decided October 12, 1976
Where the District Court, because of a hung jury, declared a mistrial on
the indictment against respondents, the Double Jeopardy Clause of the
Fifth Amendment does not bar a retrial, and hence the Government is
entitled under the Criminal Appeals Act to appeal from the District
Court's subsequent dismissal of the indictment on respondents' motion,
since the dismissal was prior to a trial that the Government had a
right to prosecute and the respondents were required to defend. Serfass v. United States, 420 U. S. 377.
Certiorari granted; 536 F. 2d 871, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

Respondents were indicted for illegal game hunting in Yellowstone National Park. A jury trial in the United States
District Court for the District of Montana resulted in a hung
jury, and the District Court declared a mistrial. Four months
later, while the Government was preparing to retry them, respondents moved to dismiss the indictment. The District
Court, agreeing that the Government had consented to the
activities which formed the basis of the indictment, dismissed
it. The Government's appeal pursuant to the Criminal Appeals Act, 18 U. S. C. ยง 3731,1 was dismissed by the Court of
Appeals because that court thought retrial was barred by the
Double Jeopardy Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the
United States Constitution. The Government petitioned
for certiorari, and we vacated the judgment of the Court of
'The Criminal Appeals Act provides in pertinent part:
"In a criminal case an appeal by the United States shall
of appeals from a decision, judgment, or order of a district
ing an indictment or information as to any one or more
that no appeal shall lie where the double jeopardy clause
States Constitution prohibits further prosecution."

lie to a court
court dismisscounts, except
of the United

UNITED STATES v. SANFORD

14

Per Curiam

Appeals and remanded for further consideration in the light
of our intervening decision in Serfass v. United States, 420
U. S. 377 (1975). 421 U. S. 996 (1975).
On remand, the Court of Appeals, considering the trilogy
of Serfass, supra, United States v. Wilson, 420 U. S. 332
(1975), and United States v. Jenkins, 420 U. S. 358 (1975),
adhered to its prior determination. The Government now
seeks certiorari from that ruling.
The reasoning of the Court of Appeals is best summarized
by this language from its opinion:
'"Here appellees have undergone trial. There is no question but that jeopardy has attached. That being so,
and since the proceedings in the district court have ended
in appellees' favor and the consequences of a reversal
in favor of the Government would be that appellees
must be tried again, we conclude that they would, on
retrial, be placed twice in jeopardy." 536 F. 2d 871,
872 (CA9 1976).
We agree with the Court of Appeals that jeopardy attached at the time of the empaneling of the jury for the
first trial of respondents. But we do not agree with that
court's conclusion that by reason of the sequence of events
in the District Court the Government would be barred by
the Double Jeopardy Clause from retrying respondents. The
trial of respondents on the indictment terminated, not in
their favor, but in a mistrial declared, sua sponte, by the
District Court. Where the trial is terminated in this manner, the classical test for determining whether the defendants
may be retried without violating the Double Jeopardy Clause
is stated in Mr. Justice Story's opinion for this Court in
United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579, 580 (1824):
"We are of opinion, that the facts constitute no legal
bar to a future trial. The prisoner has not been convicted or acquitted, and may again be put upon his
defence. We think, that in all cases of this nature,

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Per Curiam

429 U. S.

the law has invested courts of justice with the authority
to discharge a jury from giving any verdict, whenever,
in their opinion, taking all the circumstances into consideration, there is a manifest necessity for the act, or
the ends of public justice would otherwise be defeated."
The Government's right to retry the defendant, after a
mistrial, in the face of his claim of double jeopardy is generally 2 governed by the test laid down in Perez, supra. The
situation of a hung jury presented here is precisely the situation
that was presented in Perez, supra, and therefore the Double
Jeopardy Clause does not bar retrial of these respondents
on the indictment which had been returned against them.
The District Court's dismissal of the indictment occurred
several months after the first trial had ended in a mistrial,
but before the retrial of respondents had begun. This case
is, therefore, governed by United States v. Serfass, supra,
in which we held that a pretrial order of the District Court
dismissing an indictment charging refusal to submit to induction into the Armed Forces was appealable under 18 U. S. C.
ยง 3731. The dismissal in this case, like that in Serfass, was
prior to a trial that the Government had a right to prosecute and that the defendant was required to defend. Since
in such cases a trial following the Government's successful
appeal of a dismissal is not barred by double jeopardy, an
appeal from the dismissal is authorized by 18 U. S. C. ยง 3731.
The petition for certiorari is granted, the judgment of
the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded
for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN

from summary reversal.

and MR. JusTIcE MARSHALL dissent
They would set the case for oral

argument.
2 If the mistrial is declared at the behest of the defendant, the manifest necessity test does not apply. See United States v. Dinitz, 424 U. S.

600 (1976).

