OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

BATEMAN v. ARIZONA
ON APPLICATION FOR BAIL OR STAY
No. A-110 (76-5033).

Decided August 16, 1976

Application for bail pending certiorari or for stay of Arizona Supreme
Court's mandate is denied absent any showing of compelling necessity
for a stay, and where it is doubtful if applicant's petition for certiorari
will be granted and there is a question as to the finality of the Arizona
Supreme Court's judgment sought to be reviewed.
MR. JUSTICE RFBHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.
Applicant has filed a motion denominated an "Application
for Bail Pending Certiorari or in the Alternative Application
for Stay of Mandate of the Supreme Court of the State of
Arizona." Such an applicant-who, in effect, seeks to have
a single Justice of this Court stay what the state-court system
has concluded should not be stayed-bears a heavy burden of
demonstrating that he meets the traditional tests which a
Circuit Justice must consider in passing on an application of
this sort. Because of the serious questions going to applicant's standing to have this Court hear the question he tenders
in his petition for a writ of certiorari, the application will,
therefore, be denied.
Applicant was convicted by a jury of one count of sodomy
with his wife, in violation of Ariz. Rev. Stat. ยง 13-651 (Supp.
1973), and of one count of lewd and lascivious acts, to wit,
forcing his wife to commit fellatio on him, in violation of Ariz.
Rev. Stat. ยง 13-652 (Supp. 1973). The jury was instructed:
"Consent is a defense in the infamous crime against
nature [the sodomy count], and to the crime of the committing lewd and lascivious acts [the fellatio count].
Any evidence which reasonably tends to show consent is
relevant and material."

BATEMAN v. ARIZONA

1302

Opinion in Chambers

As applicant notes, the jury verdict of guilty "necessarily
impl[ied]" that the jurors found that applicant's wife did
not consent. After the trial, upon a renewed motion of
applicant, the trial court dismissed the information, holding:
"It appear[s] to the court that the Arizona statutes on
sodomy and lewdness violate the Arizona and U. S. Constitutions because they could violate the right to privacy,
and further that this court's interpretation of the statutes
to permit the defense of consent without the benefit of
legislative or appellate court guidance was improper .... I
The Arizona Court of Appeals affirmed, State v. Bateman, 25
Ariz. App. 1, 540 P. 2d 732 (1975). Thereafter, the Supreme
Court of Arizona, after consolidating this case with State v.
Callaway, vacated the Court of Appeals' decision, and remanded the case to the trial court to enter a judgment of conviction and to sentence applicant, 113 Ariz, 107, 547 P. 2d 6
(1976). The Arizona Supreme Court first concluded:
"The Arizona statutes may . . . be properly construed
to prohibit nonconsensual sexual conduct and remain
constitutional." Id., at 110, 547 P. 2d, at 9.'
The court then noted that "[t]he State may also regulate
other sexual misconduct in its rightful concern for the moral
welfare of its people," and therefore held:
"[S]exual activity between two consenting adults in
private is not a matter of concern for the State except
insofar as the legislature has acted to properly regulate
the moral welfare of its people, and has specifically
prohibited sodomy and other specified lewd and lascivious
acts." Id., at 111, 547 P. 2d, at 10.
"The court noted that while the distinction between consenting and
nonconsenting adults "does not appear facially from the statutes," nonetheless, "statutes do not stand alone. Judicial interpretation adds meaning to a statute as certainly as if the words were placed there by the
legislature."

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

Applicant, in his petition for a writ of certiorari seeking review of this judgment, raises the question of whether the
Arizona statutes, as construed, are unconstitutional as prohibiting "some sexual acts between consenting married
persons ....
After the Arizona Supreme Court handed down its decision
on March 10, 1976,2 applicant was sentenced to a term of
two to four years in the Arizona State Prison on April 15,
1976. On May 11, 1976, the trial judge denied bail pending
review in this Court, and, on July 13, 1976, the Arizona
Supreme Court likewise denied bail.
Applicant thus presents this application for bail, or,
alternatively, for a stay of mandate, to me after similar
applications have been denied by two courts, including the
highest tribunal of the State of Arizona. In all cases, the
fact weighs heavily "that the lower court refused to stay its
order pending appeal." Graves v. Barnes, 405 U. S. 1201,
1203 (1972) (PowLL, J., in chambers). This normal presumption deserves even greater respect in cases where the
applicant is asking a Circuit Justice to interfere with the
state judicial process. Cf. Rizzo v. Goode, 423 U. S. 362,
378-380 (1976); Mitchum v. Foster, 407 U. S.225, 230-231
(1972); Younger v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37, 46 (1971). Due
respect for the principles of comity necessitates a demonstration of compelling necessity before a single Justice of this
Court will stay the considered mandate of the highest state
3
tribunal.
2A motion for rehearing and an application to stay the judgment

pending an application for a writ of certiorari in this Court were denied
on April 13, 1976.
3
Applicant does not claim that there is a constitutional right to bail,
after conviction, pending appeal. I am unable to conclude that the
standards enunciated in 18 U. S. C. ยง 3148 apply, to the exclusion
of a state court's determination, in the case of a petition for a writ of
certiorari to review a state conviction.

BATEMAN v. ARIZONA

1302

1305

Opinion in Chambers

No such showing has been made. The threshold-although
by no means the only-question is whether there is a reasonable probability that four Justices will vote to grant certiorari,
Graves, supra. Considered abstractly, and without intimating
any view on the merits, the question applicant tenders to
this Court might be considered to meet this threshold hurdle.
But serious doubts exist as to the ability of this applicant to
raise a question concerning consensual sexual activity between married adults. These doubts are not lessened by the
fact that the Supreme Court of Arizona chose to decide the
issue which applicant now tenders to this Court. The courts
of a State are free to follow their own jurisprudence as to
who may raise a federal constitutional question, but this
Court in reviewing a state-court judgment is bound by the
requirements of case and controversy and standing associated
with Art. III of the United States Constitution. See, e. g.,
Doremus v. Board of Education, 342 U. S. 429, 434 (1952).
First of all, applicant was convicted by a jury that had
been charged that consent was a defense. Even assuming,
arguendo, that this Court would conclude that the Arizona
Supreme Court was incorrect in holding that a State may
prohibit consensual sexual acts between married adults, it is
difficult to see how applicant would be benefited, as his
conviction was based on nonconsensual sexual acts, as to4
which applicant does not press constitutional objections.
See United States v. Raines, 362 U. S. 17 (1960). Doubts
such as these make it difficult for me to conclude that appli4There is little indication that Arizona would vitiate applicant's conviction should this Court hold the statutes unconstitutional as applied
to consensual behavior; certainly it is not "clear" that they would
do so, see United States v. Raines, 362 U. S. 17, 23 (1960). Indeed, the
language of the Arizona Supreme Court, quoted supra, at 1303, and n. 1,
indicates that the question of nonconsensual activity, applicable here, was
decided separately from the question of consensual activity, applicable in
deciding State v. Callaway.

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

cant's petition for a writ of certiorari has a substantial chance
of being granted.5
Secondly, applicant petitions from the March 10 decision
of the Arizona Supreme Court which vacated and remanded
for the imposition of a judgment of conviction and a sentence. This Court is precluded from taking cases unless the
petition is from a "final judgment" within the meaning of
28 U. S. C. ยง 1257. In a criminal case, the "final judgment"
is, of course, the imposition of a sentence, Parr v. United
States, 351 U. S. 513, 518 (1956); Berman v. United States,
302 U. S. 211, 212 (1937). The Arizona Supreme Court did
not remand simply for the performance of a ministerial
duty-e. g., the reinstating of a judgment of conviction and
sentence--but for the initial imposition of a sentence. It
seems likely, therefore, that the decision of the Arizona
Supreme Court is not a "final judgment." While applicant
was sentenced prior to the filing of his petition for a writ
of certiorari, there nonetheless remains a question of the
finality of the judgment applicant seeks to have reviewed by
this Court. Such a doubt weighs against applicant here,
Hortonville Joint School Dist. v. Hortonville EducationAssn.,
423 U. S. 1301 (1975) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
These considerations lead me to deny the application.

5Applicant does not appear to meet the exception whereby the individual may assert a right that cannot otherwise be raised and protected.
The question applicant tenders to this Court could be raised, for example,
by a person who was convicted after a trial judge had refused to charge
a jury that consent is a defense.

