OCTOBER TERM, 1976

1314

Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

GRUNER ET AL. v. SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA IN AND FOR
THE COUNTY OF FRESNO
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-190. Decided September 3, 1976
Application for stay, pending disposition of petition for certiorari, of
California court orders of commitment against applicant newspaper
editors and reporters entered pursuant to contempt judgments for refusing to disclose sources for certain news articles, and for a temporary
stay until this Court acts on such request for a stay, is denied where
applicants have twice unsuccessfully sought review in this Court on
similar grounds.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants seek a stay of orders of commitment, pursuant
to state contempt judgments, pending this Court's disposition
of a petition for a writ of certiorari, No. 76-328, on the underlying issue. Applicants also seek a temporary stay until this
Court acts upon their request for a stay pending disposition
of the petition.
Applicants are editors and reporters employed by the
Fresno Bee, a California daily newspaper. Applicants have
refused to answer in open court certain questions propounded
regarding the identity of sources used by applicants for certain news articles. The articles contained information based
upon sealed grand jury testimony. The Superior Court entered judgments of contempt against each of the applicants
and ordered that the applicants be jailed until they answer
the questions propounded. Applications for stays were denied by the Superior Court in Fresno on August 25, 1976, and
by the California Supreme Court on September 2, 1976.
On two prior occasions the applicants have unsuccessfully
sought review by this Court. On March 20, 1975, an application for stay pending disposition of a petition for writ
MR.

JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

GRUNER v. SUPERIOR COURT
1314

Opinion in Chambers

of certiorari was filed with this Court and denied shortly
thereafter. Patterson v. Superior Court of California, 420
U. S. 1301. No petition for certiorari was filed in that matter.
In December 1975, a petition for writ of certiorari seeking
review of the California courts' affirmation of the contempt
judgments was filed with this Court. The petition for the
writ of certiorari was denied. Rosato v. Superior Court of
California,427 U. S. 912 (1976).
On those occasions applicants raised the sort of First and
Fourteenth Amendment issues that were dealt with in this
Court's opinion in Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S. 665 (1972).
Their present stay application relies largely on the same
grounds; since there were not four Justices of the Court disposed to grant certiorari on this very issue in this very case
less than three months ago, there is no reason to think that
there are four so disposed now. Applicants in their petition
for certiorari raise a somewhat different claim, asserting that,
before they may be committed for their refusal to testify,
they are entitled to a "due process hearing" to determine
whether or not the commitment for contempt has a reasonable prospect of accomplishing its purpose. None of our
cases support the existence of any such requirement, and
applicants' position seems to boil down to a contention that
if they but assure the court of their complete recalcitrance,
the court is powerless to commit them for contempt.
The application for a stay pending the disposition of the
petition for a writ of certiorari in No. 76-328, Gruner v.
Superior Court, and the application for a temporary stay
are therefore denied.

