OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Partes.

282 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CQMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 56. Argued January 9, 1931.-Decided February 2, 1931.
1. Under §§ 252 of the Revenue Act of 1921, and 284 (b) (1) of the
Revenue Act of 1926, where an overpayment of income and excess
profits taxes for 1917 was made by credit of an amount overpaid
for another taxabld year, a claim for refund was barred if not
filed within four years from the date of the allowance of the
.
credit. P. 469.
2. Considering the practice of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, the
date of allowance of such" a credit was neither (1) the date on
which the Commissioner referred an overassessment, which had
been disclosed and certified inhis office, to the Collector, in order
that the latter, upon expmination of the taxpayer's accounts,
might abate the tax reduction so far as warranted and, upon
finding an overpayment, credit it against other taxes due (if any)
and note and report any balance for refund; nor (2) the date upon
which the Collector, following these instructions, entered the
credit on the taxpayer's account; but it was '(3) the date on
which the Commissioner approved, the schedule showing the
credit, certified to him by the Collector. P. 471, et seq.
68 Ct. Cls. 97, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 709, to review a judgment allowkg a claim for the amount of an overpayment of income
and war profits taxes.

Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, and Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, Charles R. Pollard,
Bradley B. Gilman, and Clarence M. Charest, General
Counsel Bureau of Internal Revenue, and Ralph E. Smith
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr.G. Carroll Todd, with whom Messrs. Francis E.
Baldwin and T. Hardy Todd were on the -brief, for
respondent.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT'& CO.
468

469

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an action by respondent for the recovery of
the amount of an admitted overpayment of income and
war-profits taxes for the taxable year 1917, with interest.
In its return for 1917 respondent included the value of
stock dividends received. February 28, 1923, it filed a
claim for refund, alleging that the dividends in question
should have been allocated to other years than 1917.
The claim was rejected. Subsequently this court decided
that stock dividends did not constitute income, as defined
by the Sixteenth Amendment (Eisner v. Macomber, 252
U. S. 189). September 3, 1927, respondent, filed a second
claim for refund which it designated as an amended claim,
and therein for the first time asserted that the dividends
did not constitute taxable income. The Commissioner
of Internal Revenue determined that the latter claim was
barred by the statute of limitations and rejected it.
The respondent's position is that the- second claim
should be construed as an amendment of the first; but, if
not, then, treating the second as an original claim, it was
filed within the time required by law and should have been
allowed. The Court of Claims overruled respondents
first contention, but held with it upon its second, and entered judgment in its 'favor. Upon the petitiqn of the
United States this court granted a writ of certiorari.
If the Court of Claims was right in iis disposition of
respondent's second contention we need not trouble ourselves with respect to the first. It is admitted-that if the
later claim for refund was filed in time the respondent
should recover. The sums 6f which a refund is sought
were not paid in cash, but consisted of a credit of an
amount overpaid for other taxable years. Whether the
claim was-filed in due time depends, therefore, upon a
deiermination of the date when the credit was allowed

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

within the meaning of the statutes. Section 252 of the
Revenue Act of 1921 (42 Stat; 268) contains the following
provision:
"That if, upon examination of any return of income
made pursuant to .

.

. the Revenue Act of 1917, . . . it

appears that an amount of income, war-profits or excessprofits tax has been paid in excess of that properly due,
then, notwithstanding the provisio1s of section 3228 of
the Revised Statutes, the amount of the excess shall be
credited against any income, war-profits or excess-profits
taxes, or installment thereof, then due from the taxpayer
under any Qther return, and any balance of such excess
shall be immediately refunded to the taxpayer: Provided,
That no such credit or refund shall be allowed or made
after five years from the date when the return was due,
unless before the expiration of such five years a claim
therefor is filed by. the taxpayer: . . ."
Tim applicable portion of Section 2,84 (b) (1) of the
Revenue Act of 1926 (44 Stat. 66) follows:
"No such credit or refund shall be -allowed 'or made
after .
four years from the time the tax was paid in
the case of a tax imposed.by any prior Act, unless before
the expiration of such period a claim .therefor is fild
bythe taxpayer-Under the quoted statutes the respondent was required
to file its claim within four years from the date of the
allowance of the credit. The petitioner asserts that the
credit was allowed on February 9, 1923, when the Commissioner certified the overassessment to the Collector.
The respondent insists that it was when the Commissioner signed the schedule of refunds and credits as reported by the Collector on September 6, 1923. The
earlier date is more than four years from the filing of the
claim, and the later one is within said period.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
468

Opinion of the Court.

The issue thus raised will be resblved by determining
what act constituted the allowance of the credit. Proper
decision requires an understanding of the procedure followed in such cases.
The record discloses that the practice of the Bureau
,was in the first instance to examine the taxpayer's return
and if it disclosed an overassessment to prepare for the
Commissioner a o-called certificate of overasiessment,
which when certified by the Deputy Commissioner went
to the Commissioner. When the Commissioner had accumulated a number of such certificates with respect to
taxpayers in a single collection district, a form called a
schedule of overassessments was prepared, one line on
such schedule dealing with each: taxpayer's account for
the taxable year in question. On this schedule-was noted
the overassessment of the taxpayer-;and blanks were left
for further entries by the Co6 ector,of .the district. To
it was attached a subsidiary schedule, called a schedule
of refunds and credits, on which the Collector should make
report of his actions pursuant to the schedule of overassessments, and these two schedules, together with the
individual certificates of overassessmeAt, .were forwarded
to the Collector. On the schedule of overassessments
were certain printed intructions as follows:
"The several amounts herein noted as reduction of tax
liability are hereby approved and allowed.
"You will immediately check the items lherein against
-the accounts of the several taxpayers and Idetermine
whether the several amounts in which the tax liability has
been reduced should be abated in whole or in part and'
make such abatement as may be warranted by- the condition of the taxpayer's account for the year involved.
"If any part of the tax is found to be an overpayment,
you will examine all accounts of the taxpayer for sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282U.S.

sequent periods and apply such overpayment as a credit
against the tax owing (if any) on the taxpayer's account
for subsequent periods. (This applies to income, warprofits and excess-profits taxes only.)
"The balance (if any) of the overpayment shall be
entered in column, 12 and placed upon a schedule of
refunds (Form 7777A) and an appropriate memorandum
made upon the taxpayer's account.
"You will thereupon complete and certify this schedule and Schedule 7777A and return three copies of each
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue at Washington, making the appropriate entries in your accounts." *
The Commissioner, when he forwarded these papers
to the Collector, had no way of knowing whether the
overassessment would bring about an abateinent of taxes
theretofore assessed and unpaid, or'would result in an
overpayment by the taxpayer. This could only be ascertained by the Collect6r from the books and records kept
by him. Moreover, after the Collector ascertained
whether an-overpayment resulted, he would have to determine from his books and -records the further question
whether such overpayment should be applied as a credit
on taxes due or, in the absence of any taxes due, ought to
be refunded.,
When the Collector had completed his investigation and
filled in the information as to abatement, overpayment,
credit and refund on the schedule of assessments, and the
subsidiary schedule of refunds and credits, he certified the
'correctness of these schedules and returned th'em, together
with the certificates of overassessment to the .bureau in
,Washington. There the schedule and certificate were
examined by the Deputy Commissioner, checked by him
*At the time here in question the schedule of refunds, Form
7777A, referred to in the last t*o paragraphs of these instructions,
had been changed to a schedule of refunds and credits, Form 7805A.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
468

473

Opinion of the Court.

to ascertain whether they were correct, and forwarded by "
him to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for action.
On ,the basis of his deputy's certificate the Commissioner
would certify the schedule of refunds thus directing the
disbursing clerk of the Treasury to draw checks for refunds shown on the schedule and checks for the inter?
if any, on such refunds and on credits. Meantime the
amounts shown on the schedule with respect to each taxpayer's account had been copied on the certificate of overassessment of that taxpayer, and when checks had been
prepared for refunds and interest, if any, the certificate of
overassessment, together with the checks, were sent to the
Collector to be by him mailed to the taxpayer. The first
official notification which the taxpayer received,' as to how
his account had been handled with respect to abatement,
credit, refund and interest was the certificate of overassessment which accompanied the check for the payment
due him, if any. If there were no payment-due him he
received a certificate of overassessment with the amount
of the credit which had been allowed him noted upon it.
It is true that this certificate of overassessment stated that
credit would be given, refund would be made, etc., whereas
the credit had already been giveli and the refund check
accompanied the certificate when it reached the taxpayer,
but we do not think this affects the question of the date
of allowance.
One of three dates may possibly be considered the date
of the allowance of the credit,-that on which the Commissioner forwarded the schedule of overassessments to
the Collector, that on which, the Collector finished his
calculations and entered the amount of the credit in the
taxpayer's -account, or that on which the Commissioner
approved the schedule of credits and refunds. The petitioner insists upon the first and the respondent upon the
last as the date of allowance of the credit; alternatively

'A17A

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S,

the United States says that if the first be not the date
of the allowance the intermediate one is.
In Girard,Trust Company v. United -States,270 U. S.
163, this court, after adverting' to the above mentioned
procedure, said [p. 170i..
"We can not concur, however, in the'view of the'Treasury Department that the date of the alloWance of theclaim as intended by the statute is the date when the
Commissioner first decides that there has been an overassessment and sends upon a proper form his decision to
the Collector of Internal Revenue, who made the collection ajid keeps-the account with the taxpayer...
'
In the same case it was also said [p. 170]:
"The Commissioner of Internal Revenue is the final
judge in the adminitrative branch of the Government to
decide that aii overassessment has been made and. that a
refund or redit should be granted, and when he'has made.
that decision finally, he"has allowed the claim for, the
refund or credit of the taxes-paid within-the ineaning of
the section-.'
It is conceded that the quoted language applies to the
present case, but petitioner points out that it was used in
-a case in -vhich only the date of allowance of a refund was
involved. It is urged that as respects the allowance of a
credit it was dictum; that conceding its correctness with
respect to the date of allowance of a refund, different considerations apply with respect to a credit. The petitioner
argues that as was stated in the Girard Trust Companycase the last- significant act. done by the Commissioner is
to authorize the refund, that being in fact made by the
drawing of a check-by gclerk and the maling of a check
by the Collector, whereas in the Case of a credit the last
act of authorization is the forwarding of the schedule of
overassessnents t6 the Collector, who then does the mere
ministerial act of making the necessary calculations and
ascertaining and entering the proper amount of the credit

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
468

Opinion of the Court.

on hi. books and on the schedule of refunds and credits
which is to be returned to the Commissioner. It insists'
that when the schedule of refunds and credits is returned
to the Commissioner he does authorize the drawing of
checks for-refunds, but does nothing whatever with respect,
to the credits shown on the schedule, merely filing it for
rqference. There is evidence, however, that the subord.ates of the Commissioner check the calculations shown
oA t~xe schedules when they are returned to the Bureau;
that the Deputy Commissioner certifies the correctness
of the schedule to the Commissioner; and that the official
recori of the credit is the schedule approved by the Commissioner and filed in his oce. Moreover, the'final act
so far as th4 taxpayer is concerhied is the .eceipt fromthe
Collector o the oertificat showing how the overassessment has b eA applied.
When he executes the schedule of overassessments the
Commissioner has no knQWledge as to what the Collector's
account with the taxpayer shows. He does not know
whether the overassessment will be entirely. used up in
abatements, or whether, if an overpayment is shown, it
will have to be apportioned partly as a credit and partly
as a refund. It is true that the Commissioner's directions to the Collector are that the latter shall examine the
accounts-and make the proper allocations, and it is true
that theCollector's action in so doing is ministerial. But
after that clerical work is performed the practice requires
the return to the Commissioner of a statement or schedule of the allocations, the approval of that schedule by
him, and the mailing of the certificate of overassessment,
executed on his behalf, to the taxpayer. There is nothing
' in the record to indicate that the Commissioner might not
Qrder corrections to be made in -the accounts of the taxpayer prior to the m3ailing of this certificate. The proofs
do not disclose that he has not in practice done so.' As
the 'sole discretion and authority to allow a credit rests
.

I'
,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

with the Commissioner, we think that, in the light of the
procedure above outlined, his approval of the schedule of
credits and refunds must be taken to be the final exercise
of that discretion and the allowance of the credit. This
construction of the act brings about uniformity in administration, as it makes the allowance of credits and
refunds simultaneous.
It results that even though the second claim for refund
filed by the respondent be treated not as an amendment.
of its original claim of 1923, but as a new and independent
claim, it was filed within four.years of the payment of the
tax, since that payment must be taken to have occurred
on the date of the allowance of the credit by the Commissioner's signature approving the schedule of refunds and
credits. Such approval was given as respects the credit
to respondent on September 6, 1923, which was within
four years of the date of the filing of the second claim
The views herein -expressed make it unnecessary to
decide whether the later claim may propery be considered an amendment of the original claim for refund.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. BOSTON BUICK COMPANY.
SAME v. IRON CAP COPPER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE. CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Nos. 42 and 43.- Argued January 8, 9, 1931-Decided February 2,

1931.
1. Interest on a credit allowed a taxpayer because of overpayment
of income and excess profits taxes must be computed accordingto
the statutory provision for interest in force at the time of such
- allowance. P. 478.
2. The allowance of credits in these cases was the Commissioner's
approval of the schedule of refunds and credits which had been

