RAILROAD COMMISSION v. MAXCY.
241

249

Syllabus.

their finding has such support in the evidence that it
should not be disturbed.
Upon applying the settled rules before stated to the
case presented, we are of opinion that the appellant has
not shown that the tax imposed under the sanction of the
state statutes is either palpably arbitrary or unreasonably
discriminatory. It was imposed for what obviously is a
public purpose. It was a general tax and admissibly was
spread over all the taxable property in the district according to the value thereof as fixed by the assessment for
state and county taxes. The appellant was afforded ample
opportunity by the state law to be heard on that assessment and- to have it corrected if erroneous or unfair, and
is not challenging it now. The chief complaint made here
is that the imposition of the tax on an ad valorem basis
was "inherently invalid " under the due process and equal
protection clauses. That complaint is not tenable, as is
shown in several cases before cited. And, as the tax was
general and ad valorem, its validity, as was held in St.
Louis & Southwestern By. Co. v. Nattin,supra,"does not
depend, upon the receipt of any special benefit by the
taxpayer."
Judgment affirmed.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN
MAXCY, RECEIVER, ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 464: Argued November 24, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.

Decree of the District Court enjoining enforcement of an order of,a
state commission fixing rates of a water company, affirmed, in the
absence of any adequate reason in the record for disapproving findings that the commission's estimates of the company's property and
,expenses were too low and that its order would cause confiscation.
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

APprFk from a decree enjoining enforcement of an
order denying an increase of water-rates.
Mr. Suel 0. Arnold, with whom Mr.John W. Reynolds,Attorney General of Wisconsin, was on the brief, for'
appellants.
. Mr. Robert M. Rieser, with whom Messrs. H. L.'Butler,
H. H. Thomas, B. H, Stebbins, and R. M. Stroud were on
the brief, for appelees.
MR. JusTICE MCREYNvoiPs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Maxcy, Receiver of the Washburn Water Works Com-'
pany, by an original bill filed in the United States District
Court, Western District of Wisconsin, January 2, 1929,
sought to prevent enforcement of an order by the Wisconsin.Railroad Commission'dated December 4,4928, which
denied application of that Company for permission to
make a general increase in water rates.
After answer the causd was heard, by stipulation, on
the pleadings and affidavits. Without opinion or findings
the court entered a decree April 5, 1929, enjoining enforcement of the challenged order, as prayed by the bill.
Upon appeal here 'that decree was set aside and the cause
remanded with directions to make findings of fact and
conclusions of law and enter a decree thereon. - Railroad
Commission v. Maxcy, 281 U. S. 82.
Obeying our mandate the court below made proper
findings; and eiitered a final decree July 5, 1930. The
Spresent appeal followed.
The Railroad Commission appraised the property of
the Water Works Company for rate making purposes at
$75,000.00. It estimated the probable future annual
operating -income as $17,720.00, operating expenses
$12,868.32, net annual return $4,852.82. And it said this

, O'GORMAN & YOUNG v. HARTF'D INS. CO. 251
249

Syllabus.

would' yield something less than 7% on the approved
valuation of the property devoted to public use.
Having again heard the cause upon pleadings and
affidavits the court held that the valuation placed upon
the property by the Railroad Commission was too low.
and contrary to the evidence; also that the Commission's
estimate of operating expenses was too low and contrary
to the evidence; and further that the Commission's order
if enforced would cause confiscation. Accordingly, it entered a final decree restraining the defendants from taking
any steps to enforce the order.
After examining the findings and conclusioni and the
record upon which they axe based, we can find no adequate
reason for disapproving the result reached by the court
below.- Its decree will be affirmed.
The facts are peculiar; the applicable principles of law
have been stated in former opinions here. To enter upon
a detailed discussion of them at this time-vould serve no
useful purpose.
• Affirmed.

O'GORMAN AM) YOUNG, INCORPORATED, v.
HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
SAME v. PHOENIX ASSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
APPEALS FROM TBE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

Nos. 12 and 13. 1930.-Decided
Argued April January-5,
30, 1930. Reargued
October 30,
1931.

1. Thq business of insurance is so far affected with a public interest
that the State may regulate the rates, and likewise the relations of
those engaged in the business. P. 257.

