716

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

I

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE

282 U. S.
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 606.

Argued January 21, 1931.--Decided February 24, 1931.

1. The Eighteenth A&mendm-ent was by lawful proposal and ratification made a part of the Constitution. Pp. 730-734.
2. Article V, in its provision that proposed ainiendments shall become part of the Constitution when ratified by the legislatures of
three-fourths of the several States or by conventions in threefourths thereof, "as the one or the other mode of ratification may
be proposed by the Congress," plainly and without ambiguity
places the choice between these two modes in the sole discretion
of Congress, and cannot by construction be read as requiring that
changes detracting from the liberty of the citizen, distinguished
from changes in the character of federal means or machinery,
shall be referred to conventions. P. 730.
3. The Constitution was written to be understood by the voters;
its words and phrases -were used in their normal and ordinary as
distinguished from technical meaning; where the intention is clear
there is no room for construction and no excuse for interpolation
or addition. P. 731.
4. The fact that an instrument drawn with such meticulous care,
and by men who so well understood how to make language fit their
thought, does not contain any phrase limiting the exercise of discretion by the Congress in choosing one or the other alternative
modes of ratification, is persuasive evidence that no qualification
was intended. P. 732.
5. Article V does not purport to delegate any governmental power
to the United States, nor to withhold any from it; it is a grant of
authority by the people to Congress, and not to the United States;
Congress functions as the delegated agent of the people in choosing
the one or the other method of ratifying proposed amendments to
the Constitution. P. 733.
6. The Tenth Amendment added nothing to the Constitution as originally ratified, and lends no support to the contention that the
people did not delegate this power to Congress in matters affecting
their own personal liberty. P. 733.
7. The fact that several of the other Amendments (notably the
Thirteenth, Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Sixteenth, and Nineteenth),

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Argument for the United States.

which touch rights of the citizens, were ratified by state legislatures,
weighs against the argument that that mode was erroneously followed in the case of the Eighteenth Amendment. P. 734.
44 F. (2d) 967, reversed.

APPEAL, under the Criminal Appeals Act, from a judgment quasliing an indictment based on the National Prohibition Act.
Sotwitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist and Messrs. Robert P. Reeder,
John J. Byrne, Mahlon D. Kiefer, and Erwin N. Griswold
were on the brief, for the United States.
The language of Article V is clear and free from ambiguity; there is no room for the construction adopted by
the court below. The words of the Constitution are to be.
taken in their obvious sense, and to have a reasonable construction. Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 158
U. S. 601, 618-619; Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S.
662, 670. This Court has said; "The language of the
article is plain, and admits of no doubt in its interpretation." Hawke v. Smith, No. 1, 253 U. S. 221, 226. See
Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331, 348. Furthermore, substantially the present argument was presented in the National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350, where it was held
that the Eighteenth Amendment, "by lawful proposal
and ratification, has become a part of the Constitution."
And see Hawke v. Smith, No. 2, 253 U. S. 231; Dillon v.
Gloss, 256 U. S. 368.
The precise question whether the Eighteenth Amendment is void because not ratified by conventions in the
States, was presented in the National Prohibition Cases
in the brief on behalf of the State of New Jersey, the brief
of Rhode Island, and certain briefs of amici curiae; also,
the bill of complaint of New Jersey.
While differing in form, the arguments made in the National Prohibition Cases and those made here all rest on

718

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for the United States.

282 U.S.

the proposition that the character of the proposed amendment determines the mode of ratification, and are alike
disposed of by the holding in those cases that the Eighteenth Amendment was lawfully proposed and ratified.
The Articles of Confederation proposed by the Continental Congress were submitted to and ratified by the
legislatures and not by conventions in the States (Journals -of Continental. Congress IX, 907, 932), .and these
Articles could only be amended in the same manner (Article XIII). In several of the States, constitutions had
been adopted by the legislatures without submission to
the people. This was true in South Carolina, Vermont,
and Virginia., Thorpe, Constitutions & Charters, VI,
3241, 3248, 3737, 3749; VII, 3812; Pulliam, The Constitutional Conventions of Virginia, 13.; Nevins, The American States During and After the Revolution, 128. In
Massachusetts and in New Hampshire, constitutions had
-been submitted to. town meetings for ratification.
Nevins, supra, 183; S.E. Morrison, Massachusetts Constitution of 1780, Proceedings of Massachusetts Historical Society for 1917, p. 400. In no other State prior to
1789 had a constitution been submitted to popular votb.
Nevins, supra, 18, 129. In five of the States the constitutions provided for amendment by, conventions (Pennsylvania, Vermont, Georgia, Massachusetts, and New
Hampshire); four had no provisions for amendment
(New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, and Virginia),
and three provided for amendment by legislative action
(Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina).
The debates in the Federal Constitutional Convention
show that the methods for ratification and for amendment
of the Constitution were carefully distinguished. 'Rati;
fication as provided in Article VII was to be by state conventions, but it was left for Congress to determine
whether amendments proposed should be ratified by
state legislatures or state conventions. And see No. 85,

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Argument for Appellees.

The Federalist; Remarks of Gerry in the First Congress,
1 Annals of Congress. 716.
An argument of great weight is found in the practical
construction of Article V by Congress since the adoption
of the Constitution. Nineteen Amendments to the Constitution have been adopted; and at least five additional
Amendments have been proposed by Congress. All of
these were referred to the legislatures and not to conventions. Of the Amendments, certainly the Thirteenth,
and apparently the Sixteenth and Nineteenth, operated
to grant powers to the Federal Government which had
formerly been reserved -to the States. The proposed
Child Labor Amendment was of the same type. The
Fourteenth Amendment imposed serious restraints upon
the powers expressly reserved under the Tenth Amendment. We are not aware that the action of Congress in
proposing the legislative mode of ratification has ever
been challenged except in the case of the Eighteenth
Amendment.
Messrs. Julius Henry Cohen and Selden Bacon, with
whom Messrs. Frederic M. P. Pearse, Daniel F. Cohalan,
Kenneth E. Dayton, Leslie J. Tompkins, George H. Williams, and BurtonA. Zorn were on the brief, for appellees.
The meaning of any part of the Constitution is to be
determined by the purpose and intent of those who framed
and adopted it and in the light of the instrument as a
whole. The real intent of the provisions of the Constitution, when ascertained, controls over the literal sense
of the words and the terms employed. Juilliardv. Green'man, 110 U. S.421, 439; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall.
457; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 188, 189; Prigg v.
Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 610, 611; Rhode Island v.
il'assachusetts,12 Pet. 657, 721. In many instances the
literal wording has been disregarded. Popovici v. Agler,
280 U. S.379, 383; Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S.503,

OCTOBER TEAM, 1930.
Argument for Appellees.

282 U. S.

517-518; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 127; Ex parte
Grossman, 267 U. S. 87, 108-109; Ex parte Wells, 18 How.
307, 311; Dillon v. Gloss, 256 U. S. 368, 371; Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 658; South Carolinav. United
States, 199 U. S. 437, 451.
The provision in Article V for ratification by legislatures or conventions "as the one or the other mode of
ratification may be proposed by the Congress ". is no more
to be construed literally than these other provisions of
the Constitution, if it appears clearly that such a literal
construction is inconsistent with the declarations, purpose
and intention of those who framed and adopted the Constitution, and with the fundamental theory and structure
of our Government, and the general aim and purpose of
the instrument declared in the Preamble.
It is a fundamental concept of our system that all
sovereignty ultimately resides inthe people and that the
United States*in ifs existing form could have been created
only by consent of the people and not by action of the
States in their corporate capacities. The ultimate sovereignty in every State lies also in the people. McCulloch
v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 402, 405 (see also Argument
of Pinckney, ibid. 377); Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1
Wheat. 304, 324, 325; Barronv. Baltimore,7 Pet. 242, 247,
249-250; Keith v. Clark, 97 U. S. 454, 475-476; in the
Constitutional Convention, 5 Elliot's Deb., 199, 352-356;
"1 Farrand, 122-123, 126-127; The Federalist, XXXIX,
XLIII, XLIX; state conventions, 2 Elliot, 457-458; 4 id.,
328; First Congress, 3 Farrand, 374. Such powers as
those purported to be conferred upon the United States
by the Eighteenth Amendment could, in the original Constitution, have been granted only by the people *themselves acting through conventions. The States and their
legislatures would not have been competent to make such
a grant.

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Argument for Appellees.

When it was desired to form a true nation, distinguished
from a Confederation or League, what grants or provisions had to be included for the creation of that nation,
and whence were these elements to be derived?
(1) There must be a framework of the new government, a machinery through which the powers to be given
to it would function. Its creation was within the power
of the States, and of the legislatures as their representatives. It was precisely what they had done in the formation of the Confederation.
(2) It was necessary to surrender to the new government certain rights which belonged to the States, as such.
These are illustrated by the provisions of Article IV of the
Articles of Confederation, e. g., the agreement that the
inhabitants of each State should be entitled to all the
privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States,

etc.
'(3) In order that it might become an indissoluble
Union and a nation, it was necessary that the assent of
the people of the States be secured. They alone were
competent to transform the federation into a nation, and
they alone, in their several States, had the -powerto bind
future legislatures so that they could not undo the bond.
Thereafter the States and legislatures would themselves
"1e competent to ratify amendments, which affected
merely the framework or machinery of governnent (and
not its powers), or surrendered the rights of the States as
such.
(4) It was essential that the new national government
should have power to operate directly upon the people
themselves and upon their rights and property. The Confederation did not possess this power. The legislatures
were not competent to grant to a new nation the right for
example, to levy taxes directly upon their inhabitants.
22110°---31----46

722

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellees.

282 U. S.

The same lack of power ran through the entire Confederation. To procure these direct powers over the people it
was necessary to go to the people themselves.
The purported grant of ppwer contained in the Eighteenth Amendment is of this class.
(5) There is a fifth class of provisions made necessary
by reason of this grant of direct governmental power over
the people-those which safeguard the people from usurpation and tyranny by the new national government after
the grant to it of direct power over them. As a result
of this fear the first ten amendments-the "Bill of
Rights "--were demanded and adopted. Provisions of
this kind could be adopted by legislatures. There were
in them no grants of power over the people.
It must be evident that, unless there were express provision to the contrary, the residuum of powers remained
with those who originally possessed them, States or the
people, as the case may be. If no provision for amendment were made in the Constitution, conferring upon the
States or legislatures the future right to grant powers
over the people, then for new powers over the people the'
national government must resort again to the people
themselves.
Legislatures and conventions were not equally representative of the people. The legislatures represented the
States alone; -the conventions represented the people, and,
indeed, for the purpose of ratification were the people.
There was a profound distrust of legislatures, a consistent
assertion that they were not competent to bind the people,
and an unwillingness to trust the people's right to their
action. Chief Justice Hughes, New York State Bar Association Bulletin, October, 1930, p. 433; Jameson, The
Constitutional Convention, pp. 11-13; Ford, Essays on the
Constitution, 139-140; Letters of a Landholder, I; 5 Elliot's Deb., 161, 163, 352-356, 364; 1 Farrand, pp. 122, 123,
126-127, 317, 325, 326; The Federalist, No. XXXIX, No.
XLIII, No. XLIX.

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Argument for Appellees.

The face of the convention record itself shows that the
final form of Article V was never intended so to be read
as to make the legislatures competent to grant to the
United States new and direct powers of government over
the people or their rights, or to enable Congress to choose
the legislatures as agents for that purpose.
To ascertain the true significance of Article V the debates on the provision for amendment must be read in
their entirety, and, furthermore, they must be read in
connection with the debates on the provision for ratification of the Constitution itself, because these two discussions ran side by side throughout the convention, and the
principles which control one are very pertinent to the
meaning of the other. 5 Elliot's Deb., pp. 126-132, 157158, 182-183, 189-190, 195, 199, 352-356, 374-376, 376381, 498, 499-502, 530-534, 541, 551-553.
To those who framed the Constitution, the rights of the
States as such and the rights of the people were two distinct and different things. Throughout 'their debates
they had two objects foremost in their minds. First, to
create an effective nat ional government, which should
avoid the weaknesses of the Confederation, and secondly,
to.protect the people and their rights from usurpation and
tyranny by government. States' fights and people's
rights were to be kept separate and distinct. And yet,
Article V, construed literally, might lead-to the result that
the safeguards and the protection theretofore afforded. to
the people .and their individual rights and liberties..were
placed forever beyond their cohtrol and within the domination of the legislatures of the States, whom they distrusted, and against which they so carefully guarded
themselves.
If the Article be read in the light of the proceedings of
the convention as a whole, its reasonable meaning cannot
be doubted-that .it provided alternative forms indeed,
but alternatives to be used each in its proper sphere,
well understood and well defined, which Congress was to

724

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellees.

282 U. S.

select, not as a matter of discretion, but purely as a ministerial or administrative act.
The view that Article V was never intended to enable
legislatures to delegate to the United States new direct
powers of government over the people is confirmed by
reference to, and indeed is the only view consistent with,
the Preamble and the general spirit and purpose of the
instrument. And that view was publicly urged in order
to secure adoption of the Constitution. 3 Farrand, p.
374; 5 Elliot's Deb., 127, 162, 355, et passim.
The great Federalist leaders had no conception that
they had, by the particular language of Article V placed
all individual constitutional rights, guarded in almost
every State from any interference by the state legislatures, at the mercy of the legislatures of other States.
They asserted that these rights were fully guarded by the
facts that the new government would have only specifically delegated powers, and that the people were the recognized source from which alone further powers over themselves and their rights could come. 2 Elliot's Deb., pp.
434-435, 436, 443-444, 453-455, 456-458, 478-479, 497-'
498, 502, 523; id. p. 230; The Federalist, LXXXIV; 2
Elliot's Deb., pp. 78, 87-88, 93, 141, 162; 1 Annals of
Cong. 433, 438-439, 706, 746; id. pp. 732-733, 758-759; id.
766; id. 88, The Federalist, XXXI; 1 Works of Hamilton,
pp. 500-501.
The reservation in the Tenth Amendment eliminates
any possibility of power of the legislatures to adopt
amendments granting to the national government any
additional powers over the people.
The whole great struggle over the adoption of the Constitution (save only in Rhode Island, and, questionably,
in New York) was not over whether a national government, a more perfect union, should be created; but over
whether the Constitution as proposed should be adopted

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Argument for Appellees.

without being first amended so as to provide expressly
that the new government should have no power to acquire additional powers over the people or their rights
beyond those expressly conferred on it by the original instrument, without express consent of the people. It was
only by public promises that such amendments would be
made that adoption by the people of the requisite nine
States was secured.
Although it was generally then assumed that the power
of amendment was limited by the terms of the Preamble,
the importance of express limitation of the power of
amendment, so that no other construction could ever be
placed on it, was specifically asserted.
The first ten amendments were adopted for the express
purpose of safeguarding the people forever in- these respects. They must be construed accordingly. Barron v.
Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 250; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 431; Winthrop, Letter of Agrippa, Feb. 5,
1788; Ford, Essays on the Constitution, p. 122; Cf. 2
Farrand, 630.
If there were such unlimited powers in a few legislatures they could override every one of the reserved
rights covered by the first ten amendments; they could
change the government of limited powers into one of unlimited powers; they could declare themselves hereditary
rulers; they could abolish religious freedom; they could
abolish free speech and even the right of the people to
petition for redress; they could not only abolish trial by
jury, but even the right to a day in court.
None of us believes that any such absolute powers lawfully exist in any little band of legislators exercising federal functions. Somewhere in this great charter of liberty, there is something, overlooked in these recent days,
even by this Court, which stands in the way of any such
despotic powers. Where and what is that provision?

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellees.

282 U. S.

The principle that such restraints existed somewhere
in the instrument was declared by Chief Justice Marshall
in Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 176.
The whole literature of the period of the adoption of
the Constitution and the first ten amendments is one
great testimony to the insistence that the Constitution
must be so amended as to safeguard unquestionably the
rights and freedom of the people so as to secure from
any future interference by the new government, or any
extension of, its powers, matters the people had not
already given into its control, unless by their own consent.
Long afterwards, in Ex parte Milligan,4 Wall. 2, 120, their
attitude was summed up by this Court. Cf. First Message of President Washington, 1 Mess. and Papers, Richardson, 1896, 53; 1 Benton's Abr. 47; id. 13; Virginia
Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 269, 332.
The phraseology of the Tenth Amendment was deliberately altered by Congress before its submission so as
expressly to.prevent any possible power of legislatures to
adopt amendments granting any added powers over the
people and their rights, which added powers lay only in
the gift of the people. Carroll's alteration of the original
draft of the Tenth Amendment asserted the supreme
powers of the people as distinguished from those of the
States. Roger Sherman's correction pointed the Tenth
Amendment directly at the amending powers granted by
the Fifth Article. The reservation "to the people" did
not mean acting by votes of the legislatures, but meant
acting in and through constitutional conventions chosen
for the purpose. For over a century this idea permeated
the decisions of this Court and the declarations of our
greatest constitutional lawyers. 2 Cong. Reg. 167, 421; 1
Ann. of Cong. 768; id. 708-715; Letter of Agrippa. to the
Massachusetts Convention" of February 5, 1788; Ford,
Essays on the Constitution, p. 122.

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Argument for Appellees.

Had unlimited power of amendment been delegated "to
the United States," all the limitations on the national
power, whether express or implied, would have been
meaningless. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 176.
If the Tenth Amendment did not reserve to the people
the sole power to adopt amendments enlarging the powers
of the Federal Government over themselves and their
rights, what powers were thereby reserved to the people?
Their power, their one life-giving part in the government,
was the power to fix, delimit and confer the powers delegated to the new government, If that power was not reserved to them, nothing was "reserved to the people."
All the characteristic rights of freemen, subject only to
the power of amendment, were, but for this power of
amendment, safeguarded by the first nine amendments.
That subject of rights had been exhausted, and so the
Tenth Amendment drops the subject of rights and deals
expressly and solely with powers, and, by Roger Sherman's correction, specifically with the power of amendment. This provision that only the people can surrender
their rights or grant further powers over themselves, is
the vital clause that makes this a government by the
people.
That the amendments were adopted to put an end to
the possibility of encroachments by the,general government, and to prevent any exercise of governmental functions in a manner dangerous to liberty, Marshall declared
in Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 250. And this was
long afterwards reiterated in Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2,
119-120. These declarations of the Supreme Court reach
their culmination in Turner v. Williams, 194 U. S. 279,
295; and Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 89-90.
The provisions of Article V did not declare that the legislatures would be agents or representatives of the people
in voting on amendments. The people, if called on to act,

728

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellees.

282 U. S.

would act in conventions. The method of adoption by
legislatures was an alternative method of adoption without
referring the amendment to the people. This was the
understanding at the time and was expressly declared in
connection with the reservation "to the people" made by
the Tenth Amendment. Leser v. Gdrnett, 258 U. S. 130,
failed to note the reservation to the people by the 10th
Amendment, and naturally so, since the Court was there
dealing with powers lying in the gift of the States.
In this case of the Eighteenth Amendment, especially,
the legislatures could not claim to act in behalf of or as
representatives of the people, because it was expressly
proposed " to the States," and not to the people. It is
the only amendment of which this is true.
The rulings in Hawke v. Smith, No. 1, 253 U. S. 221,
and Leser v. Garnett, 258 U. S. 130, are inconsistent with
any theory that the legislatures, in voting on constitutional amendments, are acting as representatives of the
people.
Where an amendment is expressly proposed to the
States for adoption, and the people of the States are not'
permitted any possible voice or control in the matter of
adoption by their legislature, it is a misuse of terms to
say that the people have adopted the amendment, or that
the people have, through a legislature over which they
are permitted no control, exercised their own reserved
power to grant added governing powers over themselves.
No other amendment to the Constitution has involved
the question here presented, nor will the validity of any
of the other amendments be impaired by an affirmance in
this case.
The question of power now presented has not been
argued to or considered by this Court. It has been'passed
sub silentio in all previouscases dealing with -the Eighteenth Amendment. And they do not conclude this ques-

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Opinion of the Court.

tion. Distinguishing: Hawke v. Smith, No. 1, 253 U. S.
221; National Prohibition.Cases, 253 U. S. 350; Dillon v.
Gloss, 256 U. S. 368.
By special leave of Court, briefs were filed by Mr.
Eliot Tuckerman, Mr. Wiliizm H. Crichton-Clarke, and
Mr. JeremiahM. Evarts, as amici curiae.
MR. JusTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The United States prosecutes this appeal from an oider
of the District Court (U. S. C., Tit. 18, § 682; Tit. 23,
§ 345) quashing an indictment which charged appellees
with unlawful transportation and possession of intoxicating liquors in violation of § 3 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act (U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 12).
That court held that the Eighteenth Amendment by
authority of which the statute was enacted has not been
ratified so as to become part of the Constitution.
The appellees contended in the court below, and here,
that notwithstanding the plain language of Article V,
conferring upon the Congress the choice of method of
ratification, as between action by legislatures and by
conventions, this Amendment could only be ratified by
the latter.
They say that it was the intent of its framers, and the
Constitution must, therefore, be taken impliedly to require, that proposed amendments conferring on the United
States new direct powers over individuals shall be ratified in conventions; and that the Eighteenth is of this
character. They reach this conclusion from the fact that
the framers thought that ratification of the Constitution
must be by the people in convention assembled and not
by legislatures, as the latter were incompetent to surrender the personal liberties of the people to the new na-

730

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U1. S.

tional government. From this and other considerations,
hereinafter noticed, they ask us to hold that Article V
means something different from what it plainly says.
In addition they urge, that if there be any doubt as to
the correctness of their construction of Article V, the
Tenth Amendment removes it.
The District Court refused to follow this reasoning.
It quashed the indictment, not as a result of analysis of
Article V and Amendment X, but by resorting to "political science," the "political thought" of the times, and a
"scientific approach to the. problem of government."
These, it thought, compelled it to declare the convention
method requisite for ratification of an amendment such
as the Eighteenth. The appellees do not attempt to justify the lower court's action by the reasons it states, but
by resubmitting to us those urged upon that court and by
it rejected.
The United States asserts that Article V is clear in
statement and in meaning, contains no ambiguity, and
calls for no resort to rules of construction. A mere reading demonstrates that this is true. It provides two methods for proposing amendments. Congress may propose
them by a vote of two-thirds of both houses; or, on the
application of the legislatures of two-thirds of the States,
must call a convention to propose them. Amendments
proposed in either way become a part of the Constitution,
"when rafified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the
several States or by conventions in three-fourths thereof,
as the one or the other mode of ratificationmay be pro"
posed by the Congress. ...
The choice, therefore, of the mode of ratification, lies
in the sole discretion of Congress. Appellees, however,
point out that amendments may be of different kinds,
as, e. g., mere changes in the character of federal means
or machinery, on the one hand, and matters affecting the
liberty of the citizen on the other. They say that the

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Opinion of the Court.

framers of the Constitution expected the former sort
might be ratified by legislatures, since the States as
entities would be wholly competent to agree to such alterations, whdreas they-intended that the latter must be
referred to the people because not only of lack of power
in the legislatures to ratify, but also because of doubt
as to their truly representing the people. Counsel advert
to the debates in the convention which had-to do with the
submission of the draft of the Constitution to the legislatures or to conventions, and show thait the latter procedure was ovewhelmingly adopted. They refer' to
many expressions in contemporary political literature
and in the opinions of this court to the effect that the
Constitution derives its sanctions from the people and
from the people alone. In spite of the lack of substantial evidence as to the reasons for the changes in statement of Article V from its proposal until it took final
form in the finished draft, they seek to import into the
language of the Article dealing with amendments, the
views of the convention with respect to the proper method
of ratification of the instrument as a whole. They say
that if the legislatures were considered incompetent to
surrender the people's liberties when the ratification of
the Constitution itself was involved, a fortiori they are
incompetent now to make a further grant. Thus, however clear the phraseology of Article Y, they urge we
ought to insert into it a limitation on the discretion conferred on the Congress, so that it will read, "as the one or
the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the
Congress, as may be appropriate in view of the purpose
of the proposed amendment." This can not be done.
The Constitution was written to be understood by the
voters; its words and phrases were used in their normal
and ordinary as distinguished from technical meaning;
where the intention is clear there is no room for construction and no excuse for interpolation or addition. Martin

732

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Craig v.
Missouri, 4 Pet. 410; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 TJ. S.
139; Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662; Hodges v.
United States, 203 U. S. 1; Edwards v. Cuba R. Co., 268
U. S. 628; The Pocket Veto Case, 279 U. S. 655; Story on
the Constitution (5th ed.) § 451; Cooley's Constitutional
Limitations (2nd ed.), pp. 61; 70.
If the framers of the instrument had any thought that
amendments differing in purpose should be ratified in
different ways, nothing would have been simpler than so
to phrase Article V as to exclude implication or speculation. The fact that an instrument drawn with such meticulous care and by men who so well understood how to
make language fit their thought does not contain any such
limiting phrase affecting the exercise of discretion by the
Congress in choosing one or the other alternative mode of
ratification is persuasive evidence that no qualification
was intended.
This Court has repeatedly and consistently declared
that the choice of mode rests solely in the discretion of
Congress. Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331, 348; Hawke
v. Smith (No. 1), 253 U. S.221; Dillon v. Gloss, 256 U. S.
368; National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S.350. Appellees urge that what was said on the subject in the first
three cases cited is dictum. And they argue that
although in the last mentioned it was said the "Amendment by lawful proposal and ratification,has become part
of the Constitution," the proposition they now present
was not before the Court. While the language used in
the earlier cases was not in the strict sense necessary to
a decision, it is evident that Article V was carefully examined and that the CourVs statements with respect to
the power of Congress in prpposing the mode of ratifi-

UNITED STATES v. SPRAGUE.
716

Opinion of the Court.

cation were not idly or lightly made. In the National
Prohibition Cases, as shown by the briefs, the contentions now argued were made-the only difference between
the presentation there and here being one of form rather
than of substance.
The Tenth Amendment provides:
"The powers not delegated to the United States by
the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are
reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."
Appellees assert this language demonstrates that the
people reserved to themselves powers over their own personal liberty, and that the legislatures are not competent
to enlarge the powers of the federal government in that
behalf. They deduce from this that the people never
delegated to the Congress the unrestricted power of choosing the mode of ratification of a proposed amendment.
But the argument is a complete non sequitur. The Fifth
Article does not purport to delegate any governmental
power to the United States, nor to withhold any from it.
On the contrary, as pointed out in Hawke v. Smith (No.
1), supla, that Article is a grant of authority by the people to Congress, and not to the United States. It was
submitted as part of the original draft of the Constitution to the people in conventions assembled. They deliberately, made the grant of power to Congress in respect
to the choice of the mode of ratification of amendments.
Unless and until that Article be changed by amendment,
Congress must function as the delegated agent of the
people in the choice of the method of ratification.
The Tenth Amendment was intended to confirm the
understanding of the people at the time the Constitution
was adopted, that powers not granted to the United States
were reserved to the States or to the people. It added
nothing to the instrument as originally ratified and has

•734

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

Syllabus.

282 U.S.

no limited and special operation, as is contended, upon
the people's delegation by Article V of certain functions
to the Congress.
The United States relies upon the fact that every
amendment has been adopted by the method pursued in
respect of the Eighteenth. Appellees reply that all these
save the Eighteenth dealt solely with governmental means
and machinery rather than with the rights of the individual citizen. But we think that several amendments
touch rights of the citizens, notably the Thirteenth,
Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Sixteenth and Nineteenth, and in
view of this, weight is to be given to the fact that these
were adopted by the method now attacked. The Pocket
Veto Case, supra.
For these reasQns we reiterate what was said in the
National ProhibitionCases, supra, that the "Amendment
by lawful proposal and ratification, has become a part of
the Constitution."
The order of the court below is
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
ISAACS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF THE
ESTATE OF HENRIETTA E. CUNNINGHAM,
BANKRUPT, v. HOBBS TIE & TIMBER COMPANY.
'
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGIITH CIRCUIT.

No. 72. Argued January 23, 26, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.,
1. Upon an adjudication of bankruptcy the title to and constructive
possession of land belonging to the bankrupt and situate in another
State vest in the trustee as of the date of the filing of the peti-

