784

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

282 U.S.

ments previously made were not in any event recoverable
by the banks. Considering the reduction in the. extent
of the obligation as to future assessments, we are unable
to say that the statute in this modified form is confiscatory, or other than a reasonable method of liquidating
the guaranty plan. In this view, the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State denying an injunction should
be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
SMITH, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. MAGIC CITY KENNEL CLUB, INCORPORATED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 77. Argued January 28, 1931.--Decided February 25, 1931.
1, Patent No. 1,379,224 (Claims 1 and 2), granted to Owen P. Smith,

for improvementi in devices for dog races, which calls for a lurecarrying arm, attached or hinged to a conveyor car, and equipped
with a wheel at its outer end for ground support, is narrowly
limited and does not cover a rigid horizontal lure-carrying arm
without ground support. P. 787.
2. Where an applicant for a patent to cover a new- combination is
compelled by the rejection of his application by the Patent Office
to narrow his claim by the introduction of a new element, he
cannot, after the issue of the patent, broaden his claim by dropping
that element. P. 789.
3. Where a patentee has narrowed his claim, in order to escape
rejection, he may not, by resort to the doctrine of. equivalents,
give to the claim the larger scope which it might have had without
the amendments which amount to disclaimer. P. 790.
4. Patent No. 1,507,440, to Owen P. Smith, which relates to the
form and supports of a casing used to house the tracks upon which
runs the car conveying the lure-carrying arm in dog races, is held
void for want of novelty and invention. P. 791.
38 F. (2d) 170, affirmed.
CERTIORAkI, 281 U. S. 714, to review a decision which
reversed a decree of the District Court upholding the petitioner's patent in an infringement suit.

SMITH v. MAGIC CITY CLUB.
784

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. E. Howard McCaleb for petitioner.
Mr. Arthur C. Brown for respondents.

MR. CHmF JuSTiCE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This suit was brought in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Oklahoma to
enjoin the infringement of letters patent No. 1,379,224,
May 24, 1921, and No. 1,507,440, September 2, 1924
(and also three other patents not here involved) issued to
Owen P. Smith, the petitioner's intestate, for improvements in devices for dog races. A Special Master was appointed to hear and determine the issues. The Master
reported that each of the patents was valid and infringed.
The District Court approved the report, and entered a
decree for injunction, and for recovery, upon a bond given
under the order of the court, of damages. This decree
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Tenth Circuit. 38 F. (2d) 170. This decision was in
conflict with th't of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit in American-Electric Rabbit Racing Assn. v.
Smith, 26 F. (2d) 1016, affirming, without discussion, the
decree of the District Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, 21 F. (2d) 366, which held patents No.
1,379,224 and No. 1,507,440 to be valid and infringed. In
view of this conflict, this Court granted a writ of certiorari
in the instant case. 281 U. S. 714.
These patents were also before the District Court for
the Southern District of Ohio, in Smith v. Springdale
Amusement Park, where the bill of complaint was dismissed for want of infringement, 39 F. (2d) 92,
and the
decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit, 40 F. (2d) 173; certiorari granted, post,
p. 823.
Patent No. 1,879,224. The claims in suit are numbers
1 and 2, as follows:
22110-31-

O

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

"1. In a dog racing amusement, a race course suited
for dogs, a casing extending around the outer side of the
race course and provided with a longitudinal opening, a
mechanical conveyer including a track extending around
the race course and located within the casing, and a conveyer car mechanicallkr operated upon said track and provided with an arm extending. through the longitudinal
opening of the casing in a projecting position over the
track and adapted to carry a lure, and 'awheel rotatably
mounted on an l supporting the arm at the projecting
end thereof.
"2. In an amusement, the combination of a race course
suited for dogs, a covered rail track adjacent said course
on one side, a conveyor car mechanically operated upon
said track, a horizontally .extending arm hinged to said
car extending midway of said course, a wheel rotatably
mounted near the end of said arm, and resting upon the
ground, a platform supported by said arm and a lure br
quarry mounted upon said platform for attracting the
dogs."
I The prior art shows various contrivances for carrying
an artificial lure around a track in front of racing dogs.'
Hind, 1884 (British, No. 4274) described an inanimate
lure moved by means of a rope traveling along a sunken
trough. Pinard, 1887 (No., 362,396) proposed a lurecarrier dragged upon the ground by a cable winding upon
a drum at the end of the track. Moss, 1896 (British,
No. 9058) showed a device, on the order of an electric
trolley system, with a rail laid on the race. course. Walsh,
1898 (No. 611,876) placed his conveyor car adjacent to
the track and separated from it by a fence, and provided
an arm reaching over the fence and connected with another arm, pliant or stiff, which extended downward to
the lure-carrying mat dragging on the ground. Smith,
1912 (No. 1,038,504) provided an underground track,
within and beneath the race course, and a conveying
mechanism hidden from view and carrying the lure which

SMITH v. MAGIC CITY CLUB.
784

Opinion of the Court.

was visible above the ground. Everett, 1913 (No. 1,052,807) followed Smith, using an underground cable.
Smith, in the combination for which the patent in
suit (No. 1,379,224) was issued, placed his covered rail
track adjacent to the race course, and he connected the
co~perating elements of conveyor car and lure by an arm
horizontally extending over the course. The distinctive
feature of his invention is set forth in claim 1 as "an arm
extehding through the longitudinal opening of the casing
in a projecting position over the track and adapted to
carry a lure, and a wheel rotatably mounted on and supporting the arm at the projecting'end thereof"; and, in
claim 2, as "a horizontally extending arm hinged to said
car extending midway of said course, a wheel rotatably
mounted near the end of said arm, and resting upon the
ground, a platform supported by said arm and a lure or
quarry mounted upon said platform for attracting the
dogs."
The petitioner asserts that, by his apparatus, Smith surmounted the difficulties encountered in the impracticable
devices of the prior art and led to commercial success.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in the instant case, while
finding that there was no infringement, had no doubt that
Smith's device was an improvement over the prior art and
assumed that it was patentable, 38 F. (2d) at p. 171.
We make the same assumption. Smith's improvement,
however, was in a limited field. There was manifestly
no invention .in a combination consisting of a rail track,
with a casing adjacent to the course, a conveyor car, and
an arm projecting over the course and connected with a
mechanical lure carried in advance of racing dogs.
Patentability could be predicated 'of Smith's improvement, only by reason of the distinctive feature of the arm
which he employed.
The differences in the respondents' apparatus, which
are urged as avoiding infringement, are that the respond-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

ents use a rigid horizontal arm; that it is not hinged to the
car; that there is no wheel; and that the arm has no
ground support at its free end; and, further, that the respondents have located their conveyor housing on the inner side of the race course, while claim 1 of the patent
puts the casing on the outer side. We may at once dispose of the latter point, as we find no basis for the conclusion that the invention of the pateiit is limited to a location of the casing on the outer side of the course.
There is no such limitation in claim 2. The important
question is whether the patent covers a rigid horizontal
lure-carrying arm without ground support.
It appears from the file wrapper that in the application, which resulted in patent No. 1,379,224, Smith made,
among others, the following claim:
"3. In an amusement, the combination of a race track
suited for dogs, a covered rail track adjacent said course,
a conveyor car mechanically operated upon said track,
an arm attached to said car extending midway of said
course, a wheel rotatably mounted on said arm and a lure
mounted on said arm."
This claim was rejected on the prior patent to Walsh
(No. 611,786). Another claim (then numbered 4) was
allowed as originally presented, and is claim 2 of the
patent. Smith did not contest the rejection of original
claim 3, above mentioned, but proposed an amendment
which related to the casing. This amendment was rejected "on either Walsh or Moss," the examiner stating
"that Moss is provided with a housing and it would not
be ihvention to provide Walsh with one." Without
further contest, Smith then canceled the rejected claim
3 and substituted what is now claim 1 of the patent.
On comparing the claim as thus allowed and the rejected claim, it appears that the important difference
was that instead of claiming "an arm attached to said
car extending midway of said course,, a wheel rotatably

SMITH v. MAGIC CITY CLUB.
784

789

Opinion of the Court,

mounted on said arm, and a lure mounted on said arm,"
the claim was made to read "an arm extending through
the longitudinal opening of the casing in a projecting
position over the track and adapted to carry a lure, and
a wheel rotatably mounted on and: supporting the arm
at the projecting end thereof."
The petitioner insists that the gist of Smith's invention was "the straight out lure-carrying arm laterally extending and operating exclusively in a substantially horizontal plane." But it will be observed that the rejected
and abandoned claim was the broad one of "an arm attached to said car extending midway of said course," and
that the new claim, as proposed and allowed, did not
specify a horizontal arm alone. The essential difference
in the allowed claim lay in the specification of the wheel
"as supporting the arm at the projecting end thereof."
Claim 2 (original claim 4), which was allowed without
question, specified a horizontal arm hinged to the car and
resting on a wheel. A rigid, horizontal arm, without
hinge or wheel, was not the subject of either claim.
The case, in our opinion, thus calls for the application
of the principle that where an applicant for a patent to
cover a new combination is compelled by the rejection of
his application by the Patent Office to narrow his claim
by the introduction of a new element, he cannot after the
issue of the patent broaden his claim by dropping the
element which he was compelled to include in order to
secure his patent. Shepard v. Carrigan, 116 U. S. 593,
597. As this Court said in I. T. S. Rubber Co. v. Essex
Rubber Co., 272 U. S. 429, 443: "If dissatisfied with the
rejection he should'pursue his remedy by appeal; and
where, in order to get his patent, he accepts one with a
narrower claim, he is bound by it. Shepard v. Carrigan,
s~apra, 597; Hubbell v. United States, 179 U. S. 77, 83.
Whether the examiner was right or wrong in rejecting the
original claim, the court is not to inquire. Hubbell v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

United States, supra, 83. The applicant having limited
his claim by amendment and accepted a patent, brings
himself within the rules that if the claim to a combination be restricted to specified elements, all must be regarded as material, and that limitations imposed by the
inventor, especially such as wdre introduced into an application after it had been persistently rejected, must be
strictly construed against the inventor and looked upon
as disclaimers. Sargent v. Hall Safe & Lock Co., 114
U. S. 63, 86; Shepard v. Carrigan,supra,598; Hubbell v.
United States, supra, 85. The patentee is thereafter
estopped to claim the benefit of his rejected claim or such
a construction of his amended claim as would be equivalent thereto. Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany PaperCo.,
152 U. S. 425, 429."
The petitioner resorts to the doctrine of equivalents, insisting that the rigid horizontal arm of the respondents is
to be treated as the equivalent of the arm of the patent,
and that the limiting specifications of the claims may be
ignored. What has already been said disposes of this contention, for where a patentee has narrowed his claim, .in'
order to escape rejection, he may not "by resort to the
doctrine of equivalents, give to the claim the larger scope
which it might have had without the amendments which
amount to disclaimer." Weber Electric Co. v. Freeman
Electric Co., 256 U. S. 668, 677, 678; L T. S. Rubber Co.
v. Essex Rubber Co.; supra. It should also be observed
that the difference here was both in structure and in mode
of operation and result., Petitioner's witness testified that
Smith "built cars with rigid arms and had.the arms snap
off," and "that is why he went to the wheel and hinge.
It reduces the friction there, I guess you would call it,
crystallizing the arm from the vibration. If the arm was
at the end and no wheel to support it, it would naturally
drag on the track." Respondents' witness testified that
the difference in the arm they used, which does, not in-

SMITH v. MAGIC CITY CLUB.
784

Opinion of the Court.

clude the wheel for supporting the arm, is that when the
arm "has a wheel under the end as it runs over the track,
it doesn't have any vibration"; that vibration makes the

lure "jump up and down" giving it a more lifelike
appearance.
We agree with the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals that infringement of letters patent No. 1,379,224,
was not established.
PatentNo. 1,507,440. This patent is for "Housing forConveyor Cars and Tracks." It relates to the casing element called for by patent No. 1,379,224. The claims as
originally presented were rejected "as indefinite and as
aggregations." Other claims were substituted, which included claim 1 of the patent, as allowed, as follows:
"1. In a housing for covering tracks and cars having
laterally extending arm operated upon said track, the
combination of posts set in the ground at the sides of
said track, timbers attached to said posts to form a frame,
and boards attached to said timbers and posts to form a
continuous enclosure above said track, and having a continuous opening in one side of said housing adapted to
permit extension of the laterally extending arm, therethrough, and truss rods attached to the closed side of thM
housing adapted to support the side of said housing above
the said continuous opening."
All the elements in this claim were old. So far as the
continuous opening "adapted to permit extension of the
laterally extended arm" is concerned, there was anticipation by.Bertram; 1903, No. 729,120, whose housing for a
third or electric rail disclosed a similar method of contact
with an outside track, in providing for a casing (enclosing the electric rail) ."in which is formed a longitudinal
slot or opening." A comparison of claim 1 of the patent
with the other claims which were rejected and canceled,
shows that the distinctive features of the claim allowed
were that the opening was placed "in one side of said

792

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

282 U. S.

housing" and that there was a specification of a particular sort of support, that is, "truss rods attached to the
closed side of the housing." In other claims allowed, the
reference is to "adjustable stay rods."
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, in
the instant case, questioned the patentability of the device and said that if patentability existed at all, it must
depend upon the truss rod support or the adjustable stay
rods, neither of which the respondents use. We agree
with this statement, and we are also of the opinion, as
was the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit,
(Smith v. SpringdaleAmusement Park, supra), that supplying the feature of the truss rods and the adjustable
stay rods did not constitute invention. To provide such
supports would be but a step obvious to any skilled mechanic. Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192, 200;
RailroadSupply Co. v. Elyria Iron & Steel Co., 244 U. S.
285, 292; Powers Kennedy Contracting Corp. v. Concrete
Mixing & C. Co., 282 U. S.175, 186.
Decree affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MALCOLM.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 512. Submitted January 12, 1931.-Decided January 19, 1931.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1928, the entire, community income of
a husband and wife, domiciled in California, need not be returned
and the income tax thereon be paid by the husband.
2. Under ยง 161 (a), California Civil Code, the wife has such an
interest in the community income that she should separately report
and pay the tax dn one-half of it.

The certificate from the court below stated the facts
as follows:
"Robert K. Malcolm and Esther Jarrett Malcolm are
husband and wife and citizens of the United States.

