ALWARD v. JOHNSON.
Syllabus.

508

The statute grants 'recovery of his reasonable and entire
compensation for such use.' We are of opinion that interest should be allowed in order to make the compensation 'entire.' In addition to the purpose of the word,
adverted to in Richmond Screw Anchor Co. v. United
States, 275 U. S. 331, 343, we cannot doubt that it was
intended to accomplish complete justice as between the
plaintiff and the United States. See Seaboard Air Line
Ry. Co. v United States, 261. U. S. 299. Brooks-Scanlon "
Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S. 106. Liggett & Myers
Tobacco Co. v. United States, 274 U. S. 215. Phelps v.
United States, 274 U. S. 341.
Judgment reversed.
ALWARD v. JOHNSON, TREASURER OF
CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 41.

Argued January 8, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.

1. A State, upon reasonable grounds, may classify property and lay an
appropriate tax upon each class. P. 513,
2. A tax on automotive vehicles that are used in operating a stage line
and make constant and unusual use of the highways, may be measured by gross receipts and be assessed at a higher rate than taxes
on property not so employed. So held where the tax was exclusive
of all other taxation of the property, and its proceeds were assigned
to the maintenance of roads. P. 513.
3. The taxpayer was engaged in operating an automotive stage line
between points in California under a mail carrier's contract. The
gross income, for the year in question, was over four times the
market value of the property employed, and considerably more than
half of it came from the mail contract, the rest from freight and
passengers. The line could not have been run profitably without
the mail contract. Under ยง 15, Art. XIII, California Constitution,
the State laid a tax on the property, in lieu of other taxes, equal
to 4 % of the gross receipts. The rate on other property assessed
ad valorem in the vicinity, did not exceed 3%. Hdd: .

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

(1) That the tax is not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.

P. 513.
7(2) It is.not a direct interference with or burden upon the federal
right to transport the mails. P. 514..
208 Cal. 359, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 709, to review a judgment affirming dismissal of the complaint on demurrer, in an action to
recover part of a tax.

Mr. Siineon E. Sheifley, with whom Mr. Burke Corbet
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of California, with
whom Mr. H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General, was
on tile brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MbREYxOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A tax reckoned, as required by the State Constitution,
vpon gross revenues derived from an automotive stage
line operated by him during the year 1926 between fixed
points in California, was assessed against petitioner
Alward. He paid one-half, $1,489.39-the first installment-and then brought suit in the Superior Court of
Sacramento CQunty to recover $1,057.16, the. amount
imposed because of receipts under his contract for carrying the mails. He asked judgment for that amount,
together with costs, further relief, etc.
Section 15, Article XIII, of the California Constitution, adopted November 2, 1926, provides"Taxes levied, assessed and collected as hereinafter
provided upon companies owning, operating or managing any automobile, truck or auto truck, jitney bus, stage
or auto stage used in the business of transportation of
persons or property as a common-carrier for compensation over any public highway in this state between fixed
termini or over a regular route, . . . shall be entirely

ALWARD v. JOHNSON.
509

Opinion of the Court.

and exclusively for highway purposes, and shall be levied,
assessed and collected in the manner hereinafter provided.
The word ' companies,' as used in this section, shall
include persons, partnerships, joint stock associations,
companies and corporations.:
"(a) All such companies engaged in the business of
transportation of f ersons, or persons and baggage, or persons and express, or persons, baggage and express where
the same is transported on the same automobile, jitney
bus, stage or auto stage transporting said persons shall
annually pay to the state a tax upon their franchises,
cars, equipment, and other property, or any part thereof,;
used exclusively in the operation of their business in this
state,' equal to four and one-quarter per cent of the gross
receipts from operations of such companies, and each
thereof, within this state.
"All such companies operating trucks or auto trucks
engaged in the business of transporting property shall
annually pay to the state a tax upon their franchises,
trucks or auto trucks, equipment, and other property,
or any part thereof, used exclusively in the operation of
their business in this state, equal to five per cent of tlae
gross receipts from operations of such companies, and
each thereof, within this state ...
"Such taxes shall be in lieu of all other taxes and
licenses, state, county and municipal, upon the property
above enumerated of such companies; . . ."
Th6 court below declared that the tax prescribed by the
foregoing section of the Constitution is identical in kind
with the one inaugurated earlier, by Section 14, which
applies to railroad, telegraph, telephone, etc., companies.
Under both sections taxes are laid according to gross
receipts.
The complaint alleges in substanceThe plaintiff is engaged in the business of operating an
automhotive -stage line between Redding and Big Bear,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

CaliI., by virtue of a contract entered'into with the Post
Office Department. The mails are carried by motor
vehicles.
The gross income derived from operating the line during 1926 follows: From carriage of passengers, $8,803.31;
from carriage of freight, $9,806.43; from carriage of
United States mail, $42,286.73.
Based upon these receipts, the following tax was assessed for the year 1927: On gross income from passengers,
$374.14; from freight, $490.32; from United States mail,
$2,114.32. He paid one-half of the total sum so assessed-the first installment.
In earning this revenue, plaintiff employed certain
designated automotive property, and no other, the actual
market value of which did not exceed $15,000. This was
devoted .hiefly to carrying the mails and had no i alue
in excess of its actual market value; plaintiff's ability-to
earn more with it than other persons could with the same
amount and character of property arose solely from'-the
fact that he had a contract with the United States Government for' carrying the mails. Without this the stage
line could not be operated profitably.
The a~sessment against the plaintiff is confiscatory,
arbitrary, excessive and does not take into consideration
the actual value of the property involved and was made
without consideration of any element of value except the,
gross earnings. The tax rate on property assessed on an
ad valorem basis in the counties where laintiff operates
did not exceed three per centum. Replacement value
of all property used by him does not exceed $15,000. In
carrying the mails he acted under a contract with the
Post Office Department and was an agency of the United
States not subject to local taxation.'
The assessment, in so far as based upon the revenue
derived from carrying the mails, was unlawful and the

ALWARD v. JOHNSON.
509

513

Opinion of the Court.

portion of the first installment reckoned thereon and paid
by plaintiff was unlawfully exacted.
The trial court sustained a demurrer to the complaint;
its judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court. The
latter held that the tax assessed against the petitioner is
essentially one on property and is neither confiscatory, nor
so arbitrary as to impair any right under th- Federal Constitution. Also that the petitioner did not, through his
contract to carry the mails, become an agency of the Federal Government immune from taxation computed according to gross receipts.
The record discloses no question relative to taxation of
property outside the State or interference with interstate
commerce.
The Supreme Court of the State has declared the tax to
be one upon property. The history, purpose and, effect of
the constitutional provision under consideration have been
pointed out in the opinions of that court. San Francisco
v. Pacific T. & T. Co., 166 Cal. 244; Pacific Gas & Elec.
Co. v. Roberts, 168 Cal. 420; Lake Tahoe Ry. Co. v.
Roberts, 168 Cal. 551. Also by this court in Pullman Co.
v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330, and Hopkins v. Southern
CaliforniaTel. Co., 275 U. S. 393.
The California Constitution divides property within
the State for taxation purposes into several classes and
provides for different burdens upon them. There can be
no'doubt of the general power of a State, where there is
reasonable ground 'therefor, to classify property wholly
within her limits and to lay an appropriate tax upon each
class. Bekins Van Lines v. Riley, 280 U. S. 80, 82. It
is not possible for us to say that the circumstances of the
present cause disclose any arbitrary or unreasonable exertion of such power by the State. The distinction between
property employed in conducting a business which re22110o--31----33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

quires constant and unusual use of the highways, and
property not so employed, is plain enough. Here the tax
laid was exclusive of all other taxation, and the funds
arising therefrom were assigned to the maintenance of
roads, essential to petitioner's operations.
Certainly, petitioner is in no position to complain of an
arbitrary exactment. The prescribed method of 'assessment was permissible, and the mere fact that he was required to pay a higher rate upon property devoted to his
peculiar business than was demanded of property not so
employed is unimportant.
Nor do we think petitioner's property was entitled to
exemption from state taxation because used in connection with the transportation of the mails. There was no
tax upon the' contract for such carriage; the burden laid
upon the property employed affected operations of the
Federal Government only remotely. RailroadCo. v. Pen-.
iston, 18 Wall. 5, 30; Metcalf & Eddy V. Mitchell, 26D
U. S. 514. The facts in PanhandleOil Co. v. Mississippi,
277 U. S. 218, and New JerseyBell Tel. Co.'v. State Board,
280 U. S. 338, were held to establish direct interference
with or burden upon'the exercise of a Federal right. The
principles there applied are not controlling here.
The judgment of the court below must be
~Affrmed.
DENMAN, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ESTATE OF
CHARLES H. NAUTS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SLAYTONT.
CERTIORAntI TO 'TH

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOPR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 60. Argued January 20, 1931.--Decided February 24, 1931.
By Revenue Act of 1921, Title II, ยง 213 (b) (4), in .omputing gross
subincome, interest on obligations of a State or any"'olitical
division thereof is excluded, and by ยง 214 (a) (2) all interest paid

