ALFORD v. UNITED STATES.

687

Syllabus.

ALFORD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 370. Argued January 6, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
1. Cross-examination of a witness is a matter of right. P. G91.
2. Its permissible purposes include the identification of the witness
with his environment and the revelation of facts tending to discredit his testimony. P. 691.
3. The rule that the examiner must indicate the purpose of his inquify
does not, in general, apply to cross-examination. P. 692.
4. The extent of cross-examination with respect to an appropriate
subject of inquiry is within the sound discretion of the trial court.
P. 694.
5. Although it is the duty of the court to protect a witness from
questions which go beyond the bounds of proper cross-examination
merely to harass, annoy or humiliate him, there is no duty to
protect him from being discredited, except when his constitutional
right against self-incrimination is involved and properly invoked.
P. 694.
6. In a criminal prosecution for using the mails to defraud in violation
of § 215 of the Criminal Code, the Government called as a witness
a former employee of the defendant, who testified to uncorroborated
conversations of the defendant of a damaging character. Upon
cross-examination the witness was asked "Where do you live?," and
another question as to his place of residence, but these questions
were excluded on the Government's objection that they were immaterial and not proper cross-examination. Counsel urged as an
additional reason for asking the excluded questions, that he had been
informed that the witness was then in the custody of the federal
,authorities, and that such fact might be brought out on cross-examiiation to show whatever bias or prejudice the witness might have.
But the court adhered to its previous ruling. Held:
.(1) The case was a proper one for searching cross-examination,.
and the question "Where do you live?" was not only an appropriate preliminary to the cross-examination, but on its face -was an
essential step in identifying the witness with his environment.
P. 692.
(2) The defense was entitled to show by cross-examination that
the testimony of the witness was affected by fear or favor growing out of his detention, and it was immaterial whether he was in

688

OCTOBER TERM, *1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

custody because of his participation in the transactions for which
the defendant was indicted or for some other offense. P. 693.
(3) The ruling of the trial court, cutting off in limine all inquiry
on a subject with respect to which the defense was entitled to a
reasonable cross-examination, was an abuse of discretion. and
prejudicial error. P. 694.
41 F. (2d) 157, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 826, to review a judgment affirming
a judgment of the District Court, wherein the petitioner
was convicted for using the mails to defraud.
Mr. Leo R. Friedman, with whom Mr. Thomas M.
Foley was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Claude R. Branch;
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Harry S.
Ridgley were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner was convicted in the District Court for
Southern ' California ,of using the mails to defraud in violation of § 215 of the Criminal Code. The Court granted
certiorari, to review a judgment of affirmance by the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which upheld
certain rulings of the trial court upon. the evidence. 41
F. (2d) 157.
In the course of the trial the government called as a
witness a former employee of petitioner. On direct examination he gave damaging testimony with respect to
various transactions of accused, including conversations
with the witness when others were not present, and stateme nts of accused to salesmen under his direction, whom
the witness did not identify. Upon cross-examination
questions seeking to elicit the witness's place of residence
were excluded on the government's objection that they
were immaterial and not proper cross-examination.
Counsel for .the defense insisted that the questions were
-

ALHORD v. UNITED STATES.

689

Opinion of the Court.

67

prope1 cross-examination, and that the jury was entitled
t-6
t kncw "w h,.the witness is, where he lives and what
his "business i)" Relevant excerpts of the record are
printed in the margin.,
'Q. Where do you live, Mr. Bradley?
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is objected to as immaterial and not proper
cross-examination.
THE 'COURT: I cannot see the materiality.
MR. FRDMAN: Why, I think the jury has a perfect right to
know who the witness is, where he lives and what his business is, and
we have the right to elicit that on cross-examination. I may say
that this is the first witness the Government had called that they
have not elicited the address from.
THE CouRT: I will sustain the objection.
Q. By MR. FRImE AN: What is your business, Mr, Bradley?
A. My profession is an accountant, public accountant.'
Q. What is your occupation now?
A, I am not doing anything at the present time on account of this
case.
Q. On account of this case?
A. Yes.
Q. Do you live in Los Angeles?
MR.ARMSiONG: That is objected to as immaterial and invading
the Court's ruling.
THE CouRT: I have ruled on that question.
MR.FRIEDMAN: I will temporarily pass on to something else. I
would like leave to submit authorities on my right to develop that on
cross-examination. I haven't them with me.
THE

CouRT:

All right.

The jury were thereupon excused by the court until 9:30 o'clock
on the morning of July 24, 1929, whereupon the jury retired after
which the following proceedings were had relative to the materiality
of the testimony, as to the residence and place thereof of Cameron
Bradley.
THE CouRT: In what particular do you think that evidence is
material?
MR.FRiEDMAN: I think it is material for this purpose, first, not
only on the general grounds I urged in asking the question, but on the
additional grounds that I have been informed and caused to believe
22110" ----

44

690

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

Later, the jury having been excused, counsel for the
defense urged, as an "additional" ground- for asking the
excluded questions, that he had been informed that the
witness was then in the custody of the fedeal authorities,
and that such fact might be brought out on cross-examination "for the purpose of showing whatever bias or
prejudice he may have." 'But the court adhered to its
previous rulings, saying that if the witness had been convicted of a felony that fact might be proved, but not that
he was detained in custody.
The Court of Appeals, after stating that it is customary
to allow cross-examination of a witness with reference to
that this witness himself is now in the custody of the Federal
authorities.
MR. ARmSTRONG: You mean Mr. Bradley? You mean by the
Federal authorities here?
Mn. FRIEDMAN: I don't know by what authorities, but that is my
impression, that he is here in the custody of the Federal authorities.
If that is so, I have a right to show that for the purpose of showing
whatever bias or prejudice he may have.
No; I don't think so. If you can prove he has ever
THE CouRT:
been convicted of a felony, that is a different thing.
MR. FRIEDMAN: I realize that is the rule. I may impeach him if
he has been convicted of a felony.
TIE CounT: No. You may prove that fact as going to his
credibility, but you can't merely show that he is detained or in charge
of somebody. Everybody is presumed to be innocent until proven

guilty.
It is a violent presumptibn sometimes, I know.
Your defendant is certainly to be given the benefit
of that presumption.
MR. FRIEDMAN: I have no doubt of that.
THE CouRT: If that is all you have, I will have to stand on the
ruling.
MR. FRIEDMAN:
THE COURT:

M . FRIEDMAN: I would like, if the Court please, our exception
noted to the Court's ruling made yesterday after the jury retired to
the effect that we could not inquire as to the present address and
residence of the witness.
THD CouRT: Very well.

ALFORD v. UNITED STATES.
687

Opinion of the Court.

his place of residence, upheld the trial court, saying,
p. 160:
"The purpose of such evidence is to identify the witness and to some extent give proper background for the
interpretation of his testimony. In this case, however,
the counsel indicated his purpose to use the information
for the purpose of discrediting the witness. It is part of
the obligation of a trial judge to protect witnesses against
evidence tending to discredit the witness unless such evidence is reasonably called for by exigencies of the case.
A witness is not on trial and has no means of protecting
himself. Here it was evident that the counsel for the
appellant desired to discredit the witness, without so far
as is shown, in any way connecting the expected answer
with a matter on trial. If it had been contended that the
witness was in custody because of his participation in the
transaction with which the appellant was charged, and
if it was sought to show that he was testifying under some
promise of immunity, it would undoubtedly have been
prejudicial error to have excluded such testimony, but
counsel avowed no such purpose, and indicated that the
proposed question was merely in pursuit of a fishing expedition by which he hoped to discredit the witness. The
witness was examined at great length concerning his relation to the appellant and great latitude was accorded in
that examination."
Cross-examination of a witness is a matter of right.
The Ottawa, 3 Wall. 268, 271. Its permissible purposes,
among others, are that the witness may be identified with
his community so that independent testimony may be
sought and offered of his reputation for veracity in his
own neighborhood, cf. Khan v. Zemansky, 59 Cal. App.
324, 327ff.; 3 Wigmore, Evidence (2d ed.) § 1368 I. (1)
(b); that the jury may interpret his testimony in the
light reflected upoh it by knowledge of his environment,
Kirschnerv. State, 9 Wis. 140; Wilbur v. Flood, 16 Mich.

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

40; Hollingsworth v. State; 53 Ark. 387; People v. White,
251 Ill. 67, 72ff.; Wallace v. State, 41 Fla. 547, 574ff.; and

that facts may be brought out tending to discredit the witness by showing that his testimony in chief was untrue
or biased. Tla-Koo-Yel-Lee v. United States, 167 U. S.
274; King v. United States, 112 Fed. 988; Farkas v.
United States, 2 F. (2d) 644; see Furlongv. United States,
10 F. (2d) 492, 494.
Counsel often cannot know in advance what pertinent
facts may be elicited on cross-examination. For that
reason it is niecessarily exploratory; and the rule that the
examiner must indicate the purpose of his inquiry does
not, in general, apply. Knapp v. Wing, 72 Vt. 334, 340;
Martinv. Elden, 32 Ohio St. 282, 289. It is the essence of
a fair trial that reasonable latitude be given the crossexaminer, even though he is unable to state to the court
what facts a reasonable cross-examination might develop.
Prejudice ensues from a denial of the opportunity to place
the witness in his proper setting and put the weight of his
testimony and his credibility to a test, without which the
jury cannot fairly appraise them. Tla-Koo-Yel-Lee v.United States, supra; King v. United States, supra;
People v. Moore, 96 App. Div. 56, affirmed without
opinion, 181 N. Y. 524; cf. People v. Becker, 210 N. Y.
274. To say that :prejudice can be established only by
showing that the cross-examination, if pursued, would
necessarily have brought out facts tending to discredit the
testimony in chief, is to deny a substantial right and withdraw one of the safeguards essential to a fair trial. Nailor
v. Williams, 8 Wall. 107, 109; see People v. Stevenson, 103
Cal. App. 82; cf. Brasfield v. United States, 272 U. S. 448.
In this respect a summary denial of the right of crossexamination is distinguishable from the erroneous admission -f harmless testimony. Nailor v. Williams, supra.
The present case, after the witness for the prosecution
had testified to uncorroborated conversations of the defendant of a damaging character, was a proper one for

ALFORD v. UNITED STATES.
687

Opinion of the Court.

searching cross-examination. The question "Where do
you live?" was not only an appropriate preliminary to
the cross-examination of the witness, but on its face,
without any such declaration of purpose as was made by
counsel here, was an essential step in identifying the witness with his environment, to which cross-examination
may always be directed. State v. Pugstey, 75 Ia. 742; State
v. Fong Loon, 29 Ida. 248, 255ff.; Wallace v. State, supra;
Wilbur v. Flood, supra;5 Jones, Evidence (2d ed.) § 2366.
But counsel for the defense went further; and in the
ensuing colloquy with the court urged, as an additional
reason why the question should be allowed, not a substitute reason, as the court below assumed, that he was informed that the witness was then in court in custody of
the federal authorities, and that that fact could be brought
out on cross-examination to show whatever bias or prejudice the witness might have. The purpose obviously was
not, ad the trial court seemed to think, to discredit the
witness by showing that he was charged with crime, but
to show by such facts as proper cross-examination might
develop, that his testimony was biased because given
under promise or expectation of immunity, or under the
coercive effect of his detention by officers of the United
States, which was conducting the present prosecution.
King v. United States, supra; Farkas v. United States,
supra, and cases cited; People v. Becker, supra; State v.
Ritz, 65 Mont. 180, and cases cited on p. 188; Rex v. Watson, 32 How. St. Tr. 284. Nor is it material, a the Court
of Appeals said, whether the witness was in custody because of his participation in the transactions for which
petitioner was indicted. Even if the witness were charged
with some other offense by the prosecuting authorities,
petitioner was entitled to show by cross-examination that
his testimony was affected by fear or favor growing out
of his detention. "See Farkas v. United States, supra;
People v. Dillwood, 39 Pac. (Cal.) 438.

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

The extent of cross-examination with respect to an
appropriate subject of inquiry is within the sound discretion of the trial court. It may exercise a reasonable
judgment in determining when the subject: is exhausted.
Storm v. United States, 94 U. S. -76, 85; Rea v. Missaur,
17 Wall. 532, 542-543; Blitz v. United States, 153 U. S.
308, 312. But no obligation is imposed on the court, such
as that suggested below, to protect a witness from being
discredited on cross-examination, short of an attempted
invasion of his constitutional protection from self incrimination, properly invoked. There is a duty to protect him
from questions which go beyond the bounds of proper
cross-examination merely to harass, annoy or humiliate
him. Great Western Turnpike Co. v. Loomis, 32 N. Y.
127, 132; Wallace v. State, supra; 5 Jones, Evidence (2d
ed) § 2316. But no such case is presented here. The
trial court cut off in limine all inquiry on a subject with
respect to which the defense was entitled to a reasonable
cross-examination. This was an abuse of discretion and
prejudicial error. Tla-Koo-Yel-Lee v. United States,
supra; Nailor v. Williams, supra; King v. United States,.
supra; People v. Moore, supra; cf. People v. Becker,
supra. Other grounds for reversal were set up in the
petition for certiorari, but we do not find it necessary to
pass upon them.
Reversed.

HUSTY

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 477.

Argued January 22, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.

1. The Fourth Amendment doe not prohibit the search,
warrant, of an automobile, for liquor illegally transported
sessed, if the search is upon probable cause; and arrest
transportation or possession need not precede the search.

without
or posfor the
P. 700.

