OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. BENZ.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT

No. 112.

Argued December 8, 1930.--Decided January 5, 1931.

1. A federal district court which has imposed a sentence of imprisonment upon a defendant in a criminal case, has power, during the
same term of court, to amend the sentence by shortening the term
of imprisonment, although the defendant already has been com-

mitted and has entered upon service of the sentence.

United

States v. Murray, 275 U. S. 347, distinguished. P. 306.

2. Thus to reduce ,a sentence by amendment is as much a judicial
act as was the imposition of the sentence in the first instance; it is
not a usurpation of the pardoning power of the executive. P. 311.

RESPONISE to a question certified by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, on an appeal by the Government from an
order of the District Court reducing a sentence of imprisonment.'
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist and Messrs. Mahlon D. Kiefer
and Erwin IV. Griswold were on the brief, for the United
States..
*- The decisions of this Court and of other courts tend to
support the conclusion that the beginning of service of a
valid sentence ends the power of the court, even in the
same term, to change it. Ex parte Gordon, 1 Black 503;
Ex .parteLange, 18 Wall. 163; United States v. Murray,
275 U. S. 347; Miller v. Snook, 15 F. (2d) 68; Yutz v.
Pearman, 33 F. (2d) 906. See United States v. Howe,
280 Fed. 815, 819; Stewart v. United States, 300 Fed. 769,
777; Archer v. Snook, 10 F. (2d) 567, 568; Hynes v.
United States, 35 F. (2d) 734, 731 Cisson v. United
Sthtes, 37 F. (2d) 330, 332; In r Graves, 117 Fed. 798.
Cf. Emerson v. Boyles, 170 Ark. 621; Tanner y. Wiggins,

UNITED STATES v. BENZ.
304

Opinion of the Court.

54 Fla. 203; State v. Ensign, 38 Idaho 539; Brabandt v.
Commonwealth, 157 Ky. 130; State v. Davis, 31 La. Ann.
249; State ex rel. Reid v. District Court, 68 Mont. 309;
&ommonwealthv. Mayloy, 57 Pa. 291; Ammon v. Johnson, 3 Ohio Cir. Ct. 263; Matter of Brittain, 93 N. C. 587.
See also State v. Meyer, 86 Kan. 793; Brown v. Rice, 57
Me. 55; People v. Meservey, 96 Mich. 223; In re Richards, 150 Mich. 421; In re Jones, 35 Neb. 499; People v.
Sullivan, 54 Misc. 489; State v. Cannon, 11 Ore. 312.'
Considerations regarding the division of powers between
the judiciary and the other branches of Government tend
to support this conclusion that the power of the trial court
to amend a valid sentence should'cease when the defendant has been committed.
Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 601; and The Laura,
114 U. S. 411, make it clear that the doctrine of separation of powers does not necessarily require the decision of
this case in favor of the Government. But we submit
that the doctrine does furnish a useful guide which should
be taken into account in defining the power of a court
which may conflict with the exercise of executive or legislative authority.
This Court has drawn the line between the judicial and
executive power in similar cases, and in each instance it
has indicated that the judicial power should be restricted
by the implications drawn from the doctrine of separation of powers. Ex parte United States, 242 U. S. 27;
United States v. Murray, 275 U. S. 347.
Mr. FrancisBiddle for Benz.
MR. JusnTcF SuTHnRLAw

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here on a certificate from the court below
under ยง 239 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the act
of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938; U. S. C.,
22110--31-20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

Title 28, ยง-346. Benz *as indicted for a violation of the
National Prohibition Act. He entered a plea of guilty
and was sentenced'to imprisonment for a term of ten
months beginning December 27, 1929. Wti.le undergoing
imprisonment under this sentence, and before expiration
of the term of the federal district court which had imposed
the sentence, he filed a petition asking 'that the sentence.
be modified. The court, over the objectioii of the United
States, entered an order reducing the term of imprisonment from ten to six months. The government appealed,
and the court below, desiring the instruction of this Court,
certified the following question:'
"After a District Court of the United States has imposed a sentence of imprisonment upon a defendant in a.
-criminal case, and after he hls served a part of the sen.tence, has that court, during the term in'which it was
imppsed, power to amend the sentence by shortening the
term of imprisonment?"
-The contention of the government is that after the defendant has been committed and has entered upon service
of a. valid sentence, the power .of the' court to ater the'
sentence, even at the same term, has copme to an end. In
addition, some stress is put upon the. fact that the-'powers
of the three departments of government are separated-by
the Constitution, so that one of the departments may not.
exercise the powers conferred upon either of'the others;
and it is suggested that from this separation 'the implication fairly may be drawn that a reduction by the court
of a valid sentence after it has been partly served is, in
effect- an invasion of the power to pardon offenses, including the power to commute, vested in the executive by
Art. II, ยง'2, cl. 1, of the Constitution.
. The general rule is that judgments, decrees and orders
are within the control of ihe court during the term at
which they were made. They are then deemed to be "in
the breast of the court" making them, and subject to be

UNITED STATES v. BENZ.
304

307

Opinion of the Court.

amended, modified", or vacated by that court. Goddardv.
Ordway, 101 U. S. 745, 752. The'rule is not confined to
civil cases, but applies in criminal cases as well, provided
the punishment be not augmented. Ex parte Lange, 18
Wall. 163, 167-174; Basset v. United States, 9 Wall. 38.
In the present case the power of the court was exercised
to mitigate the punishment, not to increase it, and is thus
brought within the limitation. Wharton, in Criminal P.
and Pr., 9th ed., ยง 913, says.: "As a general practice, the
sentence, when imposed by a court of record, is within the
power of the court during the session in which it is entered,
and may be amended at any time during such session,
provided a punishment already partly suffered.be .not
increased."
The distinction that the court during the same term
may amend a sentence so as to mitigate the punishment,
but not so as to increase it, is not based upon the ground
that the court has lost control of the judgment in the
latter case, but upon the ground that to increase the penl.
alty is to subject the defendant to double punishment for
the"same offense in violation of the Fifth Amendment to
the Constitution, which provides that no person shall "be
subject'for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of
life or limb." This is the basis of the decision in Ex parte
Lange, supra..- There, the punishment prescribed by
statute was imprisonment fornot more than one rear or a
fine of not less than ten- dollars nor more than two hundred dollars; but Lange was sentenced to one yea's imprisonment and to pay two hundred dollars fine. Five
days after the imprisonment had begun, after'payment of
the fine and during the' same -term, Lange was brought
before the same court on a writ of habea corpus;an order
was entered vacating the former judgment, and he was
again sentenced to one year's imprisonment from that
time. This Court- stated the rule to be, p. 167: "The
general power of the court over its own judgments, orders,

308

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282U. S.

and decrees, in both civil and criminal cases, during .the
existence of the term at which -theyare first made, is undeniable." The Court declared, however, that the power
could not be so used as to violate the constitutional guarantee against double punishment, holding (p. 173) that
this guarantee applied to all cases where a second punishment is attempted to.be inflicted for the same offense by a
judicial sentence:
"For of what avail is the constitutional protection
against more than one trial if there can be any number
of sentences pronounced on the same verdict? Why is it
that, having once been tried and found guilty, he can
never be tried again for that offence? Manifestly it is
not the danger or jeopardy of being a second time found
guilty. It is the punishment that would legally follow
the second conviction which is the real danger guarded
against by the 'Constitution. But if, after judgment has
been rendered on the conviction, and the sentence of that
judgment executed on the criminal,, he can be again sentenced on that conviction to another and different punishment, or to endure. the same punishment a second
time, is the constitutional restriction of any value? Is not
its intent and its spirit in such a case as much violated as
if a new trial had been had, and on a second conviction
a second punishment inflicted?
"The argument seems to us irresistible, and we do not
doubt that the Constitution was designed as much to prevent the criminal from being twice punished for the same
offence as from being twice tried for it."
But the Court immediately proceeded to say, p. 174:
"If the court, for instance, had rendered a judgment for
two years' imprisonment, it could no doubt, on its own
motion, have vacated that judgment during the term and
rendered a judgment for one year's imprisonment; or, if
no part of the sentence had been executed, it could have
rendered a judgment for two hundred dollars fine after

UNITED STATES v. BENZ.
304

Opinion of the Court.

vacating the first.'" Then, returning to the question of
double punishment, and reciting that Lange had paid the
fine and had undergone five days of the one year's. imprisonment first imposed, the Court said, p. 175:
can the court vacate that judgment entirely,
and without reference to what has been done under it,
impose another punishment on the prisoner on that same
verdict? To do go is to punish him twice for the same
offehce. He is not only put in jeopardy twice, but put to
actual punishment twice for the same thing."
The Lange case and the Basset case, supra, probably
would have set at rest the question here presented had it
not been for a statement in United States v. Murray, 275
U. S. 347, 358. In that case this Court held that where
the defendant had begun to serve his sentence, the district
court was without power, under the Probation Act of
March 4, 1925, to grant him probation; and, citing Ex
phrte Lange as authority, said: "The beginning of the
service of the sentence in a criminal case ends the power of
the court even in the same term to change it." But the
Murray case involved the construction of the Probation
Act, not the general powers of the court over its judgments. The'words quoted were used by way of illustration bearing upon the congressional intent, but were not
necessary to the conclusion reached. That they state the
rule more broadly than the Lange case warrants is apparent from the foregoing review of that case.
The rule thus being settled for this Court by its prior
decisions, we need not discuss the conflicting state cases
nor the conflicting decisions of lower federal courts which
are cited, further than to say that the federal cases cited
by the government in support of its position are comparatively recent, and at least in some instances rest upon
the general statement in the Murray case just quoted.
The earlier view is to the contrary. Thus in the case of
In re Graves, 117 Fed. 798, where a person had been re-

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Otinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

sentenced to serve for a period of one and one-half years
after having been imprisoned for a number of days under
a sentence of two years, the court refused to discharge
him'on habeas corpus, saying [p. 799]:
"It involves only the inquiry whether the court possessed the power to recall the prisoner, set aside the sentence, and impose another modified sentence during the
same term, notwithstanding the fact alleged that execution of the former sentence had commenced; and, whatever diversity of opinion appears in other jurisdictions,
the doctrine is established in the federal courts that such
power exists, and that it is applicable as well where the
original sentence was in excess of jurisdiction. [Citing,
among other cases, Ex parte Lange and Basset v. United
States, supra.] In Ex parte Lange, supra, the doctrine
so stated is distinctly recognized, but the case is distinguished .as one where the statute authorized imprisonment, or fine, in the alternative only, and the sentence
imposed both; and the majority opinion merely holds
that new sentence of imprisonment alone cannot be imposed after payment of the fine, which -operated as a satis-,
faction of the prior judgment. The sentence under which
this petitioner is imprisoned isin all respects more favorable to him than was the original sentence, and escape
therefrom is sought on the groundo' fchange in the place
of imprisonment after he had_'entered upon the service'
of the first sentence.
"As the place of imprisonment was discretionary and
in no sense affected-thejuj1~diction,; and the power of
the court over its own jtidgment-within the term is undeniable (Ex parte Lange, supra), I am clearly of 'opinion
that the sentence and commitment in question-are valid,
and. no ground appearing to grant the petitioner the
benefits of a writ of habeas corpus, the application ,is
denied!'

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. A11
304

Syllabus.

With this application of the rule and interpretation of
the prior decisions of this Court, w*e entirely agree.
We find nothing in the suggestion that the action of
the district court in reducing the punishment after the
prisoner had served a part of the imprisonment originally
imposed was a usurpation of the pardoning power of the
executive. The judicial power and the executive power
over sentences are readily distinguishable. To render
judgment is & judicial function. To carry the judgment
into effect is an executive function. To cut short a sentence by an act of clemency is an exercise of executive
power which abridges the enforcement of the judgment,
but 'does not alter it qua judgment. To reduce a sentence
by amendment alters the terms of the judgment itself and
is a judicial act as much as the imposition of the sentence
in the first instance.
The question propounded must be answered in the
affirmative.
It is so ordered.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE,
ST. PAUL AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. fO. Argued April 24, 25, 1930. Reargued Noveinber 25,
1930.--Decided January 5, 1931.
A plan of reorganization of an insolvent railroad company provided
for participation by stockholders of the old company through an
exchange of their shares, plus a cash payment, for securities of the
new company. Part of the proceeds of payments made by stockholders under this arrangement went into a separate fund represent,ing $4 per share of the old stock. Of this sum an amount equivalent to $1.50 per share was set aside as a special fund to provide
for the compensation of the reorganization managers and commit-

