UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. A11
304

Syllabus.

With this application of the rule and interpretation of
the prior decisions of this Court, w*e entirely agree.
We find nothing in the suggestion that the action of
the district court in reducing the punishment after the
prisoner had served a part of the imprisonment originally
imposed was a usurpation of the pardoning power of the
executive. The judicial power and the executive power
over sentences are readily distinguishable. To render
judgment is & judicial function. To carry the judgment
into effect is an executive function. To cut short a sentence by an act of clemency is an exercise of executive
power which abridges the enforcement of the judgment,
but 'does not alter it qua judgment. To reduce a sentence
by amendment alters the terms of the judgment itself and
is a judicial act as much as the imposition of the sentence
in the first instance.
The question propounded must be answered in the
affirmative.
It is so ordered.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE,
ST. PAUL AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. fO. Argued April 24, 25, 1930. Reargued Noveinber 25,
1930.--Decided January 5, 1931.
A plan of reorganization of an insolvent railroad company provided
for participation by stockholders of the old company through an
exchange of their shares, plus a cash payment, for securities of the
new company. Part of the proceeds of payments made by stockholders under this arrangement went into a separate fund represent,ing $4 per share of the old stock. Of this sum an amount equivalent to $1.50 per share was set aside as a special fund to provide
for the compensation of the reorganization managers and commit-

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

tees, etc., it being specially provided that any balance remaining
was to be paid over to the new company as additional working
capital or returned pro rata to the holders of certificates of deposit
for stock, in the discretion of the reorganization managers. Neither
the old company nor the new one was a party or 'vas privy to this
contract. The remainder of the $4 fund, that is, $2.50 per share,
was to be appropriated to defraying the expenses and costs of
foreclosure and other charges in connection with the acquisition of
the properties of the old company by the liew, and any balance
remaining was to be paid over to *the new company. The Interstate Commerce Commission, after hearing, issued a certificate of
convenience and necessity, and entered an order, under § 20a of the
*Transportation Act, authorizing the issuance of securities by the
new company, with the proviso, however, "that the applicant ...
(b) shall impound in a separate fund the money received from the
payment by holders of preferred and common stock in an amount
equal to $4 a share, which shall not be paid out unless and until so
authorized by order of the court in respect to payments subject to
the court's jurisdiction or by this commission." The present suit
was brought to have the foregoing clause (b) of the order declared
void, and to enjoin its enforcement. Held:
1. Thea, terms of the proviso embrace, and were meant to embrace, the eitire fund of $4 per share, including the special fund
of $1.50. P. 323.
2. The Commission was without power to impose the condition'
of clause (b) of the proviso, in so far as the $1.50 fund was concerned, and its action in respect thereto was an interference with
private -property and rights lying outside the field of federal
jurisdiction. The contract in respect of that'fund was not one in
respect of commerce, but involved a transaction distinct and complete in itself without regard to its results; and, whether succeeded
by commerce or not, was no part of it. Pp. 324, 326.
3. The power of the Federal Government to reulate commerce
is not absolute, but is subject to the limitations and guarantees
of the Constitution, among which are those providing that private
property shall not be taken for public use without just compensation and that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property
without due process of law. P. 327.
4. The principle that the right to continue the exercise of a
privilege granted by the State cannot be made to depend upon
the grantee's submission to a condition prescribed by the State
which is hostile to the provisions of the Federal Constitution,

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO.
311

313

Argument for the United States.

is applicable to the order of the Commission here involved. The
order in itsef, being complete and self-sustaining and resting upon
grounds found to be sufficient to support it, cannot be made to
depend upon submission to a collateral condition which is beyond
the statutory and constitutional power of the Commission to
impose. Pp. 328-329.
5. The condition in respect of the special fund of $1.50 per share
was properly set aside and its enforcement enjoined by the court
below. P. 331.
33 F. (2d) 582, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court setting aside
and enjoining enforcement of part of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, 131 I. C. C. 673.

Assistant to the Attorney General*O'Brian, with whom
Attorney GeneralMitchell, Messrs. Claude R. Branch and
Charles H. Weston, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, and Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel Interstate Commerce Commission, were on the brief, for the
United States et al.
The report of the Commission shows that it intended
by its order to exercise jurisdiction over the payment of
all reorganization expenses, including those payable out
of the $1.50 fund. The order was valid.
By paragraph (2) of § 20a of the Interstate Commerce
Act, the carrier may issue securities only to the extent
that the Commission after investigation "of the purposes
and uses of the proposed issue and the proceeds thereof"
authorizes such issue. The Commission is to make such
order only if it finds that the issue is compatible with the
public interest, appropriate for or consistent with the
proper performance of the carrier's duty to serve the
public as a common carrier, and reasonably necessary
and appropriate for such purpose.
Under § 20a the duty of the Commission may not be
fully accomplished when it has found that the general
purpose of a proposed security issue is in the public inter-

314

OCTOBER- TERM, 1930.
Argument for the United States.

282 U. S.

est and that it would not weaken the carrier's financial
structure. It may also inquire whether the proposed plan
of financing is calculated to keep financing charges as low
as possible. Thus the Commission has required competitive public bidding for equipment trust certificates, a
policy which appears to have brought about a 'marked reduction in the average spread between the sales price to
bankers and their sales price to the public. Chicago, St.
P., M. & 0. Ry. Co. Equip. Trust, 145 I. C. C.
0444, 446.
Likewise, it has prohibited the payment of underwriting
commissions. Stock of N. Y, N. H. & H. R. Co., 131 I.
C. C. 233, 238; Control of Erie R. & Pere Marquette By.,
138 I. C. C. 517, 535.
In the present, case it -was proposed to issue certain securities for property and cash. The property was known,
but the cash was subject to the payment of reorganization
expenses which, except for those subject to approval by
the court, might be determined by the managers. As the
case was presented to the Commission, the managers had
it in their -power to determine to a material degree the
azount of cash which the company would receive in
6xclhange for the securities that were to be issued. Under
these circumstances the Commission was called upon to
exercise" the plenary powers given it by the Act with
respect to the proceeds to be derived from the issue of
railroad securities. The Commission determined that'it
was necessary and appropriate in the premises to reserve
to itself jurisdiction over the payment of expenses which
directly affected the proceeds to be derived from the
issue of securities.
The Commission's order retaining jurisdiction over the
payment of such of these expenses -as were payable out
of the $1.50 fund was justified because the terms upon
which the 'new company was issuing its securities entitled
it to receive the balance of this fund if it was hot returned
to the depositing, stockholders.

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 315
311

Argument for the United States.

But even if the company's contingent interest in the
$1.50 fund was not in itself sufficient-to support the jurisdiction of the Commission over it, the reorganization expenses payable therefrom constituted a refifhancing charge
within the Commission's regulatory powers over new security issues. One of the purposes of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by the Transportation Act, 1920,
is to protect railroad credit. Improper or unreasonable
financing charges are injurious to railroad credit and the
Commission has consistently interpreted § 20a as permitting it to regulate financing charges. If the Commission
in this case could not supervise expenses payable out of
the $1.50 fund, reorganization plans may be formulated
so as to withdraw all reorganization expenses from the.
scrutiny and supervision of the Commission.
The authority to enjoin a Commission order " in part"
applies to a severable part of an order but not to a condition upon which an order was issued after the carrier has
exercised the authority granted by the order. If the lcondition -is attacked in limine, then the courts .might have
jurisdiction because, -if"the condition is found void, the
case may be remitted to the Commission for further proceedings. But if the courts set aside a condition to an
order of the, Commission after the authority granted has
been exercided, they thereby substitute their judgment
for that of fhe Commission upon an administrative question, the dotermination of which Congress vested in the
Commission. Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States,

225 1. S. 482.
If the courts set aside U condition attached to an order,
leaving tle order outstanding without the condition,,they
are deciding a different administrative question from the
one pasod upon by the Commission. The results sought
to be q'ccomplished by the -condition might have been
deeme$I so essential that the Commission, if it had been
advise/I that the condition was beyond its powers, would

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellee.

282 U. S.

not have issued any order or would have issued a different
kind of order.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. H. H. Field,
0. W. Dynes, Robert T. Swaine, and Frederick H. Wood
were on the brief, for appellee.
The condition is void. Its necessary effect was to revise, or to abrogate, a contract between holders of securities of a carrier for the payment of compensation for services rendered to themselves, which were-not to be paid
for by the carrier, and in respect of which the carrier
issued no securities, and to subject to the Commission's
determination the fees and expenses of the persons rendering such services. Such an interference with the right
of private contract is not within the Commission's
powers.
The reorganization plan was a contract between depositing security holders, the managers, and the committees,
to which neither the old company nor the new was a
party. Neither the parties to the contract nor its subject
matter were within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
The CQmmission is a body of limited jurisdiction. It
may not by indirection exercise powers, the express grant
of which has been withheld. Interstate Commerce Cornmission v. Cincinnati,N. 0. & T. P. 'Ry., 167 U. S. 479;
Harrinanv. Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U. S.
407; United States v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 236 U. S.
318; United States v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 242 U. S. 208.
The power to impose conditions, conferred by paragraph (2) of § 20a, is not an unlimited power. The condition must be germane to the subjqct matter and fairly
within the exercise of the powers expressly delegated. Cf.
People ex rel. N. Y. C. & H. R. Co. v. Commission, 227
N. Y. 248;. People ex rel. Binghamton L., H. & P. Co. v.
Stevens, 203 N. Y. 7. The Commission cannot, under
the guise of administering -this or any other section of the
Act, draw to itself powers not conferred upon it by the

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 317
311

Argument for Appellee.

Act. Cf. Kuenster v. Meredith, 264 Fed. 243; School of
Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; United
States v. United Verde Copper Co., 196 U. S. 207; People
ex rel. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Willcox, 200 N. Y. 423.
The condition imposed was not within the express or
implied powers of the Commission. It had no relation to
any administrative question committed to the Commission for determination.
The Act does not invest the Commission with arbitrary
power to determine under what circumstances and upon
what conditions authority to issue securities may be
ganted or denied. Such a grant of authority would not
only be invalid as a delegation of legislative power without
the prescription of a standard, and therefore invalid (see
Field'v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Union Bridge Co. v. United
States, 204 U. S. 364; United States v. Grimaud,220 U. S.
506), but it would be a delegation of power which Congress does not itself have-since Congress can subject the
railroads only to such regulation as is reasonably connected with the regulation of interstate commerce. Dayton,-Goose Creek Ry. v. United States, 263" U. S. 456;
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332. The Commission must
apply to each case the standards qreated by the Act itself
and reach its determination accordingly. Chicago JunctioAi Case, 264 U. S. 258. It may not substitute for such
standards other standards of its own. Southern Pacific
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 433.
It may not be doubted that if the Commission, although
making all of the findings required by paragraph (2),
should deny without reason, an: application for the issuance of securities, or should assign as a. reason grounds
having no relation to the Standards established by paragraph (2), it could by mandamus be compelled to enter
an order authorizing their issuance. United States v.
Schurz, 102 U. S. 378; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50;
Illinois Dental Examiners v. People, 123 Ill. 227; Matter
of Picone v. Commissioner of Licenses, 241 N. Y. 1,57;

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

People ex rel. South Shore T. Co. v. Willcox, 196 N. Y.
212; State ex rel. Mauldin v. Matthews, 81 S. C. 414..
The condition may not be sustained as a requirement
for the receipt of additional consideration for the securities
to be issued. If the consideration was inadequate, it was
the duty of the Commission so to find and also to find
the extent of the deficit. It did neither. That the purpose of the condition was not to provide an adequate
consideration, but to regulate compensation and fees payable out of the trust fund, is established by the Commis-sion's report.
The exercise of implied powers such as the Commission
here sought to exercise would result in extending its jurisdiction far beyond what Congress intended in the Interstate Commerce Act.
The condition, as construed by the Commission, being
void, was no part of the order, and respondent was entitled to disregard it and issie its securities; and the
enforcement of the order may now be enjoined notwithstanding that respondent has availed itself of the valid
part.
It is fundamental that an administrative body, or indeed a State, havhifg power to grant or withhold a privilege, may not, by imposing a condition upon such grant,
exercise an authority which it cannot exercise digectly.
Western Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v.
Kansas; 216 U. S. 56; Ludwig v. Wes'ern Union, 216 U. S.
146; Southern Ry. Co. v. Green, 216 U. S. 400; Terral v.
Burke Construction Co., 257 U. S. 529; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426; Frost Trucking Cd. v.
Railroad Commission, 271 U. S. 583; Hanover Fire Ins.
Co. v. Harding,272 U. S. 494.
-MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of, the

Court.
In 1925 the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
Company, a Wisconsin corporation, became misolvent and'

,UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 319
311

Opinion of the Court.

passed into the hands of receivers appointed by the federal district court for the northern district of Illinois and
subseqiiently by other federal district .courts. Thereupon,,
-and Pending'a decree of foreclosure of outstanding mortgages, committees were formed by and for the. various
classes of security holders for the purpose of protecting
their several interests'in the receivership proceedings and
in the ultimate disposition of the railway property. Reorganization managers were appointed by the committees
for the purpose of preparing and submitting a plan of
reorganization. Thereafter, -a plan was submitted to, and
adopted and approved by, the committees, with an exception not material here, and after some modification was
approved by the court below. There was a final decree of
foreclosure under which the properties of the Railway company, in November, 1926, were sold, subject to certain
existing liens, to persons acting as agents for the managers
and for the benefit of the security holders. This sale was
confirmed and the plan held valid by the court, with a
proviso that conveyances should not be delivered.to appellee, the new company formed'in" pursuance Of the
reorganization plan, until after the Interstate Commerce
Commission, pursuant to law, had authorized such company to issue the securities provided for in the plan.
The reorganization plan provided that the stockholders of the old company who accepted the plan might participate in the reorganization by depositing their common and preferred stock, together with the sum of $32
for each share of the former and $28 for each share of the'
latter. Each depositor was thereupon to receive in exchange common and preferred stock in the new company,
and in addition $28 and $24, respectively, in five per cent
bonds of the new company. Out of the remainder of' the
money deposited, being $4 per share of the old stock, an
amount equivalent to $1.50 per share was separated from
the remaining $2.50 of the $4 fund and "set aside to provide for the compensation of the reorganization managers

-

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

and the committees . . . and the fees 'nd disbursements of their counsel and all depositaries and sub-depositaries, any balance of said sum to be paid over to the new
company as additional working capital or, if the reorganization managers in their discretion shall so determine, to
be returned pro rata to the holders of certificates of deposit for stock." The discretion so to be exercised by the
managers was declared to be absolute and uncontrolled.
The amount to be paid as compensation to the managers
was definitely fixed by agreement contained in the plan
and compensation for the services of the committees was
to be fixed by the managers unless the plan should be
abandoned, in which event none was to Teceive any com-.
pensation. Payment to other persons for services was to"
be made whether the plan should be carried through or
abandoned. In respect of the remainder of the 34 fund,
namely $2.50 per' share, the effect of the plan was to require that after satisfying such expenses as costs of foreclosure, court allowances, engraving of securities for the
new company, charges of corporate trustees, etc., any balance remaining should be paid over to the new company.
An application was made to the commission for a cartificate of public convenience and necessity under the
appropriate'provisions of the Transportation Act, 1920,
and for an order under § 20a of that act (c. 91, § 439, 41
Stat. 494; U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 20a) authorizing and approving the issue of securities in accordance with the reorganization plan. Section 20a of the act among other-things
provides:
"(2) .
. It shall be unlawful for any carrier to
issue any share of capital stock or any bond or other evidence of interest in or indebtedness of the carrier (hereinafter in this section collectively termed 'securities') or
to assume any obligation or liability as lessor, lessee, guarantor, indorser, surety, or otherwise, in respect of the
securities of any other person, natural or artificial, even

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 321
Opinion of the Court.

311

though permitted by the authority creating the carrier
corporation, unless and until, and then only to the extent
that, upon application by the carrier, and after investigation by the Commission of the purposes and uses of the
proposed issue and the proceeds thereof, or of the proposed assumption of obligation or liability in respect of
the securities of any other person, natural or artificial, the
Commission by order -authorizes such issue or assumption.
The Commission shall make such order only if it finds
that such issue or assumption: (a) is for some lawful
object within its corporate purposes, and compatible with
the public interest, which is necessary or appropriate for
or consistent with the proper performance by -the carrier
of service to the public as a common carrier, and which
will not impair its ability to perform that service, and
(b) is reasonably necessary and appropriate for such
purpose.
"(3) The Commission shall have power by its order
to grant or deny the application as made, or to grant it in
part and deny it in rnart, or to grant it with such modifications and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission may deem necessary or appropriate in the premises,
and may from time to time, for good cause shown, make
such supplemental orders in the premises as it may deem
necessary or appropriate, and may by -any such supplemental order mddify the provisions of any previous order
as to the particular purposes, uses, and extent to which,
or the conditions under which, any securities so theretofore authorized or the proceeds thereof may be applied,
subject always to the requirements of the foregoing paragraph (2).
"(11) Any security issued or any obligation or liability
assumed by a carrier, for which under the provisions of
this section the authorizatioh of the Commission is re22110°---31-

21[

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

4uired, shalibe void, if issued or assumed without such
authorization therefor having first-been obtained, or if
issued or assumed contrary to any tkrm or condition of
such order of authorizgition as modified by any order supplemental thereto entered prior to such issuance or
assumption;
. .
The commission, after a hearing, certified that public
convenience and necessity required the acquisition and
.operation by- the new company of the lines of railroad
theretofore owned by the Chicago, Milwaukee and St.
'Paul Railway Company, and entered an order that the
'new comp-ny be authorized to issue the securities which
were described in the report and order of the commission,
"Provided, however, . . . that the applicant . .
(b) shall impound in a separate fund the money received
from the payment by holders of preferred and common
stock in an amount equal to $4 a share, which shall not be
paid out unwless and until so authorized by order of the
court, in respect to payments subject to the court's jurisdiction or by this commission."
The present suit was brought to .have the foregoing
clause (b) of the proviso declared beyond the lawful authority of the commission and void, and perpetually to
enjoin appellants from enforcing the order of the commission in that respect. In addition to the facts hereinbefore set forth, and others, it was alleged in the petition that the commission and the United States had
threetened to institute criminal or civil proceedings
against appellee, in accordance with applicable provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act, for violation of the condition imposed by clause (b) of the proviso. Appellants
answered separately, admitting all the material allegations
of the petition pertinent to the question now under review; and separately moved to dismiss the petition on
the ground that the court was without jurisdiction to set
aside that part of the order which was assailed. After

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 323
311

Opinion of the Court.

argument the court below entered a decree denying the
motions to dismiss and perpetually setting aside, suspending and annulling, and perpetually enjoining the enforcement of, or attempt to enforce, the condition (b) imposed
by the proviso, so far as it here is in question; that is to
say, such part thereof as required appellee to obtain the
special fund of $1.50 per share and impqund the same;
and which prohibited the making of any payment out of
that fund without a prior determination by the commission
in respect thereof.
The court below was of opinion that the proviso should
be so construed as to include only the $2.50 part of the
fund and exclude the special fund of $1.50 per share from
its operation; otherwise that the condition in respect of
the latter was void. The court further held that the case
made by the petition was within the jurisdiction transferred to the district courts from the Commerce Court by
c. 32, 38 Stat. 219, namely, jurisdiction over "Cases
brought to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend in whole
or in part any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission." c. 309, 36 Stat. 539. 33 F. (2d) 582.
We do not stop to discuss the holding of the court below
in respect of the construction of the proviso further than
to say fhat, contrary to the view of that court though
plausibly stated, we have reached the conclusion that the
terms of the proviso embrace, and were meant to embrace,
the entire fund of $4 per share, including the special fund.
of $1.50. Thus construed, two questions remain for consideration: (1) Was it within the power of the commission to impose the condition so far as it included the
special fund? (2) Was that condition such a part of the
commission's order as to cause it to fall within the jurisdiction conferred by the language last quoted above?
First. The legality of the acquisition and operation
by the new company of the lines of railroad theretofore
owned by the old company is not now in question. The

-324

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Cout,

282 U.S.

requisite certificate of public convenience and necessity
was issued by the commission. The order of the commission authorizing the new company to issue securities was
* made aftera finding of all the facts required by the act as
a necessary basis therefor. By subdivision (3) of § 20a
-the commission is empowered tO make its grant of authority to issue securities upon such conditions a the commission may deem necessary or appropriate in the premises. The power to impose such conditions, however, is
not be exercised arbitrarily or
not unlimited and
(since Congress cannot delegate any part of its legislative
power except under the limitation of a prescribed standard, Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364,
384--385) unless there be found substantial warrant for the
conditions in the *applicable standards established by the
provisions of the act relating to such securities. The
powers possessed by the commission are delegated by
'Congress under, and are to be exercised- in conformit
with, the constitutional grant of authority to regulate
interstate and foreign commerce. Proceeding under that
grant, as applied to the present matter, neither the commission nor Congress itself may take any action which
lies outside the realm of interstate commerce. Hammer
v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251. It follows that if the condition in question relates not to such commerce, or to the
rights or duties of the carrier-engaged in such commerce,
.but exclusively to extrinsic matters, it is'imposed without
authority of law.
In the light of the foregoing, we examine the.provision
of the reorganization plan in respect of the special fund
of $1.50 per share. That provision embodies a contract
between the committees (voluntarily created by private
persons), the managers, and such stockholders as shall
electto become depositors under the plan and shall advance, with other monies for other purposbs, the specified
sum for the distinct and sole purpose of paying the man-may

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 325
311

Opinion of the Court.

agers and others for services rendered in behalf of and
for the exclusive benefit of these depositors. Neither the
old companjr nor the new one was a party or was privy to
this contract. Neither the contract when made nor any
of the parties to it, in respect of the contract, was subject
to the jurisdiction of the commission. It was not contemplated by any of the parties, by the new coimpany, or by
the court which held the plan to be valid, that the new
company should have any enforceable interest in this
special fund. Indeed, by contract between the new company, the managers and the purchasers at the sale, it was
expressly agreed that the remainder of all cash received by
the managers uhder the reorganization plan should be
paid over to the new company, except the special fund of
$1.50 per share of the old company's stock, "which, as
provided in the reorganization plan, is to be set aside to
provide for the compensation *of the managers' and the
committees, fixed as therein provided, and the fees and
disbursements of their counsel and of all depositaries and
subdepositaries." And, correlatively, the new .company
agreed to pay all other expenses incurred by the managers
except such as were to be paid out of this special fund.
These agreements of the interested pdrties lend emphasis
to the conclusion that the services to be rendered and
expenses to be incurred in formulating and bringing about
an approval of the plan were to be paid for out of the
special fund as matters in which the private parties alone
were concerned.
If. the security holders, instead of agreeing to the provision for a special fund incorporated in the body of the
reorganization plan, had bound themselves by a separate
contract to compensate the managers and others for their
services in behalf -of the security holders, and had placed
a sum of money in the hands of a trustee to secure payment of the estimated amount, as they well might have
done, it probably would not have been contended.that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282U.S.

commission lawfully could impose upon the issue of the
securities the condition that the new company should
take control of this money or that it should be paid out
under the direction of the commission. But in principle
how does the case under review differ from the case supposed? The agreement in respect of the special fund,
though contained in the body of the plan, is in effect as
distinct as though it had been made by separate contract.
It seems plain enough that the commission, by the condition here in question, has undertaken to lay its hands upon
and control the disposition of a fund created by contract
between private persons to which the carrier was not a
party, in which the carrier had no enforceable' interest,
and which was not within the purview of the regulating
power of the commission. The paos.tjhat can be said is
that the creation of the special fund-like production or
manufacture of commodities, United State' v. E. C.
Knight Co., -156 U. S. 1, 12-" may [or' may not] result
in bringing the operation of commerce into play." The
contract was not one in respect of commerce but involved
a transaction distinct and complete in itself without regard to its results; and, whether succeeded by commerce
or not, was no part of it. Diamond Glue Co. v. United'
States Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611, 616.
The proviso itself aptly illustrates by contrast the extent of the' commission's power to impose conditions in
respect of the matter under review. From the entire fund
of $4 per share, $2.50 per share was set apart to be used
for paying costs of foreclosure, court allowances, etc., and
%anybalance remaining was to be-paid over to the new
company; and by a subsequent agreement this balance,
together with an' unexpended amount intended for expenses not yet liquidated, .was formally conceded to be
the property of the new company. This portion -of the
fund, therefore, was properly a part of the carrier's resources; constituted a subject matter upon which the

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 327
311

Opinion of the Court.

legislative standards controlling the action of the commission in respect of the issue of securities had a direct bearing; was proximately related to, and might substantially
affect, the commercial activities of the carrier; and, accordingly, was a subject in respect of which the condition
properly could be imposed by the commission. In the
case of the special fund of $1.50 per share, however, the
carrier had no such interest. That fund was owned by
and subject to the sole control of private persons.
Whether the carrier would receive any part of it in the
future was a matter of speculation being wholly dependent upon the unrestricted will of its custodians. It results
that the condition, in so far as it affects the special fund
of $1.50 per share, was an interference with private property and rights lying outside the field of federal
jurisdiction.
The power to regulate commerce is not absolute, but is
subject to the limitations and guarantees of the Constitution, among which are thoge providing that private
property shall not be taken for public use without just
compensation and that no person shall be deprived of
life, liberty or property without due process of law.
MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. UnitedStates, 148 U. S.
312, 336; United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171
U. S. 505, 571-57?; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161,
180. Both the liberty of contract and the right to property here are iivolved. The contract was valid and had
been so adjudged by the court having jurisdiction of the
foreclosure and sale. The parties to it were willing and
were entitled to have the contract executed according to
its terms. There is no power in any department of the
government to order otherwise. And certainly a carrier
whose'only interest in the property lies in the speculative
possibility that some remnant of, it in the future may
come to the carrier as a gift is in no position to take it as
of right without compensation. In that view, any legis-

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion 6f the Court.

282 U.S.

lative or administrative edict which purports to empower
thb carrier to take the property-without compensation and
dispose of it, not as the -contract provides, but as the
governmental body -iay direct, must fail as a futile
attempt to accomplish what the Constitution does not
permit.
Second. , The jurisdiction- of the federal district courts,
as already pointed out, extends over cases brought to
enjoin, iet aside, annul, or suspend, in whole or in part,
any order of the commission. The contention of the government is that the huthority to enjoin an order in part,
applies to a severable part of the order, but not to a condition upon which the order was issued after the carrier
has exercised the authority granted by the order.. No
pertinent authority is cited in support of this contention,
and none has.been called to our attention. A condition
contained in the order by which the grant is limited is as'.
much a part of the order as any of its substantive provrsions, and if beyond the jurisdiction of the commission is
not ratified by an acceptance of the valid part of the order.
It long has been settled in this court that the rejectioi of
an unconstitutional condition imposed by a state upon
the grant of a privilege, even though the state possess the
unqualified power to withhold the grant altogether, does
not annul the grant. The grantee may ignore or enjoin
the enforcement of the condition without thereby losing
the grant. There are many decisions to this effect; but
we need cite only Frost Trucking Co, v. Railroad Commission, 271 U. S. 583, 593-599, and HanoverIns. Co. v. Harding, -272 U. S. 494, 507-508, where the cases are collected
and reviewed. The decisions rest upon a principle, which
"is broader than the applications thus far made of it,"
Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Commission, supra, at
p. 598. Broadly stated, the rule is that the right to continue
the exercise of a privilege granted by the state cannot be
-made to depend upon the grantee's submission to a con-

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 329,
311

Opinion of the Court.

dition prescribed by the state which is hostile to the provisions of the federal Constitution. Westerm Union Tel.
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 47-48; Western Union Tel. Co.
v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 114.
Without attempting to determine how far this principle
may be carried in its application to orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission, or attempting to'formulate
any general rule in respect thereof, we are of opinion. that
the principle does apply to the order now under review;
and for present purposes that is enough.
An examination of the report shows that the commission f rst considered the question in respect of the authority to issue securities sought by the new company. As
to that matter it found specifically all the facts required
by § 20, as prerequisites to an order granting such authority. The commission further found that the value of
the properties sought to be acquired, which included*no
part of the $4 fund, exceeded the amount of the securities, including preferred stock, to be issued or assumed,
by more than $70,000,000.* In determining the value of
*The finding in detail is as follows:
"In the instant case the testimony is that the value of the
properties proposed to be acquired ranges from $640,000,000 to
$900,000,000. For purposes of argument, the Jameson committee
took $700,000,000. The book value on May 31, 1927, in round numbers was $707,000,000. Against these values or this investment
there will be outstanding after the proposed reorganization the following: Undisturbed bonds, 6xcluding $22,129,000 of bonds assumed
pursuant to the lease of Terre Haute, $160,001,960; 50-year 5 per
cent mortgage gold bonds, $106,395,096; adjustment-mortgage bonds
$182,873,693; preferred stock $119,845,800; total $569,116,549:
Using the lowest figure, $640,000,000, and deducting from that amount
the total par value of the securities enumerated, 'or approxnimately
$569,100,000, would leave $70,900,000 as representing the value of
the 1,174,060 shares of common stock without nominal or par value.
In the hypothetical balance sheet as of May 31, 1927, the applicant
shows $174,342,841.64 for the book value of the common stock.
Without expressing any opinion as to the value of the no-par-value

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

the properties as a basis for the issue of- the securities,
the commission gave no -consideration to the $4 fund, or
to the' amount of any balance which might remain -after
payment of the charges against it, upon the theory that
it constituted any part of these properties. After a 6omprehensive review of the reorganization plan, the commission concluded: "Upon consideration of all the facts
we are of opinion- that the, public interest will. be served
by an approval of the application, even though we should
believe that a stronger financial structure might have
been erected by the adoption of some other plan of reorganization."
The commission, having thus disposed -of the application for authority to issue' securities, turned to a consideration of the $4 fund and announced that the authority
granted to issue the securities would be upon the conditioii set forth in clause- (b). bf the proviso. But nowhere
in the report do'we find the slightest' suggestion that any
part of the fund was included with the properties which
were held to be a-sufficient -basisfor the issue-of the securities, together with the proposed non-par-value common
stock.-The find was dealt with as an independent and
separate matter upon the theory that the commission
could reserve jurisdiction over it." for the purpose of taking further testimony as to the expenses of the reorganization, the nature and scope of the services performed for
flie. compensation and fees claimed, and any other matters appropriate in the premises,-and for the entering of
pertinent orders in -connection therewith." That it was
not regarded as involving the basic ground for granting
the authority is borne out by the concurring opinion of
common stock, it would appear that upon applying the test suggested there ,will remain .an'unmortgaged equity in the properties
sufficient to permit the bondholders to assign to the stockholders an
interest therein and to support th issue of 'stock in the amounts
proposed."

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 331
311

STONE, J., dissenting.

Commissioner Hall, who evidently so understood. He
said, "I am in accord with the conclusions authorizing
issuance and assumption of liability in respect of securities and granting certificate of public convenience and
necessity. I do not conceive that as a commission we have
anything to do with the application which may be made
of the $4 per share paid in to the reorganization managers by existing stockholders. What those stockholders
do with their money is their affair unless and until some
part of that moiley is paid over to the applicant."
The order in itself, being complete and self-sustaining
and resting upon grounds found to be sufficient to support it, cannot be made to depend upon submission to a
collateral condition, which, as we have shown, is beyond
the statutory and constitutional power of the commission
to impose. Whatever may be the general rule, we have
no difficulty in concluding that, under the circumstances
above recited, the principle in respect of the separability
of unconstitutional conditions imposed upon a privilege
granted by a state is applicable to the present order of the
commission-and for a stronger reason, since that body,
unlike a state in the class of cases referred to, does not
possess the power arbitrarily to deny the authority here
sought by the carrier.
From the foregoing it results that the condition in respect of the special fund of $1.50 per share was properly
set aside and its enforcement enjoined by the court below.
Decree affirmed.

The CBIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE STONE.
I think the judgment should be reversed and the order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission upheld as one
within its statutory authority. But even if it be assumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
SToNE, J., dissenting.

282 U.S.

that the condition attached to the order was an improper
one, it would seem that the respondent is now estopped to
challenge it. In any case, I think the Court should not
permit the order to stand as an unqualified approval of
the proposed issue of securities, after striking from it the
condition upon which the Commission s, approval was
given.
1. The obvious purpose' of subsection (2) of § 20 (a)
of the Transportation Act is the prevention of any issue
of securities by a rail carrier unless the Interstate Commerce Commission, '"after investigation . . . of the
purposes and uses of the proposed issue and the proceeds
thereof, . . . finds that such' issue . .
is . . .
compatible with the public interest, .
. and
reasonably necessary and appropriate" for the corporate
purposes of the carrier. I suppose no one would doubt,
and the opinion of the Court seems to concede, that if
the assessments which, under the reorganization plan,
were to be levied upon the stockholders of the old company, were all to be paid into the new one in exchange
for the new securities, it would have been the duty of the
Commission to iveistigate the purposes and uses of the
new issue and its proceeds; and if it found that the issue
to raise a; fund for the payment of extravagant reorganization expenses was not. compatible with, the public interest, or reasonably necessary and appropriate for the
corporate purposes of the new company, the Commission
could have refused to approve it. Under subsection (3)1
the Commission could have provided against improper
expenditures by annexing to its order the very condition
which it added in the present case.
1 (3) "The commission shall have power by its order to grant
or deny the application as made, or to grant it in part and deny
it in part, or to grant it with such modifications and upon such
terms and conditions as the commission may deem necessary. or
appropriate.
.

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 333
311

STONE, J., dissenting.

But it is said that, because no part of the $1.50 fund
provided by the stockholders to pay for thd reorganization would necessarily ever come into the possession or
control of the new company, and since its disposition was
a mere matter of private contract between the stockholders and the reorganization managers, the condition
was beyond the power of the Commission. 1
Vhe question
is thus presented, whether the salutary provisions of
§ 20 (a) can be avoided, and an issue of securities, so far
as it is made to raise a fund to defray excessive reorganization.expenses, withdrawn from the control of the Commission, by the simple expedient of so arranging the reorganization plan that reorganization managers may retain
and disburse, from the moneys paid in by the old stockholders'to procure stock in the reorganized company, such
amounts as may be required for reorganization expenses.
The history of the receivership resulting in the present
reorganization will be found in the report of the Commission in the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Investigation,
131 I. C. C. 615, issued the same day as its report in the
present case. The old company having reached the end
of its financial rope, and protective committees representing respectively the bondholders, the preferred, and the
common stockholders having been organized, its bankers,
the present reorganization managers, were active in bringing about the receivership and have since dominated the
reorganization. The Commission said (pp. 667, 668):
" "For months prior to the receivership they
[the railroad's directors] were impotent. It was an ideal situation
for the bankers to control. This they promptly did, arranged all the details, framed up the committees favorably
to themselves, put themselves on the bondholders' protective committee and constituted themselves reorganization
managers."
As managers they formulated the reorganization plan,
and incorporated it in an agreement between themselves

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
STONE, J., dissenting.

282 U.S.

and the committees. In every practical sense the reorganization maiagers controlled the foreclosure proceedings
resulting in the sale of the property of the old company.
Their representatives were the purchasers at the foreclosure sale. They created and controlled the new company, which is the appellee here. The reorganization plan
gave.them full power to modify it as a whole or in detail,
with the approval of the committee representing the securities affected. They were authorized to carry out the
plan; and in doing so they were empowered to act for,
and as intermediaries between, the committees, the stockholders, and the new company. Both preferred and common stockholders of the old company were required by
the plan to surrender their stock in that company,, and
to pay $32 for each share of their common stock, and $28
for each of their preferred, in order to procure the securities of the new company. The alternative was loss of
their rights as stockholders, which were still of substantial
value. The plan called for the use of these sums to pay
certain obligations of the old company, and such miscellaneous fiscal requirements of the new as were not supplied by the proceeds of its funded debt, and to create the
$1.50 fund, from which were to be paid, in the uncontrolled
discretion of the managers, the reorganization expenses
incurred in launching the new company and securing the
transfer to it of the business and property of the old.
It would seem that technical.distinctions between possible methods of procuring payment of the last from funds
raised by a security issue of the new company ought not
to affect the authority of the 'Commission. I should have
thought that, under our.decisions, the Commission, where
its order controls only the action of the appellee, mightlook through legal forms and, disregarding the corporate
entity of appellee, treat the action of the reorganization
managers, in dealing with the sums paid by the stockholders for the new stock - of appellee, as that of their

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 335
311

SToNz, J., dissenting.

creature and alter ego, the appellee. See United Fuel Ga.s
Co. v. Railroad Commission of Kentucky, 278 U. S. 300,
308; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis Civic Assn., 247 U. S. 490; United States v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co.: 238 U. S. 516;
United States v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 257.
But even if we disregard this identity of interest, and
whatever the form of the transaction, whether the reorganization expenses were to be paid out by the new company directly, or merely for its account by the reorganization managers, its creators, in order to enable it to acquire
the railroad property for the benefit of its stockholders.
-the source of the expense fund was the assessments paid
by the old stockholders, in reality and legal effect part
consideration for, and proceeds of, the issue of the new
stock. To say that so much of the reorganization agreement as related to the creation and expenditure of the
$1.50 fund for the payment of these expenses was a mere
private agreement, unrelated to the issue of securities,
with which the Commission is vitally concerned,, is to
ignore its plain terms and disregard its practical operation.
The first installment of the assessments was not to be
paid in by the stockholders until the plan under which
the new securities were to be issued was declared operative by the managers. Stockholders who failed to pay
the installments in full could acquire no rights to securities in the new company. It cannot be supposed that one
dollar of the $1.50 fund would-ever have been contributed
by stockholders, had not the reorganization agreement
definitely undertaken to issue the securities under the
plan to those stockholders who deposited their stock and
made the required payments. The creation of this fund
for the payment of the reorganization and other expenses
was a part of the necessary price exacted for the new
securities. It was an important purpose for which the
new stock was issued, and one of the purposes which the

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
STo&E, J., dissenting.

282 U.S.

Commission was directed by the statute to investigate
in determining, as it was bound to do, 2 whether the issue
was in the public interest and reasonably necessary and
appropriate for the corporate purposes of appellee. The
considerations affecting the judgment of the Commission
in passing upon the reasonable necessity forAhe issue, its
effect upon the public interest and upon the. carrier's performance of its public service, are the same whether the
expense fund was to be paid directly to the new company
for disbursement by it, or short circuited, through the
managers, 'from stockholders of the old to the various
claimants for services rendered in creating the new.
Neither the public interest nor the duty imposed on the
Interstate Commerce Commission is limited to insuring
the payment .of debts by any particular railroad, or pro,.
curing for it an -adequate amount of money or property
for the securities which it issues. An important purpose
of the Transportation Act of 1920 was to preserve for the
nation the transportation system as a whole, and, to that
end, to secure a fair return on capital devoted to the
transportation service. See New EnglandDivisions Case,
261 U. S. 184, 189; Railroad Commission v. C., B. & Q.

. The Transportation Act of 1920, § 20a, provides (iubsection 2):
.
it shall be unlawful for any carrier to issue any share of
capital stock or any bond or other evidence of interest in or indebtedness of the carrier . . . unless and until, and then only to the
extent that, upon application by the carrier; and after investigation
by the commission of the purposes and uses of the proposed issue
and the proceeds thereof, . . . the commission by order authorThe 1ommissoin shall make such order only
.
izes such issue
if it finds that such issue . . . (a) is for some lawful object
within its corporate purposes, and compatible with the public interest, which is necessary or appropriate for or consistent with the
proper performance by the carrier of service to-the public ad a
common carrier, and which will not impair its ability to perform
that serviceand (b) is reasonably necessary and appropriate for
such purpose."

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 337
SmroN, J., dissenting.

311

R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 585; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v.
United States, 263 U. S. 456, 478. The preservation of
the transportation system and the stability of its credit
essential to its preservation depend not alone upon the
ability of individual carriers to meet their obligations, but
upon the ability of all to attract 1he investment of funds
in their securities. If such investments are impaired by
receiverships of the carriers, followed by reorganizations
of excessive cost, and if railroad shareholders, compelled
by the necessities of their situation, must contribute to the
rehabilitation of their properties excessive amounts upon
which the reorganized carrier may not earn an adequate
return, railroad credit in a broad sense is affected, the
permanency and stability of the transportation system as
a whole is impaired, and the public interest suffers. No
one familiar with the finanial and corporate history of
this country could say, I think, that railroad credit and
ttie marketability of railroad securities have not been
profoundly affected, for long periods of time, if not continuouisly, by the numerous railroad reorganizations, in
the course of which junior security holders have found it
impossible to save more than a remnant-of their investment, and that only by the assumption of a heavy burden
of expense, too often the result of wasteful and extravagant methods of reorganization.
The public likewise has an interest in the costs of reorganization insofar as they may affect rates and the application of the recapture provision of" the Transportation
Act. Such costs may play an important part in the going concern value of the new company, which is an element of value for rate making purposes. See Des Moines
Gas Co. v. Des Moines, 238 U. S. 153, 165; Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., 246 U. S. 178, 184, 192; Bluefield
Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm., 262 U. S. 679, 686; McCardle
v. IndianapolisWater Co., 272 U. S. 400, 414. In United
221.10°-31-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

282 U.S.

Railways v. West, 280 U. S. 234, a substantial amount was
included in the rate base to cover "Cost,bf Financing."
The mere fact that going concern value is supplied from
sources other than the treasury of the carrier, here the
stockholders of the old company who became stockholders
of the new; is not material. See United Railways v. West,
supra. The Commission is specially charged with public
duties with respect to rates, valuation, and the administration of -he recapture provisions. In all these respects
the public interest may be adversely affected if railrogd'
securities may be issued. to effect, either directly or indirectly, the payment of excessive costs of reorganization.
If example were needed of the nature and extent of the
public interest which may be involved, it is afforded by
the present case. In passing upon the present issue of
,securities, the Commission had before it the results of its
elaborate Investigation of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St.
PaulRy. Co., supra, entered into after the receivership, in
the course of which it commented on the excessive fees
and commissions paid in the pat by the Railway Company to its bankers, the present reorganization managers.
It had before it- tentative estimates of the total cost of
reorganization running- as high as $6,494,900. The $4
fund set apart for expenses approximated $9,330,000, of
which the $1.50 fund was a part aggregating about $3,500,000, out of which were to be paid the reorganization managers, various protective committees, counsel, and depositaries. The estimated expenses to be paid from this fund
ranged from $2,636,000 to $3,381,000, of which the compensation to be paid to the reorganization managers was
$1,04,000.
These estimates were eighteen months old at the time
the Commission made its report. The Commission concluded that the record wis insufficient to enable it to
arrive at an opinion as to the reasonableness of these expenses. It reserved jurisdiction to take testimony and

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 339
311

SToNE,

J., dissenting.

to make further inquiry as to the expenses of reorganization, and the nature and scope of 'the services performed
for the compensation fees claimed; but in order that the
reorganization might proceed and the railroad property
be released from the receivership, the authority for the
issue of the new securities was granted upon th&condition
that the appellee impound the entire $4 fund, which was
to be paid out only upon order of court or the Commission.
Since the Commission had concluded that the expenses
might be excessive and that there was no adequate safeguard against improper payments, it could, under the express terms of the statute,3 have rejected the application.
But it is said that even though the Commission might
rightly have refused its permission to issue -the securities,
still, having granted permission, it could not annex this,
condition to the order; and that, as it could not compel
the reorganization managers to impound the expense fund
paid over to them, or to submit the reasonableness of the
expenses which they had incurred to the .Commission or
the court, it was an arbitrary and unwarranted exercise of
power to make .the Commission's approval of the stock
issue conditional upon such action.
If that were a valid argument, it would follow that the
Commission, notwithstanding the authority given it by
subsection (3), could never attach any condition to its
approval of an issue of securities, when compliance with
the condition would involve the perfornance of acts which
the Commission could not comnand. But the only purpose of subsection (3) would seem to be to enable the
Commission to induce, not compel, action, by annexing to
its order, as the statute authorizes, "such terms and conditions as the Commission may deem necessary or appr'opriate." Notwithstanding this broad language, it may be
assumed that only those conditions which, like the present, are germane to the purposes of subsection (2) are
3 See statute, supra, note 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
STONu, J., dissenting.

282 U.S.

intended; and that, consequently, only such terms and
conditions may be annexed to the order as tend in some
measure to remove objections to, the issue, which legitimate3i might be the basis of withholding favorable action.
If the Commission, as I think it might, could have refused to hpprove the present issue of securities on the
ground that they were to be issupd to procure payment
of reorganization expenses which were or might be excessive, then, plainly, under the provisions of subseption
,(3) and within the purview of subsection (2), it could
have made its consent to the issue conditional upon the
modification of the plan, in such manner as to preclude
the payment of unreasonable expenses. Appellee was not
obliged to comply. with the condition, since it was not
compelled to proceed with the plan, although compliance
with it, through the exercise of the power of.the managers
to modify the plan, would not, so far as appears, have
been -impossible or even difficult. But as the condition
was one.which the Commission had power to impose, appellee, having accepted the plan, cannot repudiate the
condition.
2. Even if it be held that the condition which the Commission attached to its order ,was beyond its authority,
I should still have thought the present case not a; proper
one for a court of equity to lend its aid to the appellee,
and in any event that the decree below should have been
so framed as to leave no doubt that the Commission was
free to treat the whole order as though it had not been
made.
So far as appears, not until appellee filed the present
petition did it disclose any purpose to disregard the condition upon which the order depended. In the meantime
it had taken full advantage of the benefits of the order.
After it was granted, appellee presented to the Commission two supplemental petitions for orders authorizing
payments, from the expense fund, of specific amounts for

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 341
311

SToNE, J., dissenting.

corporate purposes, not including any item payable out
of the $1.50 fund. The first of these was grarpted.
Appellee stated in its figst petition:
"The applicant WJll make such further application or
applications, if any, with respect to matters dealt with in
the commission's order and not covered -hereby as from
time to time may be necessary or proper."
The order of the District Court having jurisdiction of
the foreclosure directed that deeds of the property should
not pass to the appellee until it should have been authorized by the Commission to issue the securities. The appellee, without disclosing any purpose not to comply with
the Commission's order, petitioned the District Court for
an order directing the delivery of the deeds, exhibiting,
the court below found, the order and certificate of the
Commission. Upon consideration of this application, the
court ordered the delivery of the deeds; and appellee then
issued the new securities. Only after the reorganization
had-thus become an accomplished fact by -ppellee taking
the benefit of so much of the order as suited its purposes,
did it elect to repudiate the condition upon which the
order was founded. Of the appellee's application to. the
District Court, the court below rightly said, "The ietition was a representation to the court that plaintiff
[appellee here] had accepted the order and expected to
comply with the condition.
"
If appellee were unable or unwilling to comply with the
order as made, equity and good conscience required, at
least, either disclosure, of that fact to the District Court
before securing the transfer of the railroad property to it;
application, upon full statement of the facts, to the Com-,
mission to exercise the jurisdiction, which it had reserved,
to approve a modified plan; or prompt initiation of "the
present proceedings to test the validity of the order before
a situation had been created prejudicial to the public
interest and to the Commission's performance .of its

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
STONE, J.,

dissenting.

282U.S.

duties. Instead, appellee adopted a course of conduct
consistent throughout only with its apparent purpose to
comply with the order; and now, without tendering any
excuse f6r the belated disclosure of its real purpose, it asks
relief from the condition only after it has enjoyed benefits
which it cannot be said would have been granted without
the condition. Neither this Court nor the court below
is acting any the less as a court of equity because its
powers are invoked to deal with an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission: The failure to conform to those
elementary standards of fairness and good conscience
which equity may always demand as a condition of its
relief to those who seek its aid, seems to require that such
aid be withheld from this appellee. See Davis v. Wakelee,
156 U. S. 680.
3. By the opinion of the Court, the order of the Commission, so far as it approves the issue of the securities,
is treated as effective without the condition. But even if
we assume .that the condition which the Commission
attached to the order is beyond its power, we should not
attempt to substitute our judgment for that of the Com-'
mission, since the statute requires its consent, not ours;
and we should not allow the order to stand without the
condition, since that is not the order which the Commission made. By the' Transportation Act, the giving or
withholding of consent to the issue of securities is an administrative power, conferred, not upon the courts, but
upon the Interstate Commerce Commission. Courts may
determine whether the Commission lacks the power to
impose a particular condition; but they may not strike
from an order the condition upon which it was grapted,
and thus declare that it shall stand although the condition
is not complied with. See United States v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R.1 235 U. S. 314, 320; Procter & Gamble
Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282; Assigned Car Cases,
274 U. S. 564.

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, ETC., R. CO. 343
311

SToxm, J., dissenting.

Whether or not the Commission has in fact consented
does not turn on whether the condition is good or bad, but
on whether it can fairly be said that the Commission
would have given its unqualified consent independently
of the condition. As the report of the Commission discloses, consent to the issue was given only with reluctance,
to release the properties from the receivership ait the
earliest possible noment, but with the undoubted assumption on its part as a moving cause for its consent,
that by annexing the condition it would exercise control
over the reorganization expenses, with respect to the
amount of which it had expressed grave concern. With
four of the Commissioners voting unconditionally against
'the issue, I see no sufficient warrant for assuming that
any would have voted for it without the condition and
without the further investigation which it thought necessary, and which it ws authorized to make before unconditionally approving the issue. Both the report and order
of the Commission state that the authority granted was
upon the "express condition" which is now the'subject
of this controversy. If in the face of this language there
can be any doubt as to the intention of the Commission,
we need not speculate upon what it might have done, had
it thought it was without power to impose the cpndition,
since it is able to speak for itself if this Court permits it
to do so by setting aside the entire order without prejudice
to further action by the Commission, under the statute,
upon the application for approval of the issue of the
securities.
The judgment below, as interpreted by this Court, not
only makes effective an order different from any the Commission has granted, but precludes any future action by
the Commission in the perfornance of its statutory duty;.
In this respect the case differs from those in which this
Court has set aside an unconstitutional ,condition imposed by state legislation on a foreign corporation seeking

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.,
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

to do business within a state. In those cases the judgment of this Court in no way'restricts the further exercise
of the legislative power of the state in any constitutional
manner. Here the Commission is ousted from the exercise of power which Congress has given it, and an order
is sanctioned authorizing an issue of securities which it
cannot be said the Commission has approved, and which
this Court does not purport to say is appropriate under
the statute.
MR. JUSTICE, HOLiEs and

Mr. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS concur

in this opinion.
GO-BART IMPORTING COMPANY ET'AI,. v. UNITED

STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURflT OF APPEALS FOR THE
'SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 111.

Argued November 25, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1031.

1. A warrant issued by a United States Commissioner, addressed
only to the Marshal and his deputies, and based upoxi, and reciting
the substance of, a complaint that was -verified merely on information and belief and that did not state an dffetse;--held invalid
on its face, and no authority to prohibition officers to make an
arrest. P. 355.
2. Acting under color of an invalid warrant of arrest, and falsely
claiming to have a search warrant, prohibition agents entered the
,office-of a company, placed under arrest two of its officeis, and
made a general search of the premises. They compelled by threats
-of force the opening of a desk and safe, and seized therefrom and
from other parts of the office, papers and records belonging to the
company and its officers. The officers of the company were arraigned before a United States Commissioner, and by him held on
bail further to answer the complaint (U. S. C., Title 18, § 591),
while the seized papers were held under the control of the United
States Kttorney in the care and custody of the prohibition agent
in charge. The company, and its two officers individually, before

