INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO. v. U. S.
379

399

Syllabus.

franchise must be held in practical operation to be a tax,
. . This tax is equivalent to a
upon the income.
tax upon relator's income "; and then added, "it is primarily a tax levied for the privilege of doing business in
the state!' This amounts to nothing more than a repetition in brief of what Judge Cardozo, more at length,
already had said, namely, that in practical operation the
tax is one upon income for the privilege of doing business;
and it leaves the conclusion set forth in the quotation we have made from the Knapp case wholly without
modification.

These views, we submit, require a reversal of the judgment below.
INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY v. UNITED

STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 37.

Argued January 7, 1931.--Decided January 19, 1931.

1. Section 120 of the National Defense Act of 1916, which empowered
the President, in time of war, to place obligatory orders with corporations for any product or material required, of the kind usually
produced by them, was sufficient authority for taking the right
held by a lessee to make use of part of the water in a power
canal, such taking being accomplished by requisitioning from the
power company owning the canal all the electrical power e~pable
of being produced by the use of all waters capable of being
diverted through its intake for its plants and machinery, connected
therewith. P. 406.
2. A requisition by the Government upon a, power compaihy for the
production of all the electrical power capable of being produced
through the full use of the waters of its intake canal, including
the use to which a lessee of the company was entitled under rights
which by state law were a corporeal hereditament and real estate,
held a taking for public use of the water rights of such lessee, and
that the latter is entitled to compensation therefor, notwithstanding that, by an agreement made between the Government and
the power company at the time of the requisition, the Government

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioner.

282 U. S.

waived delivery of the power on condition that it be distributed
to certain designated private companies (of which the lessee was
not one) for war uses, and-the company waived all right to compensation if permitted to carry on its business and to sell its power
consistently with the exigencies of, the national security. and
defense. Omnia Commercial Co.v. United States, 261 U. S. 502,

distinguished.

P. 407.

3. Secretary of War, in making war-time requisition of electrical
power generated by diversion of water from Niagara River, held
not to have acted pursuant to powers iu respect of navigation
or under treaty, but to have exercised power of eminent domain.
P . 407.
68 Ct. Cls. 414, reversed.

CEwR0oRAP, 281 U. S.710, to review a judgment of the
Court of Claims in favor of the United States in a suit
against it to recover compensation for property .rights in
water alleged to have been taken for war purposes. Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. William C.
Cannon, Montgomery B. Angell, and Porter R. Chandler
were on the brief, for petitioner.
The water rights of the petitioner were without doubt
taken, and intentionally taken, during the ten months
period in which the requisition order remained in effect.
These water rights were of such a character that they
constituted private property within the meaning of the
Fifth Amendment, for which, if taken, compensation
must be paid. Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166;
United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; IUnitedStates v.
Welch, 217 U. S. 333; United States v. Wayne County,
252 U. S. 574; Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312; North American Transp. Co. v.
United States, 253 U. S. 330; Jams v. Campbell, 104
U. S. 356; Central Trust Co. v. Hennen, 90 Fed. 593;
Williams v. 1United States, 104 Fed. 50. See especially
Duckett & Co. v. United States, 266 U. S. 149. Omnia
Commercial Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 502,
distinguished.

INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO. v. U. S.
399

401

Argument for Petitioner.

The taking was not accompanied by any revocation
of the federal license, and the express promise to pay just
compensation negatives any taking under a claim of right.
The Power Company's waiver of compensation cannot
operate to deprive the petitioner of its rights to compensation in respect of its own property.
Neither the treaty with Great Britain nor the Federal
Water Power Act has the effect of transferring proprietary
rights under the laws of the State of New York to the
Federal Government.
The taking of petitioner's water rights was pursuant
to statute, and was not the mere private or tortious act
of the Secretary of War. The extent of a statutory
authorization is not to be narrowly or uniecessarily restricted, where the circumstances warrant giving to the
words used a wider scope, in order fully to carry out the
purpose of the legislation. This is particularly true of
a' war-time authorization granted to the President as
commander-in-chief of the armed forces, 6r to an agency
of the Government acting in the interests of the national
defense. Manufacturers'Land & Imp. Co. v. Emergency
Fleet Corp., 264 U. S. 250, 255. Cf. Maresca v. United
States, 277 Fed. 727, 735, certiorari denied 253 U. S. 498.
If -there was any defect in authority under the National
Defense Act, there was, we believe, ample authority for
the taking under the 'Urgent Deficiency Appropriation
Act of April 17, 1917, c. 3, 40 Stat. 28. Urgent Deficiency
At of December 15, 1917, c. 3, 40 Stat. 429.
When the requisition order was made, the Government
had full knowledge of petitioner's rights-had, in fact,
taken some pains to inquire as to the extent of those
rights-and specifically intended to appropriate petitioner's property. The requisition order was a peremptory command,--an act of sovereignty and not an offer
to negotiate. Liggett & Myers v. United States, 274 U. S.
215, 220. By its terms,*the Secretary of War undertook
22110'-31-26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument'for the United States.

282 U. S.

to inake the requisition in the name of the President
"armid by reason of the exigencies of the nptional security
and defense."
The Government attempts to argue that petitioner's
only remedy is an action sounding in tolt against the
Power Company. Such an action would be met at the
threshold with the answer that the shut-off of petitioner's
water was not effected by the Power Company, but-by the
United States Government, acting pursuant to statutory
authority.
The taking of petitioner's water was not a mere "regulation" -but wam a substantial deprivation of property,
for which compensation must be paid.
Petitioner is entitled to interest as a part of the just
compensation guaranteed to it by the Constitution.
Mr. Claude R. Branch argued the cause and Solicitor
General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Rugg, and
Messrs. Erwin N. Griswold and H. Brian Holland filed a
brief; for the United States.
It does not appear that the alleged taking of petitioner's.
water rights was, expressly or by necessary implication,
authorized by legislative enactment, and in the absence of
such authorization, petitioner is without recourse against
the United States.
Several statutes, such as the National Defense Act, gave
the President broad powers with respect to the appropriation of manufactured articles in time of war. It was
doubtless under these that the Secretary of War assumed,
in behalf of the President, to requisition the output of
the power plant. But the grant of authority merely to
requisition the product of a power plant does not authorize the taking of water power from a third party in order
to increase the productive capacity of the plant.
It does not appear that the President or the Secretary
of War was entitled to requisition anything other than.

INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO. v. U. S.
399

403

Argument for the United States.

electric power which the Power Company could produce
by means of facilities and materials over which it had
control. Duckett & Co. r' United States, 266 U. S. 149,
distinguished.
The res which was taken was "the total quantity
and output of the electrical power," and not the -use of
waters diverted or capable of being diverted through the
canal. The Government did not want water power, and
did not take it. It did intend that use should be made
by the Power Company of water theretofore used by the
Paper Company. But it does not follow from this that
the Government intended to expropriate the water. The
petitioner was advised of the contents of the requisition
order, but it was not directed or requested- to relinquish
its water rights either to the United States or to the
Power Company. Thus there was no physical taking by
the United States of any property belonging to the Paper
Company, and the case is distinguishable from Duckett
& Co. v. United States, supra.
The execution of the waiver precludes the idea of there
having been any appropriation by the United States even
of the power produced by the Power Company. Ultimately the Government took nothing, and assumed only
to regulate the selection of the Power Company's sale of
its product to essential industries. If, as petitioner argues,
electrical power is the alter ego of water power, then since
the Government did not take electricity it did 'not take
water.
There can be no recovery under the Fifth Amendment
unless property is actually taken and used by the sovereign
for a public purpose, Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457;
Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635; Gibson v.
United States, 166 ,1 S. 269; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179
U. S. 141; Wisconsin, M. & P. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S.
287; Hamiltonv. Kentucky Distilleries,251'U. S. 146.
The jurisdiction-of the Court of Claims to enter judgment on a claim founded on expropriation of property

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

must rest on the receipt of a consideration moving to the
United States. Bothwell v. United States, 254 U. S. 231;
Interocean Oil Co. v. United States, 270 U. S.65, 69.
This case, although not necessarily controlled by Omnia
Commercial Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 502, is more
closely comparable to it than to the Duckett case.
The interference with petitioner's property was, at
most, a result of the exercise of the power of the United
States to reulate industry and the use of natural resources in time of war, for which no compensation is pay-,
able. Morrisdale Coal Co. v. United States, 259 U. S.
188; PineHill Coal Co., Inc. v. United States, 259 U. S.
191; Atwater & Co. v. United States, 275 U. S.188.
This Court has repeatedly held that the sovereign may,
in the exercise of governmental powers, proinulgate regulations and impose'restrictions amounting in substancb to
a deprivation' or even complete destruction of property
*rights. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467;,
United States v. Delaware& H. Co., 213 U. S. 366; Morris
v. Duby, 224 U. S. 135; Tagg Bros. v. United States, 280
U. S.420.
If the petitioner is entitled to recover for the taking, it
is not entitled to interest.
Mr. 'JusTicE HoLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.'
This is a proceeding by the petitioner to recover compensation f6r property rights in water of the Niagara,
River alleged to have been taken by the United States
for war purposes. The N iagara Falls Power Company
by private grant to it, Letters Patent from the State of
New York and acts of the Legislature of that State, was
the owner so far as the law of New York could make it
owner of land and water rights on the American side of
the River above the Falls. Included in them was a power
canal thrbugh which the Power Company was authorized

INTERNATIONAL-PAPER CO. v. U. S.
399

405

Opinion of the Cot.

to divert 10,000 cubic feet per second, at the time of the
alleged taking. From this canalfe petitioner, the International Paper Company, was entitled, by .conveyance
and lease, to draw and was drawing 730 cubic feet per
second,-a right that by the law of New York was a corporeal hereditament and real estate.
On December 29 1917, the Secretary of War wrote to
the Power Company that "The President of the United
States by virtue of-and pursuant to the authority vested
in him, and by reason of the exigencies of the national
security and defence, hereby places an order with you
for and hereby requisitions the total quantity and output
of the electrical power which is capable of being produced
and/or delivered by you through the use* of all waters
diverted or capable of being diverted through your intake
canal and/or your plants and machinery connected therewith." Immediate and continuous delivery of such power
Was directed and it was added "You will be paid fair and
just compensation for power delivered liereunder.' At
the same time an agreement was made by the Secretary
of War and the Power Company, (reciting that the President has requisitionfed the power as above,) to the effect
that the Secretary of War " acting for and in behalf of the
United States" until further notice waives delivery of the
power to the United States on the express, condition that
the Power Company shall distribute such powe& as provided in a schedule naming companies and amounts but
not naming the petitioner, and on the other side the
Power Company waives all right of compensation by rehson of said requisition if permitted to carry on its business
and to sell consistently with the exigencies of the national
security and defence. On December 29, the representative
of the Secretary of War wrote to the secretary of the
Power Company "Please note that the requisition order'
covers also all of'the water capable of being diverted
through your intake canal....

This is intended to cut

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

off the water being taken by the International Paper ComJ any and thereby increase your productive, capacity," and
on December 31 telegraphed to the counsel of the petitioner "Power Company has been directed'to take water
hitherto used by International Paper Co." The petitioner
had been notified of what was to happen but was allowed
time to run out its stock on hand. On February 7, 1918,
its use of the water ceased and was not resumed until
midnight November 30, 1918, when the order of December
28 was abrogated. The Court of Claims found that the
shutting off of the water from the petitioner's mill cost it
$304,685.36, direct overhead expense, but gave judgment
that the petition be dismissed.
The Government has urged different defenses with
varying energy at different stages of the case. The latest
to be pressed is that it does not appear that the action of
the Secretarr was authorized by Congress. We shall give
scant consideration to such a repudiation of responsibility.
The Secretary of War in the name of the President, with
the power of the country behind him, in critical time of
war, requisitioned what was needed and got it. Nobody
doubts, we presume, that if any technical defect of
authority had been pointed out it woula have been
remedied at once. The Government exercised Ats power
in the interest of the, country in an important matter,
without difficulty, so far as appears, until the time comes
to pay for what it has had. The doubt is, rather late.
,We shall accept as sufficient answer the reference of the
petitioner to the National Defense Act of June 3, 1916, c.
134, ยง 120, 39 Stat. 166, 213; U. S. Code, Title 50, ยง 80,
giving the President in time of war.power to place an
obligatory order with any corporation for such product
as may be required, which is of the kind usually produced
by such corporation.,

INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO. v. U. S.
399

Opinion of the Court.

Then it is said that there was no taking, but merely.
a making of arrangements by contract. But all the
agreements were on the footing that the Government had
made a requisition that the other party was bound to
obey. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. v. United States,
274 U. S. 215, 220. It is said that the Power Company
and the petitioner could withdraw water from the River
only by license from the United States, under the Act of
June 29, 1906, c. 3621, 34 Stat. 626, and that the license
was revoked by what was done: But the Secretary of
War did not attempt to pervert the powers given to him
in the interest of navigation and international duties to
such an end. He proceeded on the footing of a full
recognition of the Power Company's rights and of the
Government's duty to pay for the taking that he purported to accomplish. There is no room for quibbling
distinctions between the taking of power and the taking
of water rights.. The petitioner's right was to the use
of the water; and when all the water that it used was
withdrawn from the petitioner's mill and turned elsewhere by government requisition for the production qf
power it is hard to see what more the Government could
do to take the use. It is true that the petitioner did not
come within the scope of the Government's written promise to pay. But the Government purported to be using
its power of eminent domain to acquire rights that did
not belong to it and for whih it was bound.by the Constitution to pay. It promised to pay for all the power
that the canal could generate.. If it failed to realize that
the petitioner had a right to a part of the power, its clear
general purpose.,and undertaking was to pay for the
rights that it took. when it took the. power.. Phelps .v.
United States, 274 U. S. 341, 343. Campbell v. United
States, 266 U. S. 368, 370, 371. United States v. Great

408

0 0TOBER 7ERM, 1030.
Opinion of the Court..

282 U. S.

Falls Manufacturing Co., 112 U. S. 645, 656. Of course
it does not matter that by a subordinate 'arrangement it
directed the use of. the power. to companies that would
fulfil its purposes rather than to machinery of its own.
That arrangement it was able to make only because it
took the power.
We perceive no difficulty arising from the case of Omnia
Commercial Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 502. There
the taking of the whole product of a company went no
further than to make if practically impossible for that
company to keep a collateral contract to deliver a certain amount of steel to the appellant. . But here the
Government took the property that the petitioner owned
as fully as the Power Company owned the residue of the
water power in the canal. Our conclusion upon the
whole matter is that the Government intended to take
and did take the use of all the water power in the canal;
that it relied upon and exercised its power of eminent
domain to that end; that, purporting to act under that
power and no other, it promised to pay the owners of
that power, and that it did not make the taking any less
a taking for public use by its logically subsequent direction that the power should be delivered to private companies for work deemed more useful than the manufacture of paper for the exigencies of the national security
and defence. SAe Mt. Vernon-Wo6dberry Cotton Duck
Co. v. Alabama Interstate Power Co., 240 U. S. 30.
Judgment reversed.

and
Mr. JusTicE McRzywoW s, Mr. JusTicE SToI
Mr. JUSTICE ROBERTS are of opinion that the judgment
of the Court of Claims should be affirmed.

