STORY PARCHMENT CO. v. PATERSON CO.
545

555

Syllabus.

interest or its equivalent as an element of damages."
Miller v. Robertson, 266 U. S. 243, 257-259, and cases
cited. See also Standard Oil Co.. v. United States, 267
U. S.76, 79; Bernhard v. Rochester German Ins. Co., 79
Conn. 388, 397. Under the facts disclosed by the record,
the principles established by these decisions fully justified
the allowance of interest made by the district court in
this case,
Judgment affirmed.
STORY PARCHMENT COMPANY v. PATERSON
PARCHMENT PAPER COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 57.

Argued January 19, 20, 1931.-.Decided February 24, 1931.

1. On review by certiorari, respondents, without necessity of a crosspetition, may invoke as an additional ground for sustaining the
judgment of the lower court a ground which that court had found
against them. P. 560.
2. In an action under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, on an issue as to
whether there was evidence of a conspiracy or combination to
monopolize interstate trade, this Court, upon examination of the
record, finds evidence sufficient to preclude interference with concurrent findings of courts below. P. 560.
3. Evidence ;held sufficient to show that petitioner in an action for
damages under Sherman Anti-Trust Act was injured in its business
and property as result of respondents' unlawful combination.
P. 560.
4. Assumption indulged by the appellate court, that respondents'
acts would have been the same if they had been acting independently of one another, rejected as unsound, in light of evidence and
instruction warranting finding by jury that price-cutting and resulting lower prices were directly attributable to unlawful combination. P. 561.
5. Characterization of verdict under Sherman Act, which included
damages measured by difference between amounts actually realized
by petitioner and what would have been realized by it from sales at

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioner.

282 U. S.

reasonable prices except for unlawful acts of respondents, as based
upon mere speculation and conjecture, held unwarranted. P. 562.
6. The rule which precludes the recovery of uncertain damages applies
to such as. are not the certain result of the wrong, not to those
damages which are definitely attributable to the wrong, and only
uncertain in respect of their amount. P. 562.
7.' Where the tort itself is of such a nature as to preclude the ascertainment of the amount of damages with certainty, it is enough if the
evidence show the extent of the damages as a matter of just and
reasonable inference, although the result be only approximate. The
wrong-doer is not entitled to complain that they cannot be measured
with the exactness and precision that would be possible if the case,
which he alone is responsible for making, were otherwise. P. 563.
8. Question whether acts of respondents in violation of Sherman Act
or conditions apart from them constituted the proximate cause of
depreciation in value of petitioner's property, held, upon evidence
in record, for the jury. P. 566.
9. Finding of jury on question of proximate cause must be allowed to
stand unless all reasonable men, exercising unprejudiced judgment,
would draw an opposite conclusion from the facts. P. 566.
10. Evidence as to extent to which value of petitioner's property was
diminished by acts of respondents in violation of Sherman Act held
sufficiently certain and definite to support verdict of jury. P. 567.
11. On certiorari to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, the entire record is before this Court with power to review
the action of the appellate court and direct such disposition of the
case as that court might have made of it upon the appeal from the
District Court; accordingly, assignments of error made on the appeal from the District Court, which were not considered below, may
-be examined and disposed of here. P. 567.
37 F. (2d) 537, reversed.

CERTORARI, 281 U. S. 711, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment for
damages recovered by the present petitioner, in an action
under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.
Messrs. Isadore Levin and Edward 0. Proctor, with
whom Mr. Edward C. Parkwas on the brief, for petitioner.
Damage may be caused by acts pursuant to an unlawful
conspiracy, even though the consequences of such acts are

STORY PARCHMENT CO. v. PATERSON CO..
555

557

Argument for Petitioner.

no different from those which might or would have occurred in the absence of a conspiracy.
It was for the jury to determine whether the conditions
existing in the trade were "natural conditions," or were
conditions intentionally created in order to destroy the
plaintiff. They were not bound to assume that, if it were
certain that in the absence of a conspiracy similar conditions would have prevailed, the actual conditions were
"natural conditions," for which the defendants-would be
hi no wise responsible. Nor had the court below the right
to assume as a matter of judicial knowledge that; in the
absence of a conspiracy, conditions in the trade would
have been substantially similar to those actually created
by the conspirators.
The evidence was sufficient to enable the jury to ascertain the amount of the plaintiff's damages with reasonable
certainty. Eastman Kodak- Co. v. Southern Photo
Materials Co., 273 U. S. 359, 379.
The plaintiff was compelled to sell its product at reduced prices, and it was for the jury to determine whether
those prices were below "the market or fair price . . .
under natural conditions had the combination been out
of the way." Straus v. Victor Talking Mlachine Co., 297
Fed. 791; Linen Thread Co. v. Shaw, 9 F. (2d) 17,.19.
"Going value" may, of course, be one element of
damages. Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines, 238 U. S.
153, 165; McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S.
400 414.
The probable earning capacity of the plant is one of the
factors for the basis of a judgment as to value. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 434; Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 328.
Mere difficulty in ascertaining the amount of damages
will not bar a recovery. If there is difficulty, it is not
greater. than exists in many other cases. Rankin v. Asso-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondents.

282 U. S.

ciated Bill Posters, 42 F. (2d) 152, 155; Pennsylvania
Sugar Refining Co. y. American Sugar Co., 166 Fed. 254,
260; Barrett Co. v. PantherRubber Mfg. Co., 24 F. (2d)
329, 337; Hyer v. Richmond Traction Co , 168 U. S.
471,483.
The plaintiff was at least entitled to recover nominal
damages and its costs. United States v. Mock, 149 U. S.
273. Distinguishing: Keogh v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co.,
260 U. S. 156.
The Circuit Court of Appeals had no power to order
judgment for the defendants below. Slocum v. New
York Life Ins. Co., 228 U. S. 364.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen, with whom Mr. Joseph M.
Dohan was on the brief, for respondents.
It is not enough to show that the defendants did wrong.
It must appear that the injury suffered by the plaintiff
was caused by that wrong. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Toops, 281 U. S. 351, 354, 357; Jack v. Armour, 291 Fed.
741, 745.
The plaintiff has suffered the consequences of attempting to enter an overcrowded industry with insufficient
capital. If it was injured by a reduction of prices, this
was due to its own reduction of prices and not to any combination of the defendants. There is no evidence that the
plaintiff, in the effort to get trade or meet competition,
would not have reduced prices just as much as it did
reduce them, even if the. defendants had not combined;
nor that if it had not reduced prices it would have succeeded in business.
There is no evidence as to the amount of goods the
plaintiff would have sold if the plaintiff had not reduced its
prices.
Damages resulting from the defendants' unlawful acts
and in an amount susceptible of expression in figures
proved by facts from which their existence is logically and

STORY PARCHMENT CO. v. PATERSON CO.
555

559

Opinion of the Court.

legally inferable and not supplied by conjectilre, is an essential element of a cause of private action under the AntiTrust Acts. Keogh v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 260 U. S.
156, 165, semble; American Sea Green Slate Co. v.
O'Halloran,229 Fed. 77, 80.
What larger sum the plaintiff would have made during
the time it was in business, if conditiqns had been different
from what they were, is too opeculative to warrant a recovery. Keogh v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., supra;American Sea Green Slate Co. v. O'Halloran,supra;Sussex Land
& Live Stock CO. v. Midwest Refining Co., 276 Fed. 932;
Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. Tiernan,263 Fed. 325; McCornick
v. U. S. Mining Co., 185 Fed. 748; Central Coal& Qok'e Co:
v. Hartman,111 Fed. 96.
The fact that one manufacturer could make profits in a
given line of business is not evidence that another in the
same line with equMa1 advantages would -do so. Keystone
Mfg. Co. v. Adams, 151 U. S. 139. 'Disbelief of evidence
is not proof oi the contrary.. Northern Ry. Co. v. Page,
274 U. S. 65, 76.
AIR. JUsTIcE SUTnERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action arising under the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act to recover damages resulting from an alleged conspiracy between respondents and West Carrollton Parch.iaent Company, not joined for lack of jurisdiction, to
monopolize interstate trade and commerce in vegetable
parchment, exclude the petitioner therefrom, and destroy
its business in such trade and commerce. A jury returned a verdict for petitioner in the sum of $65,000,
but in the alternative for the respondents "if, as a matter
of law, the plaintiff is not entitled to a verdict." The
trial court approved the verdict and rendered judgment
for treble the amount of the damages in accordance with
ยง 7 of the act. On appeal to the circuit court of appeals,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 TU. S.

the judgment was vacated and the case remanded to the
trial court with -directions to enter judgment for respondents upon the ground that petitioner had not sustained
the burden of proving that it had suffered recoverable
damages. 37 F. (2d) 537.
Respondents seek to sustain this judgment upon that
ground and also upon the additional ground, which the
lower court found against them, that there was no' evidence of a conspiracy or combination to monopolize interstate trade. Because there was no cross-petition for certiorari, petitioner insists that the additional ground is not
open here for consideration. But respondents do not.
invoke that ground in order to overthrow the judgment
below, but to sustain it; and this they may do. Langnes
v. Green, ante, p. 531.
The point, however, is readily disposed of: There is
evidence in the record to the effect that the three companies named, prior to the time petitioner entered the
field, had maintained uniform prices and 'njoyed a substantial monopoly of the interstate trade in parchment
paper. There is also evidence, sufficient to justify the
action of the district court in submitting' the'issue ,to the
jury, that after petitioner began busjness the three companies combined and conspired to continue othis monopoly
in violation of ยง 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, c. 647,
26 Stat 209. The verdict of the, jury and the judgment
thereon of the district court have the effect of a finding iA
favor of petitioner upon. that issue; and to that' extent
the verdict and judgment were sustained by the court
below. There is enough evidence in the recofd to preeIude an interference on our part with these concurrent
findings. That the petitioner wasinjured in its business
and property as a result of this unlawful combination we
think also finds sufficient support in the evidence.' Questions in respect of the liability of the wrongdoers. to respond in danages alone remain to be considered. -

STORY PARCHMENT CO. v. PATERSON CO.

561

Opinion of the Court.

555

The trial court submitted to the jury for consideration
only two items of damages, (1) the difference, if any, between the amounts actually realized by petitioner and
-what would have-been realized by it from sales at reasonable prices except for the unlawful acts of the respondents;
and (2) the extent to which the value of petitioner's,
property had been diminished as the result of such acts.
The view of the court of appeals that no recovery couid
be had in respect of the first item apparentty rests upon its
conclusions that there was no basis for a reasonable inference that prices in excess of those actually realized
would have prevailed if there had been no combination;
and that, in any event, there was no damage which could
be measured and expressed in igures not basbd on speculation and conjecture.
There was evidence from which the jury reasonably
could have found that in pursuance of the conspiracy,
r~spondents sold their goods below the point of fair profit,
and finally below the cost of production; that petitioner
had an efficient plant and sales organization, and was producing a quality of paper superior to that.produced by
either of the three companies; and that. current prices
shown in detail, were higher during a period antedating
the unlawful combination and price cutting in pursuance
of it than afterward. It does not'necessarily follow, of
course, that these higher prices would have continued except for the con-spiracy, but it is fair to say that the natural
and probable effect of the combination and price cutting
would be to destroy normal prices; and there was evidence
of the prices received by petitioner before the cut prices
Were put into operation, and those received after, showing actual and substantial reductions, and evidence from.
which the probable amount of the loss could be approximated. The trial court fairly instructed the jury in substance that if they were satisfied that the old prices were
22110*--31---36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court,

282 U.S.

reasonable and that they w6uld not have changed by
reason of any economic condition, but would have been
maintained except for the unlawful acts of -the respondents, the jury might consider as an: elemefit of damages
the difference between the prices actually received and
what would have been received but for the unlawful
conspiracy.
,Upon a consideration of the evidence we are of opinion that it was open to the jury to find that the price
cutting and the resulting lower prices were directly attributable to the unlawful combination; and that the assumption indulged by the court below, that respondents',
acts would have been the same if they had been acting
independently of one another, with the same resulting
-curtailment of prices, must be rejected as uisound.
Nor can we accept the view of that court that the verdict of the jury, in so far as it included danmages for the
first'item, cannot standbecause it was based upon mere
speculation and conjecture. This characterization of the
basis for the verdict is unwarranted. It. is true that
there was uncertainty as to the extent of the damage,
but there was none as to the fact of damage; and'there
is a clear distinction between the measure of proof necessary to establish the fact that petitioner had sustained
some damage, and the measure of proof necessary to
enable the jury to'fTx the amount. The rule which precludes the recovery, of uncertain damages applies tosuch
as are not the certain result of the wrofig, not to those
damages which are definitely attributable-to the wrong
and only uncertain in respect of their amount. Taylor v.
Bradley, 4 Abb. Ct. App. (N. Y.) 363, 366- 367:
"It is sometimes said that speculative damages can,.
not be recovered, because the amount is uncertain; but
such remarks will generallr be found applicable to such
damages as it is uncertain whether sustained at all' from
the breach. - Sometimes the claim is rejected as being too
-

STORY PARCHMENT CO. v. PATERSON CO.
555

563

Opinion of the Court.

remote., This is another mode of saying that it is uncertain whether such damages resulted necessarily and immediately from the breach complained of.
"The general rule is, that all damages resulting necessarily and immediately and directly from the breach are
recoverable, and not those that are contingent and uncertain. The latter description embraces, as I think, such
only as are not the certain result of the breach, and does
not embrace such as are the certain result, but uncertain
in amount."
Where the tort itself is of such a nature as to preclude
the ascertainment of the amount of damages with certainty, it would be a perversion of fundamental principles
of justice to deny all relief to the injured person, and
thereby relieve the wrongdoer from making any amend
for his acts. In such case, while the damages may not be
determined by mere speculation or guess, it will be
enough if the evidence show the extent of the damages
as a matter of just and reasonable inference, although the
result be only approximate. The wrongdoer is not entitled to complain that they cannot be measured with the
exactness and precision that would be possible if the case,
which he alone is responsible for making, were otherwise
Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S.
359, 379. Compare The Seven Brothers, 170 Fed. 126,
128; Pacific Whaling Co. v. Packers' Assn., 138 Cal. 632,
638. As the Supreme Court of Michigan has forcefully
declared, the risk of the uncertainty should be thrown
upon the wrongdoer instead of upon the injured party.
Allison v. Chandler, 11 Mich. 542, 550-556. That was a
case sounding in tort, and at page 555 the court, speaking
through Christiancy, J., said:
"But shall the injured party in an action of tort, which
may happen to furnish no element of certainty, be
allowed to recover no damages (or merely nominal),
because he can not show the exact amount with cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

tainty, though, he is ready to show, to the satisfaction of
the jury, that he has suffered large damages by the injury?
Certainty, it is true,-would thus be attained; but it would
be the certainty of injustice.
"Juries are allowed to act upon probable and inferential, as well as direct and positive proof. And when, from
the nature of the case- the amount of the damages can not
be estimated with certdinty, or only a part of them can
be so estimated, we can see no objection to placing before
the jury all the facts and circumstances of the case, having any tendency to show damages, or their probable
amount; so as to enable them to make the most intelligible and probable estimate which th6 -nature of the case
will permit."
And again in Gilbert v. Kennedy, 22 Mich. 117, 129
et seq., also a tort action, the court, through the same
eminent judge,,pointed out that cases will often occur in
which it is evident that large damages have resulted,' but
where no reliabledata or element of certainty can be
found by which to measure with accuracy the amount.'
Rejecting the view that in such cases the jury should give
only nominal, that is, in'effect, no damages; leaving the
injured party without redress, the court said (p. 130):
"To deny the injured party the right to recover any
actual damages in such cases, because they are of a nature which cannot be thus certainly measured, would be
to enable parties to profit by, and speculate upon, their
own wrongs, encourage violence- and invite depredation..
Subh is not, and cannot be the law, though cases may be
found where courts have laid down artificial and arbitrary
rules which have produced such a result."
After pointing out that there could be no just principle
requiring a higher degree of certainty in the evidence upon
which the damages are to be estimated than in reference
to other branches of the case, the court said [p. 131] that

STORY PARCHMENT CO. v. PATERSON CO.
555

565

Opinion of the Court.

where from the nature of the case damages could not be
measured with certainty by a fixed rule, the facts and
circumstances tending to show the probable amount of
such damages should be submitted to the jury to enable
them to form"such reasonable and probable estimate, as in the exercise of good sense and sound judgment the? shall think will
produce adequate compensation. There is no sound
reason in such a case, as there may be, to some extent,
in actions upon contract, for throwing any Part of the loss
upon the injured party, which the jury believe from the
evidehce he has sustained; though the precise amount cannot be ascertained by a fixed rule, but must be matter
of opinion and probable estimate. And the adoption of
any arbitrary rule in such a case, which will relieve the
wrong-doer from any part of the damages, and throw the
loss upon the injured party, would be little less than
legalized robbery.
Whatever of uncertainty there may be in this mode
of estimating damages, is an uncertainty caused by the
defendant's own wrongful act; and justice and sound public policy alike require that he should bear the risk of the
uncertainty thus produced; . . ."
As was said by Judge Anderson in his dissenting
opinion below, there are many cases in which damages are
allowed where the element of uncertainty is 'at least
equal to that in the present case-as, for example, copyright and trade mark cases, cases of unfair competition,
and many cases of personal injury. See also Straus v.
Victor Talking Mach. Co., 297 Fed. 761, 802, a case very
much like the present one, except that the plaintiffs were
buyers and were compelled to pay higher prices for goods
because of the unlawful acts of defendants, instead of
being obliged, as here, to sell at lower prices. Numerous
decisions are there cited in support of the statement, that
"The constant tendency'of the courts is to find some way

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

in which damages can be awarded where a wrong has been
done. Difficulty of ascertainment is no longer confused
wiih right of recovery."
It is not easy to reconcile the decision in the present
case with what was said by the same court in Linen
Thread Co. v. Shaw, 9 F. (2d) 17, 19, namely, that "The
rule that damages, if uncertain, cannot be recovered,
applies to their nature, and not to their extent. If the
damag'e is certain, the fact that its extent is uncertain
does not prevent a recovery."
Disposing of the second item of damages, the court
below, after referring to evidence tending to show that petitioner was not in a thriving financial condition, said that
petitioner was without capital to meet the situation which
it faced, even if there had been no conspiracy and there
had been open competition; and that its failure was inevitable either from lack of capital or inefficient management or both. The court, therefore, concluded that petitioner had not sustained the burden of proving that the
depreciation in value of its plant was due in any measurable degree to any violation of the Sherman Act by the
respondents. But this conclusion rested upon inferences
from facts within the exclusive province of the jury, and
which could not be drawn by the court contrary to the
verdict of the jury-without usurping the functions of that
fact finding body. Whether the unlawful acts of respondents or conditions apart from them constituted the
proximate cause of the depreciation in value, was a question, upon the evidence in this record, for the jury "to be
determined as a fact, in view of the circumstances of
fact attending it." Milwaukee & St. PaulRy. Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469, 474. And the finding of the jury upon
that question must be allowed to stand unless all reasonable men, exercising an unprejudiced judgment, would
draw an opposite conclusion from the facts. Missouri,
K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Byrne, 100 Fed. 359, 363; Travelers'

STORY PARCHMENT CO. v. PATERSON CO.
555

567

Opinion of the Court.

Ins. Co. v. Melick, 65 Fed. 178, 181; Chicago G. W. Ry.
Co. v. Price, 97 Fed. 423, 429. It would be going far here
to say that this qualifying exception has been met.
There was evidence to the effect that petitioner's plant
had cost $235,000, of which $90,000 had been used to pur:
chase and install a parchmentizing machine. After petitioner had been compelled to close its business, as a result,
we must now assume, of the unlawful acts of the respondents, this property for the purpose of that business was
abandoned. That some depreciation in the value of the
plant must have resulted is obvious. The treasurer of
petitioner estimated the market value of the plant after
it had been closed down at $75,000. If this estimate be
accepted, the depreciation was far more than the entire
amount of the verdict, which included both items of
damages. It is true that the treasurer was an interested
witness and that he was not an expert; and the court in
its charge expressly directed the"attention of the jury to
those facts. But it was for the jury to determine the
weight of the evidence, the credit to be given the witness,.
and the extent to vhich his testimony should be acted
upon. That there was actual damage due to depreciation
in value was not a matter of speculation, but a fact which
could not be gainsaid. The amount alone was in doubt;
and, in the light of the foregoing discussion as to the first
item of damages, the proof is suffciently certain and
definite to support the verdict of the jury in that respect.
Other assignments of grror made on the appeal from
the district court were not cnsidered by the court below.
No argument in support of these assignments has been
submitted here, and respondents assume that they will
be remitted for the consideration of the court below if the
judgment of that court be reversed. The entire record,
however, is before this court with. power to review the
action of the court of appeals and direct such disposition
of the case as that court might have made of it upon" the

568'

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

appeal from the district court. Lutcher & Moore Lumber
Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 267; Delk v. St. Loitis &
S. F. R. ,Co., 220 U. S. 580, 588. And see Langnes v.
Green, supra. Accordingly, we have examined these assignments, some eight in number. One or more of them
involye questions which have been disposed of by the foregoing opinion. We find nothing in any of the others of
sufficient substance or materiality to call for consideration.
The judgment of 'the court of appeals is reversed
and that of the district court affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. LA FRANCA.
CERTIORARI TO T[E CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TME

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 711 Argued January 27, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
1. Failure to enter an exception to an order of the District Court
overruling pleas of former jeopardy and res judicata does not
preclude their consideration on review, where the facts were agreed
to bystipulation entered of record. P. 570.
2. A tax on retail liquor dealing sought to be recovered under ยง 701,
par. 9, of the Revenue Act of 1924, which was passed in lieu of a
similar provision in the Act of 1918, repeated-in the Act of 1921,
is properly treated as having been imposed by an Act in force
prior to the enactment of the National Prohibition Act (1919).'
9
'P. 571.
3: The "tax" imposed by-ยง 35, Title 2, of the National ProhibitionAct, which provides for the assessment and collection of l "tax"
in "double the amount now provided by law," upon evidence of an
illegal sale under the Act, is not a true tax but a penalty. P. 572.
4. A tax is an enforced contribution to provide for the support of
government; a penalty, as the word is here used, is an exaction by
statute as punishment. If an exaction be clearly a penalty, it
cannot 1e converted into a tax by calling it such. Id.
5. A statute must be construed, if fairly possible, so as to avoid not
only the conclusion that it is unconstitutional but also grave doubts
upon that score. P. 574. ,

