ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
760

765

Syllabus.

intrastate commerce, it is enough to say that no such complaint was made in the petition in this suit. The Commission's order is construed as intended to apply to transportation within the purview of the Interstate Commerce
Act, and no different application of it is disclosed by the
record.
Decree affirmed.
ABLE STATE BANK v. BRYAN, GOVERNOR OF
NEBRASKA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 63. Argued January 22, 23, 1931.-Decided February 25, 1931.
1. A decision of this Court, rendered soon after the enactment of a
state law by which state banks were assessed for the establishment
and maintenance of a common fund for the protection of depositors, and upholding it as a then valid police regulation, does not
preclude banks on whose behalf the question was litigated from
maintaining a subsequent suit-to test the validity of later assessments in the light of later experience. P. 772.
2. The State Supreme Court, deciding that the state bank guaranty
law was not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, ruled also
that the plaintiff banks were estopped by their conduct from
assailing its validity. Held that the latter. is not an independent
non-federal ground broad enough to sustain the judgment but is
interwoven with the federal question, and, therefore, this Court
has jurisdiction to review the case. P. 772.
3. The principle that a police regulation, valid when adopted, may
become invalid because in its operation it has proved to be confiscatory, implies that the right of protest when the regulation
becomes intolerable is not forfeited by darlier compliance with it.
P. 776.
So held where state banks, after defeat of their effort to have
the state bank guaranty law declared unconstitutional, endeavored
to do business under it and therein advertised -its purposes and
the contemplated advantages that led to its enactment, but -later,
in the light of further eperience, sued again to have it set aside.
4. On appeal from a. state court, this Court takes judicial notice of
statutes of that State, including those passed after the appeal was
taken. P. 778.

766

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

282 U. S.

5. A case appealed here and ivolving the right of appellant banks
to enjoin, as confiscatory, the collection of specified assessments
under a state bank guaranty statute, is not made moot by a
statute, enacted after the appeal, repealing the section under which
such assessments were made and otherwise modifying the old law,
but retaining in force the assessments immediately complained of
and leaving open the question whether, notwithstanding the changed
situation, they are unconstitutional. P. 781.
6. The Nebraska Bank Guaranty Law (Comp. Stats., 1922, § 8024
et seq.), providing for a fund, to be raised by assessments upon
all the state banks and to be applied, when any of them failed,
to meet deficiencies owing from it to its depositors, was a police
regulation designed to promote the public welfare; the rights of
depositors arising under it. (aside from the contract of each depositor -with his own bank) are not contractual and did not prevent the legislature from modifying the plan, for the public
welfare, or from exercising a reasonable discretion in so doing.
P. 782.
7. This law provided for two semiannual assessments against each
bank of Y4oth of 1% of its average daily deposits, and special
assessments, to repair deficiencies in the guaranty fund, up to M
of 1% each year of such average deposits: The present suit was to
enjoin collection of a special assessment, recently made, and any
other such in the future, on the ground that, through failure of the
guaranty scheme such assessments became confiscatory. After the
appeal here, a statute was passed for the liquidation of the scheme;
only three special assessments and two regular assessments were
retained by it, and .future assessments were restricted to Aths of
1% of average daily deposits annually, limited to a period of ten
years. Held, that, since the law in its modified form can not be
regarded as confiscatory, or as other than a reasonable method of
liquidating the guaranty plan, a decree of the state court denying
an injunction to restrain collection of assessments should be
affirmed. P. 783.
119 Neb. 153; 227 N. W. 922, affirmed.

This was a suit brought by the above-named appellant
for itself and on behalf of several hundred other state
banks of Nebraska to enjoin the Governor of the State
and the Secretary of its Department of Trade and Commerce fror collecting special assessments under the

ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
765

Opinion of the Court.

State Bank Guaranty Law. The Treasurer of the State,

as depositor of publi6 moneys, and several private depositors, intervened as defendants. A decree granting an
injunction was reversed by the court below. The reversal
is affimed here because of subsequent modifications of
the law assailed.
Messrs. Leonard A. Flansburg and Frank H. Gaines,
with whom Mr. S. S. Sidner was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. C. A. Sorensen, Attorney General of Nebraska,
and Charles E. Abbott for Bryan, Governor of Nebraska,
et al., appellees.
Mr. William J. Hotz, with whom Messrs. Clinton J.
Campbell, Frank A. Hebenstreit, Robert H. Hotz, Ralph
G. Coad, John D. Lynch, and Henry R. Gower were on
the brief, for Mary E. Gandy et al., intervening appellees.
MR. CHimF JusTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This suit was brought in December, 1928, in the District Court of Lancaster County, Nebraska, by the Abie
State Bank on its own behalf and that of sev.eral hundred
other bank, all chartered under the laws of Nebraska,
to enjoin the defendants from collecting special assessments under the Bank Guaranty Law of that State. The
plaintiffs challenged the constitutionality of the statute
authorizing the levy of such special assessments, upon the
ground that their collection constituted the taking of the
plaintiffs' property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States. A number of depositors in the state
banks were permitted to intervene. The District Court
entered a decree in April, 1929, in favor of the complainants, sustaining the contention that the statute providing
for such special assessments was, under the facts shown,

768

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

unreasonable and confiscatory, and hence repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment. The decree, which gave a
permanent injunction, was reversed by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska; the injunction was dissolved and the
action dismissed. 119 Neb. 153; 227 N. W. 922. The
plaintiffs appeal to this Court.
The Bank Guaranty Law of Nebraska was originally
enacted in the year 1909. Laws of Nebraska, 1909, chap.
10, p. 87; Compiled Statutes of Nebraska, 1922, § 8024
et seq. Its purpose was declared to be to provide.a guaranty fund for the protection of depositors in banks, and
every corporation engaged in the business of banking
under the laws of the State was declared to be subject
to assessment to be levied and applied in the manner
stated. 'Banks were required to report semi-annually to
the State Banking Board, succeeded by the Department
of Trade and Commerce, their average daily deposits, and
it was made the duty of that department twice each year
to levy upon each bank an assessment (after certain prescribed initial payments) in the amount of one-twentieth
of one per cent. of the hverage daily deposits reported.
By section 8028, as amended in 1923 (Laws of 1923, chap.
191, p. 452), it was provided that if the depositors' guaranty fund should be reduced from any cause to any
amount less than one per cent. of the average daily deposits, the Department of. Trade and Commerce should
levy, against the capital stock of the corporations concerned, a special assessment not exceeding one-half of
one per cent. of said average daily deposits in any one
year. In case of non-compliance with the provisions of
the statute, the Attorney General was to obtain the appointment of a receiver; and by an amendment in 1925
(Laws of 1925, chap. 30, p. 122), the Department of Trade
and Commerce, if its order was not obeyed, was authorized forthwith to take possession of the property and
business of the bank and place it in charge of the Guar-

ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
765

Opinion of the Court.

antee Fund Commission established in 1923 for the purpose of assisting in conserving and administering the
guaranty fund (Laws of 1923i chap. 191). It was further provided that in case a bank failed, and its assets
were insufficient to meet the claims of depositors, the court
should determine the amount of the deficiency and direct
the Department of Trade and Commerce to draw against
the guaranty fund in the amount required to make up the
deficiency. Claims of depositors were to be paid according to priority of adjudication.
Acting under the authority of the statute, the Department of Trade and Commerce for several years made an
additional semi-annual assessment against the complaining banks of one-fourth of one per cent. of the average
daily deposits. The result was that the total assessment
against each of these banks had become an annual charge
in the amount of six-tenths of one per cent. of their total
average daily deposits.
This suit was begun immediately after the levy, on
December 15, '1928, of a special assessment of one-fourth
of one per cent. of the average daily deposits of the complaining banks, and the plaintiffs asked for an injunction
restraining the collection of that special assessment and of
any future special assessment called for by section 8028.
The contention of the plaintiffs was that the Bank Guaranty Law no loriger bore a rational relation to any public
purpose, as the collection of the assesments in question
took away from the security of present depositors in going
banks in order to pay the depositors in failed banks, and
was without hope or tendency of furnishing protection
to present depositors. It was insisted that instead of the
challenged assessment creating a fund for the safeguarding of depositors in going banks, as was its purpose, it
directly defeated that object, and that its imposition constituted an unconstitutional burden because of its confiscatory character.
.22110-31-----49

770

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

The District Court reviewed the results of the operations of the banks in Nebraska under the Bank Guaranty
Law. It appeared that there were 1012 banks in the State
in November, 1920, and that the number had been reduced to 726 in December, 1929; that these banks had a
total capital of $19,001,000 and a total capital and, surplus of $24,958,557.62; that for the period of eighteen
months preceding June 30, 1928, 570 banks had net earnings and 156 had net deficits; that the total net earnings
.of both groups for that period amounted to $1,935,519.40
or 7.9 per cent. of the total capital and surplus; that, during the same period, these banks had paid into the depositors' guaranty fund $2,412,324.78. It also appeared
from the testimony of the secretary of the Gurantee Fund
Commission (as stated by the Supreme Court of the
State) that up to December 31, 1928, 269 state banks had
been closed by the State and placed in the hands of the
Commission and that the total amount of the adjudicated
claims was $10,536,518.59, exclusive of interest; and that
in 72 state banks, then being operated as going concerns,
the amount due depositors was $13,726,441.26, and the
total amount due depositors in banks which were in receiverships, but whose claims were not yet adjudicated,
was $2,133,627.54. The total claims, including both claims
adjudicated and those not adjudicated, or the then existing liabilities against the guaranty fund, amounted to $26,400,282.76, and the -total amount of assets to be realized
would be $10,451,932.65, leaving a deficit of $15,948,350.11. The court concluded that "fully two-thirds of the
banks under the existing financial conditions are unable,
after paying assessments amounting to 8 per cent. of
their capital, to pay compensatory Otividends," and that
the Bank Guaranty Law, as originally conceived, was "no
longer serVing its purposes."
Reversing the decree of the District Court in favor of
the plaintiffs,, the Sulreme Court of the State sustained

ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
765

Opinion of the Court.

the validity of the continued operation of the Bank Guaranty Law and entered judgment stating that "the levy of
a special assessment upon the state banks," pursuant to
the provisions of the applicable statute, "does not constitute the taking of private property without due process
of law." The grounds of the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State, in reversing the judgment of the District Court, were thus stated in the syllabus of the
opinion:
"1. 'The banking business, carried on pursuant to a
state charter, is quasi-public. and, for protection of the
public and in its interests, is subject to reasonable regulation by the state.' Citizens State Bank v. Strayer, 114
Neb. 567;
"2. It is elementary that it is not within the province
of the courts to annul a legislative act unless its provisions
so clearly contravene a provision of the fundamental law,
or it is so clearly against public policy that no other resort remains;
"3. Where a state bank has accepted the benefits arising from the deposits of money pursuant to the terms of
the bank depositors' guaranty law, such bank should not
be heard, in a proper case, to make complaint of a special
assessment upon such deposits which has been levied for
the benefit of the depositors' guaranty fund;
"4. Where a special assessment has been levied upon
the state banks pursuant to the provisions of section 8028,
Comp. St. 1922, as amended by section 26, ch. 191, Laws
of 1923, such assessment does not constitute the taking
of private property without due process."
In answer to the jurisdictional statement filed by the
appellants, the appellees asserted the want of jurisdiction
in this Court, upon two grounds; (1) that this Court conclusively adjudicated the validity of the Nebraska law
against appellant in the suit heretofore brought on its
behalf (Shallenberger v. First State Bank of Holstein,

772

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

219 U. S. 114); and (2) that the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State, in its ruling with respect to the question of estoppel, rested upon an independent non-federal
ground. The question of jurisdiction was postponed to
the hearing on the merits.
As to the first objection, it is sufficient to say that the
Bank Guaranty Law was sustained by this Court as a
police regulation (Shallenberger v. First State Bank of
Holstein, supra; Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.
104, 575), and that a police regulation, although valid
when made, may become, by reason of later events, arbitrary and confiscatory in operation. Smith v. Illinois Bell
Tel, Co., 282 U. S. 133, 162; Allen v. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co., 230 U. S. 553, 555, 556; Lincoln
Gas & Elec. Co. v. City of Lincoln, 250 U. S. 256, 268. In
the Shallenbergercase, the suit was brought immediately
upon the enactment of the law, and that decision sustaining the law cannot be regarded as precluding a subs6quent suit for the purpose of testing the validity of assessments in the light of the later actual experience.
In support of the second objection, and in answer to
the contention of the appellants that the findings of fact
by the trial court had not been modified by the Supreme
Court, the appellees point to the plenary character of
the jurisdiction of the latter court in equity cases, and
to the statute which makes it necessary for that court
to try the case de nova and to "reach an independent
conclusion as to what finding or findings are required
under the pleadings and all the evidence." Section 9150,
Compiled Statutes of Nebraska, 1922; Colby v. Foxworthy, 80 Neb. 239, 245. The appellees insist that reading together the syllabus and the text of the opinion (Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S. 100, 116), it appears that the Supreme Court, exercising its proper authority, made an independent finding as to the waiver
or estoppel which the appellees had pleaded in defense.

ABIE STATE IBANK v. BRYAN.
765

Opinion of the Court.

But the federal ground being present, it is incumbent
upon this Court, when it is urged that the decision of the
state court rests upon a non-federal ground, to ascertain
for itself, in order that constitutional guaranties may appropriately be enforced, whether the asserted non-federal
ground independently and adequately supports the judgment. Enterprise IrrigationDistrict v. Farmers"Mutual
Canal Co., 243 U. S..157, 164; Union Pacdfic R. Co. v.
Public Service Comm., 248 U. S. 67, 69, 70; Ward v. Love
County, 253.U. S. 17, 22; Broad River Power Co.v. South
Carolina,281 U. S.537, 540; 282 U. S. 187. As this Court
said in EnterpriseIrrigationDistrict v. Farmers' Mutual
Canal Co., Aspra: "But where the non-federal ground is
so interwoven with the other as not to be an independent
matter, or is not of sufficient breadth to sustain the judgzment without any decision of the other, our jurisdiction is
plain." See Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S.
246, 261.
In reaching its conclusion, the Supreme Court of the
State referred to the testimony, already mentioned, of
the secretary of the Guarantee Fund Commission, with
respect to the state of the guaranty fund, and to his further testimony that "the majority of the losses sustained
by the banks resulted from loans made prior to 1923 during the deflation period." The court said that since
1919 the total amount of bank assessments was $14,609,576.65, which had been paid over and become a part of
the guaranty fund; that it appeared from the evidence of
the president of one of the largest Nebraska state banks
"that he was active in the publication of 2,000 pamphlets which were -distributed generally in respect of the
establishment of the guaranty fund," and that he "was
also chairman of a committee of three bankers by whom
this suit was begun "; that in 1926 "full-page newspaper
advertisements, attractively featured with pictures and
aptly prepared reading matter" were published in one of

774

OCTOBER TERM, 1080.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

Omaha's leading newspapers, stressing "the proposed
protection that was shortly to be afforded the depositors
bf money ih the state banks "; that it was stated in these
advertisements that 336 banks, which were listed, had
"paid their pro-rata share of the cost of publication ";
and that wide circulation was given to the enterprise,-" in
practically every town and its suburbs where a state bank
•was located," in a manner calculated to attract the favorable attention, and the patronage, of those having money
for deposit.1 The court concluded, that the evidence
clearly showed "that a 'majority.. of the state bankers
throughout Nebraska, and many others as well, counted
the bank depositors' guaranty fund, in its inception, a
valuable asset, and many predicted that this beneficent
plan would add greatly to the stability of the 'state
banks." 2 The court referred to. the testimony of the
cashier of a bank in.Lincoln, Nebraska, that in his opin1
Reference was made by the court to the headings of the illus"trated pages of these advertisements, as, for example: "A Story no
other State can Tell "; " No Mattress Banks in Nebraska"; "Strong
Banks make Strong States."; "In the Hands of Skilled Bankers ";
"State Banks Protect their Deposits in Nebraska "; " Nebraska is a
Remarkable State "; "Pushing your Money Through" the Window ";
"All Work Together in Nebraska "; "Safe through the Slump of Deflation Days "; "In Nebraska the Guarantee Works both Ways ";
"The Men 'who Told the "Story that No Other State Can Tell."
2To illustrate this feature of the guaranty fund law, the court
quoted the following excerpt from an advertisement which appeared
in January, 1928, in one of the Nebraska newspapers having a large
circulation: "First, there are a few state bankers here and there who
tave good banks and who think they are greatly imposed upon by
being compelled to pay an assessment to the guaranty fund. This
is a natural feeling as they are in no way responsible for the banks
that fail. .. . The guaranty fund, so-called, is merely an insurance
company whereby the state banks of Nebraska are the members and
must pay through an assessment each other's losses up to the maximum amount of six-tenths of one per cent. a year. ...
Any good
bank, -making a fair profit, can pay this assessment without injury
to itself and can do so to the great benefit of the state." Id.

ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
765

Opinion of the Court.

ion the failure of nearly 300 state banks had been " caused
largely by the general economic condition existing prior
to 1928 "; that he did not think that "the bank assessments from 1923 to July 1, 1928, were a contributing
factor in the failure of banks during that period"; that
"the guaranty fund law and the assessments collected
thereunder had a steadying influence on the deposits of
every state bank "; and, further, that "it is no exaggeration to say it has accounted for at least one hundred million dollars deposited in the state banks of Nebraska
which would not otherwise have been made except for the
bank guaranty law." The court cited the opinion of the
witness that," the condition of the banks and their ability
to pay the assessment is 'incomparably better than in
1923."'
The appellees, in amplification of the matters set forth
in the opinion of the state court, urge that the banks continuously, from 1911 to the time of the suit, utilized the
Bank Guaranty Law by advertising its adjudicated validity and the obligation of the banks to pay assessments,
in order to induce deposits of public and private funds;
and that this was accomplished not only "by continuous and extensive newspaper publicity," .but "by signs
on the interior and exterior of banks, pamphlets, statements on checks and certificates of deposit and on deposit slips, by moving pictures, public speakers, resolutions at bankers' conventions, personal solicitation and
argument."
So far as the facts summarized in the opinion of the
state court, and in argument, may be deemed to oppose
the evidence introduced to show the oppressive character
of the Bank Guaranty Law, these facts bear upon the
question whether the law had become so burdensome as
to transcend in its operation the constitutional limits of
state power. But if, as the appellants contend, the continued enforcement of the law in the conditions shown

776

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

at the time of the suit did involve unconstitutional exactions, we should not be justified in refusing appropriate
relief on the theory that the conduct of the banks, in their
endeavor to do business under the law and to make the
best of the State's policy embodied in it, estopped them
from asserting constitutional right. The appellees, say
that, upon the original enactment of the Bank Guaranty
Law and the decision of this Court sustaining it, the state
banks could have done one of three things: (1) liquidate
and invest their capital in some other business; (2) undertake to organize as a national bank; or (3) apply to
the state banking department for a certificate of authority
to operate under the Bank Guaranty Law. That is, the
state banks had to comply with the law in order to continue in business as state banks. "The fact that a choice
was made according to interest does not exclude duress."
Union Pacific .R. Co. v. Public Service Comm., supra.
The fact that the banks, defeated in their attack on the
law, fell into line with the policy of the State and proclaimed the purposes of the law and the contemplated
advantages which had led to its enactment, cannot be
regarded as depriving the banks of the opportunity of
subsequently pointing out that the public purpose in view
was no longer being served, and that the interests of the
banks were being unreasonably sacrificed by confiscatory
exactions in an effort the futilityof which had been demonstrated. The banks were not bound for all time, regardless of consequences. The principle that a police
regulation, valid when adopted, may become invalid because in its operation it has proved to be confiscatory,
carries with it the recognition of the fact that earlier compliance with the regulation does not forfeit the right of
protest when the regulation becomes intolerable. And
we perceive no basis for a different rule because the regulation was extolled while being obeyed. We conclude
that the constitutional question was properly raised and

ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
765

777

Opinion of the Court.

was decided, and that the judgment under review is not
supported by an independent and adequate non-federal
ground. - Hence, the appeal was properly brought.
Since the appeal, the situation has been altered by the
passage, in March, 1930, by the legislature of Nebraska, of
an act which repealed section 8028 (Compiled Statutes
of Nebraska, 1922), under which the assessment of December 15, 1928, challenged in this suit, was levied, and
modified the provisions of the former Bank Guaranty
Law by creating a "depositors' final settlement fund"
and providing for a limitation of future assessments.
3 The important portions of the Act of 1930 (Senate File No. 3,
Session Laws of Nebraska, 46th Special Session, March, 1930, Compiled Statutes of Nebraska, 1929, § 8-171 et seq.) are as follows:
"8-171. Depositors' Final Settlement Fund, How Comprised. For
the purpose of providing a fair and just settlement of the claims of
depositors and others heretofore authorized to be paid out of the Depositors' Guarantee Fund, there is hereby created and established a
fund to be known and designated as 'Depositors' Final Settlement
Fund' which fund shall comprise and consist of the following: (a)
All records, accounts, books, documents, prolerty and assets formerly
in the possession of or under the control of the Guarantee Fund Commission and now in the possession of the secretary of the Department
of Trade and Commerce. (b) All property and assets of every kind
and nature, constituting, accruing upon, or derived from what was
formerly detignated as the Depositors' Guarantee Fund of the State
of Nebraska. (c) All property, monies, funds, proceeds, rights,
credits, accounts and choses in action, of every kind and nature, constituting, derived from, arising out of, or in any manner connected
with, or pertaining to, the assessments, regular and special, heretofore
accrued and levied against any and all corporations transacting a
banking business in this state for the purpose of establishing, maintaining, or reimbursing what was formerly designated as the Depositors' Guarantee Fund of the State of Nebraska; which assessments, more specifically, are the special assessments Jevied by the
Department of Trade and Commerce on or about December 15, 1928,
April 17, 1929, and January 2, 1930, and the regular assessments accrued and levied on or about July 1, 1929, and January 1, 1930. (d)
All moneys and funds derived from the annual assessment of twotenths of one per cent upon average daily deposits of each state bank,

778

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

This Court takes judicial notice of this legislation. Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet. 607, 625; Hanley v. Donoghue, 116
U. S. 1, 6; Lloyd v. Matthews, 155 U. S. 222, 227. The
levied as provided in Section 2 of this act. (e) All moneys which
may hereafter be appropriated out of the state treasury to help pay,
or to be applied upon, any deficit in what was formerly designated as
the Depositors' Guarantee Fund. (f) Such other moneys, funds,
and property as may lawfully accrue to, be paid into, or become a
part of the Depositors' Final Settlement Fund. .(1930, Special Session, S. F. 3, § 1.)
"8-172. Depositors' Final Settlement Fund, Assessments, Levy,
Amount, When Made. For the purpose of providing a fund for depositors in state banks closed prior to the time this act goes into effect,
every corporation engaged in the business of banking under the laws of
this state shall be subject to assessment to be levied, kept, collected and
applied as in this act provided. On the first day of January of each
year during the period of ten years, beginning with the year 1931, and
ending with the year 1940, inclusive, the Department of Trade and
Commerce shall levy upon every state bank an assessment of two tenths
of one per cent of its average daily deposits during the year. ending
December 1st last preceding, as shown by the statements required to be
made and filed with the department; Provided,any state bank may, at
its option, at any time during said ten year period, prepay one or more
of said assessments at a discount of five per cent per annum for the
unexpired period aforesaid, in which event the assessments thus prepaid shall be computed upon the average daily deposits in such bank
for the period of the three years last preceding such prepayment.
All payments of assessments under the provisions of this section shall
be made to and become a part of the Depositors' Final Settlement
Fund. Nothing in this section shall be construed to bind any corporation transacting a banking business under the laws of this 'state
to pay any assessments accruing or levied after such corporation shall
have ceased to do business as a state bank. (1930, Special Session,
S. F. 3, § 2.)
"8-175. Administration, Department of Trade and Commerce,
Specific Powers, Enumerated. The Department of Trade and Commerce shall have the power and authority to sell, transfer, convey
and exchange any property or assets of the Depositors' Final Settlement Fund; to enter into contracts, and to institute, defend, or other-

ABlE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
765

779

Opinion of the Court.

act provides that the "depositors' final settlement fund"
shall consist "of all property, moneys, funds, proceeds,
rights, credits, accounts and "choses in action" arising
wise participate in any suit or proceeding, involving the property or
assets of said fund, or any claims, rights, or choses in action therein
or pertaining thereto; to compromise and settle suits, claims, choses
in action and all other matters and things pertaining to, or affecting
said fund, or the administration, maintenance, or distrbution. thereof;
the intent and purpose of this act being that the department shall
efficiently and expeditiously liquidate and reduce to cash or its equivalent, all the property and assets, tangible and intangible, of said
fund, and pay out and distribute the same to those entitled thereto,
in the manner and form, and according to the plan hereinafter set
forth; Provided, nothing in this act shall authorize the Department of
Trade and Commerce to reduce any Assessment required to be levied
against banks under .the provisions of this act, and Provided further,
the Department of Trade and Commerce may, in its sound discretion, grant to any bank an extension of time, not exceeding 3 years
from the date of the passage of this act, within which to pay any of
the assessments, regular or special, heretofore made, levied, or accrued
against, or payable by such bank, as defined in subsection (6) of Section 1 of this act. (1930, Special Sessioq S. F. 3, § 4.)
"8-176. Claims, Payment. Only owners and holders of the following described claims and rights shall be entitled to receive payment from the Depositors' Final Settlement Find and. to participate
in the benefits thereof, to wit: 1. Unpaid claims of depositors and
of others eiftitled to priority, as by law provided, which shall have
been heretofore or hereafter adjudicated against insolvent state banks
of this state, including those: banks which have heretofore closed and
those which hereafter and prior to the time this act goes into effect,
shall have been closed by the Department of Trade and. Commerce:
Provided, such claims have been heretofore certified to the department as claims against the Depositors' Guarantee Fund, or shall have
-been hereafter certified to the department as claims entitled to the
benefits of the Depositors' Final Settlement Fund. (1930, Special
Session, S. F. 3, §.5.)
-*

-*

*

*

*

"8-178. Specific Sections, Repeal. That said Sections 7995, 8008,
8028 and 8033, Compiled Statutes of Nebraska, 1922, as amended;
Sections 22 and 23 of Chapter 191, Laws of 1923; and Sections 8024.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282U. S.

from the assessments, regular and special, theretofore
accrued and levied, for the purpose of maintaining or reimbursing what was formerly designated as the depositors'
guaranty fund. Among these assessments, and specifically mentioned, are "the- special assessments leviedby
the Department of Trade and Commerce on or about-December 15, 1928, April 17, 1929, and January 2, 1930, and
the regular assessments accrued and levied on or about July
1, 1929, and January 1, 1930." For the future, and for
the purpose of providing a fund for depositors in state
banks closed prior to the time of the new enactment, there
is to be levied upon every state bank "on the first day of
January of each year during the period of ten years beginning with the year 1931, and ending with the year 1940,
inclusive," an assessment of "two-tenths of one per cent
of its average daily deposits during the year ending'December lst last preceding." The effect of this provision
is to reduce assessments for thefuture from a total annual
amount of six-tenths of one- per cent of the average daily
deposits (that is, including both the original regular
assessment of one-tenth of one per cent and the special assessments of five-tenths of one per cent) to a total of twotenths of one per cent per annum for a period of ten years.
8025, 8026, 8027, 8009 and 8035, Compiled Statutes of Nebraska,
1922; as heretofore existing are hereby repealed. (1930, Special Session, S. F. 3, § 16.)
"8-179. Inducement for Passage, Cqnstitutionality, Construction.
The inducement for the passage of Section 16 of this Act, which repeals various sections of the statutes relating to the bank depositors
guarantee fund and assessments therefor, is the passage of sections
1 to 5, inclusive, of this Act, and if any one or more of said sections
1 to 5, inclusive, of this Act, shall for any reason be held unconstitutionai or invalid, in whole or in part, then and in that event said section 16 of this Act shall be invalid and of no force or effect and the
sections of the statutes sought to be repealed by said Section 16 shall
be in full force and effect. (1930, Special Session, S. F. 3, § 17.)"

ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
765

Opinion of the Court.

The depositors' final settlement fund is to be distributed
only to depositors in banks closed prior to the taking effect of the statute. The Department of Trade and Commerce has authority to administer the fund and to institute and defend suits involving any claims or rights pertaining thereto. That Department may grant, in its
sound discretion, to any bank an extension of time, not
exceeding three years, from the date of the passage of the
act, within which to pay any of the assessments theretofore levied against it.
The appellees, who are state officers, urge that by this
legislation the case has become. moot. The appellants,
and the appellees who are intervening depositors, assert
the contrary, and we agree with the latter view. Despite
the repeal of section 8028, the assessment of December
15, 1928, which was assailed in this suit, is continued in
effect, and the amount due thereunder is made a part
of the depositors' final settlement fund. The later special assessments, to which the new act refers (those of
April 17, 1929, and January 2, 1930), also remain in force.
While the repeal of section 8028 prevents further assessments under the old law, still assessments which were
enjoined by the District Court, and which were sustained
by the judgment of the Supreme Court, are to be paid,
and the amounts are to be applied as the act of 1930
directs. If, taking into consideration the limitations of
the new legislation, the appellants could still be considered to have constitutional grounds for objecting to the
collection of the special assessments which were the subject of their petition, they are not deprived of their right
by the statute which leaves them with liability for those
assessments. It would still be possible for this Court to
grant appropriate relief. Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426, 433. See Groesbeck v. Duluth, South
Shore & A. Ry. Co., 250 U. S. 607, 609; Boston v. Jackson,
260 U. S. 309, 313.

782

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

While the case has not become moot, the questions
raised by the appellants must be considered in the. light of
the modifying legislation, which has restricted in an important degree their liability to assessments, and has provided for what is in substance, a liquidation of the guaranty scheme. The appellees, intervening depositors, insist that by their deposits in the state banks they acquired
contractual rights which cannot be affected by the later
legislation. In support of this contention, these appellees
refer to the observation of the dissenting opinion in Lank-.
ford v. Platte Iron Works, 235 U. S. 461, 487, that the
Bank Guaranty Law of Oklahoma prescribed a contract
between the banks and the depositors and expressed the
terms in which it Should be made. The point decided in
that case was that a suit by a depositor in a bank in Oklahoma against the members of the State Banking Board
and the Bank Commissioner of Oklahoma to compel payments from, distribution of, and assessments for, the depositors' guaranty fund, was a suit against the State and
under the Eleventh Amendment could not be maintained.
The view stressed in the remark of the dissenting opinion,
to which reference has been made, was not presented in
the opinion of the Court and was not essential to the decision. When money is deposited in bank, the contract
that is made is between that bank and the depositor..
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Bank Guaranty
Law, there is, properly speaking, no contract between the
depositor and other banks. The Bank Guaranty Law provided for a fund to be raised by assessments upon all the
state banks, and while this was regarded as an important
safeguard for all depositors, it was but a police regulation,
the sanction of which lay in the constitutional power of
the State and not in contract. See Wisconsin & Michigan'
Ry. Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379, 385-387. And this
is the view that has been taken by state courts which
have had occasion to consider this question in connection

ABIE STATE BANK v. BRYAN.
765

783

OpiniQn of the Court.

with legislation by which relief has been sought from the
difficulties encountered in the continued operation of bank
guaranty plans. Wirtz v. Nestos, 51 N. D. 603, 616, 621;
200 N. W. 524, 529, 531; Standard Oil Co. v. Engel, 55
N. D. 163, 170, 174; 212 N. W. 822, 824, 826; South
Dakota ex rel. Sharpe v. Smith, 234 N. W. 525, Supreme
Court of South Dakota, decided January'30, 1931.
The origin of rights under the\Bank Guaranty Law
was wholly statutory,-an act of grace by the legislature,
so far as depositors were concerned, with the purpose of
promoting the public welfare and with freedom in the legislature to modify its regulation when the public wolfare
was deemed to require a change. We see no reason to
doubt the power of the legislature to extricate the banks
and the administration of the guaranty fund from the
serious plight in which they were found under the o
tion of the old plan and to exercise a reasonable ai.cretion in seeking this result.
We return to the contention of the appellants. When
the suit was brought, these banks were confronted with a
situation which contained no promise of relief from the
assessments for which the act, as it then existed, provided,
and the cumulative effect of which was alleged to be disastrous., It was the special assessments under the old
law that were definitely assailed. Under the modifying
act of 1930, only three of these special assessments and.
two regular, assessment remain effective; and, for the
future, there is a limitation of the obligation to a total
annual assessment of two-tenths of one per cent of average daily deposits instead of assessments aggregating sixtenths, as were made possible by the previous law. The
future assessments, to this restricted arnount, are limited
to a period of ten years. This, obvicugly, is a. change
of great importance. The appellants sought-.an, injunction, and their petition necessarily related to th&,
assessments in December, 1928 and thereafter, as the pay-.'

784

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

282 U.S.

ments previously made were not in any event recoverable
by the banks. Considering the reduction in the. extent
of the obligation as to future assessments, we are unable
to say that the statute in this modified form is confiscatory, or other than a reasonable method of liquidating
the guaranty plan. In this view, the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State denying an injunction should
be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
SMITH, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. MAGIC CITY KENNEL CLUB, INCORPORATED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 77. Argued January 28, 1931.--Decided February 25, 1931.
1, Patent No. 1,379,224 (Claims 1 and 2), granted to Owen P. Smith,

for improvementi in devices for dog races, which calls for a lurecarrying arm, attached or hinged to a conveyor car, and equipped
with a wheel at its outer end for ground support, is narrowly
limited and does not cover a rigid horizontal lure-carrying arm
without ground support. P. 787.
2. Where an applicant for a patent to cover a new- combination is
compelled by the rejection of his application by the Patent Office
to narrow his claim by the introduction of a new element, he
cannot, after the issue of the patent, broaden his claim by dropping
that element. P. 789.
3. Where a patentee has narrowed his claim, in order to escape
rejection, he may not, by resort to the doctrine of. equivalents,
give to the claim the larger scope which it might have had without
the amendments which amount to disclaimer. P. 790.
4. Patent No. 1,507,440, to Owen P. Smith, which relates to the
form and supports of a casing used to house the tracks upon which
runs the car conveying the lure-carrying arm in dog races, is held
void for want of novelty and invention. P. 791.
38 F. (2d) 170, affirmed.
CERTIORAkI, 281 U. S. 714, to review a decision which
reversed a decree of the District Court upholding the petitioner's patent in an infringement suit.

