168

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282 U.S.

LEKTOPHONE CORPORATION v. THE ROLA
COMPANY.
MILLER BROTHERS COMPANY v. LEKTOPHONE
CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS FOR TlE
NINTH AND THIRD CIRCUITS.

Nos. 19 and 68. Argued November 26, 1930.-Decided December
.8, 1930.
Hopkins Patent No. 1,271,529, granted July 2, 1918, for an acoustic
device for the propagation, from a record or equivalent element, of
self-sustaining sound waves in free air, as distinguished from the
then prevailing use of the sound box and horn, comprised a bodily
movable conical tympanum of crisp, strong, and more or less rigid
material, such as paper, continued in one'piece to form an annular
.rim which was rigidly supported between two rings. The patentee
attached importance to the size of the tympanum as well as it8
structure. Held, narrowly confined by the prior art, if valid, and
not infringed by a device (radio loud speaker), in which the rim
of the tympanum is made of limp leather or cloth. P. 17134 F. (2d) 764, affirmed.
37 F. (2d) 580 (Dist. Ct,), reversed.
WRITS OF CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 551 and 281 U. S. 713, to

review conflicting decisions in the Ninth and Thlird Circuits in two suits-brought by the Lektophone &-rporation
alleging the infringement, of a patent. The cases are
stated fully in the opinion.
Mr. William H. Davis for the Lektophone Corporation.
Mr. Thomas G. Haight, with whom Messrs. Charles E.
7ownsend, William A. Loftus, and Theodore S. Kenyon
were on the brief, for the Rola Company.
Messrs. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., and Theodore S. Kenyon
,for Miller Brothers Conpany.

LEKTOPHONE-CORP. v. ROLA CO.
168

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These are two suits brought by the Lektophone Corporation alleging the infringement of a patent. In the
first named, No. 19, 'in the Ninth Circuit, the decision
was for the defendant, 34 F. (2d) 764, affirming the decree
of the District Court, 27 F. (2d) 758, and declining to
follow the Third Circuit's decision in Lektophone Corporation v. Brandes Products Corporation, 20 F. (2d)
155. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court,
280 U. S. 551. Later, the second of the suits before us,
No.. 68, was brought in the Third Circuit, and the District Court, in obedience to the precedent there, decided
for the plaintiff, 37 F. (2d) 580. An appeal was.taken
to the .Circuit Court of Appeals. A writ of certiorari
was granted by this Court without the formality of
awaiting'the result. 281 U. S. 713.
The patent is No. 1,271,529, granted July 2, 1918, to
Hopkins, assignor, by mesne assignments, to. the Lektophone Corporation; the original application having been
filed July 14, 1913, in the time of the phonograph and
before the days of radio, for an " Improvement in Acoustic
Devices." The object is the "direct propagation, in free
air, from a record or equivalent element subjected to the
action of the original sound waves 'or vibrations, of selfsustaining sound waves substantially corresponding in'intensity and amplitude, as well as in pitch or timbre, to
the said original sound waves "; as distinguished from
the then prevailing use of the sound box and horn., The
device, as set forth in claim 8, comprised "a tympanum
embodying a bodily movable, central conical portion, and
an annular rim which encircles said conical portion and
which is rigidly supported, said conical portion being
freely exposed on.all sides to unconfined air and being
of sufficient area to-produce self-sustaining sound waves
in the surrounding air when vibrated." On the question

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court."

282 U.S.

what is a sufficient area the patqnt says," If satisfactory
regqneration by sounds from a record or other soundvibrated element is to be had, the whole diameter of the
tympanum, that is, the diameter of the aperture in the
rings [that rigidly clamp the edges of the tympaninn]
should exceed nine inches." "The diameter of the base
of said conical portion should be at least eight-tenths of
the diameter of the said aperture "-with further details.
Paper is pronounced a satisfactory material, the requirement being that it should1 be crisp and strong and have
considerable rigidity within itself.
The state of the art at and before f913 will be found
in the cases already cited, two excellent -discussions by
Thacher, D. J., in Lektophone Corporation v. Western
Electric Co., 20 F. (2d) 150 and Hickenlooper, D. J., in
Lektophone Corporation v. Crosley._Radio Corporation,
Southern District of Ohio, not reported, and in the English case of Lektophone Corporationv. S. G. Brown, Ltd.,
Ch. 'Div., January 23, 1929, Court of Appeals, July 12,
1929. It is unnecessary to repeat, because it-is conceded.
that the conical tympanum and material were known in
connection with a sound box for the phonograph of which
Hopkins was thinking, as shown by, the words 'from a.
record' quoted from the patent. The effect of increasing
the size of the Cone also was known. The contribution
of Hopkins, if he made one, aslield in several cases in the
lower Courts and abroad, was to combine abandoning the
sound box, determining the size of the cone deemed by
him most suitable to reproduce the sounds communicated
to it by vibration, and tightly gripping and rigidly supporting the outer edge of the above mentioned annular rim of the cone between two rings. A result
claimed for the rigid support, although seemingly not
thought of at the time,' is to avoid interfering sounds,
'blasting' and rattling, that were made when the edge 6f.

LEKTOPHONE CORP. v. ROLA CO.
168

Opinion of the Court.

the cone was loose. As said by Hickenlooper, J., "All of
these elements in combination went to make up the
novelty of his alleged invention.' "To the size, shape
and proportion thus disclosed the patentee is limited by
the prior ar and the .very essence of his invention." If
the patent was valid it must be confined narrowly to the
.combination described.
In No. 19 the defendant's device is very like that of the
plaintiff but differs in at least one particular. The plaintiff's cone, of crisp, strong, more or less rigid material,
is continued in one piece under the rings that give it a
rigid support. Its tympanum includes this outer edge.
On the other hand, as said by Judge Thacher about another contrivance, "the defendant's structure, although
it comprises a tympanum support having a circular aperture, does not comprise a tympanum having its outer
edge rigidly mounted on said support in said aperture
within the meaning of claim 4. Nor does it comprise
an annular rim which encircles the conical portion of the
tympanum within the meaning of claim 8." Lektophone
Corporationv. Western Electric Co., 20 F. (2d) 150, 154.
The defendant's tympanum is only the paper cone, distinct from the rim. The rim is made of limp leather. In
view of the importance attached to this element in the
plaintiff's patent it is impossible to say that it is infringed.
To quote again from the last cited case, "to hold that
the defendant's device comprises 'a tympanum rigidly
supported at its periphery' within the meaning of the
claims is to construe the claims contrary to the plain import of their terms." Ibid. There are other questions
that would have to be answered before the plaintiff could
prevail, such as the difference in size, argued in this case,
27 F. (2d) 758, 760; s. c.on appeal, 34 F. (2d) 764, 773;
the size being regarded by Hopkins as of the essence of
his invention. But we think the matter too plain to need

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282 U.S.

more words.- The same conclusion applies to the second
case where the rim is made of cloth.
Decree in No. 19 affirmed.
Decree in No. 68 reversed.
The CH'F Jus=E took no part in the decision of these
cases.
WAMPLER v. LECOMPTE, STATE GAME
WARDEN, mT AL.
APPEL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAM.

No. 402:

Argued November 25, 1930.-Decided December 8, 1930.

1. A state law for the conservation of water fowl and for the protec.tion of pdrsons engaged in shooting them, which provides that duck
blinds in the public. waters shall be at least 500 yards apart and
gives the riparlan.owner a preferential rightto select the position for
a blind, but whi'f forbids him to place one within 250 yards of the
land of an adjoining oner without the latter's consent, does not
violate the equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as a
discrimination in favor of persons owning a water frontage of more
than 500 yards and against those who own less. P. 174.
2. That the law does not apply uniformly to all the waters of the
State, .inthat for some the minimum distance between blinds is
250 yards and for others there are special exemptions, is not a
groundfor declaring it invalid, in the absence of facts proving the
classification unreasonable. Id.
159F"Md. 222, affirmed.

ArPEAL from a judgment of the Court of AppeaN of
Maryland which upheld the validity under the Federal
Constitution of a state statute regulating the erection and
maintenance of duck blinds in the waters of the State.
'Tlie court affirmed a, decree of the trial court denying an
injunction and dismissing the bill in a suit to restrain
state officers acting under authority of the statute.
Mr. Thomas Morris Wampler, pro se.

