FURST v. BREWSTER.
Argument for Appellants.
FURST AND THOMAS, PARTNERS, v. BREWSTER
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 76. Argued January 27, 28, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
A.state statute denying to any foreign corporation the right to sue
in the state courts unless it has filed in the State a copy of its
articles and a financial statement and designated a local office and
a local agent upon whom process may be served, is repugnant to
the. Commerce Clause if applied to an action to collect money due
by a resident, whether as agent or as vendee, f6r goods shipped in

to him, upon his order, from another State pursuant to his contract with the shipper, even though the latter acted as the .agent
of a foreign corporation which had not complied 'with the
statute. P. 497.
180 Ark.'1167; 21 S. W. (2d) 863, reversed.

from a judgment affirming a judgment against
the appellants in their action for goods sold and delivered.
APPEAL

M1r. Frank F. Nesbit, with whom Mr. M. Danaherwas
on the brief, for appellants.
The transaction is not taken out of the field of interstate commerce by the mere designating of one party as
the agent of the other. As between them, if the contract
involves the interstate carriage of goods, interstate payment therefor and mercantile intercourse between citizens
of different States, it is a transaction in interstate commerce, whether one is the vendee, agent, consignee or fac:tor of the other. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 280;
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282;
InternationalText-Book Co. v. Pigg,217 U. S. 107r; Butler
Bros. Shoe Co. v. U. S. Rubber Co., 156 Fed. 1, certiorari
denied, 212 U. S. 577; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187
U. S. 622; Adair v. Uvited States, 208 U. S. 161, 177.
The right to enforce and collect in the state courts
debts arising out of such transactions i§ a necessary incident of interstate commerce, and the imposition of un-

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

reasonable *conditions upon the 'exercise of this right
unduly burdens interstate commerce and is unconstitutional/ International Text-Book Co. v. Pigg, supra;
Peterson v. Lynch, 218 U. S. 664; Sioux Remedy Co. v.
Cope, 235 U. S. 197; Buck Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S.
205; Wi7son-Moline Buggy Co. v. Hawkins, 223 U. S. 713;
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 280,
282.
No appearance fQr appellees.
MR.

CHIEF

JUsTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The plaintiffs, copartners, doing business in Freepor,Illinois, brought this suit in the Circuit Court of Bradley County, Arkansas, against James G. Brewster, of Warren, Arkansas, to recover for goods sold and delivered to
him pursuant to a contract, the performance of whicl
was alleged to have been guaranteed by the defendants
E. A. Davis and H. M. Beaty. By the terms of the contract, the firm of Furst & Thomas agreed to sell and deliver to Brewster, on board cars at Freeport, Illinois, or
at their option at their nearest branch warehouse, at their
current wholesale prices, their products in reasonable
quantities as ordered by him, so long as the contract was
in force and his account was in a satisfactory condition.
Furst & Thorhas agreed to give to Brewster free advice
as to the best methods of selling to consumers the goods
purchased by him under the contract. *Brewsteri agreed
to pay Furst & Thomas the regular wholesale prices, with
specified discounts, the payments to .be made weekly
according to his cash sales and collections. On the terinination of the contract; Brewster was to have the.privilege
of returning to Furst & Thomas his stock of unsold goods.
The defendants pleaded, that the goods delivered by- the

FURST v. BREWSTER.
493

495

Opinion'of the Court.

plaintiffs to Brewster were manufactured by a corporation, the Furst-McNess Company, organized under the
laws of Illinois, with its principal place of business in
Freeport, Illinois; that in making the contract, and the
deliveries of goods thereunder, Furst & Thomas acted as
the agents of the Furst-McNess Company, and thatthe
Furst-McNess Company had failed to comply with the
statute of Arkansas, pertaining to foreign corporations,
by filing a copy of its charter and a statement of its assets
and liabilities, by designating its general offices in the
State of Arkansas, and by designating an agent for the
service of process in that State. It was alleged that, in
consequence, this suit could not be maintained, as the
statutes of Arkansas expressly forbade it.'
'The statutory provisions thus invoked are found in §§ 1826 and
1832 of Crawford & Moses Digest of tle Statutep of Arkansas (Acts
1907, p. 744) which -provide as follows: "1826. :Every company or
corporation incorporated under the laws of any other State, Territory,
or country, including foreign railroad and foreign fire and life insurance companies, now or hereafter doing business in this State, shall
file in the office of the Secretary of State of this State a copy of its
charter or articles of jicorporation or association, or a copy of its
certificate of incorporation, duly authenticated and certified by the
proper authority, together with a statement of its assets and liabilities
and. the amount of its capital employed in this State, and shall also
designate its general office or place of business in this State, and shall,
name an agent upon whom process may be served.
"1832. Any foreign corporation which shall fail to comply with
the provisions of this act, and shall do any business in this State,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000.00, to be recovered
before any court of competent jurisdiction, and all such fines so recovered shall be paid into the general revenue fund of the county, in
which the cause of action shall accrue, and it is hereby made the
duty of the prosecuting attorneys to institute said suits in the name
of the State, for the use and benefit of the County in which the
suit is brought, and such prosecuting attorney shall receive as his
compensation one-fourth of the amount recovered; and as an additional penalty any foreign corporation which shall fail or refuse to

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

At the trial the terms of the contract, as above. stated,
and the transactions under it, were shown. It appeared
that Furst & Thomas did business at Freeport, Illinois;
that they received at that place orders from the defendant
Brewster; and that the goods. so ordered were shipped to
Brewster at Warren, Arkansas, from the branch warehouse of Furst & Thomas at Memphis, Tennessee. The
goods thus shipped had been obtained by Furst & Thomas
in Illinois from the Furst-McNess Company, an Illinois
corporation doing business at Freeport, Illinois. It was
admitted that this corporation had not been authorized to
do business under the, laws of Arkansas. Evidence wa
also introduced for the purpose of showing that Furst &
Thomas were agents of the Furst-McNess Company and
to support the contention that the transactions between
Furst & Thomas and the defendant Brewster under the
contract in suit were those of principal and agent.
The evidence was submitted to the jury upon the question of agency. The court refused to give thd instruction,
which the plaintiffs requested, that the statutes of Arkan
sas (supra) had no application, for the reason that, if
applied, they would contravene Article 1, section 8, clause
3, of the Constitution of the United States giving to
the Congress power to regulate commerce among the
States. The jury found in favor of the defendants. - A
motion to set aside the verdict upon the ground, among
others, of error in refusing the request above-mentioned,
was denied. The Supreme Court of Arkansas affirmed the
judgment, following its earlier decision in a similar case
(Furst & Thomas v. Hartzell, 172 Ark. 1118), where it
le its articles of incorporation or certificate as aforesaid can not make
any contract in this State which can be enforced by it either in law
or in equity, and the complying with the provisions of this act after
the date of any such contract, or after any suit is instituted thereon,
shall in no way validate said c6ntract.'

FURST v. BREWSTER.

1497 '

Opinion of the Court.

493

was held that the determinative question was whether the
relationship between the parties was that of vendor and
vendee or principal and agent; that the contract in suit
was ambiguous and that it was proper to submit the question of the effect of the contract to a jury for its determination. Furst & Thomas v. Brewster, 180 Ark. 1167; 21
S. W. (2d) 863. The plaintiffs bring their appeal to this
Court, contending that the statutory provisions in question, as they have been applied by the state court, are
repugnant to the commerce -clause of the Federal
Constitution.
The question is not as to sales made by Brewster in
Arkansas, but as to the transactions between Brewster
and Furst & Thomas. These transactions were clearly in
interstate commerce, whether or not Furst & Thomas
were agents.of the Furst-McNess Company, and whether
or liot Brewster was an agent of Furst & Thomas. In
ptLrsuance of orders sent by Brewster in Arkansas to Furst
& Thomas in Illinois, goods were shipped to Arkansas
from the branch warehouse of Furst & Thomas in Tennessee. The ordering and shipment of the goods constituted interstate commerce, and ihe obligation to pay
and the right ,to recover the amount due, according to
the contract pursuant to which the goods were sent, arose
in the course of that commerce. In International Text
Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.91, 107, this Court quoted with
approval the language of the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit, speaking by Judge Sanborn, in
Butler Bros. Shoe Co. v. United States Rubber Co., 156
Fed. 1, 17,2 a case of con ignments to a factor, that "all
interstate commerce is not sales of goods. Importation
into one State from another is the indispensable element,
the test, of interstate commerce; and every negotiation,
2

Certiorari was denied by this Court.

22110-31-32

212 U. S. 577.

498

OCTOBER TERM 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

contract, trade, and dealing between citizens of different
States, which contemplates and causes such ifnportation,
whether it be of goods, persons, or information, is a transaction of interstate commerce." Such cdmmerce comprehends all the component parts of commercial intercourse between different States, and, according to established principle, any state statute which obstructs or lays
a direct burden on the exercise of the privilege of engaging
in interstate commerce is void under the commerce clause.
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. 8. 47, 57; Western Union
Telegraph-Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27; Dahnke-Walker
Milling Co. v. .Jondurant,257 U. S.*282, 290, 291. Accordingly, when a corporation goes into a State other
than that of its origin to collect, according to the usual
or prevailing methods, the amount which has become due
in transactions in interstate commerce, the, State canniot,
consistently with, the limitation arising from the commerce clause, obstruct the attainment of- that purpose.
Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 204.
In the case last cited, it was recognized that a foreign
corporation seeking to enforce such a right in the courts'
of a State may be required 'to conform to the prevailing
modes of proceeding in those courts and to submit to the
usual rules respecting costs, the giving of security therefor, and the like. But the Court, examining the conditions
imposed by the state statute, which were similar to those
of the provisions here in question, found that they had
"no natural or reasonable relation to the right to sue which
they are intended to restrict "] that the statutory requirements relating to the appointment of a resident agent
upon whom process might be served was particularly burdensome because it required the foreign corporation to
subject itself to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State
in general, as a prerequisite to suing in any of them even
in a single instance. The Court. said that in that way
corporations engaged in interstate commerce could "be

BAIN PEANUT CO. v. PINSON.
493

-Statement of the Case.

subjected to great embarrassment and serious hazards in
the enforcement of contractual rights dir'ectly arising out
of and connected with such commerce." See, also, International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, supra, at pp. 112, 114;
Buck Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205, 215, 216;
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, supra.
We are of the opinion that the provisions of the statutes
of Arkansas, as applied in this case, are in conflict with the
commerce clause.
Judgment reversed.

BAIN PEANUT COMPANY OF TEXAS

Er AL. v.

PINSON ET AL.
APPEAL FROT THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE
ELEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT, STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 49. Argued January 12, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
1. A judgment of an intermediate state court upholding the constitutionality of a Aate statute over objections based on the Federal Constitution, and as to which the Supreme Court of the State dismissed

an application for a writ of error "for want of jurisdiction," held
reviewable here, it appearing that, under the local law, the effect
(though not the form) of the action of the Supreme Court was to
affirm the judgment of the intermediate court on the constitutional
question. P. 500.
2. A state law allowing suits to be brought against private corporations in any county in which the cause of action arose, but against
individuals, in like cases, only in the counties where they reside, held
not repugnant to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 501.
19 S.W. (2d) 203, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals,
of Texas, affirming recovery by Pinson and Guyger from
che Peanut Company in an action on a contract. For
earlier phases of the litigation see 273 S. W. 655; 287 id.
87; 292 id. 204; and 294 id. 536. After the argument
here, the appeal was ordered dignmissed for want of juris-

