694

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U. S.

The extent of cross-examination with respect to an
appropriate subject of inquiry is within the sound discretion of the trial court. It may exercise a reasonable
judgment in determining when the subject: is exhausted.
Storm v. United States, 94 U. S. -76, 85; Rea v. Missaur,
17 Wall. 532, 542-543; Blitz v. United States, 153 U. S.
308, 312. But no obligation is imposed on the court, such
as that suggested below, to protect a witness from being
discredited on cross-examination, short of an attempted
invasion of his constitutional protection from self incrimination, properly invoked. There is a duty to protect him
from questions which go beyond the bounds of proper
cross-examination merely to harass, annoy or humiliate
him. Great Western Turnpike Co. v. Loomis, 32 N. Y.
127, 132; Wallace v. State, supra; 5 Jones, Evidence (2d
ed) § 2316. But no such case is presented here. The
trial court cut off in limine all inquiry on a subject with
respect to which the defense was entitled to a reasonable
cross-examination. This was an abuse of discretion and
prejudicial error. Tla-Koo-Yel-Lee v. United States,
supra; Nailor v. Williams, supra; King v. United States,.
supra; People v. Moore, supra; cf. People v. Becker,
supra. Other grounds for reversal were set up in the
petition for certiorari, but we do not find it necessary to
pass upon them.
Reversed.

HUSTY

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 477.

Argued January 22, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.

1. The Fourth Amendment doe not prohibit the search,
warrant, of an automobile, for liquor illegally transported
sessed, if the search is upon probable cause; and arrest
transportation or possession need not precede the search.

without
or posfor the
P. 700.

RUSTY v. UNITED STATES.
694

695

Syllabus.

2. To show probable cause it is not necessary that the arresting
officer should have 'had before hun legal evidence of the suspected
act. It is enough if the apparent facts which have come to his
attention are sufficient, in the circumstances, to lead a reasonably
discreet and prudent man to believe that liquor is illegally possessed in the automobile to be searched. P. 700.
3. Acting on information, reasonably believed by him to be reliable,
that one of the defendants herein, known to him to have been engaged in the illegal liquor traffic, possessed liquor in an automobile
of particular description and location, a prohibition dfficer went to
therplace and found the.automobile and the defendant in company
with others, who, upon being hailed by the officer, tried to escape.
Held:
(1) That there were reasonable grounds for the officer's belief
that liquor illegally possessed would be found in the car. P. 701.
(2) The search was not unreasonable because sufficient time
elapsed between the receipt by the officer of the information and
the search of the car to have enabled him to procure a search warrant, since he could not know how soon the defendant uould come
to the car or how soon it would be removed. P. 701.
4.'Rulings of the trial court excluding questions seeking to establish
the name and identity of one who gave information to a prohibition
officer upon which he based a search of defendant's automobile, are'
not considered here because not assigned as error and, so far as
appears, not presented or passed upon, in the Court of Appeals.
P. 701.
5. Where an indictment charged the transportation of intoxicating
liquor, as a first offense by two defendants, and in another count,
possession of intoxicating liquor as a first offense by one of them
and as a third offense by the other, naming in each count a time
and place within the jurisdiction of the court, held, that failure to
state more speciacally the amount of the liquor, and the time and
place of the offenses, did not affect the validity of the indictment,
but at most furnished ground for demanding a bill of particulars.
P. 702.
6. The Act of March 2, 1929, known as the Jones kct, which increased
the penalty for illegal manufacture, sale, etc., of intoxicating liquor,
with the proviso "that it is the intent of Congress that .the court, in
imposing sentence hereunder, should discriminate between casual or
flight violations and habitual sales of intoxicating liquor, or attempts
to commercialize violations of the law," added no new criminal
offense to those enumerated and defined in the National Prohibition

696

OCTMtIER TERM, 1980.
Argument for Petitioners.

282 U. S.

Act, and therefore added nothing to the material allegations required
to~be set out in indictments for those offenses. P, 702.
7.,&Ehe proviso mentioned is only a guide to the discretion of the
'court in imposing the increased sentences for those offenses for
which an increased penalty is authorized by the Act. P. 702.
8. The maximum penalty for illegal possession of intoxicating liquor,
under § 29 of the National Prohibition Act, was not increased by
the Jones Act. P. 703.
9. Possession of intoxicating liquor in connection with its illegal transportation does not in itself justify a heavy sentence under the
Jones Act for the illegal transportation, and does not necessarily
justify such a sentence, when there has been a former conviction for
illegal possession only. P. 703.

CERTIORAR, post, p. 831, to review conviction on two
counts, for unlawful possession and for unlawful transportation of intoxicating liquor. Reversed.
Mr. HaroldA. Kesler, with whom Messrs. John B. McMahon and Percy F. Parrott were on the brief, for petitioners.
The search was unlawful and the evidence shouid have
been suppressed. Skelly v. UnitedStates, 37 F. (2d) 503;
United States v. Solomon, 33 F. (2d) 193; Carroll v.
United States, 267 U. S. 132, 147; United States v. Setaro,
37 F. (2d) 134; People v. Margelis,217 Mich. 423; United
States v. Lukas, 35 F. (2d) 599.
The indictment is bad for uncertainty; neither count
specifies the place, the time, the liquor transported and
possessed, or the amount thereof. Skelly v. United
States, 37 F. (2d) 503; McElvogue v. United States, 40 F.
(2d) 889; Gurera v. United States, 40 F. (2d) 338; Sapp
v. United States, 35 F. (2d) 580.
The indictment does not invoke the Jones law. Cf.
.United States v. Kent, 36 F. (2d) 401. Defendants are
not informed as to whether the charge against them is a
felony or a misdemeanor, nor whether they were charged
with a casual or slight violation, or with habitual sales
and attempts to commercialize violations of the law.

RUSTY v. UNITED STATES.
694

697

Argument for the United States,

If the issues raised by the proviso of the Jones Act
should be included in the indictment, then the issue
should be presented to the jury and should be included in
the charge of the court. United States v. Kent, 36 F.
(2d) 401; United States v. Setaro, 37 F. (2d) 134; McElvogue v. United States, 40 F. (2d) 889; Gurerav. United
States, 40 F. (2d) 338.
Concerning the sentence: United States v. Setaro,
supra; Cisson v. United States, 37 F. (2d) 330; Ross v.
United States, 37 F. (2d) 557; McElvogue v. United
States, supra; Gurera v. United States, supra; Brady v.
United States, 39 F. (2d) 312; United States v. Farrar,
281 U. S. 624.
Mr. Amos W. W. Woodcock, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist and
Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, Mahlon D. Kiefer, and W. Marvin Smith
were on the brief, for the Jnited States.
The arrest and search and seizure were upon probable
cause. Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132; Brady v.
United States, 300 Fed. 540; United States v. Lukas, 35 F.
(2d) 599. See also Ash v. United States, 299 Fed. 277;
Parkv. United States, 294 Fed. 776, 782-783.
The indictment alleges the unlawful transportation, in
a specified kind of automobile, and the unlawful possession of, intoxicating liquor fit for use for beverage purposes, to-wit, whiskey, on December 10, 1929, in Grand
Rapids, Kent County, Michigan, within the jurisdiction
of the court. The petitioners' objection is that the indictment does not specify the amount of the liquor, nor
the time when or the place where it was illegally transported and possessed. We submit that the indictment
contained all the essential elements of the offenses averred
and duly informed petitioners of the charges against them.
See Gurera v. United States, 40 F. (2d) 338; Jacobs v.
United States, 24 F. (2d) 890; Leonard v. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for the United States.

282 U. S.

18 F. (2d) 208; Myers v. United States, 15 F. (2d) 977; •
Hovermale v. United -States, 5 F. (2d) 586; Pane v.
United States, 2 F. (2d) 855. The allegation that the
offenses took place within the jurisdiction of the court is
sufficient. Further information could have been supplied
by a bill of particulars but it was not asked for. Durland v. United States, 161 U. S. 306, 315. If at any time
they should find it aecessary to plead the record and conviction in bar of another prosecution, the time and place,
as well as the amount of liquor involved, may be shown
by other proof. See Dunbar v. United States, 156 U. S.
185, 191.
The proviso to the Jones Act defines no new crime, but
*merely cautions the court to exercise a judicial discretion
in the imposition, of sentences. Ross v. United States,
37 F. (2d) 557, certiorari denied, 281 U. S. 767; United
States v. Kent, 36 F. (2d) 401. See also McElvogue v.
United States, in which this Court denied certiorari.
The trial court had power under the Jones Act to impose a sentence for transportation of imprisonment not to
exceed five years and a fine not to exceed $10,000. There
was a general verdict of guilty, and the sentences imposed
were general sentences which did not exeed those which
might have been imposed under the first, count. See
Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S. 616, 619; United States
v. Trenton Potteries,273 U. S. 392, 401-402.. Obviously,
the proviso that Congress intended thl court to use discrimination in imposing sentences was not intended as a
limitation upon the power of.the court. If the sentences
were within the discretion of the trial court; petitioners'
only recourse is to the executive. The court in imposing
the sentences no doubt took into consideration the evidence in the case. See Ross v. United States, 37 F. (2d)
557.

BUSTY v. UNITED STATES.
694

,699

Opinion of the Court.

IVIR. JUSTICE STONE delivered-the opinion of the Court.
Petitioners were convicted in the District Court for
Western Michigan upon two ounts of an indictment, the
first for transporting, and the second for possessing, intoxicating liquors in violation of the National Prohibition
Act. They had been apprehended while in an -automobile, and arrested without warrant. The officers had
-searched the automobile, without warrant, and found a
quantity of intoxicating liquor, which they had seized.
A motion by petitioners to suppress the use as evidence
of the information thus acquired, on the ground that the
arrest and the search and seizure were illegal, was denied.
Each count of the indictment set forth a single offense;
and the second, that for possession, alleged two prior convictions of petitioner Husty for unlawful possession. Petitioners were sentenced generally on the indictment,
without reference to either count, Husty to five years' imprisonment and to pay a fine of $3000, and Laurel to
imprisonment for one year and six months.
In the course of the proceedings before the District
Court, petitioners, by appropriate motions and exceptions, challenged the correctness of the order denying the
motion to suppress evidence; the sufficiency of the indictment; and the legality of the sentences, the last on the
grounds that they were not authorized by the Jones Act
of March 2, 1929, c. 473, 45 Stat. 1446, and exceeded'the
maximum penalties which could be imposed under § 29
of the National Prohibition Act.
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, without
opinion, affirmed the convictions under both counts and
held the sentences to be supported by the convictions
upon the second count-that for possession-alone. This
Court granted certiorari, on a petition which asked review of the rulings of the District Court which have been

700

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282,U. S.

mentioned, the government opposing on the ground,
among others, that the sentences were proper under the
possession count.
1. In the proceeding to suppress evidence, one ol the
prohibition officers who made the arrest testified that he
had known Husty to be a "bootlegger" for a number of
years before the arrest, and had arrested him in 1922 and
1928 for violations of the National Prohibition Act, both
arrests resulting in conviction and the second in imprisonment. On the day of petitioners' arrest, the Witness had
received information over the telephone that Husty had
two loads of liquor in automobiles of a particular make
and description, parked in particular places on named
streets. The witness was well acquainted with his informant, having known him for about eight years, and
had come in frequent contact with him in business and
socially. The same person had given similar information
to the witness before, which had always been found to be
reliable.- The officer believed the information, and, acting
ppon it, found one of the cars'described, at the point indicated, and unattended. Later, petitioners and a third
man entered the car. Husty had started it when hq was
stopped by the officers. Laurel and the third man fled,
and the latter escaped. The officers, believing that the
car contained intoxicating liquor, searched it, and found
eighteen cases of whiskey.
The Fourth Amendment does not prohibit the search,
without warrant, of an automobile, for liquor illegally
transported or possessed, if the search is upon probable
cause; and arrest for the transportation or possession need
not precede the search. Carroll v. United States, 267
U. S. 132. We think the testimony which we have summarized is ample to establish the lawfulness of the present search. To show probable cause it is not necessary
that the arresting officer should have had before him

HUSTY v. UNITED STATES.
694

701

Opinion of the Court.

legal evidence of the suspected illegal act. Dumbra v.
United States, 268 U. S. 435,441; Carrollv. United States,
supra. It is enough if the apparent facts which have
come to his attention are sufficient, in the circumstances,
to lead a reasonably discreet and prudent man to believe
that liquor is illegally possessed in the automobile to be
searched. See Dumbra v. United States, supra; Stacey
v. Emery, 97 U. S. 642, 645.
Here the information, reasonably believed by the officer
to be reliable, that Husty, known to him to have been
engaged in the illegal traffic, possessed liquor in an auitomobile of particular description and location; the subsequent discovery of the automobile at the point indicated,
in the control of Husty; and the prompt attempt of his
two companions to escape when hailed by the officers,
were reasonable grounds for his belief that liquor illegally
possessed would be found in the car. The search was not
unreasonable because, as petitioners argue, sufficient time
elapsed between the receipt by the officer of the information and the search of the car to have enabled him to procure a search warrant. He could not know when Husty
would come to the car or how soon it would be removed.
In such circumstances we do not think the officers should
be required to speculate upon the chances of successfully
carrying out the search, after the delay and withdrawal
from the scene of one or more officers which would haVe
been necessary to procure a warrant. The search was,
therefore, on probable cause, and not unreasonable; and
the motion to suppress the evidence was rightly denied.
Carrollv. United States, supra.
In the course of the hearing on the, motion, questions
by petitioners seeking to establish the name and identity
of the officer's informant, were excluded. Petitioners ask
review of these rulings on the evidence, but we do not consider them, since they were not assigned as error on the ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

peal to the Court of Appeals, and it does not appear that
they *ere presented or passed upon there. Duignan v.
United States, 274 U. S. 195, 200.
2. The indictment is in the form authorized by § 32 of
the National Prohibition Act. It charges the -transportation of intoxicating liquor as-a first offense by both petitioners, and possession as a first offense by Laurel, and as
a third offense by Husty, at a named time, and at a place
within the jurisdiction of the court. Failure to state
more sp~eifically the amount of the liquor, and the time
and place of the offenses charged, does not affect the
validity of the indictment. It was at most ground for a
bill of particulars if timely application had been made.
See Durlaiidv. United States, 161 U. S. 306, 315.
It is urged that the indictment is defective, because it
fails to state whether the offenses charged were felonies
or misdemeanors, .and whether the petitioners were
charged with casual or slight violations, or habitual sales
of intoxicating liquor, or attempts to commercialize violations of the law, which, petitioners argue, were made new
or aggravated offenses by the Jones Act.
But the Jones Act created no new crime. It increased
the penalties for "illegal manufacture, sale, transportation, importation or exportation," as defined by § 1,
Title II of the National Prohibition Act, to a fine not
exceeding $10,000, or imprisonment not exceeding five
years, or both, and added as a proviso, "that it is the*
intent of Congrds that the court, in imposing sentence
herednder, shoutd discriminate between casual or slight
violations and habitual sales of intoxicating liquor, or
attempts to commercialize violations of the law," As the
Act added no new criminal offense to those enumerated
and defined in the National Prohibition Act, it added
nothing to the material allegations required to be set out
in. indictments for those offenses. The proviso is only a

RUSTY v. UNITED STATES.
694

Opinion of the Court.

guide to the discretion of the court in imposing the
increased sentences for those offenses for which an
increased penalty is authorized by the Act. See Ross v.
United States, 37 F. (2d) 557; certiorari denied, 281 U. S.
767.. McElvogue v. United States, 40 F. (2d) 889; certiorari denied, post.
3. The sentence imposed on each of the petitioners
exceeded the maximum penalty for illegal possession
under § 29 of the National .Prohibition Act, which is, for
a first offense, $500 fine, and for a third offense, "not less
than $500" fine and not more than two years' imprisonment. As illegal possession is not one of the offenses
enumerated in the Jones Act for which increased penalties are provided, and*as the sentences imposed exceed
any authorized by "§ 29 of the National Prohibition Act,
the court below was in error in holding that they were
supported .by convictions on the second count, that for
possession.
Since the convictions were upheld under the first count,
sentences under the Jones Act were authorized, transportation being one of the offenses enumerated in that Act.
But the possession alleged in the second count was not in
itself necessarily an aggravation- of 'the transportation
charge which would warrant heavy sentences under the
Jones Act as to either petitioner, and could not be as to
Laurel, who, so far as the evidence shows, was a firit
offender both as to the transportation and possession.
While the District Court may have had before it facts
other than those appearing of record which it was entitled
to consider in imposing sentence under the JonesAct, we
think, in view of the confusion which has arisen with respect to the proprinty of the sentences under the possession
count, that the District Court should be afforded an
'opportunity
in its discretion to resentence the petitioners
in the view of the applicable statutes, as stated.

704

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282 U. S.

The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
SARANAC AUTOMATIC MACHINE CORPORATION v. WIREBOUNDS PATENTS COMPANY
ET AL.

_

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Argued January 13, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.

1. Patent No. 1,128,145 (Claim 25), granted to Inwood and Laven-"
berg, fot mecl~anical means of holding in proper relative positions
side piedes and.step-mitered end cleats, preformed and separate,
while joining thehf by stapling and wiring into a foldable boxblank,--held inValid for want of. invention. P. 711.
2. The. method of making the box-blanks out of separate, preformed
pieces, suitably held for stapling and wiring, was involved in and
disclosed by an earlier, and now expired, product patent to the
same persons. P. 709.
3. The present patent (Claim 25) covers only a mechanical means,
useful in pursuing that method but which did not in itself involve
invention. It can not be construed as embracing the method,
nor be given the effect of extending the monopoly, of the expired
patent. P. 714.
37 F. (2d) 830, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 711, to review a decree holding a
patent valid and infringed and reversing a decree of the
District Court, which adjudged otherwise, 24 F. (2d) 872.

Messrs. Howard M. Cox and Amasa C. Paul for petitioner.
Mr. Laurence A. Janney, with whom Mr. Edward F.
Dunne, Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.

