656

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282-U.S.

per cent. of the 1917 value of its lands, buildings and
equipment disappeared. Notwithstanding diligent efforts,
the property could not be put to any profitable use or soldfor more than a fraction of its value in 1917. The rents
realized under a short term lease renewed from time to
time for more than five years amounted to less than one
and one-half per cent. of such value.
The facts found clearly show that obsolescence commenced about the beginning of 1918 -and that the property became obsolete upon the taking effect of prohibition
in January, 1920. The company was unable to find any
profitable use to which the property could be put. The
sums received on the sale and as rents constituted mere
salvage.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MICHEL.
SAME v. KRIEGER.
CERTIORARI TO THEE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 79 and 80. Argued January 28, 1931.-Decided February 24,
1931.
.1. Under R. S. § 3226, as amended, a suit against the United State
to recover an internal revenue tax will not lie if not commenced
within five years after payment of the tax or within two years
after disallowance by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the
taxpayer's claim for refund. P. 658.
2. Notwithstanding the provision of this statute directing the Commissioner within 90 days after any disallowance to notify the-taxpayer thereof by mail, .the two-year limitation on suit begins on
disallowance and not on the giving of notice by the Commissioner.
P. 658.
3. Suit may not be maintained Against the United States in any case
not clearly within the terms of the statute by which it consents to
be sued. P. 659.
37 F. (2d) 38, reversed.

UNITED STATES v. MICHEL.
656

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIoRARI, 281 U. S. 714, to review two reversals of

judgments dismissing the complaints in suits to recover
money collected as taxes.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell and Messrs. Claude R. Branch,
Sewall Key and John H. McEvers, Special Assistants to
the Attorney General, and Erwin N. Griswold were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Donald Home, with whom Mr. Mortimer J. Wohl
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
These actions were brought in the District Court for
the Southern District of New York. Each respondent
sued to recover income taxes incorrectly determined for
1919 and paid in 1920. On defendant's motion in the
nature of a general demurrer that court dismissed. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 37 F. (2d) 38.
'The sole question is whether the actions were commenced within the time" allowed by R. S., § 3226, as
amended. 26 U. S. C., § 156.
In 1924, Michel on February 7, and Krieger on September 15, filed a claim for refund. The Commissioner
of Internal Revenue by a letter dated August 17, 1925,
advised Michel that his claim would be rejected and that
the rejection would officially appear on the next schedule
to be approved by him. The claim was rejected September 2. The Commissioner, April 2, 1925, sent a like
letter to Krieger, and his claim was rejected April 20.
The Commissioner did not give notice to either of them
that his claim had been disallowed or of the date of disallowance until June 27, 1928. The suits were subsequently brought more than two years after the rejections
and less than two years after the notices.
22110°-31---42

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

Section 3226 as amended provides:
"No suit or proceeding shall be maintained in any
court for the recovery of any internal revenue tax alleged
to have been erroneously or illegally asessed or collected . . . until a claim for refund or credit has been
duly filed with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue . . . No such suit or proceeding shall be begun
before the expiration of six months from the date of filing
such claim unless the commissioner renders a decision
thereon within that time, nor after the expiration of five
years from the date of the payment of such tax .
unless such suit or proceeding is begun within two years,
after the disallowance of the part of such claim to which
such suit or proceeding relates. The commissioner shall
within 90 days after any such disallowance notify the taxpayer thereof by mail."
By this statute the United States waived its sovereign
immunity from suit. The permission to sue is conditioned on the filing of a claim and the lapse of six months
or the disallowance of the claim within that period, and
is limited to not more than five years after payment'
of the tax unless the claim has been disallowed and
the action is commeficed within two years from the
disallowance.
Neither of these claims was rejected within six months
after -filing. And in each case more than two years
elapsed after rejection before the Commissioner sent no-tice that the claim had been disallowed. Neither action
was commenced within five years after payment of the
tax or within two years after disallowance of the claim.
The taxpayers contend, and the Circuit Court of Appeals
held, that the permission to sue continues for two years
after notice that the claims had been disallowed and that
therefore these actions were commenced within time.
As the Commissioner did not act within six months,
permission to sue did not depend upon the rejection of

UNITED STATES v. MICHEL.
656

Opinion of the Court.

the claim or upon the giving of the notice. By the terms
of the statute the period within which the Government
consented to be sued commenced at the expiration of such
six months and continued uninterruptedly through the
five-year period following the date of payment and until
"two years after the disallowance." While the statute
declares that the Commissioner within a specified time
shall notify the taxpayer that his claim has been disallowed, it is nowhere stated that the Commissioner's
failure to give the notice will in any event operate to
extend the time for bringing suit. An implication to that
effect cannot prevail against the rule expressly stated.
It is clear that where the Commissioner renders no decision within six months the section contemplates that before commencing his suit the taxpayer will ascertain by
inquiry whether the Commissioner has acted. This at
least suggests that it may be the intention of the Act to
leave a like burden upon claimants in all cases.
Provisions in tax laws limiting the time within which the
United States may enforce the payment of taxes by distraint or suit are to be interpreted liberally in favor of the
taxpayers. Bowers v. N. Y. & Albany Co., 273 U. S.
346. United States v. Updike, 281 U. S. 489. But it is
also well established that suit may not be maintained
against the United States in any case not clearly within
the terms of the statute by which it consents to be sued.
Eastern Transp. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 675, 686.
Price v. United States, 174 U. S. 373, 375-376. There is
nothing in the legislative history of the provision to indicate an intention that the two-year period should not
commence upon the disallowance of the claim or that it
should be extended by the failure of the Commissioner to
give the specified notice.*
* Senate Report No: 1137, 67th Congress, 4th Session, p. 5. House

Report No. 1757, 67th Congress, 4th Session, p. 3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

Having regard to the rule of strict construction to be
applied to waivers by the United States of its sovereign
immunity from suit, the clause reasonably may be read
merely as a direction to the Commissioner to send the
notice to claimant without making the failure so to do
have the effect of enlarging the period for suing as otherwise definitely prescribed.
The permission to each of the plaintiffs to bring suit
expired two years after his claim was disallowed.
Judgments reversed.
CONNECTICUT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 12, Original.

Argued January 5, 6, 1931.-Decided February
24, 1931.

1. This Court will not exert its extraordinary power to control the
conduct of one State at the suit of another, unless the threatened
invasion of rights is of serious magnitude and established by
clear and convincing evidence. P. 669.
2. The burden of proof in such cases is much greater than that
generally imposed on a private party seeking to enjoin another.'
P. 669.
3. Pursuant to Acts of her legislature, and subject to limitations
fixed by the Secretary of War, Massachusetts proposes to divert water from streams within her territory, the Ware and Swift
Rivers, which are tributaries of the Connecticut, a navigable river
flowing through Massachusetts and thence through the State of
Connecticut. The diverted water will be conducted out of the
Connecticut River watershed, to the Boston district, where it will
be used for drinking and other domestic purposes. That district
will be faced by a water shortage in the near future and the
tributaries referred to were selected, after elaborate research, as
the source of new supply, rather than sources in the eastern
part of Massachusetts which are polluted or liable to become so.
Connecticut sought to enjoin the diversion, for herself and as
parens patHae. Held, upon the facts as found by a Master and
accepted by the Court:

