•734

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

Syllabus.

282 U.S.

no limited and special operation, as is contended, upon
the people's delegation by Article V of certain functions
to the Congress.
The United States relies upon the fact that every
amendment has been adopted by the method pursued in
respect of the Eighteenth. Appellees reply that all these
save the Eighteenth dealt solely with governmental means
and machinery rather than with the rights of the individual citizen. But we think that several amendments
touch rights of the citizens, notably the Thirteenth,
Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Sixteenth and Nineteenth, and in
view of this, weight is to be given to the fact that these
were adopted by the method now attacked. The Pocket
Veto Case, supra.
For these reasQns we reiterate what was said in the
National ProhibitionCases, supra, that the "Amendment
by lawful proposal and ratification, has become a part of
the Constitution."
The order of the court below is
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
ISAACS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF THE
ESTATE OF HENRIETTA E. CUNNINGHAM,
BANKRUPT, v. HOBBS TIE & TIMBER COMPANY.
'
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGIITH CIRCUIT.

No. 72. Argued January 23, 26, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.,
1. Upon an adjudication of bankruptcy the title to and constructive
possession of land belonging to the bankrupt and situate in another
State vest in the trustee as of the date of the filing of the peti-

ISAACS v. HOBBS TIE & T. CO.
734

Opinion of the Court.

tion; jurisdiction to determine the validity and amount of a lien
upon the land, and to decree the method of its liquidation, can not
be taken thereafter by a state court. P. 737.
2. Where a suit to foreclose a mortgage on land was begun in a local
state court after the owner had been declared bankrupt in the
bankruptcy court in another State, and the trustee in bankruptcy,
made a party to the suit, removed it, upon the ground of diversity of citizenship, to the federal court of the district in which
it was brought and set up the bankruptcy adjudication, held:
(1) A valid defense, since the state court was without jurisdiction to proceed to foreclosure and sale, and the federal court, upon
removal, had no higher or different right than the state court .had
had to interfere with the bankruptcy administration. P. 738.
(2) The trustee did not, and could not, waive the lack of jurisdictioi in the state court by removing the case; because he was
powerless to surrender the exclusive jurisdiction of the court of
bankruptcy. P. 739.
District Court reversed.

ON CERTIFICATE of a question of jurisdiction in a suit
to foreclose a mortgage on land owned by a bankrupt.
The suit was removed from a state court. This Court
brought up the entire record from the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 281 1U. S. 703.
Mr. William R. Watkins for Isaacs, Trustee.

Mr. John, R. Duty, with whom Messrs. Claude Duty
and TV. N. Ivie were on the brief, for Hobbs Tie & Timber

Company.
Mm.h. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this cause the Circuit Court of Appeals certified the

following question:
"After the bankruptcy court has acquired jurisdiction
of the estate of the bankrupt and the referee therein has
entered an order requiring sale, by the trustee, of all of
the property of the bankrupt but before the trustee has
taken any steps to sell land (part of such estate) en-

736

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

tirely located in another judicial district, can a suit to
foreclose a valid mortgage thereon be commenced and an
order of sale thereunder be made over the objection of
the trustee, by the court of the latter district?"
This Court ordered that the entire record be sent up.
The question correctly- states the issue tried in the
District Court which entered the judgment from which
the trustee appealed.
Henrietta E. Cunningham was adjudged bankrupt in
the Northern District of Texas. The estate- embraces
land situate in the Western District of Arkansas. B. K.
Isaacs was elected trustee. Thereafter appellee, the
holder of a note secured by a mortgage on the said land,.
instituted foreclosure proceedings in a -state court of
Arkansas. It named the bankrupt and Isaacs, the trustee, as defendants, recited the bankruptcy proceeding in
the Texas district, and that it had not filed its secured
note as a claim therein.
The bankrupt and the trustee specially appeared and
petitioned for removal of the cause to the United States
District Court for the Western District of Arkansas.
After removal the trustee filed an answer in which he
set up, inter alia, his right and title as trustee, his lack
of information as to the execution of the note and niortgage, and the fact that the land had been scheduled in
the Texas District Court as an asset of the bankrupt. He
further averred that as trustee he had taken and then
held peaceable possession of the land; that there was an
equity in .the same above the mortgage debt; that a sale
in foreclosure would prejudice the rights of general creditors; that he required time for investigation as to the
most favorable method of sale; that neitner he nor the
bankruptcy court had consented to the foreclosure of the
mortgage; that the bankruptcy court had entered an order
authorizing him to sell the land; that that court had exclusive jurisdiction to ascertain the facts and administer
the property; that the Federal District Court in Ar-

ISAACS v. HOBBS TIE & T. CO.
734

Opinion of the Court.

kansas could proceed no further than to ascertain the
interests of the defendants, the validity of the mortgage
lien, and the amount of the debt. The answer prayed
that after these preliminary steps the court should refuse
an order of sale, because of its want of jurisdiction to
enter one.
On motion of the plaintiff the court struck out so much
of the answer as sought to delay judgment and sale, and
entered, on the pleadings, a decree of foreclosure and sale
containing a proviso that if there should be any surplus
of purchase-money, over the amount of the judgment,
interest and costs, the same should be paid to the trustee.
Upon adjudication, title to the bankrupt's property
vests in the trustee with actual or constructive possession,
and is placed in the custody of the bankruptcy court.
Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1, 14. The title and right
to possession of all property owned and possessed by the
bankrupt vests in the trustee as of the date of the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy, no matter whether situated within or without the district in which the court
sits. Robertson v. Howard, 229 U. S. 254, 259-260;
Wells v. Sharp, 208 Fed. 393; Galbraith v. Robson-Hilliard Grocery Co., 216 Fed. 842. It follows that the bankruptcy court has exclusive jurisdiction to deal with the
property of the bankrupt estate. It may order a sale of
real estate lying outside the district. Robertson v. Howard, supra; IA re Wilka, 131 Fed. 1004. When this jurisdiction has attached the court's possession cannot be
affected by actions brought in other courts. White v.
Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Murphy v. Hofman Co., 211
U. S. 562; Daytm v. Stanard,241 U. S. 588. This is but
an applicaiion of the well recognized rule that when a
court of competent jurisdiction takes possession of property through its officers, this withdraws the property from
the jurisdiction of all other courts which, though of concurrent jurisdiction, may not disturb that possession; and
22110°-31-47

738

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

that the court originally acquiring jurisdiction is competent to hear and determine all questions respecting title,
possession and control of the property. Murphy v. Hofman Co.' supra; Wabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College, 208
U. S. 38; Harkn v. Brundage, 276 U. S. 36. Thus, while
valid liens existing at the time of the commencement of a
bankruptcy proceeding are preserved, it is solely within
the power of a court of bankruptcy to ascertain their
validity and amount and to decree the method of their
liquidation. Ex parte City Bank of New Orleans,3 How.
292; Houston v. City Bank of'New Orleans, 6 How. 486;
Ray v. Norseworthy, 23 Wall. 128; In re Wilka, supra;
Nisbet v. Federal Title & T. Co., 229 Fed. 644. The exercise of this function necessarily forbids interference
with it by foreclosure proceedings in other courts, which
save for the bankruptcy -proceeding would be competent
to that end. As mortgaged property ordinarily lies within.
the district in which the bankruptcy court sits, and the
mortgagee can consequently be served with its process, the
procedure usually followed is for that court to restrain the
institution of foreclosure proceedings in ny other.1 Where
the land lies outside the limits of the district in which
the bankruptcy court sits, ancillary proceedings may be
instituted in the district court of the United States for
the district in which the land is, and an injunction against
foreclosure issued by the court of ancillary jurisdiction.
In re Patterson Lumber Company, 228 Fed. 916; 247
Fed. 578. Compare Security Mortgage Co. V. Powers,
278 U. S. 149. Such injunctions are granted solely for
the reason that the court in which foreclosure proceedings are instituted is without jurisdiction, after adjudi'In re Pittelkow, 92 Fed. 901. In re Dana, 167 Fed. 529. In re
Brown, 196 Fed. 75,. Pugh v. Loisel, 219 Fed. 417; certiorari denied,
2.38 U. S. 631. Karasik v. People's Trust Co., 241 Fed. 939. In re
Larkin, 252 Fed. 885. In re Locust Building Co., 272 Fed. 988.
First Trust Co. v. Baylor, 1 Fed. (2d) 24. In re Southerd Florida
Corp., 16 Fed. (2d) 171. In re Gillette, 18 Fed. (2d) 687.

ISAACS v. HOBBS TIE & T. CO.
734

739

Opinion of the Court.

cation of bankruptcy, to deal with the land or liens upon
it save by consent of the bankruptcy court. The appellant-trustee might have instituted ancillary,, proceedings
in the District Court for the Western District of Arkansas
and there obtained an injunction to restrain the appellee
from foreclosing its mortgage. There is no reason, however, why he should not have followed the course here
pursued, of pleading the adjudication in Texas in abatement of the foreclosure proceeding. The state court in
which the foreclosure action was begun was without jurisdiction to pursue it. Upon removal into the federal court
upon the ground of diversity of citizenship, the latter
court had no higher or different right to interfere with the
bankruptcy administration than had the state court. The
answer of the trustee stated a valid defence and it was
error to enter judgment against him on the pleadings.
Appellee asserts that inasmuch as the appellant removed the cause into the federal court he waived any
lack of jurisdiction in that court and estopped himself to
set up exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court.
There is no merit in this coiftention. The jurisdiction in
bankruptcy is made exclusive in the interest of the due
administration of the estate and the preservation of the
rikhts of both secured and unsecured creditors. This fact
places it beyond the power of the court's officers to oust
it by surrender of property which has come into its possession. Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539; In re.
Schermerhorn, 145 Fed. 341. Indeed, a court of bankruptcy itself is powerless to surrender its control of the
administration of the estate. U. . Fidelity & G. Co. v..
Bray, 225 U. S. 205. The action of the trustee in removing the cause, could not, therefore, divest the Texas District Court of its jurisdiction.
The judgment of the District Court must be reversed
and the cause remanded to that court, for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

