10

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

AIR. JUSTICE HOLMES: The decisions of last term cited
by the CHIEF JusTICE seem to sustain the conclusion
reached by him. Therefore MR. JUSTICE BRANDEis and
I acquiesce, without repeating reasoning that did not
prevail with the Court.
STRATTON, SECRETARY OF STATE OF ILLINOIS,
v. ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 6.

Argued January 16, 1930. Reargued October 28, 1930.Decided November 24, 1930.

1. A questibn of jurisdiction necessarily presented by the record must
be decided, although not raised by the parties. P. 13.,
2. Decisions of the Court require the following conclusions as to the
purpose and.effect of Jud. Code, § 266, as amended:
(a) In its original form, the statute sought to make interference
by interlocutory injunction with the enforcement of state legislation, upon the ground of unconstitutionality, a matter for the adequate hearing and full deliberation which the presence of a court of
three judges, as therein provided, was likely to secure; and to
minimize the delay incident to review upon appeal of orders granting or denying interlocutory injunctionf in this grave class of cases.
1
P. 14.
(b) These purposes were not altered by the amendment of February 13, 1925, (43 Stat. 938), by which the provision for the
presence of three judges was made to apply also to the final hearing
in the District Court, and by which final decres, ' granting or denying permanent injunctions in such cases, were also made appealable
directly to this Court. Id.
(c) The statute applies only where there is a substantial claim of
invalidity under the Federal Constitution and where an application
for an interlocutory 'injunction, for the purposes contemplated by
*thestatute, is made and pressed. P. 15.
(d) If an interlocutory injunction is not sought by the plaintiff,
a single judge may hear and determine the case, and an appeal
from the final decree will lie to the Circuit Court of Appeals under
Jud. Code, § 128. Id.

STRATTON v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY.
10

11

Syllabus.

(e) If an application for an interlocutory injunction is made
and pressed to restrain the enforcement of a state statute, or of
an administrative order made pursuant to a state statute, upon
the ground that such enforcement would be in violation of the
Federal Constitution, a single judge has no jurisdiction to entertain a motion to dismiss the bill on the merits. P. 15.
(f) In such case, the authority of the District Judge is strictly
limited to granting, upon proper cause being shown, a temporary
restraining order to be effective only pending. the determination of
the application for an interlocutory injunction. Upon making such
an order, it is his duty immediately to call two other judges, as the
statute .directs, to assist him in hearing and detcrmining that application. Id.
(g) If a single judge, exceeding this jurisdiction, undertakes to enter an order granting an interlocutory injunction or a
final decree, either dismissing the bill on the merits or granting a
permanent injunction, no appeal lies from such an order or decree
to this Court, or to the Circuit Court bf Appeals. Id.
(h) Where a court of three judges should have been convened,
and was not, this Court may issue a writ of mandamus to vacate
the order or decree entered. by the District Judge and directing
him, or such other judge as may entertain the proceeding, to call
to his aid two other judges for the hearing and determination of
the application for an interlocutory injunction. P. 16.
3. In a case within Jud. Code, § 266, the District Judge, on granting A,
temporary restraining order, failed to call two other judges but
permitted the order to operate as an interlocutory injunction for
several months until he dismissed the bill on the merits, Held:
(a) That the decree dismissing the bill was without jurisdiction
and that an appeal from -it to the Circuit Court of Appeals was
without jurisdiction. P. 16.
(b) Consent of the parties could give no validity to the decree
or jurisdiction over the appeal. P. 18.
(c) Application for a mandamus to vacate the decree and to
require the District Judge to call in two other judges to hear the
application for prelihinary injunction, need not be made,. since the
District Judge may proceed to take the action which the writ, if
issued, would require. Id.
4. When it appears, on an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, that the latter court has acted without junsdiction in
entertaining the appeal from the District Court, the appropriate
action of this Court is to reverse the decree of the Circuit Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

12

Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

Appeals and to remand the case with directions to dismiss the
appeal to that court for want of jurisdiction. P. 18.
30 F. (2d) 322, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which reversed a final decree of the District Court, 27 F.
(2d) 1005, dismissing the bill in a suit brought by the
appellee to.restrain the enforcement of an Illinois statute
providing for the collection of a minimum franchise tax.
Hr. Bayard Lacey Catron, Assistant Attorney General
of Illinois, with whom Mr. Oscar E. Carlstrom, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Josiah Whitnel, with whom Messrs.-J. R. Turney
and H. L. Browning were on the brief, for appellee.
The printed arguments dealt only with the merits.
MR. CniEv JusTIcE HuGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit was brought on July 21, 1927, by St. Louis
Southwestern Railway Company to restrain the enforcement of a statute of the State of Illinois (General Corporation Act, § 107), providing for the payment of a minimum franchise tax, upon the ground that the statute as
applied to the complainant violated the commerce clause,
and the due process and equal protection clauses, of the
Federal Constitution. The bill of complaint prayed for
both a preliminaty and a permanent injunction against
the defendant, Secretary of State of Illinois, from instituting dry proceedings to assess the tax or to enforce any
of the prohibitions or penalties prescribed in case of
refusal to pay.
On July 22, 1927, the complainant made a motion for
a temporary restraining order in accordance With the
prayer of the bill. On the same day, District Judge Fitzhenry entered an order enjoining the defendant from re-

STRATTON v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY.
10

13

Opinion of the Court.

yoking the complainant's certificate of authority, from
hindering the complainant in transacting its business in
the State of Illinois, and from taking any steps for the enforcement of penalties, pending the determination of the
application for an interlocutory injunction. While this
order was in force, the defendant, on November 4, 1927,
moved to dismiss the bill for want of equity. This motion
was heard and granted by District Judge Fitzhenry, sitting
alone, and on June 7, 1928, he entered a decree dismissing
the bill and dissolving the restraining order. 27 F. (2d)
1005.
On an appeal by the complainant from this decree, the
Circuit Court of Appeals, holding the statute, which laid
the tax, to be invalid under the Federal Constitution, reversed the decree and remanded the cause with directions
to enter a decree in accordance with the views expressed
in its opinion. 30 F. (2d) 322. A petition for a rehearing
was denied, and from the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals the present appeal is taken.
The question is thus necessarily presented, although
not raised by the parties, with respect to the validity of
the decree entered in the District Court, and the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals to entertain the appeal from that decree, in the light of § 266 of the Judicial
Code, as amended (U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 380). The statute
provides that no interlocutory injunction, restraining the
action of any officer of a State in the enforcement of a
statute of the State, or of an order made by an administrative board or commission pursuant to a state statute,
shall be granted by any Justice of the Supreme Court of
the United States, or by any District Court, or by. any
Judge thereof, or by any Circuit Judge acting as District
Judge, upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of the
statute, unless the application for the injunction shall be
heard and determined by three judges. When the application for such an injunction is presented to a justice or

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

judge, he must immediately call to his assistance two
other judges, as stated, but if he is of opinion that irrep-,
arable loss may otherwise result to the complainant, he
may grant a temporary restraining order which is to r6main in force only until the hearing and determination
of the application for an interlocutory injunction upon
prescribed notice. An appeal may be taken to this Court

from the order granting or denying, after notice and
hearing, an interlcutory injunction in such case. By
the amendment of February 13, 1925 (43 Stat. 938), the
provision with respect to the presence of three judges was
made to apply also to the final hearing in such suit in
the District Court, and from the final decree, granting or
denying a permanent injunction, a direct appeal lies to
this Court.
The decisions of this Court require the following conclusions as to the purpose and effect of the statute.
First. By the statute in its original form, the Congress
sought to make interference by interlocutory injunction
with the enforcement of state legislation a matter for the
adequate hearing and full deliberation which.the presence
of a court composed of three judges, as provided by the
statute, was likely to secure. Cumberland Telephone &
Telegraph Company v. Public Service Commission, 260
U. S. 212, 216. The gravity of this class of cases was recognized and it was sought to minimize the delay incident
to a review upon appeal from an order granting or denying an interlocutory injunction. Chicago Great Western
Railway Company v. Kendall, 266 U. S. 94, 97; Moore v.
Fidelity & Deposit Company, 272 U. S. 317, 321; Ex parte
Collins, 277 U. S. 565, 567. These purposes were not altered by the amendment of the statute, which was
designed to end the anomal6us situation in which a single
judge might- reconsider and decide questions already
passed upon by three judges on the application for an
interlocutory injunction. Pattersonv. Mobile Gas Corn-

STRATTON v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY.
10

Opinion of the Court.

pany, 271 U. S. 131, 136; Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. S. 388,
390, 391.
Second. The statute applies only where there is a substantial claim of invalidity under the Federal Constitutioli
and where an application for an interlocutory. injunction
for the purposes contemplated by the statute, is made and
pressed. Ex parte Buder, 271 U. S. 461, 463, 467; Ex
parte Hobbs, 280 U. S. 168, 172. The complainant has an
election. If an interlocutory injunction is not sought, a
single judge may hear and determine the case, and an
appeal from the final decree will lie to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. Judicial Code, section 128, U. S. d, Tit. 28,
sec. 225; Ex parte Buder, supra; Moore v. Fidelity &
Deposit Company, supra;Smith v. Wilson, supra.
Third. If an application for an interlocutory injunction
is made and pressed to restrain the enforcement of a state
statute, or of an administrative order made pursuant to a
state statute, upon the ground that such enforcement
would be in violation of the Federal Constitution, a single
judge has no jurisdiction to entertain a motion to dismiss
the bill on the merits. He is as much without power to
dismiss the bill on the merits, as he would be to grant
either an interlocutory or a permanent injunction. His
authority is strictly limited to granting, upon proper cause
being shown, a temporary restraining order to be effective
only pending the determination of the application for an
interlocutory injunction. Upon making such an order,
it is his duty immediately to call two other judges, as the
statute directs, to assist him in hearing and determining
that application. Ex parte Northern Pacific Railway
Company, 280 U. S. 142, 144.
Fourth. If a single judge, thus acting without jurisdiction, undertakes to enter an order granting an interlocutory injunction or a final decree, either dismissing the bill
on the merits or granting a permanent injunction, no
appeal lies from such an order or decree to this Court, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

the statute plainly contemplates such a direct appeal only
in the case of an order or decree entered by a court composed of three judges in accordance with the statutory
requirement. Nor does an appeal lie to the Circuit Court
of Appeals from an order or decree thus entered by a District Judge without authority, for to sustain a review upon
such an appeal would defeat the purpose of the statute
by substituting a decree by a single judge and an appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for a decree by three
judges and a direct appeal to this Court.
Accordingly, where a court of three judges should have
been convened, and was not, this Court may issue a writ
of mandamus to vacate the order or decree entered by the
District Judge and directing him, or such other judge as
may entertain the proceeding, to call to his aid two other
judges for the hearing and determination of the application for an interlocutory injunction. . Ex parte Metropolitan Water Company, 220 U. S. 539; Ex parte Northern
Pacific Railway Company, supra.* This remedy would
not be available if there were a remedy by appeal. Ex
parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363; Ex parte Metropolitan
Water Company, supra; Ex parte Park Square Automobile Station,244 U. S. 412, 415; Ex parte Slater;246 U. S.
128; Ex parte Tiffany, 252 U. S. 32,.37,4x parte Riddle,
255 U. S. 450; Maryland v. Soper (No. 1), 270 U. S. 9.
Fifth. It follows that, in the present case, no appeal lay
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court should
have dismissed the appeal for want of jurisdiction. The
* The Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, U. S. C.,

Tit. 28, § 47, and section 266 of the Judicial Code, U. S. C., Tit. 28,
§ 380, are in pari materia (Virginian Railway Co. v. United States,
272 U. S. 658, 671, 672), and this Court may alsoissue a writ of mandamus to the District Judge to require the performance of the statutory duty under the former Act. Ex parte Attantic Coast Line R.
Co., 279 U. S. 822.

STRATTON v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY.
Opinion of the Court.

10

bill prayed for a preliminary, as well as for a permanent,
injunction. On filing the bill the complainant at once
moved for a temporary restraining order in accordance
with the prayer of the bill. The order granted by the
District Judge recited that the complainant sought a temporary restraining order pending a hearing on an application for an interlocutory or preliminary injunction, and
the order enjoined the enforcement of a state statute
until the consideration and determination of that application. The application to restrain the enforcement of
the state statute pending the suit, was manifestly not
withdrawn but was continuously pressed in order to avoid
the prohibitions and penalties imposed by the state law
in case the tax in question was not paid. The District
Judge, on granting the temporary restraining order, failed
to call in two other judges to aid him in hearing and determining the application for the interlocutory injunction,
and the restraining order was permitted to operate as an
interlocutory injunction for several months and until the
determination of the motion to dismiss the bill on the
merits.
The requirement of the statute has regard to substance
and not to form. It matters not whether the injunction is
called preliminary or interlocutory, or is styled a temporary restraining .order, if it is granted to restrain the enforcement of state legislation and is continued- in force
until the hearing on the merits, without such restraint
pending the suit being made the subject of consideration
and determination by three judges as the statute requires.
The temporary restraining order which the District Judge,
acting alone, could grant is only to maintain the status
quo, on proper cause being shown, for such time as may be
necessary to obtain a decision upon the application for
an interlocutory injunction by a court of three judges,
which is to be immediately convened.
22110°-31-2

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.:
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

As the proceeding in this suit fell within the provision
of the statute and the District Judge had no jurisdiction
to hear the motion to dismiss the bill on the merits, the
consent of the parties could not give validity to the decree
or confer jurisdiction upon the Circuit Court of Appeals
to entertain an appeal therefrom. United States v. Emholt, 105 U. S. 414, 416; Parker v. Ormsby, 141 U. S. 81,
86; Perez v. Fernandez, 202 U. S. 80, '100; 443 Cans of
Egg Productv. United States, 226 U. S. 172, 184; Exporters v. Butterworth-Judson Company, 258 U. S. 365, 369.
The remedy by mandamus tovacate the decree and to
require the District Judge to call to his assistance two
other judges, as directed by the: statute, to hear the application for an interlocutory injunction, is still available.
It is not necessary, however, that formal application
should be made for such a writ, as the District Judge may
now proceed to take the action which the writ, if issued,
would require.
When it appears, on an appeal to this Court from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the latter court
has acted without jurisdiction in entertaining the appeal
from the District Court, the appropriate action, of this
Court-is to reverse the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals and to remand the case with directions to dismiss
the appeal to that court for want of jurisdiction. Union
& Planters'Bank v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73-74; 443
Cans of Egg Product v. United States, supra; Carolina
Glass Company v. South Carolina,240 U. S. 305, 318; City
of New York v. ConsolidatedGas Company, 253 U. S. 219,
221; The Carlo Poma, 255 U. S. 219, 221.
Decree reversed and cause remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals with directions to dismiss the
appeal to that court:forwant of jurisdiction.

