OCTOBER TEAM, 1iO.
Argument for Appellant.

282 U.S.

v. Leonard, 118 Mass. 502,, and many more cases. The
fiction that a day has no parts is a figurative recognition
of the fact that people do not trouble themselves without reason about a nicer division of time.'
Judgment reversed.
RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, INCORPORATED,
v. VIRGINIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 55. Argued January 19, 1931.--Decided ,February 2, 1931.
A Delaware corporation, which acquired and conducted, as agent of
the railroads, the interstate and intrastate railway-express business throughout the country, was created after a provision of
the Virginia constitution became effective, forbidding any foreign
'corporation to carry on the business of a public service company,,
intrastate, and was therefore denied a certificate of authority.
Weld:
1. That the prohibition was not shown to be void as a burden
on interstate commerce.
2. That it did not, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment,
deprive the -foreign corporation of its right -to sue in the federal
courts ana.to remove suits to them on the ground of diversity-of
citizenship. P. 444.
153 Va. 498, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment 'confirming an order of a state
corporation commission denying to a foreign corporation

certificate of authority to do an inttastate business.
Mr. Albert M. Hartung with whom Messrs. Wyndham
R. Meredith and Harry'S. Marx were qn the brief, for
appellant.
The power of a State to exclude a foreign: corporation

doing an interstate busines' is not absolute; it is relative.
Western Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 33, 34; Pullman
Co. v. Kansas,216 U. S. 56, 68-70.

RAILWAY EXPRESS CO. v. VIRGINIA.
440

-

441

Argument for Appellant.

Appellant comes directly within the rule laid down in
those cases. It is not seeking to transact a new business
but has succeeded to one Whieh hat been carried on for upwards of fifty years producing large receipts from all the
United States, including the State of Virginia--both interstate and intrastate business. Interstate and intrastate
shipments are handled by the one organization, with thesame personnel, and with one system of superv'sion, overhead and accounting., Cf. Western Union v. Kansas, 216
U. ยง. 1, 37. The business 'is necessarily conducted as an
entity.
The effect of the decision below would be to deprive the
appellant and the public of the benefits of this arrangement and bring about a method of operation wholly impractical and utterly inconvenient.
If the appellant and a Virginia Forporation should
unite in handling ,the business by joint equipment, there
would be necessary the segregation of the expense of the
state and interstate business. This is always difficult and
expensive, and,. generally impossible of accurate accomplishment. There would be such commingling of state
and interstate business that it would be extremely difficult,
if not impossible, to determine with respect to some transactions whether the federal or the 'state laws governed,
and whether the federal or the state courts would have
jurisdiction., The effect of the Virgmina constitutional
provision would be substantially to burden interstate
commerce, and, therefore, it is void, although the state
may not have intended to enact an invalid law. Ludwig
v. Western Union, 216 U. S. 146, 162; Pullman Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 56, 68.
Nor does the suggestion that the appellant organize a
subsidiary corporation, and if it so desire then merge with
such corporation, lessen or remove the burden upon interstate commerce. The corporation then would be a domestic corporation of the States of Delaware and Virginia,

442

'

OCTOBER TERM; 1930.
Argument for Ap&5elant.

282 U. S.

and be subject to the laws of those States applicable to
corporations organized" therein. Distinguishing: Hemphill v. Orloff, 277 U. S. 537; Pembina Mining Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181; Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S.
436.,
The express service is an integral part of the railroad
business; the railroad companies are required to furnish'
that service directly or through an agent. Express Cases,
117 U. S. 1. They have chosen to do so through the
agency of appellant, with the approval of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, which specifically held the acquisition of the control of the appellant to be in the public
interest, and that the proposed grouping of carriers and.
division of earnings provided in the operating contract
will be in the interest of better service to the public and
economy in operation. The requirement of the Virginia
constitution would defeat that purpose and impose an
undue burden on a corporation engaged in interstate commerce as the price for handling the intrastate business
incidental thereto. Houston & Texas Ry. v. 'United
States, 234 U. S. 343.
The business of the appellant -is so intermingled that
the supreme authority, the Nation, cannot exercise effective control over the interstate commerce without incidental regulation of the intrastate commerce. Wisconsin
Railroad Comm. v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S.
588; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. v. United States, 263 U. St
456, 485; Western Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 37, 38.
Compliance with the requirement by incorporation of
a separate corporation in Virginia, either with or without subsequent merger with, the Delaware corporation,
necessarily will add to the expdnse of conducting the interstate business, and, therefore, places an undue burden
on interstate commerce. Colorado v. United States, 271
U. S. 153.

RAILWAY EXPRESS CO. v. VIRGINIA.
440

Opini6n of the Court.

The decision denies the equal protection of the laws
in depriving appellant of its right to institute suits in the
federal courts and to remove suits from the state to the
federal courts on the ground of diversity of citizenship,
and by classification without reasonable basis.
Mr. Collins Denny, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of
Virginia, with whom Messrs. John R. Saunders, Attorney
General, and Edwin H. Gibson, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmEs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia affirming an order af the
Corporation Commissioli that denied to the appellant a
certificate of authority to do an intrastate express business in Virginia. 153 Va. 498. The appellant was incorporated in Delaware, in December, 1928, and was given
by its charter not only power to engage in international,
interstate and intrastate express business, but other most
extensive ones to own personal and real prop'erty and to
engage in other collateral undertakings. Its stock was
to be owned by railroad corporations. It has bought the
business and assumed the liabilities of the American Railway Express Company, and is an agency of railroads
throughout the United States. The appellant's right to
do interstate business is not questioned, but it was held
by the Supreme Court of Appeals that being a foreign
corporation created since the Constitution of the State
went into effect in 1902, it was prohibited by that instrument from doing intrastate express business by the plain
words of section one hundred and sixty-three. The appellant says that so construed the prohibition is a direct
burden upon the interstate commerce which is its principal business, and therefore is void. It also invokes the
Fourteenth Amendment for some help.

44

OCTOBER TERM, .1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

There is not here, as there was in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas,216 U. S. 1, and Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.56, a deliberate attempt to use the State's
powers as the means for attaining the unconstitutional result of taxing property outside the State. Western Union
Telegrcph Co. v.Foster,247 U. S.105, 114. Virginia is not
attempting to go beyond its power by indirection or to
take anything from anybody. It simply is refusing to
grant a foreign corporation a permit to transact local business without taking out a charter from the jurisdiction
within which that business must be done. There is no
substantial evidence that the refusal would impose a burden on interstate comnerce and it is presumed to be constitutional. O'Gorman & Young, Inc. v. Hartford Fire
Insurance Co., ante, p. 251. We may add that as suggested by the State Court the difficulties created by the
Constitution of Virginia probably will not prove hard to
overc6me when it is found that they must be met.
The objection based on the Fourteenth Amendment is
that the requirement of the Virginia Constitution deprives
the appellant of its right to sue in the federal courts and
to remove suits to them on the ground of diversity of
citizenship. This plainly is inaccurate: The appellant is
not deprived of any rights. It can do all that it ever
could. If it sees fit to acquire a new personality under
the laws of Virginia it cannot complain that the new
person has not the same rights as itself. Of course there
can be no suggestion here that the clause in the State
Constitution was adopted for a sinister end. And, unless
it was, the inability of the new State corporation to do
all that the appellant could have done is only the legitimate incident of a legitimate act.
Judgment affirmed,

