*SMITH v. ILLINOIS BEJPL TEL. CO.

13

Syllabus.

SMITH ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE ILLINOIS
COMMERCE COMMISSION, ET AL. v. ILLINOIS
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 90.

Argued October 20, 21, 1930M-Decided December 1, 1930.

1. In a suit by a public utility to enjoin, as confiscatory, an order
of a state commission lowering its rates, an interlocutory injanction
was granted upon the condition that, if the injunction were dissolved, the plaintiff should refund to its subscribers the amounts
paid by them in excess of those chargeable under the commission's order. A large excess had accumulated when, a number of
years-later, A final injunction was granted. On appeal, held, that,
as the decree speaks from its date, the question is necessarily presented, not bnly whether the rate order was confiscatory when
made, but also as to its validity during the period.that has intervened, and as to the respective rights of the compaidy and its
subscribers in the funds accumulated. P. 142.
2. An fllinois telephone corporation owning an exchange system in
Chicago and toll lines from there to other places in the State, did
an exchange business local to Chicago, an intrastate toll business
and an interstate toll business. The interstate service was performed by means of its Chicago property and connecting lines
owned and operated by another corporation (here called the American Company,) and as compensation for its part in that service,
including the use of its Chicago property, the Illinois Company
received, a division of the interstate tolls, agreed upon with the
other company. The American Company owned a controlling
interest in the stock of the Illinois Company and of like companies
in other States, all of which, in connection with still other companies,
were operated as a system, in which the American Company was
the central authority performing general functions, while the associated companies served their respective communities and dealt
with their own local affairs. The fllinois Company paid the,
American Cpmpany percentages of its gross revenue, partly ior
rent of instruments and partly as compensation for valuable engineering, financial and other services, and purchased, in large part, its
equipment and supplies from the Western Eleptrio Company, a

!34

OCTOBER- TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 iU.S.

manufacturing subsidiary of the American Company, which sold
its products to members of the system and to others also. In a
suit by the Illinois Company, the District Court enjoined, as confiscatory,- the enforcement of an order of an Illinois commission
reducing that company's rates for local exchange service in Chicago.
RHed:
(1) That the Illinois corporation, notwithstanding the cohtrol
of its stock by, and its intimate relations with, the American
Company, was the proper plaintiff. P. 143.
(2) The method adopted by the District Court of testing the
adequacy of the reduced rates on the basis of the total Chicago
property of the plaintiff, without specifically separating intrastate
from interstate property, revenues and expenses, was erroneous,
although that court deemed the division of the interstate tolls to be
fair, and found, with the aid of computations showing percentages
of interstate calls originated by Chicago subscribers and percentages
of property used in intrastate and interstate toll service, respectively, that the percentage of return for the total Chicago business
,was greater than that for the total intrastate business, or than
that for the intrastate exchange business. P. 146..
(3) The separation of intrastate and interstate property, revenues and expenses of the company is important not simply as a
theoretical allocation to two branches of the business; it is essential.
to the appropriate recognition of the competent governmental
authority in each field of regulation. P. 148.
(4) The fairness of the interstate rates, or of the divisions
thereof, was not for the state commission or the~court to decide.
Id.
(5) The validity of the commission's order in this case can be
suitably tested only by an appropriate determination of the value
of the property employed in the intrastate business and of the
compensation receivable for the intrastate service under the rates
prescribed; and there should be specific findings as to the valueof that property and as to the revenue and expenses of that
business, separately considered. P. 149.
(6) This involves a reasonable apportionment of the telephone
exchange property used in both classes 'of service. P. 150.
(7) Although the Illinois Company has the advantage of being
a component of a large systemn to which the benefits of its operations accrue, and obtains through this relation'the cooperation of
the manufacturing, research, engineering and financing departments

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

Syllabus.

of the American Company, the Illinois Company is to be treated
as a segregated enterprise. P. 151.
(8) The plaintiff company having purchased most of its equipment from the Western Electric Company, majiufacturing subsidiary of the American Company, and it being contended by the
commission that the prices paid were excessive and should not be
credited in full to the plaintiff in testing the adequacy of the rates
in question, it was erroneous to determine the fairness of the
prices by reference to the percentages of net profits realized by
the Western Electric Company from all its business, including
transactions with outsiders as well as with"the plaintiff and other
-members of the system, or by reference to higher prices charged
for like articles by other manufacturers or by the Western Electric
Company to independent telephone companies; but there should
be findings as to the net earnings made by that company in furnishing equipment to the plaintiff and the other companies in the
system, and as to the extent to which, if at all, such profit figured in
the estimates upon which the charge of confiscation was predicated.
P. 152.
(9) With regard to-the services rendered to the plaintiff by
the American Company, for which the former paid percentages of
its gross income, the court -below should make specific findings as
to their cost to the American Company and the reasonable amount
that should be allocated in this, respect to the operating expenses
of the intrastate business of the plaintiff in the years covered by
the decree. Pp. 153-157.
(10) The property of a public utility represented by the credit
balance in a reserve for depreciation can 3iot be used to support
the imposition of a confiscatory rate; but due'recognition of this
property does hot require that an amount of annual addition to the
reserve, whch is shown by experience to have been .excessive, shall
be allowed for the future. P. 158.
(11) The power of the State to prescribe intrastate rates, and
the jurisdiction and duty of the District Court, in considering their
validity, to determine the amount properly allowable for depreciation in connection with the intrastate business, are not taken away
by the action of Congress in granting jurisdiction to the Interstate
Commerce Commission over the depreciation rates of telephone
companies doing interstate business, (Interstate Commerce Act,
ยง 20 (5),) where that Commission has taken no action which could
be deemed validly to affect depreciation charges in connection with
intrastate business so as to affect intrastate rates. P. 159.

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellee.

282 U.S.

(12) Accordingly, the court, below should make appropriate findings with respect to the amount to be allowed in this case as an
annual charge for depreciation in connection with the intrastate
business. Id..
(13) In determining whether a regulation of rates is confiscatory,
it is necessary to consider the actual effect of the rate in tho light
of the utility's situation, its requirements and opportunities. P. 160.
(14) The court below should find in this case the rate of return
which was realized from the intrastate business and the rate of
return which it is fair to conclude would have been realized from
that business under the prescribed rates. P. 161.
(15) A rate order which was confiscatory when made may cease
to be confiscatory, and one which was valid when made, may
become confiscatory at a later period. P. 162.
(16) -As the disposition of the amount withheld by the plaintiff
under the conditions of the intierlocutory injunction will depend
upon the final decree, there should be findings as to the results of
the intrastate business in Chicago, and the effect of the rates in
question, for each of the years since the date of the commission's
order. Id.
38 F. (2d) 77, reversed.

'APPEAL from a decree ofthe District Court of three
judges, which enjoined the enforcement of an order of
the Illinois Commerce Commission reducing local rates of
the Telephone Company- See also, 269 U. S. 531.

Messrs. George I. Haight and Benjamin F. Goldstein,
with whom Messrs. Oscar E. Carlstrom, Attorney General
of Illinois, Samuel A. Ettelson, Corporation Counsel, City
of Chicago, and Edmund D. Adcock were on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. William Dean Bangs, with whom Messrs. Charles
M. Bracelen and Horace Kent Tenney were on the brief,
for appellee..
The Illinois Company, being a distinct corporate entity, was the proper party plaintiff.

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

137

Argument for Appellee.

The court below found as a fact, after"' careful scrutiny" of all the evidence relating to the relationship between these two companies, that the American Company
had not dominated or controlled the officers and directors
of the Illinois Company; that there was co-ordination of
activities between the companies to, produce efficient unified service; and that there was nothing in the evidence
justifying, a departure from the rule established by this
Court as to transactions between the American Company
and a local company whose stock it thus owns. Hence
no question 6f law as to the relationship between these
companies is presented which has not already been decided by this Court and by the lower federal courts,
Houston v. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co.; 259 U. S. 318,
323; Missouriex rel. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co. v. Public
Service Comm., 262 U. S. 276, 288-289; Northwestern
Bell Tel. Co. v. Spillman, 6 F. (2d) 662; Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. Whitcomb, 12 F. (2d) 279, 284-285; Chesapeake & Pot. Tel. Co. v. Whitman, 3 F; (2d) 938, 957;
Indiana Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Service Comm., 300 Fed.
190, 204.
The fact of separate corporate existence cannot be disregarded and the fiction of corporate identity substituted.
Controlling stock ownership does not destroy separate
corporate identities, nor raise a presumption of control
over the company whose stock is thus owned, or over the
action of its officers. Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Mis.souriPacific Co., 115 U. S. 587, 596; Petersonv. Chicago,
R. L & P. Ry. Co., 205 U. S.364,391; Porterv. Pittsburgh
Bessemer Steel Co., 120 T. S.649, 670; Cannon Mfg. Co.
v.. Cudahy, 267 U. S. 333, 335; United Fuel Gas Co. v.
Railroad Comm., 278 U. S. 300, 320-321.
To treat the company whose stock is owned as a mere
agent, the stockholding company must in fact interfere
in the regular affairs of the other company, and direct

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellee.

282 U.S.

its actions as if they were its own; and this must be

brought about by the united intention of both companies.
Kingston Dry Dock Co. v. Lake Champlain Transportation Co, 31 F. (2d) 265.
The court below rejected the proposition that the real
party plaintiff, and the real operator of the property of
the Illinois Company, is the American Company; and
that the inquiry as to confiscation and proper Tate of return involves the question of confiscation of the property
of the American Company, and the rate of return to the
investors of that company, disregarding in this inquiry
the corporate identity of the Illinois Company. This
proposition is not consistent, either with reason or with
the rule settled by controlling decisions, and is impossible
of application.
The commission, in the enjoined order, did not adopt
this proposition, or find that the American Company had
exercised any domination over the officers of the Illinois
Company. It merely assumed that, because of this stock
ownership, contracts between the cempanies could not
be regarded as "made between separate parties." This
assumption is exactly contrary to the rule with reference
to this very relationship established by the decisions in
Illinois, under whose laws both the commission and the
corporation were organized, and of the, federal courts.
State P. U. Comm. ex rel. Springfield v. Springfield Gas
& Elec. Co., 291 Ill. 209, 234. Quoted with approval in
Southwestern Bell Tel. Co.v. Public Service Comm., 262
U. S. 276. Public Utihi&Comm. v. Romberg, 275 Ill.
432, 447.
The assumption is also inconsistent with the commission's prior-action, for it'authorized each increase of the
stock of the Illinois'Conipany, which was afterward purchased by the American Company; and also authorized
the sale of the st6ck to, and the purchase by, the A6 nerican Company. The relationship between these com-

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

Argument for Appellee.

panies thus established by stock ownership has received
the commission's repeated official approval.
The cases relied upon by appellants on this question
are not in point. Distinguishing: United States v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 220 U. S. 257; Chicago, M: & St. P.
Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis Civic & Commerce Assn., 247
U. S. 490; Michigan ex rel. Attorney General v. Michigan
Bell Tel. Co., 246 Mich. 198; Chesapeake & Pot. Tel. Co.
v. Whitman, 3 F. (2d) 938, 957; United Fuel Gas Co. v.
RailroadComm., 278 U. S. 300.
The finding of the court below that the American Company did not in fact exercise any control over the officials
of the Illinois Company is sustained by the evidence.
The efforts of the Bell System to secure universal telephone service by a general policy with reference to matters which affect the service of all companies do not
sustain the appellants' contentions. Public Utilities'
Comm. v. R'omberg, 275 Ill. 432, 445.
The annual reports issued by the American Company
cannot be treated as statements made by the Illinois
Company, and are not admissible against it. Peterson
v. Chicago, R. L & P. Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364; Holland v.
Holland City Gas Co., 257 Fed. 679; Eleakrieg v. Siebrecht, 238 N. Y. 254; General Motors Corp. v. Moffett,
27 Ohio App. 219. And in any view they do not sustain
the theory of appellants' case on this question.
There was no abuse of discretion by the directors and
officers of the Illinois Company with regard to the license
contract with the American Company. The record shows
that the services rendered to the Illinois Company under
this contract were necessary to the conduct of its business, the compensation paid therefor was reasonable, and
the value of the services was greatly in excess of their
cost.
The advantages to the Illinois Company of its general supply contract with the Western Electric Company

140

OCTOBER, TERM, 1930.
-Argument for Appellee.

282 U.S.

are shown by the evidence, which conclusively supports
the finding of the court below approving the contract.
Houston v. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co., 259 U. S. 318;
Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Railroad Comm., 5 F.
(2d) 77; Northwestern Bell Tel. Co. v. Spillman, 6 F.
(2d) 663<:New York Tel.'Co. v. Prendergast,36 F. (2d)
54; Souhwestern Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm.,
1i5 Kan. 236.
Approval of the method of separation of the interstate
property of the company by the court below is sustained
by the evidence and the decisions of courts and commissions thereon. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Whitcomb, 12
F. (2d)- 279; New York Tel. Co. v. Prendergast,300 Fed.
822, 827; State ex rel Hopkins v. Southwestern Bell
Tel. Co., 115 Kan. 236. The question is one of management inselecting units of service. Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. Co. v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491.
No affirmative evidence of any other method of separation was offered by appellants, and the reasonable method,
used by the company must be approved.- Rowland v..
St. Louis & S. F. R. Co., 24JA U. S. 106, 108; Groesbeck
v. Duluth, S. S. & A. Ry.Co., 250 U. S. 607, 614.
No conflict exists between the method of partial separation approved by this Court in Houston v. Southwest.ern Bell Tel, Co., 259 U. S. 318, and the complete interstate separation presented in the present record.
The commission and the lower court were in substantial agreement in their findings as to reproduction cost
new, after correcting the error in the commission's finding. Both the court and the commission sustained the
accuracy of the company's books as to original cost, adding an amount for- undistributed construction costs not
shown in the company's accounts.
The arbitrary act of the commission in finding the
property, in 90 per cent. condition, and then deducting

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

Argument for Appellee.

the company's depreciation reserve, was an error of law.
Public Utility Commissioners v. New York Tel. Co., 271
U. S. 23; McCardle v. Indianvzpolis Water Co., 272 U. S.
400, 416; Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. San Francisco,265
U. S. 403, 406; Standard Oil Co. v. Southern Pacific Co.,
268 U. S. 146, 159.
Only actual observed, existing depreciation can be deducted to ascertain present fair value. 'New York Tel.
Co. v. Prendergast, 300 Fed. 822, s. c., 36 F. (2d) 54;
Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Railroad Comission, 5 F.
(2d) 77; Monroe Gaslight Co. v. Public Utilities Comm.,
292 Fed. 139; Garden. iity v. Garden City Tel., L. & M.'
Co., 236 Fed. 693; Kings eounty Lighting Co. v. Prendergast, 7 F. (2d) 192, affirmed, 272 U. S. 579; Pacific Tel.
& Tel. 'Co. v. Whitcomb, 12 F. "(2d) 279, affirmed, 276
U. S. 97.
A depreciation reserve account is a matter of bookkeeping, under the accounting rules of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Under the existing law, the Interstate Commerce Commission has exclusive jurisdiction of
accounting of expense of depreciation. Oregon-Washington R. & N. Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87; Southern
Railway Co. v. Railroad Commissioners, 236 U. S. 439;
Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Washington ex rel. Atty. Gen.,
222 U. S. 370; New York CentralR. Co. v. Winfield, 244
U. S. 147; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. PublicService Comm.,
250 U. S. 566; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Warren-Godwin
Lumber Co., 251 U. S. 27.
The judgment of the company's officers as to the proper
rate of depreciation cannot be set aside on the evidence
in the record. The evidence would have sustained a much
greater valuation than the"minimum value used by the
court in its computations finding the proposed rates
confiscatory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

MB. CHiF JuSTicE HuGes delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is an appeal from a final decree of the District
Court, composed of three judges as required by section
266 of the Judicial Code, enjoining the enforcement of an
order of the Illinois Commerce Commission which prescribed rates for telephone service in the City of Chicago,
upon the ground that the order was confiscatory and hence
was in violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment (38 F. (2d) 77). The order of the
Commission was made on August 16, 1923, to be effective
October 1, 1923. It reduced rates for four classes of coin
box service and thus applied to a large part of the intrastate service of the complainant, the Illinois Bell Telephone Company.'
An interlocutory injunction, restraining the enforcement of the rates, was granted on December 21, 1923, and
the order was affirmed by this Court-on October 19, 1925.
269 U. S. 531. This interlocutory order was -made upon
the condition that, if the injunction were dissolved, the
complainant should refund to its subscribers the amounts
paid by them in excess of the sums chargeable under the
Commission's order. The.suit was not brought to a final
hearing until April, 1929, and the court found that at the
tinie of its decision (January 31, 1930) the amount thus
reserved for refunds exceeded. $11,000,000. The court said
that the delay in bringing the case to trial was attributable
to the City of Chicago and that the complainant had been
ready at all times to proceed. But the decree enjoining
the rates speaks from its date, and the question is necessarily presented, not only whether the order of the Commission was confiscatory when made, but also as to its
validity during the period that has intervened, and as to
the respective rights of the complainant and its -subscribers in relation to the fund thus accumulated. Groes-

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CQ.
133

Opinion of the Court.

beck v. Duluth South Shore & Atlantic Railway Company, 250 U. S. 607, 609.
The court found that ninety-nine per cent. of the stock
of the complainant, the Illinois Company, is owned by
the American Telephone & Telegraph Company which
also owns substantially the same proportion of the stock
of the Western Electric Company; that the Illinois and
American companies unite in rendering long distance service under an arrangement for a division of tolls; that at
the time to which the inquiry related, in October, 1923,
there was in effect an agreement by which the Illinois
Company paid to the American Company 41/2 per cent.
of its gross revenues for rent of instruments and as compensation for enginering, executive, financial and other
services; that a large part of the materials entering into
the construction of the plant and equipment of the Illinois
Company were purchased from the Western Electric Company and much of its operating expense consisted of payments made under a contract with that company for apparatus and supplies. The court further found that the
American Company owned a controlling interest in fifteen
telephone companies which, in connection with other companies controlled by those subsidiaries and some companies in which its interest was not controlling, were
operated as a system with the avowed purpose of rendering a nation-wide and unified telephone service; that
the American Company had stated that "the associated
companies are specialists in local service problems, with
local operating, forces, identified and familiar with the
needs of the communities they serve"; that "the parent
company undertakes the solution of the problems that are
common to all," and in this way there was provided a
central authority equipped to perform adequately general
functions, leaving to the local companies responsibility
for local affairs.
Upon these facts the City attacked the standing of the
Illinois Company as the real plaintiff in the case.' The

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

28tU.S.

court overruled this contention, holding that the ownership of stock by the American Company, and its power
to control the Illinois Company, did not destroy the distinct corporate identity of the Illinois Company. The
court pointed out that the order of the Commission was
directed against the Illinois Company, and that it was
treated as a corporation for the purpose of compelling it
to establish the prescribed rates for service furnished by
the operation of the property to which it had legal title.
No ground appears for assailing this ruling. The fact that
the relation of the Illinois Company to the American
Company may demand close scrutiny; in dealing with
certain questions which bear upon the validity of the
rate order, cannot obscure the essential basis of that order,
that is, that the Commission was imposing its requirement upon a corporate organization engaged in an intrastate public service and, as such, amenable to a valid exercise of the Commission's authority.
The Commission, in its .final order of August 16, 1923,
made the following findings with respect to the value of
the property of the Illinois Company: That the original
cost as of December 31, 1922, of the property used and
useful in the rendering of telephone service in the City of
Chicago and exclusive of working capital, materials and
supplies, work in progress and going value, but including
overhead, was $90,687,816; that the reproduction cost
new of that property, with the same exceptions, was $128,769000; that the property, as it.then existed was "in at
least 90 per cent condition "; that the amount of construction wbrk then in progress, which would eventually be included ii capital account, was not more than $4,250,000;
that the amount necessary to provide a sufficient cash
workiig capital and to permit the carrying of .sufficient
materials and supplies was $3,000,000; that the going
value of the Chicago property of the Illinois Company
was. $4,196,872; that the Chicago division of the Illinois

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

133

Company had a depreciation reserve of $26,000,000 which
had been contributed by the subscribers of the Company
and had been used by the Company for extensions and additions to its property, and that these extensions and additions should not be considered in arriving at a base upon
which to compute rates for telephone service; and that
the fair rate-making base for the Chicago property of the
Illinois Company, "including physical property, overhead, working capital, going value and work in progress"
as thus found was $96,000,000, which was "exclusive of
the $26,000,000 of money taken for depreciation reserve
and put into plant and equipment." The Commission
also found that on a readjustment of the account of operating expenses, and on making a fair allovance to take
care of maintenance and retirement charges, the existing
rates, if permitted to remain in effec for the ensuing year
(1923) would afford a return of nine per cent. upon the
rate-base above stated; that this was an excessive rate and
that the reduced rates piescribed by the Conunission
would enable the Company to obtain a return of seven
and one-half per cent. upon that rate base.
The court found that the original cost of the property,
taking the Commission's finding of cost as of December
31, 1922, with net additions to June 30, 1923, was $101,626,014; that the reproduction cost new, as of the latter
date, was at least $145,000,000; that the finding'that the
property was in 90 per cent. condition was supported by
the evidence, and that on this basis the reproduction cost
new, less depreciation, was $130,500,000; that the amount
allowed by the Commission, $4,196,067, was the minimum
allowance that could be made for going value; that the
valuation, or rate basis, of $96,000,000, found by the Commission as of December 31, 1922, or $106,000,000, if the
net additions to June 30, 1923, were added, was clearly
insufficient, and that the valuation should be not less than
$125,000,000, estimating the depreciation at ten per cent.
22110'-31--10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opfnion'of the Court.

282 U.S.

The court held that the exclusion from the rate base of
extensions and additions to the amount of $26,000,000,
for which payment.had been made from lhe Company's
depreciation reserve, was erroneolis; that the customers
had paid for service, not for the property used to render
it, that in paying for service they had not acquired any
interest in the property of the Company, and that profits
of the past could not be used to sustain confiscatory rates
for the future, citing Board of Public Utilities Commissioners v. New York Telephone Company, 271 U. S. 23,
31, 32.
The court further found that the readjustment made by
the Commission of the Company's account of operating
expenses involved a reduction of $360,000 from the pay'ment made to the American Company under the license
contract, and a reduction of $1,800,000 from the annual
allowance for depreciation; that the amount available for
return in 1923 on the value of the property under the rates
in force was $6,280,000; that if to this amount were added
the above deductions on the license contract and for depreciation there would have been available" for such return the sum of $8,440,000; that the reduction for the
entire year under thd rates established by the Commission
would have been $1,700,000, thus leaving a return of
$6,740,000, or.less than five and one-half per cent., which
was held to be confiscatory under conditions existing in
1923.
At the threshold of the discussion, we are met with
the fact that, in these findings, the Commission and the
court made no distinction between the intrastate and the
interstate property and business of the Company. It
appears that the property of the Company in Chicago is
used to render (1) what is called exchange service, all
of which is intrastate, (2) Intrastate toll service over its
own lines and under arrangements with companies othbr
than the American Company, and (3) interstate toll serv-

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. O.
133

Opinion of the Court.

ice, which includes all the toll service rendered under
arrangements with the American Company. The Company introduced evidence separating the intrastate, and
interstate business and also the intrastate exchange business. While the court regarded these computations as
correct, and approved the method in which they had been
made, still the court made no specific findings based on a
separation of the intrastate and interstate property, revenues and expenses, but determined the issue on the basis
of the total Chicago property of the Company.
The court stated that this was cone because that basis
was less favorable to the Company than that of its total
intrastate property or of its intrastate exchange property.
In support of this view, the court said that according to
the computations of the company, one-half of one per cent.
of calls originated by subscribers resulted in interstate toll
calls; that 3.62 per cent of the Company's property in
Chicago was used in furnishing interstate toll service, and
2.54 per cent. of its property ,was used in furnishing intrastate toll service; that both on the reproduction cost new,
as claimed by the Company, and on the original cost, the
percentage of return was greater for the total Chicago business than for the total intrastate business, and that the
return for the latter was greater than for the intrastate
exchange business. Considering that the difference would
not affect the result, the court deemed it to be more
convenient to pass upon the order of the Commisgion without recasting the figures in order to make allowance for
interstate or intrastate toll property and earnings.
The appellants challenge this conclusion. 1 They insist
that the American Company used in its long distance
service, without properly .reimbursing the Illinois Company, the Chicago local exchange plant, and other facili.1In Board of Commissioners v. New York Telephone Company,
271 U. S. 23, the appelants did not raise this question (id. p. 30).

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

ties of the latter company, and that the additional net
income to which the Illinois -Company w4s properly entitled in connection with the long distance service, or that
suitably taking into account the value oP the property
used and the expenses incurred in the lorig distance service and not deducted from the Chicago property and expenses, would affect the result. It is apparent that this
contention can not be dismissed simply on the basis of
the number of interstate calls originated by subscribers
of the Illinois Company in Chicago, without considering
other factors of time and labor entering into the relative
use. Nor can the question be disregarded by assuming a
rate of return from the total Chicago business, as compared with ]a rate of return from the intrastate business
or the intrastate exchange business, as such an Assumption
would beg the point in issue.
The separation of the intrastate and interstate property, revenues and expenses of the Company is important
not simply as a theoretical allocation to two brances of
the business. It is essential to the appropriate recognition of the competent governmental authority in each
distinction befield of regulation. In disregarding
tween the interstate and intrastate business of the Company, the court found it necessary to pass upon the fair,
ness of the division of interstate tolls between the American and Illinois companies. The court held that the division was reasonable and the appellants contest this ruing,
But the interstate tolls are the rates applicable to interstate commerce, and neither these interstate rates nor the
division of the revenue arising from interstate rates was a
matter for the determination either of the Illinois Commission or of the court in dealing with the order of that
Commission. The Commission would have had no authority to impose intrastate rates, if as such they woud
be confiscatory, on the theory that the interstate revenub
of the Company was too small and could be increased to
-the

'S.MITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO
133

Opinion of the Court.

make good the loss. The interstate service of the Illinois
Company, as well as that of the American Company, is
subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, which has been empowered to pass upon the
rates, charges and practices relating to that service (Interstate Commerce Act, section 1 (1) (c), (3), (5); section
15 (1); section 20 (5)). In the exercise of this.jurisdiction the Interstate Commerce Commission has authority
to estimate the value of the property used in the interstate service and to'determine the amount of the revenues and the expenses properly attributable thereto. By
section 20 (5) of the Interstate Commerce Act, that Commission is also charged with the duty. of prescribing, as
soon as practicable,'the classes of property for which depreciation charges may properly be included in operating
expenses, and the percentages of depreciation which shall
be charged'with respect to each of such classes of property.
The proper regulatioii of rates can be had only by maintaining the limits of state and federal jurisdiction, and this
cannot be accomplished unless there are findings of fact
underlying the conclusions reached with respect to the
exercise of each authority. In view of the questions presented in this case, the validity of the order of the state
commission can be suitably tested only by an appropriate
determination of the value of the property employed in
the- intrastate business and of. the compensation receivable for the intrastate service under the rates prescribed.
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 435. As to the
value of that property, and as to the revenue and expenses incident to that business, separately considered,
there should be specific findings. Railroad Commission
v. Maxcy, 281 U. S. 82, 83.
,The court found that the Illinois Company owns and
operates all the property in the City of Chicago used in
interstate calls and connects with the property owned by

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

the American Company at the city limits. In the method
used by the Illinois Company in separating its interstate
and intrastate business, for the purpose of the computations which were submitted to the court, what is called
exchange property, that is, the property used at the sub:
scriber's station and from that station to the toll switchboard, or to the toll trunk lines, was attributed entirely to
the intrastate service. This method was adopted as a
matter of convenience, in view of the practical difficulty
of dividing the property between the interstate and intrastate services.2 The appellants insist that this method is
erroneous, and they point t4 the indisputable fact that
the subscriber's station, and the other facilities of the
Illinois Company which are used in connecting with the
'long distance toll board, are employed in the- interstate
transmission and reception of messages While the difficulty in making an exact apportionment of th}e property
is apparent, and extreme nicety is not required, only reasonable measures being essential (Rowland v. Boyle, 244
U. S. 106, 108; Groesbeck v. Duluth South Shore & Atlantic Railway, 250 U. S. 607, 614) it is quite another
2On this ground, this method of separation has been approved by
a number of state commissions. See Re Northwestern Bell Telephone
.Co., P. U.-R. 1923-B, 112, 170; Public Utilities Commission v. New
England Telephone & Telegraph Co., P. U. R. 1926-C, 207, 261; Re
Hawkinsville Telephone Co., 138 Commission Leaflet (1923), 1112,
1115-1117. But compare Missouri & Kansas Telephone Co., P. U.
R. 1918-C, 55; Re Southern California Telephone Co., P. U. R.
1925-C, 627; Re Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co. of Virginia,
P. U. R. 1926-E, 481, 626; Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co. of
Virginia v. Commonwealth of Virginia, 147 Va. 43.
3 The Interstate Commerce Commission has had under consideration the application 'of section 20 (5) to the local exchange property
which "is open for use in interstate commerce and at any time may
be so used." Telephonq and Railroad Depreciation Charges, 118
I. C. C. 295, 328-333; also Proposed Report (I. C. C.) of August
15, 1929.

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

Opinion of the Court.

matter to ignore altogether the actual uses To which the
property is put. It is obvious thai, unless an apportionment is made, the intrastate service to which the exchange
property is allocated will bear an undite burden-to what
extent is a matter of controversy.' We think that-this

subject requires further consideration, t6 the end that
by some practical method the different uses of the property may be recognized and the return properly attributable to the intrastate service may be ascertained
accordingly.
Other questions are presented growing out of the relation of the Illinois Company to the Western Electric
Company and to the American Company. While the Illinois Company is a distinct corporate organization, it has
the advantage of being a component part of a large system
to which the benefits of its operations accrue. Through
this relation the Illinois Company obtains the co~peration
of the manmfacturing, research, engineering and financing
departments of the American Company. This does not
alter the fact that the Illinois business is to be tVeated as
a segregated enterprise. If a single individual or corporation, having a number of technical staffs, engaged directly
in local public services within several States, each State
would be entitled to regulate the transactions within its
own domain according to its own conception of public pol4In Houston v. Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., 259 U. S. 318,
322, relating to the ordinance of the City of Houston prescribing
telephone rates for the Company which operated not only the
Houston local exchange but also long distance toll lines connecting

the local exchange with various towns and cities in Texas and several
other States, the Company in practice, and for the purpose of the
suit, "credited the local exchange with 25% of the long-distance
toll revenues received from calls originating in Houston as compensation for the ue made of the local plant in rendering long distance
seivice," and upon the facts there shown the Court held that the
allowance was reasonably sufficient.

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

icy, provided there were no infringement of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution,
and, if the latter were invoked by reason of the action of
any State, it would still be necessary to consider the local
enterprise separately and to make whatever apportionments were necessary in that view. The corporate organization of the Illinois Company not only created a legal
person amenable as such to governmental authority, but
facilitates the examination of the particular transactions
subject to that authority. The question presented in the
present case is not one of the abuse of intercorporate relations, or of domination or control affecting the integrity
of the direction of the affairs of the Illinois Company, but
of alleged confiscation through prescribed intrastate rates.
Contentions of the appellants in this relation are directed to. the purchases from the Western Electric Company and to the payments to the American Company
under what is called its "license contract." It appears
that the Illinois Company has purchased practically all its
equipment from the Western Electric Company. The
state commission in laying the basis for its rate order made
no finding as to the fairness of the prices on such purchases. On the record in this suit, the court concluded
that the City had failed to support its contention that
these prices were exorbitant. The court said that it appeared that for the past fourteen years the average profit
of the Western Electric Company-on its total business had
not been "in excess of seven per cent. and never above ten
per cent." That fact has evidentiary value but the finding does not go far enough. The Western Electric Company not only manufactured apparatus for the licensees of
the Bell system but engaged in other large operations and
it cannot be merely assumed or conjectured that the net
earnings oiL the entire busiiess represent the net earnings

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

153

Opinion of the Court.

from the sales to the Bell licensees generally or from those
to the Illinois Company. Nor is the argument of the appellants answered by a mere comparison of the prices
charged by the Western Electric Company to the Illinois
Company with the higher prices charged by other manufatcturers for comparable material, or by the Western
Electric Company to independent telephone companies.
The point of the appellants' contention is that the Western Electric Company, through the organization and 6ontrol of the American Company, occupied a special position
with particular advantages in relation to the manufacture
and sale of equipment to the licensees of the Bell system,
including the Illinois Company, that is, that it was virtually the manufacturing department for that system, and
the question is as to the net earnings of the Western Electric Company realized in that department and the extent
to which, if at all, such profit figures in the estimates upon
which the charge of confiscation is predicated. We think
that there should be findings upon this point.
At the time to which the evidence was primarily directed (1923), there was in force a "license contract" between the Illinois Company and the American Company,
granting a license under the patents owned or controlled
by the American Company and providing for the payment to the latter of 4 per cent. of the gross revenues
of the Illinois Company covering the rental for the use
of instruments and for engineering, financial and advisory services. The total amount sought to be charged
by the Illinois Company to operating expenses, in 1923,
for payments under this contract in relation to the
Chicago business was about $1,724,000. The order of
the Public Utilities Commission of Illinois, made in December, 1920, which fixed the rates charged in 1923 (the
rates still in force under the interlocutory injunction in

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

this suit) had provided that an allowance of $1.13 was
reasonable solely for the use of each telephone instrument,
that the services of the American Company were of great
value to the Illinois 'Company, that the annual payment
under the license contract then averaged $2.10 per station for the City of Chicago, and that this payment was
not excessive.' The Illinois Commerce Commission, in
the order now under attack, continued this allowance of
5

-

The Public Utilities Commission found as follows: "The record in
the instant case shows that the present market price for the same
instrument is $4.50 and on this basis the Commission finds that an
annual allowance of $1.13 is reasonable and adequate solely for the
rental of each telephone instrument. The record shows, however,
that the license to use various patented devices, the patents covering
which are the property of the American Telephone -and Telegraph
Company, together with engineering, financial and advisory services,
are of great actual value to the Chicago Telephone Company, such
value being evidenced in*part. by the actual annual saving effected
over and above the operating 6osts should such devices and services
not be available. The present payment made by petitioner and
under the present license contract to the American Telephone and
Telegraph Company averages about $2.10 per station per annum
for the'City of Chicago and about $1.91 per station per annum for
the suburban territory. At $2.10 per station per annum, therefore,
the maximum effect upon any one rate for service cannot exceed
$0.18 per station per month. Since payment is made to the American
Telephone and Telegraph Company by the Chicago Telephone Company of whose stock the former owns approximately. 98%, it is necessary that the underlying contract be given scrutiny notwithstanding
the fact that the Chicago Telephone Company, as a legal.entity, is
a free agent. A careful consideration of the evidence in the instant
case discloses the unquestioned value of the general services rendered petitioner by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company.
.
. The particular amounts involved-have been approved
as items of operating expense in different jurisdictions by nine Commissions within the last three years, however, and the Commission
after carefully considering all the evidence is of the opinion ind finds
that the present annual payment under the license contract, limited
to $2.10 per station per annum for the City of Chicago ana to $1.91
per station per annum for the suburban territory, is not excessive
and may be allowed as an item of operating expense."

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

Opinion of the Court.

$2.10 per station as sufficient to cover the rental and the
services in question.'
The Illinois Company, in its evidence before the court,
presented an estimate showing that it would have cost
that Company the sum of $709,000, or $1.07 per station,
during the year 1923 to provide its own supply of instruments, purchasing them in the open market and providing
for a return of eight per cent. on the investment. The
appellants urge that this amount is too large by $120,000,
and that, in any event, the remainder of the total charge
of $1,724,000 for payments under the license contract,
that is, $1,015,000, treating this amount as compensation
for services in addition to rentals, should be rejected.
The court overruled this contention. The court found
that the case for the allowance of-the entire amount for
services was a strong one; that on the basis of a total
charge of $2.10 per station, as allowed by the state commission, there would be a reduction of $360,000 in the
amount chargeable to operating expenses by virtue of the
payments under the license contract, and that there was
8

'The finding of the Commerce Commission, after referring to the
ownership of stock by the American Company, was as follows: "The
Commission believes from all the circrnstances surrounding the
payments made by the Illinois Bell Telephone Company to -the
American Telephone and Telegraph Company and the services rendered by the latter to the former, and the cost thereof, should be at
some time fully investigated, to the end that charges for the services
may be properly established. The present record does not contain
sufficient information to warrant this Commission in departing from
the findings of the previous Commission in respect to the payments
that should be made by the Illinois Bell Telephone Company to the"
American Telephone and Telegraph Company. The previous Commission found that payment by the Chicago Telephone Company to
the parent company of $2.10 per station was sufficient to cover the
value of the services rendered. It is certainly more equitable to -base
the charges for services rendered on the number of stations rather
than on the gross revenue because any change in revenues results
in a change in payments to the parent company, and would be m Ade.
'without respect to the services rendered."

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

no warrant for any further reduction. Withbut approving the reduction, the court accepted the ruling of the
Commission for the purpose of determining the issue of
confiscation.
It further'appears that in the early part of the year
1926, the payment under the license contract was reduced
from 4 per cent. 6f the gross earnings to 4 per cent.
This reduction was made effective as of January 1, 1926,
and the reduced rate was applied in the years 1926 and
1927.7 At the end of the year 1927, the conditions of the
license contract were again changed by providing for the
sale by the American Company to the Illinois Company
of the telephone instruments (receivers, transmitters and
induction coils) and the American Company was relieved
from its obligation with respect to their replacement and

repair. It is said that the price paid was substantiallr the
current price'less 20 per cent. At the same time the payment under the license contract by the Illinois Company to
the American Company was reduced from 4 per cent. to 2
per cent. of the gross earnings.' On January 1, 1929, the
the Annual Report of the Americaii Company for 1926 it was
stated: "Thp American Telephone and Telegraph Company was able
during the year to make a reduction in its charge to its Associated
Companies under its contracts for service, including the furnishing
of telephones. The charge was reduced from 4Y per cent. to 4 per
cent. of the gross revenue of those companies, effective from January 1, 1926. The purpose of these contracts is not to make money
for the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, but to further the development of the telephone art and to enable the growth
and expansion of telephone service on a nation-wide basis. While
the cost of furnishing the services to any one company, from the
nature of the services rendered, cannot be determined, the total
cost of furnishing services, for all of the companies under the contracts can be approximated. The revenue of $29,850,303 receiv-ed
under the contracts during 1926 only slightly more than offset the
estimated cost of over $29,250,000."
8With respect to these changes the American Company stated
in its report for 1927; "As the business grows and the country
7In

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

Opinion of the Court.

rate of payment was further reduced from 2 per cent. to
1/2 per cent., of the gross earnings.
There is evidence that the payment under the license
contract in the year 1924 exceeded the amount allowed by
the state commission by $358,952; in 1925, by $387,284;
in 1926, by $223,249; and in 1927, by $251,964. We find.
no similar statement for the subsequent period under the
reductions of rate then applicable. In view of the findings, both of the state commissions and of the court, we
see no reason Lto doubt that valuable services were rendered by the American Company, but there should be
specific findings by the statutory court with regard to the
cost of these services to the American Company and the
reasonable amount which should be allocated in this respect to the operating expenses of the intrastate business
of the Illinois Company in the years covered by the decree.
There is also the question of. the annual allowance for
depreciation. The Illinois Commission concluded that
the accumulation of a large reserve ($26,000,000) despite
the fact that the property had been maintained,"in at
least 90 per cent. condition," showed that the-reserve had
been buit up by annual additions that.were in "excess of
the amounts requied. The Commission by its order progrows, conditions change. In the early days of the telephone business it seemed essential that telephone instruments be owned and
maintained by a central organization.

This condition no longer

obtains, and, therefore, as previously stated, the telephone instruments heretofore owned by the American Telephone and Telegraph
Company were sold to the operating companies and a reduction was
made in the charge for services furnished under service contracts
with those companies. In 1926 this charge was reduced from 4y
per cent. to 4 per cent. of their gross telephone revenues, and this
present reduction to 2 per.cent. will result in revenues to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company somewhat less than the
estimated cost of performing its. services under these contracts.
This is, however, in accord with our efforts to assist our Associated
Companies in keeping down the cost of telephone service in every
way practicable."

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

vided for a "combined maintenance and replacement
allowance" which it deemed to be adequate "to fully
protect the investment in this property and permit the
Company to accrue a reserve in the anticipation of property retirements." The court found that by this method
the amount as charged by the Company to operating
expenses in 1923 with respect to depreciation had been
reduced by the Commission to the extent of about $1,800,000. It was on the assumption of this reduction, that
the court, without making any finding as to the proper
annual allowance for deprecigtion, reached its conclusion
as to the inadequacy of the rates.
While it has been'held by this Court that property paid.
for out of moneys received for past services belongs to
the Company, and that the property represented by the
credit balance in the reserve for depreciation cannot be
used to support the imposition of a confiscatory rate
(Board of Commissioners v. New York Telephone Company, supra), it is evident that past experience is an
indication of the Company's requirements for the future.
The recognition of the ownership of the property represented by the reserve does not make it necessary to allow
similar accumulations to go on if experience shows that
these are excessive. The experience of the Illinois Company, together with "acareful analysis of the results
shown, under comparable conditions, by other companies
which are part of the Bell system, and thus enjoy the
advantage of the continuous and expert supervision of a
central technical organization, 9 should afford a sound
basis for judgment as to the amount which in fairness
9

The Interstate Commerce Commission has observed: "In devising methbds for accumulating, recording, and utilizing the data essential to the ascertainment of service lives and depreciation rates,
the railroad 'companies may well take note of the experience of the
telephone companies. Much of this researcti and planning work has
been done for the Bell System companies by a central organization
of a few carefully selected engineers and accountants, and in this way

SMITH v. ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

Opinion of the Court.

both to public and private interest should be allowed as
an annual charge for depreciation.
The Company urges that, as Congress has granted jurisdiction to the Interstate Commerce Commission over the
depreciation rates of telephone companies doing an interstate business (Interstate Commerce Act, section 20 (5)
as amended by Transportation Act, 1920) this subject
is now completely withdrawn from the power of the
State. It ,issaid that two rates of depreciation cannot
be charged on the same property. The Interstate Commerce Commission has had the matter under consideration (Telephone and Rdilroad.bepreciation Charges, 118
I. C. C. 328-333) but, so far as we are advised, a final
determination has not yet been made. The Interstate
Commerce-Commission has its accounting rules with reference to depreciation charges and, pending its order under
section 20 (5) of the Interstate Commerce Act, telephone
companies, as well as others subject to the Act, have
been directed to continue to observe these requirements.
The Company argues that, although the Interstate Con.
merce Commission has not finally ruled, the action taken
by Congress excludes the jurisdiction of state tribunals
under familiar principles (Norther&PacificRailway Company v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370, 378; Pennsylvania
Railroad Company v. Public Service Commission, 250
U. S. 566, 569; Oregon-Washington Railroad,& Navigqtion Company v. Washington, 270- U. S. 87, 102). We
are unable to assent to this view. As the Interstate Commerce Commission has not acted finally -in the matter,
we are not now called upon to consider the scope of its
authority in relation to depreciation charges, Wit we are
of the opinion that, i any event, until action has been
it has been done better and more economically' than if each .of the
numerous operating companies had been left to its own initiative.

The independent telephone companies have also profited from this
work." Telephone and Railroad Depreciation Charges, Proposed
Report of August 15, 1929, [p. 20].

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

talen which could be deemed- validly to affect the amount
to be charged to depreciation in connection with intrastate business so as to affect intrastate rates, the prerogative of the State to prescribe such rates, and the
jurisdiction and duty of the statutory court in considering their validity to determine the amount properly allowable for depreciation in connection with intrastate
business, are not to be gainsaid. Compare Board of Commissionersv. GreatNorthernRailway Company, 281 U. S.
412. Accordingly, the court should make appropriate
findings with respect to the ainount, to be allowed in this
case as an annual charge for depreciation in connection
with the intrastate business.
Upon the hypotheses adopted by the statutory court,
the return to the IIlinois Company was found to be inadequate, but what would be a proper rate of return was not
determined. In determining what is a confiscatory regulation of rates, it is necessary to consider the actual effect
of the rates imposed in the [ight of the utility's situation,
its requirements and opportunities. As was said in
United Railways v. West, 280 U. S. 234, 249, 250, a rule
as to rate of return can not be laid down which would
apply uniformly to all sorts of utilities; "what may be a
fair return for one may be inadequate for another, depending upon circumstances, locality and risk." In that
case the Court restated the general rule in thbe language
of -the opinion in Bluefield Company v. Public Service
Commission, 262 U. S. 679,'692, 693, as follows: "What
annual rate will constitute just compensation depends
upon many circumstances and must be determined by
the exercise of a fair and enlightened judgment, having
regard to all relevant facts. A public utility is entitled
to such rates as will permit it to earn a return on the
value of the property which it employs for the convenience
of the public equal to that generally being made at the
same time and in the same general part of the country

SMITH v..ILLINOIS BELL TEL. CO.
133

Opinion of the Court.

on investments in other business undertakings which are
attended by corresponding risks and uncertainties; but
it has no constitutional right to profits such as are realized
or anticipated in highly profitable enterprises or speculative ventures. The return should be reasonably sufficient
to assure confidence in the financial. soundness of the
utility and should be adequate, under efficient and .economical management, to maintain and support its credit
and enable it to raise the money necessary for the proper
discharge of its public duties."
It is evident that in the present case we are not dealing
with an ordinary public utility company, but with one
that is part of a large system organized for the purpose
of maintaining the credit of the constituent companies
and securing their efficient and economical management.
The record of the IIIin ois Company shows that for many
years it has been able to expand its business so as to
meet increasing demands, to pay its operating expenses
including interest on money borrowed, to pay dividends
of-eight per cent. upon its capital stock, and to accumulate a surplus. It was found by the court that the reduction in revenue caused by the rates in question, as applied
to the entire business for the year 1923, would amount to
about $1,700,000, and the question is whether the loss
when ascertained:with respect to the intrastate business
would cause confiscation under the applicable standard
as above set forth in the Bluefield case, supra. In order
to determine this question, the court should find the
rate of return which was realized from the intrastate
business and the rate of return which it is fair to'conclude
would have been realized from that business under the
prescribed rates.
The conclusionreached by the court as to confiscation
had particular referefte to the evidence bearing upon the
business of the year 1923. The court said that this findig applied "with increasing force to the 'succeeding
22110ยฐ---31-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

years." But no findings were made as to the value of the
property and the revenues and expenses in these years.
'A rate order which is confiscatory when made may cease
to be confiscatory, or one which is valid when made may
become, confiscatory at a later period. Des Moines Gas
Company v. Des Moines, 238 U. S. 153, 172, 173; Lincoln
Gas Company v. Lincoln, 250 U. S. 256, 268, 269.; Brush
Electric Company v. Galveston, 262 U.-S. 443, 446; Blue7
field Company v. Public Service Commission, supra. IA
view of this fact, and as the disposition of the amount
withheld by the Company under the conditions of the
interlocutory injunction will depend on the final. decree,
there should be appropriate findings as to the resu*lts of
the intrastate business in Chicago and the effect of the
rates in question for each of the years since the date of
the Commission's order.
In order that the necessary findings may be made, and
such additional evidence as may be required for that puit
pose may be received, the decree is set aside and the
cause is remanded to the District .Court, specially constituted as-provided by the statute, for, further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion, the restraining order
entered in this suit to be continued pending further action
of the District Court.
It is so ordered
CHICAGO,. ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS & OMAHA
RAILWAY COMPANY v. HOLMBERG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 1. ,Argued October 10, 1928.

Reargued October 23, 1930.-

Decided December 1, 1930.
A state law so applied as to require a railroad company to provide
an underground cattle-pass across its right of way partly at the

