OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

years." But no findings were made as to the value of the
property and the revenues and expenses in these years.
'A rate order which is confiscatory when made may cease
to be confiscatory, or one which is valid when made may
become, confiscatory at a later period. Des Moines Gas
Company v. Des Moines, 238 U. S. 153, 172, 173; Lincoln
Gas Company v. Lincoln, 250 U. S. 256, 268, 269.; Brush
Electric Company v. Galveston, 262 U.-S. 443, 446; Blue7
field Company v. Public Service Commission, supra. IA
view of this fact, and as the disposition of the amount
withheld by the Company under the conditions of the
interlocutory injunction will depend on the final. decree,
there should be appropriate findings as to the resu*lts of
the intrastate business in Chicago and the effect of the
rates in question for each of the years since the date of
the Commission's order.
In order that the necessary findings may be made, and
such additional evidence as may be required for that puit
pose may be received, the decree is set aside and the
cause is remanded to the District .Court, specially constituted as-provided by the statute, for, further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion, the restraining order
entered in this suit to be continued pending further action
of the District Court.
It is so ordered
CHICAGO,. ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS & OMAHA
RAILWAY COMPANY v. HOLMBERG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 1. ,Argued October 10, 1928.

Reargued October 23, 1930.-

Decided December 1, 1930.
A state law so applied as to require a railroad company to provide
an underground cattle-pass across its right of way partly at the

CHICAGO, ST. P., M. & 0. RY. v. HOLMBERG.
162

163

Opinion of the Court.

expense of the company, not as a safety measure but merely to save
a farmer, owning the land on both sides of the railroad, from
inconvenience attendant upon the use of an existing grade crossing
otherwise adequate, takes the company's property for a private
use and without due process of law. P. 166.
115 Neb. 727, reversed.

• ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska which affirmed, on appeal, an order of the State
Railway Commission requiring the Railway Company to
establish an underground cattle-pass.
Mr. Wymer Dressler, with whom Messrs. Robert D.
Neely, Richard L. Kennedy, and R. N. Van Doren were
on the brief; for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. 0. S. Spillman, Attorney General of Nebraska,
and Hugh LaMaster, Assistant Attorney General, for
defendant in error, on the original argument. Mr. Hugh
LaMaster, Assistant Attorney General, with whom Mr.
C. A. Sorensen, Attorney General, was on the supplemental brief, for defendant in error on reargument.
MR. JUsTIcESTo

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on writ of error, allowed under § 237,
Jud. Code, before the amendment of Jan. 31, 1928, to
-review a judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska,
which sustained: am order of the St~te Railway Commission. 115 Neb. -727. The order directed plaintiff in error
to install, at an estimated cost of $1,153 to it and of $453
to the landowner, an underground °cattle pass under its
tracks, so as to connect the farm lands of defendant in
error lying on either side of and adjacent to plaintiff's
right of way. The Commission acted under authority
purporting to be given by § 5527 Comp, Stat. Neb. 1922,
as amended (Laws of Neb., 1923, c. 167), printed in the

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinioni of the Court.

282 U:S.

margin.' The plaintiff assails the statute, as applied in
this instance, as depriving it of property without due
process of law, and as impairing the obligation of contract in violation of the federal Constitution.
.Defendant's farm comprises a quarter section of land,
divided approximately in half by plaintiff's track, which
crosses from the northwest corner to the southeast. For
fifteen or more years plaintiff has maintained a farm
crossing, at-grade, now equipped with gates, which con:
nects the parts of the farm near its northwest corner.
The state court assumed that the crossing was established
before 1921 nd while .the statute provided only that
where the same person owns land on both sides of a
railroad, the latter "shall, when required so to do, make
an keep in good repair one causeway or other adequate
means of crossing the same." Amendments (Laws of
Neb., 1921, c. 261, and that of 1923) added the provisions authorizing the Commission to entertain cori
,,plaint by the landowner that a crossing " is not adequate
orls unsafe and dangerous to the life and property of
"Section 5527. Whenever any person owns land on both sides
df the right-of-way of any railroad, such railroad shall provide and
keep in repair at least one adequate means for iuch land owner to
the right-of-way. Any interested land owner with land on
both sides of the right-of-way of any railroad may file written complaint with the state railway commission against any such railroad
.that the crossing is not adequate or is unsafe and dangerous to the
'life anid property of those who use the same, and the commission
thereupon shall make such investigation and hold such hearing as
may be necessary, and shall issue such orders as it shall deem necessary, proper and adequate. If circumstances warrant the commission may require overhead, under ground or grade crossings and
require wing fences at- underground crossings or may require exist-

>cross

ing crossings to be relocated so as to be safe to those who use
them, but where such special crossing involves an expenditure of more
than seven hundred ($700.00) dollars the land owner shall bear onehalf the expenses in excess of seven hundred ($700.00) dollars.

CHICAGO, ST. P., M. & 0. RY. v. HOLMBERG.
162

-

165

Opinion of the Court.

those who use" it, and to require an overhead or underground crossing "if circumstances warrant."
The proceeding now under review was begun in 1924
by defendant's petition to the Commission, setting up, as
the sole basis for the order sought, that the surface crossing was inadequate. The only ground of inadequacy
alleged or sought to be proved was that the crossing could
not be reached without passing through defendant's cultivated fields on both sides of the track, to avoid which,
defendant was compelled, in transferring his cattle from
water supply to pasture and return, to drive them back
and forth a distance of three-fourths of a mile on a
public highway which crosses plaintiff's line at grade. The
petition stated that an underground pass could easily be
established at aitother point on plaintiff's line, where
there' was a depression on each side, so as to -connect
defepdant's pafture with the southwest part of his farm,
to his yards and water
and with A cattle
t runway extending
.
p
sup
after a hearing, found the facts as
ion,
The o
that defendant's farm could
showing
others
alleged, and
be more conveniently operated if the proposed pass were
.established, concluded that the present crossing was
"inadequate and impracticable," and granted the order
asked. The Commission did not find, nor was there evidence before it, tending to show, that the crossing was
not adequate for the passing and repassing of such persons
and cattle as would normally go from one part of
defendant's farm to the other in conducting usual farm
operations.
The state court, in passing on the order, had before it
only the evidence given and proceedings had before the
Commission. Saying that the record did not adequately
present the point, it assumed, upon the basis of concessions stated to be in briefs before it, that plaintiff ac-

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

quired its right of way by.cbndemnation prior to 1921.
It pointed out that at that time the statute required
plaintiff t6 maintain a causeway or "other adequate means
of crossing" between the two parts of the farm. It said
that compensation for the land condemned must be
taken to have been assessed in view of the provisions
of the statute, and that plaintiff took its right of way
subject to the statutory obligation to construct and maintain the "adequate" farm crossing defined by the statute
It mooted, without deciding, the question whether the
present crossing was adequate within the meaning of
the statute as originally enacted, suggested that there
might be " a further definition" of adequacy "by the
state in proper exercise of its police power," and supported
the order of the Commission on the ground that the state
could, in the exercise of its police power, "eliminate the
perils of grade crossings.'
There is no occasion for us to consider how far, if at all,
the state's power to remove the dangers of public grade
crossings) see E.rie Railroad Co. v. Board of Public Utility
(ommissioners, 254 U. S. 394, extends to private farm
crossings when unsafe to ,the traveling public or individual users. The Nebraska statute has delegated to the
State Railway Commission authority to order fari't crossings underground because either inadequate or dangerous,
if circumstances warrant. But there is nothing in this
record to suggest that'the order of the Commission was
either asked or granted as a safety measure. The Commission did not fiid that the crossing was dangerous
either to the public, the litigants, or their property.
Neither did *it find that this crossing was in anywise
different from the usual farm crossing at grade. True,.
there was testimony that cattle passing over the crossing

CHICAGO, ST. P., M. & 0. RY. v. HOLMBERG.
162

167

Opinion of the Court.

needed to be attended and controlled to prevent injury
to them by trains. But this was no more true of that
crossing than of surface farm crossings in general. The
case is one of a single track branch line. The track is
straight and it was conceded on argument before this
Court that there were only four trains a day. While there
are bare assertions in the testimony that the'private
crossing was dangerous, there ,was no evidence of any
danger beyond that which would attend the use of any
farm crossing. Neither the Commission nor the state
court regarded the statute as condemning all such crossings, doubtless because the statute distinctly includes that
type of crossing among those which it authorizes the Commission to require, its words being, "the Commission may
require overhead, underground or grade crossings" as the
circumstances may warrant. It is plain that the Commission proceeded upon the assumption that th6 statute
authorized it to compel plaintiff to establish the underground pass for the convenience and benefit of defendant in the use of his own property, and that that alone
was the ground and purpose of the order. The application thus given to the statute deprives plaintiff of property for the private use and benefit of defendant, and is a
taking of property without due process of law, forbidden
'by the Fourteenth Amendment. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Nebraska, 217 U. S.196; Great Northern Ry. Co.v. Minnesota, 238 U. S.340; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Cahill,
253 U. S. 71.
The judgment below, which affirmed the Commission's
order, is reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

