ENSTEN v. SIMON, ASCHER & CO.

445

Argument for Petitioners.

ENSTEN

Tr AL.

v. SIMON, ASCHER & COMPANY,
INCORPORATED.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 46. Argued December 12, 1930.-Decided February 2, 1931.
1. To protect the valid part of a patent containing an invalid claim,
the patentee must disclaim the invalid part without unreasonable
neglect or delay. Rev. Stats., §§ 4917, 4922; U. S. C., Title 35,

§§ 65, 71. P. 449.
2. By interlocutory decree in a suit for infringement, the District
Court upheld some of the patent claims and adjudged another
invalid. The infringer took an interlocutory appeal, unsuccessfully, to the Circuit Court of Appeals; but the patentee took
none, and thereafter, when the case, .upon remand from that
court, was again before the District Court for an accounting, he
disclaimed the invalid part in the Patent Office. This was almost
two years after the invalidity of the claim had been adjudged by
the District Court. Subsequently he brought this suit in another
circuit, on the remainder of the patent. Held, that the bill for
an injunction was properly dismissed, upon the ground that the'
patentee had unreasonably neglected and delayed making the
disclaimer and therefore was not entitled to the benefits of the
disclaimer statute. P. 455.
38 F. (2d) 71, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 708, to review a decree upholding
the dismissal of the bill in a patent infringement suit.

Messrs. 0. Ellery Edwards and Harold Flno Smith for
petitioners.
The patentee had several options after the adverse
decision of Judge Westenhaver. He could disclaim immediately; he could wait until a higher court had passed
upon the issue of validity; he could have brought a new
suit elsewhere. In case he chose to appeal, he could appeal within thirty days "or:he could wait until the final
decree. He took no interlocutory appeal, and he did not

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioners.

282 U.S.

file a disclaimer, but left the matter open for future determination, either by final appeal or by a new suit elsewhere. Under the doctrine of O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 How.
62, he was entitled to do this.
At that time a decision in his favor on Claim 2 by the
appellate court would have done him no good because the
other claims were ample to protect the invention and did
protect it so that there was a very substantial recovery.
Accordingly, after the Circuit Court of Appeals had affirmed the validity of the other claims, and before any
final decree was entered, Ensten disclaimed Claim 2 instead of taking an aplieal on an issue which would have
been largely moot, as it would in no way have affected.
the matter of damages and-profits or the injunction, whichever way the case had been decided. To get the peculiar
characteristics necessary for the commercial exploitation
of his invention, it was. essential to use the elements
covered by the other claims which were held valid.
From the foregoing, it is apparent: that Ensten was well
within the rule laid down in O'Reilly v. Morse, supra, because he filed his disclaimer prior to the final decree, unless
he was prejudiced by the fact that the Judicial Code of
1914 had changed the law so as to permit an interlocutory
appeal of which he had not taken advantage, having preferred to let the whole matter go over until the final
decree, or until he might file a disclaimer sliort of that
time. He is not to be penalized for doing this. Seymour
v. McCormick, 19 How. 96; Minerals Separationv. Butte
& SuperiorMining Co., 250 U. S. 336.
The filing of the disclaimer has nothing to do with the
validitkr of the patent as to Claims 1, 3, 4, and 5, and
relates to costs only. Sessions v. Romadka, 145 U. S. 129;
Ilailes v. Albany Stove Co., 123 U. S. 582.
Through and including the law of 1836, a patent was
void which covered too much. A'disclaimer under the law
of 1837 saved a patent otherwise void under the Act of

ENSTEN v. SIMON, ASCHER & CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

1836. The Act of 1870 repealed the laws of 1836 and
1837, but reenacted the law of 1837 as to disclaimers.
Thereafter the disclaimer law was no longer applicable to
the conditions it was designed to meet,. The law of 1870
confirmed the bargain theory earlier held by courts. It
was the deliberate intention of Congress to abolish the
old features of the combined patent law and common law
which made a patent incurably void if too broad, and to
substitute in lieu the more humane and just doctrine,
first enunciated by Lord Eldon in 1800. Cartwright v.
Arrnott, 1 Abb. P. C. 171, 174; Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet.
218, 241; Seymour v. Qsborne, 11 Wall. 533.
Mr. John F. Neary, with whom Messrs. Harry S. Bandler, Ramsey Hoguet, and Daniel L. Morris were on the
brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Benjamin T. Roodhouse, James A. Brown, and
Charles Neave, by special leave of Court, filed a -brief on
behalf of the Excelsior Steel Furnace Company, as amicums
curiae.
Mr. JusTIcE McREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of
the Court.
By an original bill presented to. the District Court,
Southern District of New York, November 9, 1929, petitioners sought to prevent respondent from further infringing Letters Patent No. 1,313,080, for improvements
in knitted caps and to recover damages. They asked
a preliminary injunction; affidavits were presented by
both sides; the facts are not controverted.
It appears-That the patent, 6 claims, issued to Louis H. Ensten
August 12, 1919. In the first suit upon it-Ensten v.
Rich-Sampliner Co., et ai.--commenced in the District
Court, Northern District of Ohio, an interlocutory decree,

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S:

dated May 24, 1922, adjudged claims 1, 3, 4 and 5 valid
and infringed; claim 2 invalid.
That within 30 days the defendants appealed from so
much of that decree as upheld the four claims; the complainant might have but did not appeal. The Circuit
Court of Appeals approved the decree so far as challenged,
June -20, 1923; the validity of claim 2 was not before it.
Rehearing was denied October 4, 1923; mandate issued
October 18, 1923. 291 Fed. 1003.
That after such remittance the District Court ordered
an accounting. The complainant offered to show damages to his exclusive licensee, Lion Knitting Mills Company. As that Company was not party to the cause, the
Master rejected the offer; the court affirmed his action.
That on April 30, 1924, Ensten disclaimed as to claim
2 in the Patent Office. Thereafter, he and the Lion Knitting Mills Company presented a joint bill against the
originM defendants. A motion to dismiss because of
unreasonable neglect and delay in making the disclaimer
was sustained April 5, 1926, 13 F. (2d) 132-Judge Westenhaver. The Circuit Court of Appeals, May 9, 1927,
held the second bill was in effect an amendment to the
original one; declared the objection based upon failure
to disclaim more promptly moot; reversed the decree of
the District Court; and remanded the cause for appropriate proceedings. Subsequently, the parties settled
their differences; the defendant paid substantial damages; and final decree went for the complainants November 1, 1928.
No facts except those above detailed are relied upon.
Having heard the parties to the present proceeding, the
trial court held that Ensten, the patentee, unreasonably
neglected and delayed to disclaim claim 2 after the District Court in Ohio had declared it invalid, denied an
application for injunction and dismissed the bill. The

ENSTEN v. SIMON, ASCHER & CO.
445

"449

Opinion of the, Court.

Circuit Court 6f Appeals affirmed this action:February 4,
1930, Ensten ,f'al. v, Simon, Ascher & Co., 38 F. (2d) 71;
called attention to the conflict between its views and those
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, Excelsior Steel FurnaceCo. v. Meyer & Bro. Co., 36 F. (2d) 447,
and suggested the desirability of an authoritative determination of the controverted question of lw.
The petition here for certiorari asked for the writ
because of the conflict of opinion in the two Circuits.
The point contested below and differently ruled in the
Circuit Courts of Appeals concerns the effect of the delay
in disclaiming. According to the usual practice we will
consider notbing else.
Determination of the issue presented must turn upon
the construction and effect of §§ 65 and 71, Title 35, U. S.
C. (R. S. §§ 4917, 4922; .§§ 7 and 9, Act of 1837, 5 Stat.
193), copied in the margin.*
65. Disclaimer. Whenever, through inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent or deceptive intention, a
patentee has claimed more than that of which he was the original
or first inventor or discoverer, his patent shall be valid for all that
part which is truly and justly 'his own, provided the same is a material or substantial part of the thing patented; and any such patentee,
his heirs or assigns, whether of the whole or any sectional interest
therein, may, on payment of the fee required by law, make disclaimer
of such parts of the thing patented as he shall not choose to claim
or to hold by virtut of the patent or assignment, stating therein the
extent of his interest in such patent. Such disclaimer shall be in
writing, attested by one or more witnesses, and recorded in the
Patent Office; and it shall thereafter be considered as part of the
original specification to the extent of the interest possessed by the
claimant and by those claiming under him after the record thereof.
But no such disclaimer shall affect any action pending at the time
of -is being filed, except so far as may relate to the question of
unreasonable neglect or delay in filing it. (R. S. § 4917.)
"4%c. 71. Suit for infringement where specification too broad.
Whenever, throulgh inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without
any willful default or intent to defraud or mislead the public, a
*"Sec.

22110° z-31--29

456

" .OCTOBER'TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 t.S.

"'The first of these sections provides in substance'.that
-whenever, through inadvertence, accident, or mistake,
and -without any fraudulent or deceptive intention, a
patentee has claimed more than that of which he was the
original or first inventor or discoverer, ho may be permitted to make disvlaimer of such parts of the thing
patented as he shall not choose to' claim or hold-by virtue
of his patent. The other permits the patentee to maintain aS"i on his patent, although through inadvertence,
accident, of migtake, and without any wilful default or
intention to mislead the public, he has claimed.'some
material or substantial part as an invention of which he
was not the origifnal or first inventor. He is deprived,
however, of the right to recover costs, unless he has filed
proper' dis§aimer before commencement of his suit.
And it further provides: "But no patentee shall be
entitled to tho benefits of this section if he has unreasonAbly.neglected or delayed to enter a disclaimer."
In drder properly to apply these sections consideration
must be kiven to the provisions touching review of inter-'patenlte has, in his specification, claimed to be the original and
frst inventor or discoverer of any material or substantial part of
the thing patented, of which he was not the original and first inventor
or discoverer,: every. such patentee, his executors, administrators,
a[ assigns, whether of the whole or any sectional interest in the
patent, may maintain A suit at law or in equity, for the infringement
'of any part thereof, which was bona fide his own, if it is a material
and ubstantial part of the,thing patented, and definitely distinguishable from the parts claimed without right, notwithstanding the
specifications may embrace wore than that of which the patentee
"was the first inventor or discoverer.. But in every such case in which
a judgmeuit or decree shiall, be rendered for the plaintiff no costs
,st -.be recovered unless the proper disclaimer has been entered
at 'the Patent Office before the commencement of the suit. But
no patentee shall be entitled to the benefits of this section if he has
unreasonably neglected or delayed to' enter a disclaimer. (R. S.
r 4922.)" ' '

ENSTEN v. SIMON, ASCHER & CO.
445

Opinion of the Court.

locutory decrees by federal courts. Formerly, federal
practice permitted appeals only from final decrees.
Section 7, Act March 3, 1891,. 26 Stat. 828, empowered
Circuit Courts of Appeals to review an interlocutory decree
granting or continuing an injunction. - Ex parte National
Enameling Co., 201 U. S. 156. This section was modified
by Act of 1895, Chap. 96, 28 Stat. 666, and by Act of June
6, 1900, 31 Stat. 660. And the Act of April 14, 1906, 34
Stat. 116, amended it io read thus"See. 7. that where, upon a hearing in equity in a district or in a circuit court, or by a judge thereof in vacation, an injunction shall be granted or continued, or a
receiver appointed by an interlocutory order or decree,
in any cause an appeal may be taken from suchi interlocutory order or decree granting or continuing such in-junction, or appointing such receiver, to the circuit court
of appeals: . . ."
The Judicial Code, Act March 3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1134,
provided"Sec. 129. Where upon a hearing in equity in a district court or by a judge thereof in vacation, an injunctioil shall be granted, continued, refused, or dissolved by
an interlocutory order or decree, or an application to
dissolve an injunction shall bo refused, or an interlocutory order or decree shall be made appointing a receiver,
an appeal may be taken from such interlocutory order
or decree granting, continuing, refusing, dissolving, or
refusing to dissolve, an injunction, or appointing a receiver, to the circuit court of appeals, notwithstanding
an appeal in such case might upon final decree under the
statutes regulati, the same, be taken directly to the
Supreme Court: Provided,That the appeal must be taken
within thirty days from the entry of such order or
decree

.

.

See At of 1925, § 227, Title 28, U. S. C., 'which further
enlarged the right.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

Did the patentee Ensten unreasonably neglect or delay
tomake disclaimer of claim 2 after May 24, 1922, when
the District Court in Ohio declared it invalid? He disclaimed April 30, 1924; and only the facts narrated above
are relied on for explanation or excuse.
Under the early accepted general rule a patent with an
invalid claim was wholly void, and this defect effectually
barred suit iipon it. Congress undertook to modify this
by §§ 7 and 9, Chap. 45, Act of 1837. 5 Stat. f 93. Ili
substance these became §§ 4917 and 4922, Revised Statutes, and 65 and 11, Title 35, U. S. C. The two sections
"are parts of one law, having one general purpose, and
that purpose is to obviate the inconvenience and iardship of the common law, which made a patent wholly
void if any part of the invention was wrongfully claimed
by ihe patentee, and which made such a defect in a patent
an effectual bar to a suit brought upon it." Hailes v.
Albany"Stove Co., 123 U. S. 582; Sessions v. Romadica,
145 U. S. 29, 41. Construed together they "enact that
*where a patentee claims materially more than that which
he was the first to invent, his patent is void, unless he has
preserved the right to disclaim the surplus; and that he
may fail to preserve that right, by unreasonable neglect
or delay to enter a disclaimer in the Patent'Office."
Walker on Patents, 6th ed., § 254.
The statute is remedial; the intent is to aid the inventor
free from wilful default or intention to mislead the public
by permitting him to avoid the consequence of inadvertence, accident or mistake through prompt disa vowal
of the apparent right to exclude others from something
improperly -included in the words of his grant. -Escape is
permitted only to one who acted originally in good faith'
and who has complied with the prescribed conditions.,
"The same principle which forbids a patentee to assert
a right to more than he has actually invented compels
him to disavow the right as -soon as he disgqveT, thet it

ENSTEN v. SIMON, ASCHER & CO.
445

458

Opinion of the Court.

has been unjustly claimed. Unreasonable delay in disclaiming is thus tantamount to an original fraudulent
claim, and through it the patentee loses the privilege of
making the amendment by which alone his patent could
be saved. The question of unreasonable delay is a question for the court, upon the facts as found either by its
own investigation- or the verdict of a jury.. Delay begins
whenever the patentee becomes aware that he has claimed
more than he has invented or described. In cases where
the excess is not apparent at once upon the inspection of
the patent by the patentee, the allowance of his claim by
the patent office raises such a presumption in its favor
that he may rely on its validity until a court of competent jurisdiction decides that it is broader than his real
invention." Robinson on Patents (1890), Vol. H, p. 284.
The petitioners say that, after Judge Westenhaver by
interlocutory decree declared claim 2 invalid, the'patentee
had several options. He might have made disclaimer
immediately; he might have appealed from the interlocutory decree within 30 days; he might have awaited
the final decree and appealed from that; he might have
sued again in another Circuit and prosecuted such suit to
final decree. Accordingly, they maintain that the delay
which actually occurred cannot be declared unreasonable.
Under this view, a patentee having procured allowance
of an invalid claim may hold it in the face of the public
for years (here nearly two years) with large possible
advantage to himself and much injury to others. By the
assertion of'his apparent monopoly he may deter others
from legitimate action and seriously prejudice the public.
See Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350, 355.
To support their position petitioners rely especially
upon O'Reilly v. Morse (1853), 15 How. 62, 121, and
Seymour.v. McCormick (1856), 19 How. 96, 106.
O'Reilly v. Morse was decided here when appeals in
federal coirts lay only from final decrees. The Circuit

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

Court had sustained all claims of the patent. This court
held one invalid and then disposed of the contention that
because of the failure to disclaim there could be no right
to recover under the valid ofles. Mr. Chief Justice
Taney for the court said:
"It appears that no disclaimer has yet been entered at
the patent office. But the -delay in entering it is not
unreasonable. For the objectionable claim was sanctioned by the head of the office; it has been held to be
valid by a circuit court, and differences of opinion in
relation to it are found to exist among the justices of
this bourt. 'Under such circumstances the patentee had
a right to insist upon it, and not disclaim it until the
highest court to which it could be carried had pronounced
its judgment. The omission to disclaim, therefore, does
not, render the patent altogether void; and he is entitled
to proceed in this suit, for an infringement of that partof his inyention which is legally claimed and describe.
But as no disclaimer was entered in the patent office
before this suit was instituted, he cannot, under the act
oQf Congress, be allowed costs against the wrongdoer,
although the infringement should be proved. And we
think it'is proved by the testimony."
Seymour v. McCormick declared-" In respect to the
question of unreasonable delay in making the disclaimer,
as going to the whole cause of action, the court are of
opinion that the granting of the patent for this improvement, together with the opinion-of the court below maintaining its validity, repel any inference of unreasonable
.delay-in Correcting the claim; and that, under the circumstances, the question is one of law. This was decided
in the'-case of the Telegraph,' (15 How. [62] 121)."
Neither of these cases lends support to the petitioners.
Attention also has been called to Uzited States v. American Befl Tel. Co., 167 U. S. 224, Simmo'ns Co. v.. Grier-

ENSTEN v. SIMON, ASkCHER & CO.
445

455

Opinion of the Court.

Bros., 258 U. S. 82, 91, and other causes; but their facts
differ so materially from those now presented that special
comment up6n them is unnecessary.
In certain definitely defined circumstances, and to the
end ,that the mistaken but honest inventor may obtain
relief from the old rul4, the disclaimer provisions permit
-him to del-rive. the public temporarily of complete freedom from the .assertion of a monopoly. apparently valid,
but not so in fact. When a competent court has declared
his. pretensions without sufficient foundation, we think
good faith and the spirit of the enactmat demand that
he act with such promptness as the circumstances permit
either to vindicate his position or to relieve the public
from further evil effects of his false assertion. But for
tlie benign'provisions of the statute, such an assertion
'would invalidate ihe whole patent; and these provisions
were intended to lrotect only those who by prompt
action either seek to overturn an adverse ruling or retreat
from a false position.
When the District Court in -Ohio declared claim 2
invalid, the owner. of the patent might have appealed to
the Circuit Court of Appals within thirty days and thus
secured an early determination .of his rights. He did not
choose this coirse but continued to hold himself out as
possessor of the sole right to "make, use and vend" under
* the rejected claim, for nearly two, years. Then he abandoned it. He faade no effort promptly to vindicate what
he had asserted nor did he surrender it. Thus he failed
t earn the offered exemption and now he may not
complain.
A similar view of the meaning and effect of §§65'and
71 has been often acceptedby District Courts and Circuit
Courts of Appeals. The doctrine there commonly
approved is that, where one claim of a patent is declared
invalid, the trial court may refuse a decree sustaining the

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

others until there is disclaimer as to the invalid one or a
prompt appeal. Walker on Patents, 6th ed,, § 260, copied

in the margin.* First Circuit: Suddard v. American
Motor Co., 163 Fed. 852 (1908).
Second Circuit:
Atwater Mfg. Co.v. Bgecher Mfg. Co. (C. C.) 8 Fed. 608;
,Tyler v. Galloway (C. C.) 12 Fed. 567; Brainard-v.
Cramme (C. C.) 12 Fed. 621; Matthews v. Spangenberg
(C. C.) 19,Fed. 823; Hake v. Brown (C. C.) 37 Fed. 783;
Electric Accumulator Co.v. Julien Electric Co. (C. C.) 38
Fed. 117; Union Paper Bag Machine Co. v. Waterbury
(C.C.) 39 Fed. 389; Steam Gauge Co.v. Kennedy (C. C.)
41 Fed. 38; Wiliams v. Barnard (C. C.) 41 Fed. 358;
Smead v. School Dist. (C. C.) 44 Fed. 614; Brush Electric
*"Sec. 260. An important question arises when a District Court,
before any disclaimer has been filed, decides that a part of the,
claims of the patent in suit are valid, and have been infringed by
the defendant, while another part are void for want of novelty, or"
'for want of invention, and ought therefore to be disclaimed. Ought
the judge in such a case, to enter a decree for an injunction and an
account on the valid claims, and allow, the complainant to disclaim
the others or not, as he deems most prudent; or should he decline to
enter any decree till the complainant shall have filed a disclaimer?
The second of these courses has been the practice in the first circuit,
in the sixth, in the seventh, and, prior to the decision of Page Machine
Co. v. Dow, Jones & Co., in the second circuit [168 Fed. 703]; prior
to the Page Machine Co. case one of the judges in the second circuit criticised that practice as arbitrary and unjust, and in at least
one case in the sixth circuit the practice has not been followed by
the Circuit Court, the reason being given that such a requirement
would deprive the complainant of the benefit of an appe.l from
the decree in so far as it held the disclaimed claim invalid. The
same reasoli is stated in the Page Machine Co..case. And one of the
judges of the third circuit has held the first course to be the proper
practice...
..
"Where a-patentee through inadvertence claimed that of which
he was not the original inventor, but a disclaimer was not filed before
suit, no recovery can be allowed or injunction, unless a-disclaimer
be filed within a reasonable time."

ENSTEN v. SIMON, ASO1KER &CO.
445

457-

Gpinion of the Court.

Co. v. ElectricalAccumulator Co. (C. C.) 47 Fed. 48; Ballard v. McCluskey (C. C.) 58 Fed. 880. Sixth Circuit:
Odell v. Stout, 22 Fed. 159; Office Specialty Mfg. Co. v.
Globe Co., 65 Fed 599; Morgan Co. v. Alliance Co., 176
Fed. 100; Herman v. Youngstown Car Mfg. Co., 191 Fed.
579, 587; Cummer Co. v. Atlas Dryer Co., 193 Fed. 993,
998; Higgin Mfg. Co. v. Watson, 263 Fed. 378. Seventh
Circuit: Liquid Carbonic Co. v. Gilchrist Co., 253 Fed.

54, 58.
In PageMachinery Co. v. Dow,'Jones & Co., 168 Fed.
703, decided in 1909 prior to the enlarged appeal provision in the Judicial CQde, the Second Circuit Court of
Appeals expressed disappr1val of the then prevAiling
practice -upon the ground that an inventor should not be
required to accept the opinion of a single judge. The
principal reason for this objection disappeared when the
Judicial Code became effective and broader appeals from
interlocutory orders were permitted.
In Excelsior Steel Furnace Co. v. Meyer & Bro. Co.,
36 F. (2d) 447, the Circuit Court of Appeals, Seventh
Circuit, declared that "in no case would'a court be justified in finding that a patentee unreasonably delayed
the filing of a disclaimer until after the expiration of the
statutory period within which he might further litigate
the question of the validity of the contested claims."
But, in Liquid Carbonic Co. v. Gilchrist, supra, the same
court had said "that under the circumstances indicated
in these statutes [§§ 4917, 4922, R. S.] .benefit of any
recovery by the patentee is denied unless or until disclaimer is filed." So far as we are advised no other court
has sustained the theory advanced by the petitioners.
Certainly, in this case where an appeal was taken by the
defendants, it would have entailed no unreasonable hardship upon the patent owner promptly to have submitted
the legality of the rejected claim for determination by

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282U.S.

the appellate court. The route to that end was obvious,
easy, inexpensive. He deliberately failed to defend his
assertion of'right by appealing. He has been guilty of
unreasonable'delay and has not brought himself within
the beneficent provisions of te statute.
The judgment below must be

Affirmed.
LOUISIANA v. MISSISSIPPI.
No. 8, original. Argument commenced and suspended, and cause
referred to a Special Master,, October 8, 1928. Submitted on defendant's exceptions to the' report of the Special Master, January
5, 1931.-Decided February 2, 1931.
1. In a suit'to establish a part of the boundary line, of Louisiana
and Missimssipp between Willow 'Point and adjacent territory in
the former and T6wnship 9 North, Range 8 West,-in the latter
State, where the Mississippi River forms what is known as Albemarle Bend, the Court, after an examination of the document6ry
and oral evidence, sustains the master in finding:
(1) That changes in the, course of the river which occurred
at the'place in question between the years 1823 and 1912-13,
by which a considerable area was added to the Louisiana shore,
were by gradual erosions and accretions, and not by avulsibns.
P. 462.
(2) That a change in 1912-13 by which the river, shifting to
the west, cut off a large part of this area, was due to an avusion .
P. 465.
(3) 'That Mississippi did not by possession or exercise of
sovereignty or dominion acquire right or title to the disputed
territory. P. 466.
2. 'pon these facts, the boundary is the thread of the main channel
of the river as it was immediately prior to the avulsion of 1912-13.
P. 467.

FwAL' E ARN o Of an original suit to establish part of
an hiterstate bound a7,y
Messrs. GerardBrandon,Percy Saint, Attorney General
of Louisiana, John Dale, Robert Ash, Philip Hough, John

