514

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

quires constant and unusual use of the highways, and
property not so employed, is plain enough. Here the tax
laid was exclusive of all other taxation, and the funds
arising therefrom were assigned to the maintenance of
roads, essential to petitioner's operations.
Certainly, petitioner is in no position to complain of an
arbitrary exactment. The prescribed method of 'assessment was permissible, and the mere fact that he was required to pay a higher rate upon property devoted to his
peculiar business than was demanded of property not so
employed is unimportant.
Nor do we think petitioner's property was entitled to
exemption from state taxation because used in connection with the transportation of the mails. There was no
tax upon the' contract for such carriage; the burden laid
upon the property employed affected operations of the
Federal Government only remotely. RailroadCo. v. Pen-.
iston, 18 Wall. 5, 30; Metcalf & Eddy V. Mitchell, 26D
U. S. 514. The facts in PanhandleOil Co. v. Mississippi,
277 U. S. 218, and New JerseyBell Tel. Co.'v. State Board,
280 U. S. 338, were held to establish direct interference
with or burden upon'the exercise of a Federal right. The
principles there applied are not controlling here.
The judgment of the court below must be
~Affrmed.
DENMAN, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ESTATE OF
CHARLES H. NAUTS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SLAYTONT.
CERTIORAntI TO 'TH

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOPR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 60. Argued January 20, 1931.--Decided February 24, 1931.
By Revenue Act of 1921, Title II, § 213 (b) (4), in .omputing gross
subincome, interest on obligations of a State or any"'olitical
division thereof is excluded, and by § 214 (a) (2) all interest paid

DENMAN v. STAYTON.
514

Argument for Petitioner.

or accrued on indebtedness owed by the taxpayer is deductible
from gross income, except interest on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry obligations (other than certain specified
obligations of the United States) the interest upon' which is wholly

exempt from taxation under the Title. Held that the purpose of
the exception was to prevent the escape from taxation of income
properly subject thereto by the purchase of exempt securities with
borrowed money, and that it is not unconstitutional either (a) as
discriminating against owners of non-taxable secuirities and nullifying their immunity from taxation; or (b) as discriminating against
dealers in municipgl bonds who, in the course of their business, pay
interest on money borrowed to buy or carry uch securities but
can not deduct it in their tax returns, although those engaged in
other kdnds of business are allowed to deduct interest as an operating expense;, or (c). as arbitrarily discriminating in favor of those
who are able to purchase and carry securities without borrowing.
National Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508, distinguished.
P. 519.
36 F. (2d) 145, reversed.
CERTiORAI,

281 U. S. 712, to review a judgment which

affirmed a recovery from the Collector in-a suit in the District Court for money collected as an additional income
tax.

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Claude R. Branch,
J. Louis Monarch and Morton Poe Fisher, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, Clarence M. COarest, General Counsel, Bureau of Internal Revenue, and T. H.
Lewis Jr., Special Attorney, were on the brief, for petitioner.
The statute applies to a dealer in municipal bonds as
well as to a private investor.
A deduction for interest paid can not be taken as a business expense under § 214 (a) (1) of the Revenue Act of
1921. In the Revenue Acts the two classes of deduction
have always been distinguished and have been separately
provided for. The very provision as to the exception here

516.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

282 U. S.

involved shows an intent to allow them as distinct items of
deduction.
The statute does tot operate to impose a direct tax on
income from municipal bonds or to impose an appreciable
burden upon the borrowing power of the State. The case
differs from National Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 277
U. S. 508, in that, there, the exclusion from income of taxfree interest was exactly offset by a corresponding diminution of another item of deduction, while here there is no
exact or necessary relation between the exclusion of taxfree interest from income and the denial of, a deduction of
interest paid to buy or carry tax-free bonds. The limitation does not affect one who receives tax-free interest
differently from one who does not.
The limitation is not a burden upon the borrowing
power of the States, for it has no relation to the exercise
of that power, and has not in fact affected it.
The classification is just and reasonable. Taxpayers
have no inherent right to deductions. Congress may
classify incomes for purposes of taxation and may limit
deductions of interest. Other similar classifications have
been made.
If any portion of the interest paid was chargeable to
purposes other than buying and carrying tax-free bonds,
the amount- of it does not appear. In any event, taxing
statutes can not be applied with mathematical exactness.
That the statute may work an occasional hardship does
not condemn it.
Every presumption is in favor 'of the constitutionality of
the Act. '
Mr.. Thomas 0. Marlar,with whom Mr. E. J. Marshall
was on the brief, for respondent.
This case is controlled by National Life Ins. 'Co. v.
United States, 277 U. S. 508.

DENMAN v. SLAYTON.
514

517

Opinion of the Court.

The actual figures show that it was a distinct disadvantage under the proposed operation of § 214, (a) (2) for
the respondent to carry non-taxable securities.
By the operation of that section, the respondent has not
only been denied his constitutional rights respecting his
non-taxable securities, but has been, subjected to greater
tax burdens by reason of such ownership.
The principles announced in National Life Ins. Co. v.
United States, supra,were affirmed and applied in Missouri
ex rel. Missouri Ins. Co. v. Gehner, 281 U. S. 313.
Municipalities can only market their' bonds through
dealers. The Court will take notice of the general practice. If a special burden or disadvantage is to be imposed
on borrowing to buy and carry municipal bonds, the
statute clearly and unconstitutionally taxes and burdens
municipalities. The effect of the statute is not only to
discriminate against and burden municipal bonds in the
hands of dealers like respondent, but to burden the municipalities themselves and put them to a disadvantage in
marketing their obligations.
MR. JusTICE McRYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
During the year 1922, while respondent Slayton engaged in the business of buying, carrying and selling
tax-exempt municipal bonds, he collected $65,720.06 as
interest on securities of that character which he owned.
He paid out $78,153.84 for interest on money borrowed
by himself in due course for the purpose of purchasing
and carrying exempt securities. In his return showing
income received during that year he excluded the interest
so collected; and he claimed deduction for the interest
paid out on the borrowed money. The Commissioner
disallowed the deduction and made a corresponding addi-

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.,
Ophion ,of the Court.

282 -. S.

tional assessment: .Respondent paid the sum demanded
-thereunder and, after proper preliminary action, suedto
setev~rit.
Determination of, fhe question involved must turn"
upon the validity, construction and effect of Sections 213
"and 214, Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 227; 237. 238,-239.
Their 'ertinent provisions follow.
"Sec. 213. That for the purposes of this. title .K. the
term! gross income'

!'(b) Does not include the following itens, which
ahal be, exempt from taxation under this title "(4) Interest upon (a) the obligations of a State, Territory, pr any political subdivision thereof, or the District
of Columbia; ...
."Sec. 214 (a) That in, computing net income there
shall be allowed as deductions:....
AlR interest paid or accrued within the taxable year.
on indebtedness, except on indebtedness incurred, or cofftinued to purchase or carry, obligations or securities (other
than obligations of the United States issued after September 24, 1917, and originally subscribed for by the
taxpayer) the intefest upon: which is wholly exempt from
*"(2)

taxation under this title; o

.

.'

By original petition in the District Court, Northern
District of Ohio, Slayton asserted that the exception
found in paragraph (2),,§ 214 (a), conflicts with the
Federal Constitution in that by necessary operation it
.causes discrimination against the owners of non-taxable
securities and nullifies their immunity from taxation.
Also that the act. is discriminatory and unconstitutional
in,that necessary expenses incident to all other kinds of
business, ihcluding interest paid for purchasing and carrying merchandise and inventories, are allowed as part of
the operating cost, whereas deduction of interest paid by
-plaintiffupon funds borrowed-to cArry. non-taxable securities (an ordinary operating expense) is prohibited. Also

DENMAN v. SLAYTON.
514

Opinion of the Court.

that the act is arbitrary and unconstitutional because it
discriminates against plaintiff, whose resources do not permit him to purchase tax-free securities for cash, and
in favor of those whose resources permit them to purchase and carry such securities without borrowing.
The Collector unsuccessfully demurred to the petition
upon the ground that it states no cause of action. Judgment went for the plaintiff and was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Both courts were of opinion that,
under the doctrine announced in National Life Ins. Co.
v. United States, 277 U. S. 508, enforcement of paragraph
(2), § 214 (a), would deprive respondent of rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.
The challenged judgment must be reversed. The case
will be remanded to the District Court with instructions
to enter judgment for the Collector.
The circumstances disclosed in NationalLife Iims. Co. v.
United States were radically different from those now
presented, and the doctrine upon which that cause turned
does not control the present one. The respondent here
was not in effect required to pay more upon his taxable
receipts than was demanded of others who enjoyed like incomes solely because he was the recipient of interest from
tax-free securities-a result which we found would have
followed enforcement of the literal provisions of § 245 (a),
Revenue Act 1921, 42 Stat. 227, 261. While guaranteed
exemptions must be strictly observed, this obligation is
not inconsistent with reasonable classification designed to
subject all to the payment of their just share of a burden
fairly imposed.
The manifest purpose of the exception in -paragraph 2,
§ 214 (a), was to prevent the escape from taxation of
income properly subject thereto by the purchase of
exempt securities with borrowed money.
Under the theory of the respondent, "A," with an income of $10,000 arising from non-exempt securities, by

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

282 U. S.

the simple expedient of purchasing exempt ones with borrowed funds and paying $10,000 interest thereon, would
escape all taxation upon receipts from both 'sources. It
was proper to make provision to prevent such a possibility. The classification complained of is not arbitrary,
makes no improper discrimination, does not. result in defeating any guaranteed exemption, and was within the
power of Congress. The fact that respondent engaged in
the business of buying and selling is not important. See
Willcuts v. Bunn, ante, p. 216.
Reversed.
FULLERTON'LUMBER COMPANY v. CHICAGO,
MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL & .PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 47. Argued January 9, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931.
Where a carrier accepts a check for the amount of freight charges,
and a loss is suffered as a result of its unjustifiable delay in presenting it, the bank in the meantime having failed, the question
whether the shipper is relieved of liability depends upon the general
law applicable to payment by check and not upon any provision
of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 521.
36 F. (2d) 180, reversed

CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 709, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which -affirmed a judgment of
the District Court in favor of he railroad company in an
action to recover freight charges.
Mr. Stanley S. Gillam for petitioner.
Mr. A. C. Erdall,with whom Messrs. F. W. Root, 0. W.
Dynes, and C. 0. Newcomb were on the brief, for
respondent.

