MEMPHIS & CHARLESTON RY. v. PACE.
234

241

Syllabus.

ance in admiralty, "following the common law. The City
of Alexandria, 17 Fed. Rep. 390. And, as we believe, it
was introduced into the common law almost within the
memory of men still living, upon a principle of policy.
Labatt, Master & Servant, §§ 471, et seq., § 484; 2d ed.
§§ 1394, 1408. It would be somewhat hard to maintain
that principle as still the policy of the law in this case
after the doctrine has been abolished 'for railroad employees and seamen. See InternationalStevedoring Co.
v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50, 52.
*If it should appear that, by valid contract or special
circumstances, seamen on a foreign ship should not be
protected by the statute, it will be time enough to consider the exception when it is presented. But the purport
of the words is plain and there is no reason to deny stevedores the benefit of them, even if exceptions to the rule
for seamen may be found upon peculiar facts.
Judgment reversed.
MEMPHIS & CHARLESTON RAILWAY COMPANY
v. PACE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 8.

Argued March 5, 1930. Reargued October 29, 1930.Decided January 5, 1931.

1. Mississippi road tax sustained as applied to a railroad company
having part of its line and other property within the road district.
Pp. 245, 249.

2. Whether a tax for the construction of roads shall be state-wide
or be confined to the county or local district wherein the improvement is made, and whether it shall be laid generally on all property,
or all real property, within the taxing unit, or only on real property
specially benefited, are matters within the discretion of the -State
which are not controlled by either the due process clause or the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 245.
22110°--31-16

* OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinioi of the Court.

282 U.S.

3. But, however the tax may be laid, if it be palpably arbitrary, and
therefore a plain abuse of power, it falls within the condemnation
of the due process clause; and if it be manifestly 'and unreasonably
discriminatory, it falls within the condemnation of the equal protection clause. P. 246.
4. Where the tax is laid generally on all property, or all real property,
within the taxing unit, it does not become arbitrary or discriminatory merely because it is spread over such property on an ad
valorem basis; nor where the tax is thus, general. and ad valorem
does its validity depend upon the receipt of some special benefit
as distinguished from the general benefit to the community.- P. 246.

154 Miss. 536, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal of a
bill to enjoin the collection of a tax -vhich was to be
applied in making a payment on bonds issued by a road
district.

'Mr. John B. Hyde, with whom Messrs. S. R. Prince,
L. E. Jeffries, and Ely B. Mitchell were on the brief, for
appellant.
Messrs. W. W. Magruder and Benjami& H. Charles,
with whom Mr. James A. Cunningham was on the brief,
for appellees.
Messrs. George T. Mitchell, Attorney General of Mississippi, and J. A. Lauderdale, Assistant Attorney General, by special leave of Court, filed a krief on behalf of
the State of Mississippi, as amicus curiae
MR. JusTIcE VA

DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
.By a suit in equity brought in the chancery :court of
Tishomirigo Countt,' Mississippi, the appellant sought an
injunction forbidding the collection of a tax leyied to
make a partial payment ulon bonds of the Oldham road
district in that county. Among other grounds for such
relief the bill assailed the state statutes underlying the

MIMPHIS & CHARLESTON RY. v. PACE.
241

243

Opinion of the Court.

existence of the district and the levy of the tax as being
invalid under the due process and dquaI protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
Uniied States. After answer and a hearing the chancery
court entered a decree for the defendants, which the Supreme Court of the State aflirmed. 154 Miss.'536. An
appeal brings the case here.
The road district was created, and commissioners therefor were appointed, by the board of supervisors of the
county in February, 1926, under chapter 277 of the state
laws of 1920. With an approving vote of the district's
electors, and at the request of the commissioners, 'the
board of supervisors then issued and sold bonds of, the
district in the sum of $6,500 to provide money for the
construction and maintenance of public roads in the disdetermined later on as
trict-the particular roads to be277.
provided in section 5 of chapter
At this stage of the proceedings the state legislature,
desiring to put at rest any question respecting the validity of the creation of the district and the issue of the bonds,
passed two acts confirming both. One of these acts took
effect on March 11, 1926, and the ohet:four days later.
The first, being chapter 1080 of the local laws of that year,
applied to this district alone. The second, being chapter'
278 of the general laws of that year, applied broadly to
all districts in the situation of this one, and to-others.
After the enactment of the confirmatory measures the
commissioners, with the approval of the board of .ipervisors, designated two roads--one branching from the
other-as the ones to be constructed and maintained out
of the proceeds of the bonds; and in due course the work
of construction was begun and carried to completion.
In November, 1926, the board of supervisors, at the
request of the commissioners, levied on all taxable property, real and pedbnal, within the district an ad valorem
tax .to meet the trst instalment of interest and. principal

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1930
Opinion of the Court

282 U.S.

upon the bonds, that instalment being payable in the following February. The tax was four-tenthsof one per cent
of the assessed value of the property as fixed for state
and county taxes. The amount so charged' on the appellant's property was about $450,'and this is the tax against
which the suit is directed.
The Supreme Court of the State in the decision under
review holds that the creation of the road district, the
issue of the bonds and the levy of the tax were all valid
under the state constitution and the acts before cited;
that the board of supervisors in creating the district acted
in a legislative capacity, they being invested by the constitution and statutes of the State with discretion to create the district, or refuse to create it, aicording to their
judgment of the best interests of all concerned; and that
'the two confirmatory.acts were valid under the state constitution and operated to make the district a legislatively
created district if it was not such before. These were all
questions of.state law, and their decision by that court is
controlling here.
Counsel for the appellant so understand the situation,'
for in their last brief they say "that it [appellant] and
this Court are bound by the decision of the State's highest
court relating to the state constitution and state statutes
and that it is no longer possible here for appellant to contend that the district was invalidly organized or that the
special validating act approved as constitutional under
the constitution of Mississippi did not serve to place the
Oldham road district in.the class of legislatively created
districts." And also that " the Supreme Court of Mississippi in the decision below expressly held that.the board
of supervisors -of a Mississippi county was ves e with
authority to deny the petition to-create the district. Districts thus created, within the ditcretion of the board of
supervisors, are, therefore, under this decision, equivalent
to legislatively created districts, and hence a taxpayer

MEMPHIS & CHARLESTON RY. v. PACE.
241

245

Opijon of the Court.

whose property is included therein is not entitled to notice
and hearing within the doctrine aforesaid of Browning v.
Hooper, [269 U. S. 396]."
The only question presented in the Supreme Court of
the State which is open here is whether the act of 1920
and the confirmatory acts of 1926, as construed and applied in this case, are invalid as authorizing the imposition
of a tax which is so palpably arbitrary and unreasonably
discriminatory that it offends the due process and equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
On the part of the appellant the tax is said to be thus
objectionable, because it is imposed to pay for local road
improvements and is not apportioned according to benefits but is laid upon all the property, real and personal,
within the district on an ad valorem basis; because the
property of the appellant, and particularly its personal
property, receives no benefit from the improvements; and
because, even if there be some benefit to the appellant's
property, the tax laid thereon is disproportionate to the
benefit and to the tax laid on other property.
The construction and maintenance of serviceable roads
in any community is a matter in which the whole community has an-interest and is a typicali public purpose
for which property may be taxed by the State. Missouri
Pacific R. R. Co. v. CrawfordRoad District,266 U. S. 187,
190. Whether the tax shall be state wide or confined to
the county or local district wherein the improvement is
made, and whether it shall be laid generally on all property or all real property within the taxing unit, or shall
be laid only on real property specially benefited, are matters. which rest in the discretion of the State, and are not
controlled by either the due process or the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. County of
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 703; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 355-356; Houck v. Little River District, 239 U. S. 254, 262, 265; Valley Farms Co. v. West-

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1930
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

chester, 261 U. S. 155; Missouni Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Crawford Road, District, supra; Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Road Improvement District No. 3, 266 U. S.
,379, 386.
But, however the tax may be laid, if: it be palpably
arbitrary, and therefore a plain abuse of power, it falls
within the condemnation of the due process clause, Houck
v. Little River District,supra; Valley FarnsCo. v. West-.
-chester,supra; and if it be manifestly and un-easonably
discriminatory it falls within the condemnation of the
equal protection clause. Gast Realtg Co. v. Schneider
Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55; Kansas City SOtither Ry. Co.
v. Road Improvement District No. 6, 256 U. S. 658;
Thomas v. Kaftas City Southern Ry. Co., '261 U. S. 481;
Road Improvement District Ao. 1 v. Missouri Pacific R.'
R, Cio., 274 -U. S. 188.
Where the tax is laid generally on all-propefty or all
real property within the taxing unit,. it does not become
rbitrary or. discrim afo y. merely because it is spread
over such property-on an adi valorem basis; n6i where the
tax ,s thus general and ad valorem does its validity depend
upon the receipt of some special benefit as distinguished
from the general benefit to the community. St: Louis
& Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Nattin, 277 U. -. 107; Valley
Farms Co. v. Westchester, supra; Houck v. Little River
District,supra;Miller & Lux v. SacramentoDrainagaDis,
trict, 256 U. S. 129; Missouri & PaciA 1R. R. Co. v.
Crawford Road District, supra.
' The Oldham road district wag created, not as a temporary expedient to, accomplish a particular road improve-ment and defray the cost 'of that work, but as a permanent
agency invested with continuing authority to provide and
maintain suitable distriet roads under the supervision of
the county board. The state laws pr)vide for accomplishing road improvements and paying therefor in two distinct
ways-one through special, benefit assessment districts

MEMPHIS & CHARLESTON RY. v. PACE.
241

Opinion of the Court.

and the other through established local districts authorized to defray the cost by general'taxes. In the decision
under review the Supreme Court of the State holds, that
the Oldham district'is "not a special benefit assessment
district" but one wherein road improvement exipenses and
bonds issued therefor are to be paid by general taxes.
The district is rural, comprises four full sections of land
and fractions of two sections, 2950 acres in all, and is
about two miles wide and two and a half miles long. , The
railroad of the appellant extends through the southerly
.part of the district for about two miles and for about, a
half mile more 'lies just inside the southerly line. The
appellant's property in the district consists of right of
way, 2.88 miles of main track, 2.69 miles of side track,
.section house site and a small fraction of its rolling stock.
The value of this property as assessed for state and county
taxes was $113,200, and the value of other property in the
district as so assessed was $68,246, making a total of
$181,446. These valuations are not questioned here.
When the district was organized it was not far advanced
or well developed. Along the appellant's railroad were
two large and extensivel worked gravel pits with an output of about 8,000 cars a year, which were being shipped
over the appellant's railroad and were bringing it a gross
yearly return of about $250,000. The gravel was of
superior quality, of almost inexhaustible quantity, and in
much
demand. Relatively small quantities of pulpwood
and lumber
were also being shipped from the district
over
other
and
Grain
load
lots.
the appellant's railroad in car
products of the district destined to be shipped away
usually were hauled by the producers to a nearby town
which was on the appellant's railroad and without other
railroad facilities. The Lee Highway, a good road leading
to that town, crossed the most southerly part of the district south of and near the appellant's railroad. Another
good road leading to the same town lay north of the dis-

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

trict. But, apart from the Lee Highway, the roads then,
in the district were not good at any time and in some
seasons were almost impassable.
When the bonds were voted, issued and sold it was not
known what road or roads Would be constructed with the
proceeds, for as yet no road had been selected. Under
the state. law that matter remained open until the selection was made by the commissioners and approved by the
county supervisors. Board of Supervisors v. Callender,
128 Miss. 159.
The roads ultimately selected and actually constructed
are in the form of an inverted Y with .the stem extending
to the northerly line of the district and the arms extending
to the two gravel pits and the adjacent- side tracks of the
appellant's railroad near the southerly line. From each
arm there is a connection with the Lee Highway near the
southern border of the district and at the other end of the
stem there is a connection leading to the road on the north.
The roads- so constructed are not parallel to the appellant's railroad, but practically at right angles to it.
The appellant sought by its evidence to prove that'
these roads could be of no benefit whatever to it. Part
of this evidence tended merely to show that railroads
receive no benefit from public roads running parallel to,
them, and so was not in point. And much of it came
from witnesses whose knowledge of the relevant conditions within the district and surrounding it was so meagre
that little weight could be accorded to their testimony.
On the other hand, the appellees produced witnesses having some familiarity with the district and its surroundings
whose testimony, although open to some criticism, tended
to show that the roads would be of real benefit*to the
appellant both by enabling it to retain old business and
by bringing new business t6 it. Both state courts found
that there would be appreciable benefit, and we think

RAILROAD COMMISSION v. MAXCY.
241

249

Syllabus.

their finding has such support in the evidence that it
should not be disturbed.
Upon applying the settled rules before stated to the
case presented, we are of opinion that the appellant has
not shown that the tax imposed under the sanction of the
state statutes is either palpably arbitrary or unreasonably
discriminatory. It was imposed for what obviously is a
public purpose. It was a general tax and admissibly was
spread over all the taxable property in the district according to the value thereof as fixed by the assessment for
state and county taxes. The appellant was afforded ample
opportunity by the state law to be heard on that assessment and- to have it corrected if erroneous or unfair, and
is not challenging it now. The chief complaint made here
is that the imposition of the tax on an ad valorem basis
was "inherently invalid " under the due process and equal
protection clauses. That complaint is not tenable, as is
shown in several cases before cited. And, as the tax was
general and ad valorem, its validity, as was held in St.
Louis & Southwestern By. Co. v. Nattin,supra,"does not
depend, upon the receipt of any special benefit by the
taxpayer."
Judgment affirmed.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN
MAXCY, RECEIVER, ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 464: Argued November 24, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.

Decree of the District Court enjoining enforcement of an order of,a
state commission fixing rates of a water company, affirmed, in the
absence of any adequate reason in the record for disapproving findings that the commission's estimates of the company's property and
,expenses were too low and that its order would cause confiscation.
Affirmed.

