WHITE v. JOHNSON.
359

367

Syllabus.

apply them. See Niles Bement Pond Co. v. United States,
281 U. S. 357, 361.
The assessment was properly made under the statutes.
Relief from their alleged burdensome operation which
may not be secured under these provisions, can be afforded
only by legislation, not by the courts.
Reversed.

WHITE v. JOHNSON ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 29.

Argued December 5, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1631.

1. Upon.certificate the Court will not answer questions of objectionable generality; and a question is improper which is so broad and
indefinite as to admit of one answer under one set of circumstances
and a different answer under another. P. 371.
2. A question certified which inquires merely whether the, employment
of tangible property in an existing business begets in the proprietor a "property" in the continuance of the business, within'
the meaning of that word as used in the .Fifth Amendment, is too
broad and indefinite, and need not be answered. P. 371.
3. The Court is not required to answer questions certified which are
contingent upon an affirmative response to another question which
it has declined to answer. P. 372.
4. Where the answer to a question certified involves merely an
examination of an Act of Congress and a determination whether
on its face it violates the Fifth Amendment, it is an academic
question, which neither this Court nor the court below is authorized
to answer. P. 373;
5. Where a question certified, which involves the validity of the
Radio Act of 1927, in respect of its alleged failure to provide a
specific method of procedure or to furnish a standard of conduct
for the Commission in the matter of applications for renewids of
broadcasting licenses, is so framed that to answer it the Court
would have to treat the proceedings before the Commission ii
the complainant's case as irrelevant, to disregard the Commission's
interpretation of the language of the Act as applied to him under

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

all the circumstances of his case, and to ignore his admitted
failure to avail himself of the right of review conferred by the
statute, the question*need not be answered. P. 374.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals on an appeal from a decree of the District Cburt
dismissing a bill quia timet to enjoin the enforcement of
the criminal provisions of the Radio Act of 1927 for violation of an order of the Radio Commission. The right of
appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia from the Commission's order, authorized by § 16 of
the Act, was not pursued.
Mr. Henry K. Urion, with whom Mr. Henry W
Drucker was on the brief, for White.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Messrs. Charles
H. Weston and William G. Davis, Special Assistants to
the Attorney General, were on the brief, for Johnson etal.
Mi. JusTic. ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has certified five questions. From the statement of facts contained in the certificate it appears that since August 15, 1926, appellant
has owned and operated a radio broadcasting station in
Chicago and has had successive licenses from the Secretary of Commerce, and (after the enactment of the Radio
Act of 1927, c. 169, 44 Stat. 1162; U. S. C. Supp. III, title
47, § 81, et seq.) from the Federal Radio Commission.
Under those from the Commission he at first broadcasted
on a wave length of 760 kilocycles with a power of 500
watts, and subsequently on a wave length of 1340 kilocycles with the same power, and was required to divide
time with two other stations.
On January 12, 1928, he filed an application for renewal
of his then current license, which would expire on September 1, 1928. May 25, 1928, the Commission entered a

WHITE v. JOHNSON.
367

369

Opinion of the Court.

general order concerning that application and 163 others,
stating that it was not satisfied that public interest, convenience or necessity would be served by granting any of
them, and fixing a date for a hearing. Each applicant was
notified that failing an affirmative showing that public
interest, convenience or necessity would be served by
granting his application it would be denied. Hearings
were had on all the applications. Thereafter, on August
22, 1928, an order was promulgated by the Commission
modifying the appellant's existing license by reducing the
authorized power to 100 watts, and extending the term

to October 1, 1928.
The approximate value of the physical equipment of appellant's station is $5,000. He has expended some $16,000
in its operation. At the time of the Commisfion's action
his net profits were about $400 per week. His equipment
will not operate efficiently or satisfactorily at 100 watts.
To broadcast with that power he will have to replace a
very substantial portion of his present apparatus. The
reduction in power will restrict the area which can be
served to one-fourth of its former size, anad will cause the
loss of a large portion of his listening public and advertising clientele.
Although § 16 of the Radio Act of 1927 (U. S.XC. Supp.
III, title 47, § 96) authorized an appeal from the Commission's order to the Court of Appeals of the. District of
Columbia, it was conceded at bar that appellant took
none. He filed a bill quia timet in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois praying that the enforcement of the criminal provisions of the
act against him for violation of the order be enjoined;
and, upon dismissal of that bill, appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
The questions certified follow.
"Question 1. Did a person who, prior to the enactment
of the Radio Act of 1927, applied for and was grapted suc22110'°-31--24

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

cessive licenses by the Secretary of Commerce for the
operation of a broadcasting station, and who owned and
continuously operated such broadcasting station, whereby
it developed a fpllowing of listeners and advertisers which
constituted a going business, have or acquire thereby property in the continued operation of such station, with power
appropriate to continue the operation of said business,
within the meaning of the word 'property' as used in the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States?
"Question 2. If the answer to Question 1 is in the
affirmative, is the Joint Resolution of Congress of December 8th, 1926 valid as against the claim that by virtue of
the waiver it requires it works a deprivation of such property without due process of law or a taking' of private
property for public use without just compensation?
"Question 3. If the answer to Question 1 is in the affirmative, is the Radio Act of 1927, as amended, valid as
against the claim that, by virtue of the waiver required
in the last paragraph of Section 5 and by virtue of the
condition required to be contained in all licenses by sub-'
paragraph (A) of Section 11, it works a deprivation of
such property without due process of law or a taking of
private property for public use without just compensation?
"Question 4. If the answer to Question I is in the affirmative, is the Radio Act of 1927, as amended, valid as
against the claim that it authorizes or requires the Federal
Radio Commission, in its action on an application for renewal of license by a person such as is described in Question 1, to take private property for public use without just
compensation, either by denying such application or by
granting it on such terms as virtually to destroy a going
broadcasting business of such person?
"Question 5. If the answer to Question 1 is in the
affirmative, is the Radio Act of 1927, as amended, valid
as against the claim that it authorizes or requires the Fed-

WHITE v. JOHNSON.
367

Opinion of the Court.

eral Radio Commission, in acting upon an application for
renewal of license by said person, to deprive such person

of such property without- dui profess of law, in that the
only standards provided by the Act~for the guidance of
the Commission in actmig-upon si hpplications are that

of 'public interest, coivenience or necessity' and that set
forth in Section 5 of the Amendatory Act -of March 28,
1928, and in that the Act Ailsto require that the Commis-

sion, prior to proceeding to a hearing or decision on such
application, shall specify in what respect it deems or has
failed to find that the granting of such application would
not serve public interest, convenience or necessity?"
Rule 37 (Par. 1) of this Court provides, inter alia:

Only questions or propositions of law may be
certified, and they must be distinct and definite."
The court has repeatedly held that it will not answer
questions of objectionable generality. . United States v.
Worley, 281 U. S.339, 340; United State v.John Barth
Co., 276 U. S.606; United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S.55,
70; United States v. Northway, 120 U. S. 327. And a
question is improper which is so broad and indefinite as
to admit of one answer under qne set of circumstances
and a different answer under another. Enfield v. Jordan,
119 U. S.680; Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S.426; Hallowell
v. United States, 209 U. S.101.
The first question inquires merely whether the employment of tangible property in an existing business begets
in the proprietor a "property" in the continuance of the
business, as the word "property" is used in the Fifth
Amendment. It is so broad and indefinite that an answer
would not necessarily be of assistance in the decision of
the cause. It was never intended that in answer to a
question certified, we should give a dissertation on the
application of the Fifth Amendment. Were we to attempt
to do so, we should have to assume the existence of facts
and circumstances, the absence of which from the record

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U. S.

might render our statements wholly irrelevant. Reinecke
v. Gardner,277 U. S. 239. The essence of the amendment
is its application under all the circumstances of a given
case. A broad statement as to whether a thing or a status
is property within its intent might well be meaningless or
misleading,
Much argument was directed to the proposition that
one who first establishes a broadcasting station in and
serves a given area thereby appropriates that portion of
the ether which he employs or through which the station's
radio activity operates; and it was suggested that in analogy to the doctrine as to appropriation of waters, et id
omne genus, a property right is thus acquired. It was
urged that the question presents this proposition; but it
clearly fails so to do. We are not required to answer it.
,Questions 2 and 3 are contingent upon our answer to
.question 1. The first asks whether, if we answer question
1 in the affirmative, the Joint Resolution of December
8, 1926, is valid as against the claim that by virtue of the
waiver it requires of the applicant for a license it violates
certain constitutional guaranties. The second asks'
whether, if our answer to question 1 be in the affirmative,
the Radio Act of 1927, as amended, is valid as against
the claim that by virtue of the similar waiver required
in the last paragraph of Section 5, and the waiver required to be contained in all licenses, it violates the same
,,
constitutional guaranties.
The appellees concede that if a person has a right guar-,
anteed by the Constitution, legislation requiring that
such right be waived as a condition of the exercise of a
privilege granted would be invalid. However that may
be, no such concession calls on us to answer questions
which are themselves contingent on another which we do
not answer.
The fourth question asks us to say whether, if our answer to question 1 is in the affirmative, the Radio Act of

WHITE v. JOHNSON.
367

373

Opinion of the Court.

1927, as amended, is valid as against the claim that it
authorizes or requires the Federal Radio Commission, in
acting on an application for renewal of license by a person such as described in question 1, to take private property for public use without just compensation, by denying
or granting the application on terms destructive of the
going business of the applicant.
This question we need not answer, for the reasons stated
as to the two preceding. But it has another fatal defect.
An answer would involve merely an examination of the
Act and a determination whether on its face it violates
the Fifth Amendment. Neither this Court nor the court
below is authorized to answer academic questions. The
constitutionality of a statute is not drawn into question
except in connection with its application to some person,
natural or artificial. We have above called attention to
the provisions of the Radio Act which give redress against
arbitrary or unjust action by the Commission. "Werepeat
that the appellant did not see fit to avail- himself of the
right of appeal thereby conferred, but on the contrary
chose to violate the Commission's order and to stand on
an alleged constitutional right which he says the dction
of the Commission infringed. It would be subversive of
all established principles were courts, in litigations between parties, who have reciprocal rights under the Constitution, to settle their controversies by broad statements
to the effect that acts of. Congress' are unconstitutional
upon their face; and this not only in ignorance of the cir.
cumstances and manner of the application of the statute
by the administrative body, but with knowledge that the
party -complaining had failed to pursue the remedy provided by law.
The fifth question not only is contingent on our answer
to question 1, 'but assumes that the Radio Act may be
unconstitutional because it fails to provide a specific
method of procedure and does not furnish a standard of

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

282 U. S.

conduct for the Commission. But the appellant's rights,
as respects procedure, depend not alone ,on the alleged
requirements of the Act, but on the adeqiiacy of the
hearing in fact afforded him; and his substantive rights
under the statute depend upon the public interest, convenience or nec.essity in view of all the facts adduced and
circumstances appearing before the Commission. We are
not advised what sort of hearing was held, nor what facts
were proved. If the proceeding was an unfair one, as
lacking adequate notice, full hearing, or development of
all relevant facts, appellant had a remedy provided by
the-statute, which in the orderly processes of the administration of the law he was bound to pursue. To answer
the question as framed we should have to treat the proceedings before the Commission as irrelevaiit; to hold
that body's interpretation of the language-of the act as
applied to appellant in all the circumstances of his case
as of no Inoment; and to ignore his admitted failure to
avail himself of the right of review conferred by the statute. The question need not be answered.
The certificate is dismissed."
AMERICAN BOND AND MORTGAGE COMPANY
ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 210. Argued December 5, 1930.-Decided January 5, 1931.
Certificate presenting substantially the same questions as in White v.
Johnsonj ante, p. 367, dismissed on the authority of that case.
CERTIFICATE

from the Circuit Court of Appeals, on an

appeal from a decree of the District Court enjoining the
operation of a broadcasting station in violation of the
provisions of the Radio Act.

