POWERS-KENNEDY CO. v. CONCRETE CO.
172

175

Syllabus.

U. S. 61, 78, said: "Why these provisions were inserted
in the statute we are not informed, but we may assume,
until the contrary is shown, taat a state of facts in respect thereto existed which warranted 'the legislature
in so legislating." 150 Atl. 458. This long-settled rule
disposes also of the alleged discrimination created by the
special exemptions applicable to certain other waters of
the State.2
Affirmed.
POWEIAS-KENNEDY

TION

ET

AL.

CONTRACTING CORPORA-

v. CONCRETE MIXING AND CON-

VEYING COMPANY.
CONCRETE MIXING AND CONVTEYING COMPANY v. R. C. STORRIE & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT ,COURTS OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND AND NINTH CIRCUITS.

Nos. 3 and 4. Argued April 16, 17, 1929. Rearjued October 24,1930.-Decided December 15, 1930.
Patent No. 1,127,660, to McMichael, for improvements in methods
and apparatus for transporting and treating concrete, held void
for want of novelty .and invention. P.186. The principal features
are: An upright chamber, in the top of which is an opening, for
introducing the material, equipped with a door to close the opening
air-tight; a hopper-shaped bottom to the chamber, discharging into
the delivery duct; a pipe through which compressed air enters the
chamber above the mass of concrete within, to propel it into theduct; and another pipe delivering compressed air at or near the
discharge or lower end of the hopper.
27 F. (2d) 668, reversed.
27 F. (2d) 838, affirmed.
Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S, 466, 475; Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 'U. S. 678, 685; Chicago Dock Co. v. Fraley, 228
U. S. 680, 686; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 357.
2See

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 595, -to review decisions in two
patent-infringement suits involving the same patent. In
No. 3, the District Court sustained the patent and was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appels for the Saond
Circuit. In No. 4, the patent was held void, by the)is
trict Court, 23 F. (2d) 131, and theCircuit CoQUt k.f
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.-

Messrs. John D. Morgaz and Alan M. Johnson for the
Powers-Kennedy Contracting Corporation et al.
Messrs. Stephen J, Cox and Lynn A. Williams, with
whom Messrs. iiford C. Bradbury and Albert G. McCaleb were on the brief, for the Concrete Mixing &
Conveying Company.
Mr. CharlesE. Townsend for R. C. Storrie & Company.
MR. JusTmcE ROERTS delivered the opinion of the.

Court.
These cases involve the validity, and the alleged infringement, of letters patent No. 1,127,660, of date February 9, 1915, isued to John H. McMichael, and assigned to
Concrete Mixing and Conveying Company.
The Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, in Concrete Mixing and Conveying Company v. Ulen Contracting Corporation,12 F. (2d) 929, held the patent valid and
infringed. In No. 3 the District Court followed that decision. Its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the. Second Circuit, 27 F. (2d) 668.
Meantime, in No. 4, the District Court for the Western
District of Washington held the patent void for want
of novelty and invention, 23 F. (2d) 131. Subsequent to
-the decision- of the Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, that of the Ninth Circuit affirmed the Washington
District Court, 27 F. (2d) 838. In view of the conflict

POWERS-KENNEDY CO. v. CONCRETE CO.

177

Opinion of the Court.

175

thus disclosed this court granted certiorari in both. cases,
"the two cases to be heard as one?' 278 U. S. 595.
The patent is for certain new and useful improvements
in methods of and apparatus for transporting and treating
concrete. The accompanying drawing illustrates the
apparatus.

It consists of a chamber 1, for the reception of the
materl, the lower portion being hopperlike in form, as
indicated at 2. -The cover 4 is provided with an openg
3, in which there is a door 5. A chain or rope 3a is
adapted to be used in partly or entirely closing the door.
Air pressure in the chamber also acts to hold this door
in closed position. A pressure tank 6 holds compressed
air supplied by an air compressor 7, and has a connection 8
leading the air under pressure from the tank to the
chamber 1; the air inlet is preferably near the top. An
air pipe 10 controlled by a valve 11 also leads into the
chamber, the delivery end of this pipe being at. or near
the discharge or lower end of the hopper.
-The apparatus includes a valve-controlled water supply pipe 12 adapted to deliver water at the lower end of
22110"-31-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

the hopper so as to make the mass more easily movable
when desired and also a crook or U-shaped, bend 14 in the
discharge duct 13.
The operation as described in the application for patent
consists in depositing material in the chamber, closing
the door, turning the air from the reservoir through the
pipe 8 into the upper portion of the chamber, thus insuring the immediate firm closure of the door and forcing
the material in the hopper downward, it being carried
along through the conveying tube 13 until it is finally
discharged at 15.
In the application as originally filed, it was stated that,
owing to the provision of the U-shaped bend in the conveying -tube, the material, immediately after leaving the
hopper, will be more or less tightly packed; and it is
added that "to loosen the material at the lower end of
the hopper should the -same become packed, I provide
the additional air pipe adapted to discharge air through
the material."
It should also be remarked that in the original application the invention was described as useful improvements
in apparatus for "elevating and transporting granular
and plastic building material, such as sand, plaster, mortar
and concrete."
The application was filed in the Patent Office on January 14, 1907. Its prosecution was most dilatory. Claims
made were repeatedly disallowed, and at one time it
lapsed and had to be renewed. Radical changes were
made in the statement of invention, and radically new
claims were made in 1911 and expanded in'-1913. The
applicant eliminated from the scope of his invention the
transportation of granular and plastic material generally,
and limited it to the transportation and treatment of
concrete; and the patent as issued is so limited. While
his original assertion that the compressed air admitted to

POWERS-KENNEDY CO. v. CONCRETE CO.
175

179

Opinion of the Court.

the chamber behind the mass was the propelling force
was retained, statements were added and claims were
made, ascribing to the air discharged by pipe 10 new action and effect, namely, that it operated"to "-engage
submasses" or to "impinge upon successive portions" of

the mass of concrete moving through the hopper and
discharge duct, and to aid or assist in their movement in
the duct, as well as assisting in mixing and mingling the
elements of the concrete in the duct, so as to make a more
perfect mixture.
The device alleged in No. 3 to infringe consists of a
container, in all material respects like that of the patent,
with a discharge duct. It, however, employs no upper
air behind the mass in the container. It has no U-bend
fil the duct at the outlet of the hopper,-nor does it have
a pipe terminating in the hopper near the outlet. On
the contrary it has a pipe which discharges compressed
air into the duct at the right-angle elbow therein immediately below the outlet of the hopper, thus forcing air
into and along -the duct in the direction in which the
material is to move.
The device alleged in No. 4 to constitute an infringement is made under the Hackley patent, No. 1,619,297,
of date March 1, 1927. It consists of a cylindrical container set horizontally instead of vertically. The door
for admission of the concrete is on the top of the apparatus, a funnel-shaped exit is located at one end, the bottom of said funnel being continuous with the lowest portion of the cylinder wall, and the upper portion of the
funnel joining a part of the end of the cylinder. Four
pipes are led into the cylinder, the first of which discharges
into the funnel and the other three at various distances
to the rear of the first, along the bottom of the cylinder
and in the direction of the funnel. Its,method of operation is that, after the cylinder is filled with concrete and

OCTOBER -TERM, 1930.
Ophnion of the Court.

282 U.S.

the door closed, compressed air is discharged through the
pipes in order, first through -the one whigh ends in the
funnel, and successively through the others to the rearward until the last one is opened. There is no provision
for admission of compressed air on top of or behind the
mass, as in the McMichael apparatus. Nor is there any
trap or U-bend in the delivery duct, which is continuous
with the mouth of the funnel and runs in a direct line
therefrom.
If the patent in question were valid as disclosing novely and invention, we should be bound to analyse the
differences of structure and operation above indicated,
to determine the question of infringement. We have concluded, however, that it does not disclose invention, and
that -we need not, therefore, narrowly examine the devices and their operation to ascertain whether there is
infringement.
The idea of moving fluids and solids through a pipe by
air pressure,. or other fluid pressure, is old, and was well
known at the time of the alleged invention. Both granular and plastic materials had been so moved by devices
quite similar to that of the patent. These covered a wide
range, from lift-pumps for sand and sulphur, to apparatus
for transporting muck, spoil, grout, and concrete.
It is averred, however, that neither an apparatus nor a
method such as that devised by McMichael had theretofore been applied to the transportation of concrete. If
this be true, its truth must lie in the fact that McMichael
either discovered an improvement in apparatus or an improvement in method over the prior art. We think that
he did not do so; and we shall call attention to some of
the facts which lead us to this conclusion.
The provision of a hopper-shaped bottom for the cylinder, thus causing the mass of material to converge towards the delivery duct, is specified by McMichael as an

POWERS-KENNEDY CO. v. CONCRETE CO.
175

181

Opinion of the Court.

element in his invention. It was old in the art. Warren
had employed it in a sand-blast apparatus pateAted April
2, 1901, No. 671,303. Goldie had used it in a cementing apparatus patented August 26, 1902, No. 707,840,
Canniff had shown it in a pneumatic grout-mixing and
discharging apparatus patented December 10, 1907, No.
873,345. Nor is there any merit in the claim of invention in making the funnel-shaped discharge end of the
cylinder connect with the delivery duct smoothly and
without offsets.
The next element to be considered is the introduction
of air behind the mass in order to propel it into the discharge duct. This was old in the art. Smith had provided for the employment of such compressed air in an
enclosed chamber above the mass in his patent for machinery for laying concrete pavement, of January 2, 1872,
No. 122,498. Duckham had employed it in an apparatus
for discharging muck or spoil (English patent No. 4400,
December 18, 1875). Canniff had used it in his patent
above referred to, as had McIlvrid in a grout-mixing and
discharging mdchine, patent No. 958,421, Farnham in a
sand-blast apparatus patented December 22, 1903, No.
747,396, and Warren in a similar apparatus in his patent
above referred to. Other devices might be cited.
Much reliance is placed upon the pipe 10, with its end
or nozzle in the chamber near the outlet. In his original
application McMichael described its operation somewhat
as follows: He called attention to the U-bend or trap 14 just below the outlet of the cLamber. He stated that this would
cause the mass to pack tightly as it was driven down by
the upper air pressure, and claimed that the blast of air
from the pipe 10 would tend to prevent clogging or arching at this point, thus enabling the material to move more

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282'U.S.

freely into the discharge duct. If this be a claim to
novelty or invention, it is clearly anticipated by the Duckham English patent above cited. In the device covered
by that patent air is admitted to an airtight chamber.
'above the mass of muck or spoil to be moved, thus driving it, as in McMichael's, to the outlet. One or more
nozzles for the delivery ,of similar compressed air are
plaeed near the outlet of the chamber, so that the air
from them will mingle with and stir up the mass. It is
added that a nozzle may also be placed in the discharge
pipe for the same purpose, and attention is called to the
usefulness of larger nozzles where the material to be
moved is clay or similar matter Which is likely to harden
and form a resistant mass near the outlet of the chamber.
In the amendment to his specifications, McAichael,
while still claiming the function of pipe 10 to be to loosen
material at the lower end of the hopper and to assist
movement of the mass, added an additional claim, saying
that it "serves the double function of preventing choking
in the entrance to the delivery pipe and of supplying air
ufider pressure in sharp jets directly to the delivery pipe
itself." He says that he has found that this supplemental
air pipe 10 is very effective in aiding the passage of the
material into and -through the conveyor pipe. -He' claims
that this second air pipe "gives to the material the velocity which is needed to carry it to the remote point of
delivery." He explains that the upper pipe supplies air
which acts by pressure, and the lower pipe supplies- air
which acts by velocity. Again he states that the air from
this pipe "may force itself into the body of the mass,"
and adds that it "engages with- the submasses to push
them along." He phiases the matter differently by claiming that this air acts upon submasses successively, and
claims as a result "the thorough commingling of the ingredients" with greater rapidity. At considerable lengtih
he then elaborates upon the value of the air discharged
by this pipe as a mixing agent.

POWERS-KENNEDY CO. v. CONCRETE CO.
175

183

Opinion of the Court.

These specifications and the claims based upon them
are particularly important in view of the theory now
brought forward-that jets of air from the pipe 10 cut
off so-called "slugs" or portions of the concrete and
propel them individually like pistons through the delivery
pipe. An examination of the specifications and claims
discloses no claim to this slug or pistonlike action of
the air so delivered. Any such action is quite inconsistent with the claim that the air from the pipe mingles
with the mass and causes additional mixing in the delivery pipe making the latter a sort of mixifig chamber.
Unless the slug theory is disclosed in the patent and is
a correct theory of operation it would seem that there is
no invention in the use of the pipe 10.
It is conceded that in the commercib form of the
patented apparatus the U-bend is entirely discarded.
It cannot therefore have any useful function and cannot
be the subject of invention. It is further conceded that
in the commercial form, pipe 10 is not brought into the
chamber and does not terminate in the hopperlike 'exit.
On the contrary, the pipe is led into the elbow in the
conduit directly below the hopper and discharges in the
direction in which the material is to move. If the function of the pipe is that of a booster or velocity nozzle
(as is undoubtedly, amongst other things, claim'ed in the
patent), its use is not invention unless the application
of it to concrete is novel and constitutes invention. The
use of such nozzles in the conveying of material by compressed air is old in the art. Many of the patents cited
and in evidence indicate this, and, apart from them, it
is ,and must be conceded that such use was not uncommon
at the time of McMichael's application.
Thomas Leake applied for a patent for an apparatus
and method for mixing and transporting concrete, October 7, 1907. In this application he showed two nozzles
similar to the pipe 10, discharging into the hopper of

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

his closed chamber. The District Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals found in No. 4 that this invention in
fact antedated McMichael's and we are not prepared
to say that the testimony and corroborating documents
did not justify this finding. There is considerable evidence tending to show that McMichael recognized the
priority of Leake, and, as a result, purchased and took
an assignment of Leake's patent while his own application was pending, in order to dispose of an interference
declared by the Patent Office between them. It resulted
that Leake did not offer evidence or press his claim to
priority and that the McMichael patent was granted in
1915 and the Leake patent in 1917, and both of them
are owned by the same company.
If there be any virtue in the so-called sbig theory,
Leake has as clearly disclosed it as McMichael did, although neither of them make this method of operation
clear in their specifications and claims.
It remains to discuss whether there is foundation for
the claim that McMichael discovered new principles,
namely, that concrete could be moved by compressed air,
or that if it could not be satisfactorily moved by pressure
of compressed air or other fluid agent, it could so be
moved by a nozzle which cut off portions of the mass and
drove them through the delivery duct like pistons.
Methods and apparatus for moving concrete by compressed air had been previously invented. See Smith's
patent, 122,498. The court below, in No. 3, indicated
that this had not been found practicable. There is no
support in the record for any such finding and against it
stands the presumption of operability from its patenting.
In No. 4 there was uncontradicted evidence that it would
work, and that Canniff's grout machine (Pateut 873,345)
had been successfully used for concrete. Other apparatqs
closely approximating that of the platent in suit had been
used for transporting grout. In his specifications Mc-

POWERS-KENNEDY CO. v. CONCRETE CO. 185
175

Opinion of the Court.

Michael's only suggestion as to why they were unfit for
concrete is that the pipes and parts were not of sufficient
size. -But obviously a mere change in proportion would
involve no more than mechanical skill and would not
amount to invention.
We find no adequate ground for saying that McMichael's method operated in a novel and useful manner,
by reason of the alleged .function of the nozzle discharging into the moving mass, cutting off therefrom slugs or
pistons of concrete and driving them forward individually.
The slug theory, so-called, seems to have been advanced
for the first time in the Ulen case; and was there credited
and relied upon to sustain the patent. In No. 3 the Distriet Court thought it probable, but the Court of Appeals
held the patent valid irrespective of the correctness of
,the theory.
In'No. 4"the District Court found it incorrect and un-.
tenable. This coincides with our own view. The top
pressure behind the mass and that coming through the
pipe 10 is the same. There is. no mechanism to produce sharp spurts or jets of air out of the end of pipe 10.
That air, "as the patent specifications in certain paragraphs suggest, mingles with the mass of concrete as it
comes down .through -the hopper. It does not cut off
masses and drive them forward like pistons, but cts
merely by veloc'ty. The evidence is persuasive that the
concrete issues from the end of the discharge pipe in a
stream or solid flow and not in surges of lumps. It is
proved that it freely passes ninety-degree bends in the
pipe. In short, there is' neither theoretical nor practical
demonstration of any such phenomenon as the owner of
the patent asserts.
And, even if the mode of operation is as claimed, it is
to'be remembered that Leake in his application of October
7, 1907, uses the same words to describe, the operation
of his nozzles as we find McMichael subsequently in-

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

serted in his specifications and claims. When this application came into interference with McMichael's, he, of
course, became familiar with Leake's claims. It is significant that he then amended his claims, almost in the
very words of Leake. This of itself destroys the patent.
-Railway Co. v. Sayles, 97 U. S. 554; General Electric
Co. v. Sangamo Electric Co., 174 Fed. 246; Lopilco Systems, Inc. v. Bonnot Co., 24.F. (2d) 510.
For these reasons we find that the patent is invalid. It
consists of a combination of elements all of which were
old in the art. Its application to the transportation, of
concrete did not involve invention. Neither the combination 'of old elements or devices accomplishing no.
more than an aggregate of old results (Hailes v. Van
Wormer, 20 Wall. 353; Office Specialty Mfg. Co. v. Fenton
Metallic Mfg. Co., 174 U. S. 492; (rinnell Washing Machine Co. -V.E. E. Johnson Co., 247 U. S. 426) nor the use
of an old apparatus or appliance for a new purpose
(Roberts v. Ryer, 91 U. S. 150) is invention.
When, in addition, we find that similar combinations
had been used for the transportation of granular materialr muck and spoil and grout, and- that -combinations
lacking one or another of the old elements of McMichael's
had been used to transport concrete, what was said in
Concrete Appliances Co. v. Goinery, 269 U. S. 177, 179,
applies with equal force to these cases:
"The severalelements in the petitioners' claims which
we have enumerated embrace familiar devices long in
common use, 'separately or in smaller groups, both in this
and in kindred mechanical arts. It is not argued that
there is any novelty in such units or groups; and the
. only serious question presented is whether, in combination in the apparatus described, they constitute an
invention.'
This cour4 called attention to the fact that the principle
of conveying and distributing a mobile substance by

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
175

Argument for Petitioners.

gravity had been exemplified in various methods for centuries, and that-long prior to the patent there in suit the
principle had been applied to various substances such as
grain, coal, crushed stone, sand, and iron ore, and said
[p. 1841:
"The observations of common experience in the mechanical arts would lead one to expect that once the
feasibility of using 'wet' concrete in building operations
was established, the mechanical skill of those familiar
with engineering and building problems would seek to
make use of known methods and appliances for the convenient handling of.this new building material."
Here'it appears that the use of compressed air for conveyance of granular and plastic materials had long been
known and practised; so that the cited'case is clear authority against invention in the instant cases.
The decree in No. 3 is reversed and the cause remanded
with instructions to dismiss the bill of complaint. The
decree in No. 4 is affirmed.
No. 3, reversed.
No. 4, affirmed.
BROAD RIVER POWER COMPANY ET A. v. SOUTH
CAROLINA Ex RUL. DANIEL, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREI:E COURT OF SOUTH3 CAROLINA.

No. 528 (1929 Term). Argued on Rehearing, December 3, 4, 1930.Decided December 15, 1930.
Upon rehearing of this cause, .the Court, though divided up.on the
reasons, adheres to the view that the writ of certiorari should be
dismissed for want.of jurisdiction. See 281 U. S. 537.

Mr. George M. LePine, with whom Messrs. C. Edward
Paxson, W. C. McLain and Win. Marshall Bullitt were
on the supplemental brief, for petitioners.

