638

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

282 U.S.

royalties on minerals mined was held not to be impaired
by a later state statute taxing the proceeds of the contract. The Court said [p. 581]:
"Titles to all the lands and leases were obtained subject to the State's power to tax. If the statute now in
controversy is within that' power, it cannot impair the
obligation of appellants' contracts; if beyond, it is, of
course, invalid. Accordingly, there is no occasion further
to discuss the application of Article I, Section 10."
In short, it is evident from the authorities cited, and
many more which might be. quoted, that the power to
tax property, or a right, or a status, or a privilege, acquired or enjoyed by virtue of a contract, is in no wise hindered or impeded by the fact of the existence- of the
contract whether it antedates or follows the effective date
of the taxing act. No exercise of a governmental power,
whether it be that of taxation, police, or eminent domain,
though it make less valuable the fruits of a private contract, can be said to impair the obligation thereof.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,
JUsTICE STONE concur in this opinion..

and MR.

V. LOEWERS GAMBRINUS BREWERY COMPANY
v. ANDERSON, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COL-"
LECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO TgE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 352. Argued January 22, 1931.-Decided February 24, 1931..

In calculating its net income and profits taxes for the years 1918 and
1919, a brewing company was entitled, under § 234 (a) (7) of the
Revenue Act of 1918, to a reasonable allowance for obsolescence of

GAMBRINUS BREWERY CO. v. ANDERSON. 639
638

Opinion of the Court.

its buildings resulting from the imminence and taking effect of
prohibition. Clarke v. Haberle Brewing Co., 280 U. S. 384, distinguished. P. 641.
42 F. (2d) 216, reversed.
District Court affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 823, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment for
the Brewery Company in the District Court in its action
to recover money illegally collected as income and profits
taxes.
Mr. Arthur B. Hyman, with whom Mr. Karl D. Los
was on he brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Thacher,
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist -and Messrs.
Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch and John MacC. Hudson,
Special Assistants to the Attorney General, Paul D. Miller,
and Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel, Bureau of
Internal Revenue, were on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Frank S. Bright and H. Stanley Hinrichs, by
special leave of Court, filed a brief as amid curiae.
MR. JusTicE BumR delivered the opinion of the Court'
Petitioner sued'respondent in the District Court for
the Southern District of New York and obtained judgment for $22,091.01 on account of income and profits
taxes for 1918 and 1919 erroneously exacted. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed; and, as the right of petitioner to recover $4,128.85 was not contested, ordered that
it have judgment for that amount. 42 F. (2d) 216. This
court granted petitioner's application for a writ of cer-tiorari, limited to the question whether petitioner is entitled under § 234 (a) (7) of. the Revenue Act of 1918

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

to any deduction for obsolescence of its tangible property
in such years.
Revenue Act of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1077, 1078, provides:
"Sec. 234. (a) That in computing the not income of
a corporation . , . there shall be allowed as deductions
(7) A reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear
and tear of property used in the trade or business, including a reasonable allowance for obsolescence; . . .
A jury having been waived in writing, the case was
tried by the court without a jury. The court found:
Plaintiff, from 1879 until October 29, 1919, was engaged
at New York City in the business of manufacturing and
selling beers, ales and porter and for that purpose erected
and installed-suitable buildings and equipment. January 31, 1918, it had become common knowledge and was
known to plaintiff, that prohibition would become effective and that as a result plaintiff and others engaged
.in that business would suffer obsolescence in the value
of their capital assets. Prohibition did become effective
January 16, 1920. As found by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the depreciated cost of plaintiff's buildings as of that date was $153,932.18. The buildings were
constructed especially for the purposes of such manufacture and were not commercially adaptable for any other
use. They had no salvage value. As a result of prohibition and beginning January 31, 1918, and ending January 16,'1920, plaintiff suffered obsolescence of such buildings equal to such depreciated cost which should be rateably apportioned over that period. After making provision for allowances for such obsolescence, plaintiff had
no net income for 1918 or 1919.
And at defendant's request the courf found: With the
advent of prohibition it became illegal to manufacture
beers, ales and porter having an alcoholic content in excess of one-half of one per cent. Accordingly such man-

GAMBRINUS BREWERY CO. v. ANDERSON. 641
638

Opinion'of the Court.

ufacture was discontinued by the plaintiff when the prohibitory law became effective. Subsequently plaintiff
to a small extent continued the manufacture of beers,
ales and porter having an alcoholic content not in excess
of one-half of one per cent. and it still continues to manufacture such beverages to a small extent.
The sole question for decision is whether, in calculating its taxes for 1918 and 1919, plaintiff was entitled to
any allowance for obsolescence of its buildings resulting
from the imminence and takini effect of the prohibitory
laws.
The language of § 234 (a) (7) is broad enough to
include all obsolescence from whatever cause. But the
Government maintains that Congress did not intend to
provide compensation in any form for losses caused by
prohibition legislation, and that consequently there can
be no deduction for obsolescence here even upon the facts
found by the District Court. It relies on Clarke v.
Haberle Brewing Co., 280 U. S.384, and Renziehausen v.
Lucas, 280 U. S. 387.
The case at bar was decided in the District Court
before our decision in the Haberle case and on the authority of that decision the Circuit Court of Appeals held
plaintiff not entitled to any allowance for obsolescence of
its buildings. But the sole question presented to us in
that case was whether a brewing company making its tax
return for 1919 under the Act now before us and whose
business would be destroyed by the taking effect of prohibition was entitled to deduct anything on account of
exhaustion or obsolescence of its good will. The court
said (p. 386) " We shall not follow counsel into the succession of regulations or the variations in the law before
the date of the Act that we have to construe. In our
opinion the words now used cannot be extended to cover
the-loss in this case and it is needless to speculate as to
22110o-31---41

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

what other cases it might include." When regard is had
to'the issue between the parties and the point decided,
it is clear that there is-nothing in our construction of the
statute or in the reasons adduced to support the conclusion reached, that is decisive of the question now under
consideration, or that suggests that, in respect of allowances for obsolescence of tangible property, the statute
does not apply to brewers and their buildings just as it
does to others and their tangible property. Indeed the
language used definitely limits the opinion to obsolescence
of good will.
In Renziehausen v. Lucas the taxpayer was a distiller.
His claim for obsolescence of good will, under § 214 (a)
(8) applicable to individuals and in the same words as
§ 234 (a) (7), was denied on the authority of the Haberle
case. He also claimed allowances for obsolescence re.sulting from prohibition to his plant, equipment and
bonded warehouses. That claim was denied by the Commissioner but it was allowed by the Board of Tax Appeals,
8 B. T. A. 87, and that decision was affirmed in-the Ciruit
Court of Appeals. 31 F. (2d) 675. The taxpayer insisted here that the allowance for obsolesceifce of his
warehouses was inadequate. The Government opposed
the increase but did not challenge either the propriety of
an allowance or the amount fixed below. Dealing with
the case on the assumption that the statute applied to obsolescence due to prohibition just as it does to that resulting from other causeg, we held that the taxpayer hal
"no -reason to complain of the allowance for obsolescence
of the warehouses." That case makes against rather than
for the Government's present- contention.
, The tangible property by which a business is carried on
is plainly distinguishable from the element of good will
inheaing therein. The cost of plant depreciation, i. e.,
ekhaustion, wear, tear and obsolescence, is a part of oper-

-

GAMBRINUS BREWERY CO. v. ANDERSON. 643
638

Opinion of the Court.

ating expenses necessary to carry on a manufacturing
business. The gain or loss in any year cannot be rightly
ascertained without taking into account the amount of
such cost that is justly attributable to that period of
time. •
The history of § 234 (a) (7) discloses a legislative purpose that the amount reasonably attributable to each
year on account of obsolescence of tangible property
used. in the taxpayer's business is to be taken into account
in ascertaining his taxable income. The excise tax act
of 1909 permitted the deduction of "a reasonable allowance for depreciation of property, if any."' Regulations
of the Treasury Department construed the provision to
mean the loss in value "that arises from exhaustion, wear
and tear, or obsolescence out of the uses to which the
property is put."'2 The Revenue Act of 1913 provided
for a "reasonable allowance fordepreciation by ise, wear
and tear of property if any." I The Regulations provided for a deduction for depreciation in the value of
the property "that arises from exhaustion, wear and
tear, or obsolescence out of the uses to which the property is put." I The Revenue Act of 1916 dropped the
word depreciation and permitted "a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property arising out of its use or employment in the business or
trade." I Under that provision no deduction on account
of obsolescence was allowed except for the "withdrawal
from use of the obsolete property." 6 The House draft
of the Act of 1918 provided for an allowance for exhaus'Section 38, 36 Stat. 112.
Rigulations 31, Art. 4.
8Section II G (b), 38 Stat. 172.
"Regulations 33, Art. 129.
5
Section 12 (a), 39 Stat. 767.
6 Regulations 33 Revised, Art. 178.

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

282 U.S.

tion, wear and tear. It did not expressly refer to
depreciation or obsolescence. The Senate amended by
substituting "depreciation" for "exhaustion, wear and
tear." In conference that word was taken out and the
provision was made to read as it now stands, "a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property used in the trade or business, including a reasonable
allowance for obsolescence."
None of the Acts made any classification based on the
causes from which obsolescence results. And, as the sole
purpose is to arrive at the net income subject to taxation,
it is clear that such a discrimination could not reasonably
or justly be made. Section 234 (a) (7) and other provisions of the same substance have been generally, if not
uniformly, held to apply to obsolescence of tangible property, whatever its cause, where the amount fairly attributable to the tax year has been shown.' There is nothing
in the language of the statute or the circumstances of its
enactment to suggest that Congress intended that the
taxable incomes of brewers should not be arrived at
according to the rules that govern taxable incomes of
others.
7Dean v. Hoffheimer Bros. Co., 29 F. (2d) 668; Kansas City Title
& Trust Co. v. Crooks, 35 F. (2d) 351; National Ind. Alcohol Co. v.
Commissioner, 38 F. (2d) 718; Michigan Lithographing Co., 1 B. T. A.
989; Robert H. McCormick, 2 B. T. A. 430; Dilling Cotton Mills,
2 B. T. A. 127; Annie L. Dean, 3 B. T. A. 896; Northern Hotel Co.,
8 B. T. A. 1099; American Valve Co., 4 B. T. A. 1204; Auditorium
Co., 5 B. T. A. 163; Northeastern Oil & Gas Co., 5 B. T. A. 332,
337; Corsicana Gas & Elec. Co., 6, B. T. A. 565; Balaban & Katz
Corporation, 6 B. T. A. 610; Manhattan Brewing Co., 6 B. T. A.
952; Mary M. Dowling, 6 B. T. A. 976, 979; Star Brewing Co., .7
B. T. A. 377; National Industrial Alcohol Co., 7 B. T. A. 1241;
Konrad Schreier Co., 9 B. T. A. 407; George Wiedemann Brewing Co.,
9 B. T. A. 792; J. Chr. G. Hupfel Co., 9 B. T. A. 944; Milwaukee.
'Waukesha Brewing Co., 15 B. T. A. 579.

GAMBRINUS BREWERY CO. v. ANDERSON. 645
638

Opinion of the Court.

The Government also insists that in any event there
was no obsolescence in plaintiff's buildings in 1918 or 1919
because, from its very nature, obsolescence begins only
when there is a reasonable certainty that the property
will become obsolete.
The statute contemplates annual allowance for obsolescence just as it does for exhaustion, wear and tear.
That is necessary in order to determine true gain or' loss
because postponement of deductions to cover obsolescence
until the property involved became obsolete would distort annual income. It is well understood that exhaustion, wear, tear or obsolescence cannot be accurately
measured-as,it progresses and undoubtedly it was for that
reason that the statute authorized "reasonable" allowances to cover them in order equably to spread that element of operating expenses through the years. The findings of fact show that the imminence of pr6hibition
became known in January of 1918 and that it took effect
in January of 1920. The court found that, although they
were subsequently used to a small extent in the manufacture of non~ihtoxicating beverages, plaintiff's buildings
had -no salvage value when prohibition took effect. Und. ibtedly it was obvious from the beginning of that
period that .buildings not commercially adaptable to any
use other than brewing intoxicating liquor would suffer
obsolescence because of the destruction of that business.
Under the order. granting the writ there is before us no
question as to the propriety of the amount of the allowance or its allocation between the tax years in question.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Judgment of the DistrictCourt affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in the result.

