KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S

Argument for Kuhn.

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 50.

Argued December 3, 6, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

When administering state laws and determining rights accruing
thereunder, the jurisdiction of the Federal court is an independent
one, coordinate and concurrent with, and not subordinate to, the
jurisdiction of the state courts.
Rules of law relating to real estate, so established by state decisions
rendered before the rights of the parties accrued, as to have become
rules of property and action, are accepted by the Federal court;
but where the law has not thus been settled it is the right and duty
of the Federal court to exercise its own judgment, as it always does
in cases depending on doctrines of commercial law and general
jurisprudence.
Even in questions in which the Federal court exercises its own judgment, the Federal court should, for the sake of comity and to avoid
confusion, lean to agreement with the state court if the question is
balanced with doubt.
When determining the effect of conveyances or written instruments
between private parties, citizens of different States, it is the right
and duty of the Federal court to exercise its own independent judg,ment where no authoritative state decision had been rendered by the
state court before the rights of the parties had accrued and become
final.
The Federal court is not bound by a decision of the state court, rendered after the deed involved in the case in the Federal court was
made and after the injury was sustained, holding that there is no
implied reservation in a deed conveying subsurface coal and the
right to mine it to leave enough coal to support the surface in its
original position.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Homer W. Williams for Kuhn:
The Griffin case decided by the state court does not construe
any statute and cannot be placed in the class of cases decided

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Kuhn.

215 Us S.

by the state courts which control Federal courts. Nor does
it establish any rule of property. This is an action of trespass on the case for tort. None of the cases cited by defendant apply.
Decisions of the state court even when decided upon a statute or upon the principle of an established rule of property,
do not preclude the Federal court from passing on questions of
contract out of which the cause of action accrued before the
decision of the state court. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Griffin
v. Overman Wheel Co., 9.C. C. A. 584; Rowan v. Runnels, 10
How. 134; Lawrence v. Wickware, Fed. Cas. No. 8,148; S. C.,
4 McLean, 56; Pease v. Peck, 18 How. 599; Roberts v. Bolles,
101 U. S. 119; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Detroit v.
Railroad Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 569; King v. Investment Co., 28
Fed. Rep. 33; Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Pet. 497; Sims v. Hunsley, 6 How. 1.
The Federal courts are not bound in cases involving validity of municipal bonds by decisions of state courts made
after the bonds are issued. Enfield v. Jordan, 119 U. S. 680;
Bolles v. Brimfield, 120 U. S. 759; Barnum v. Okolona, 148
U. S. 393; Gibson v. Lyon, 115 U. S. 439.
The Federal courts are not bound by decisions of the state
court where private rights are to be determined by application
of common-law rules alone, Chicago v. Robbins, 2 Black, 418;
Hill v. Hite, 29 C. C. A. 55; or contract rights depending on a
state statute or provision of the Constitution if the decision of
state court is made after the contract. Central Trust Co. v.
Street Railway Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 1; Trust Co. v. Cincinnati,76
Fed. Rep. 296; Jones v. Hotel Co., 79 Fed. Rep. 447.
Xs to provisions in a deed that are merely contractual and
do not affect the title the Federal courts are not bound by
state court decisions. Fire Ins. Co. v. Railway Co., 62 Fed.
Rep. 904; Bartholomew v. City of Austin, 85 Fed. Rep. 359;
Jones v. Hotel Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 370; and see also Speer v.
Commissioners, 88 Fed. Rep. 749; Clapp v. Otoe County, 104
Fed. Rep. 473.

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Argument for Fairmont Coal Co.

Nor should the decision of the state court be followed to
such an extent as to sacrifice truth, justice or law. Faulkner
v. Hart, 82 N. Y. 416; Lane v. Vick, 3 How. 462; Foxcraft v.
Mallett, 4 How. 353; Loan Co. v. Harris,113 Fed. Rep. 36.
Mr. Z. Taylor Vinson and Mr. Edward A. Brannon for
Fairmont Coal Company:
It is the duty of the Federal courts to follow the decisions
of the highest court of a State in cases pending in the former
where the decision of the state court construes a state statute
or local law or interprets deeds or grants to real estate and
determines rights pertaining thereto, wherein no Federal question is involved; nor is this duty affected by the fact that the
decision is made by the state court after the contract rights
involved in the case in the Federal court had accrued. Hartford Ins. Co. v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 91, 108; Rowan
v. Runnels, 5 How. 134, 139; Morgan v. Curtenius, 20 How. 1;
Fairfield v. Gallatin County, 100 U. S. 47, 52; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 35; Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 647,
653; Williams v. Eggleston, 170 U. S. 304, 311; Sioux City
R. R. v. Trust Co. of N. A., 173 U. S.99.
In determining what are the laws of the several States, we
are bound to look not only at their constitutions and statutes
but also at the decisions of their highest courts. Wade v.
Travis County, 174 U. S. 499; Polk's Lessee v. Wendal, 9
Cranch, 87; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1; Nesmith v. Sheldon,
7 How. 812; Jefferson Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; Leffingwell
v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Christy v. Pridgeon, 4 Wall. 196;
Post v. Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667; Bucher v. Cheshire R. R.
Co., 125 U. S. 555; Jackson v. Chew, 6 Pet. 648; Russell v.
Southard, 12 How. 139.
The construction of deeds for the transfer of land between
private parties, given by the highest court of the State in
which the land lies, will be adopted and followed by the Federal courts whenever the same question is presented to them.
East Central Eureka Co. v. Central Eureka Co., 204 U. S.266,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Fairmont Coal Co.

215 U. S.

272; citing Brine.v. Hartford Ins. Co., 96 U. S. 627, 636; DeVaughn v. Hutchinson, 165 U. S. 566; and see also United
States v. Crosby, 7 Cranch, 115; Clark v. Graham, 6 Wheat.
577; McGoon v. Scales, 9 Wall. 23; Olcott v. Bynum, 17 Wall.
44; Ex parte McNeil, 13 Wall, 236; Clark v. Clark, 178 U. S.
186; Oliver v. Clarke, 106 Fed. Rep. 402; Berry v. Bank, 93
Fed. Rep. 44.
The Federal courts will lean toward an agreement of views
with the state courts if the question seems balanced with
doubt. Waterworks v. Tampa, 199 U. S. 244; Mead v. Portland, 200 U. S. 163; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Wilson
v. Standefer, 184 U. S. 399, 412; Bienville Water Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 220; Chicago Seminary v. Illinois, 188 U. S.
622, 674.
The construction given by the state court to the similar
deeds in the Griffin case, announced no new rules of interpretation of deeds; but, on the contrary, followed strictly a line
of decisions of the state courts of West Virginia and Virginia
made long prior to the date of the deed involved in this case.
No rule of law previously established has been changed but
the decision is in perfect accord with the English decisions.
McSwinney on Mines, see 59 W. Va. 507; Hurst v. Hurst,
7 W. Va. 339; Snodgrass v. Wolf, 11 W. Va. 158; Barber v.
F. & M. Ins. Co., 16 W. Va. 658; O'Brien v. Brice, 21 W. Va.
704; Gibney v. Fitzsimmons, 45 W. Va. 334; Long v. Perrine,
41 W. Va. 158; McDougall v. Musgrave, 46 W. Va. 509; 2
Minor's Inst. pp. 996, 1066; Carrington v. Goddin, 13 Gratt.
587; Wilson v. Langhorne, 102 Virginia, 631; King v. Norfolk
& Western, 99 Virginia, 625.
The court will not write new covenants into a deed. See
Gavinzel v. Crump, 22 Wall. 308; Baltzer v. Air Line Co., 115
U. S. 634; D. & H. Canal Co. v. Penna. Coal Co., 8 Wall. 276,
290. The laws of the State in which land is situated control
exclusively its descent, alienation and transfer, and the effect
and construction of instruments intended to convey it. Cases
supra and Abraham v. Casey, 179 U. S. 210; Claiborne Co. v.

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Brooks, 111 U. S. 400; Williams v. Kutland, 13 Wall. 306;
Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316; Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How.
427; Chicago v. Robbins, 2 Black, 418; Green v. Neal, 6 Pet.
291, 296.
The rules of property covered by this principle include
those governing transfer, descent, title and possession. Warburton v. White, 176 U. S. 484; 11 Cyc. 903; Buford v. Kerr,
90 Fed. Rep. 513; Foster v. Oil & Gas Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 178.
This court has at times overruled its own decisions so as
to conform to the decisions of the state court, affecting titles
to real estate. Roberts v. Lewis, 153 U. S. 367; Lowndes v.
Huntington, 153 U. S. 1; Moores v. Bank, 104 U. S. 625; Forsythe v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 518; Board v. Coler, 180 U. S. 506.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here on a question propounded under the authority of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, relating to the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States. 26 Stat. 826,
c. 517, § 6. The facts out of which the question arises are
substantially as will be now stated.
On the twenty-first day of November, 1889, the plaintiff
Kuhn, a citizen of Ohio, sold and conveyed to Camden all
the coal underlying a certain tract of land in West Virginia
of which he, Kuhn, was the owner in fee. The deed contained
these clauses: "The parties of the first part do grant unto the
said Johnson N. Camden all the coal and mining privileges
necessary and convenient for the removal of the same, in,
upon and under a certain tract or parcel of land situated in
the county of Marion, on the waters of the West Fork River,
bounded and described as follows, to wit: . . . Together
with the right to enter upon and under said land and to mine,
excavate and remove all of said coal, and to remove upon
and under the said lands the coal from and under adjacent,
coterminous and neighboring lands, and also the right to
enter upon and under the tract of land hereinbefore described
VOL. ccxv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

and make all necessary structures, roads, ways, excavations,
airshafts, drains, drainways and openings necessary or convenient for the mining and removal of said coal and the coal
from coterminous and neighboring lands to market."
The present action of trespass on the case was brought
January 18th, 1906. The declaration alleged that the coal
covered by the above deed passed to the defendant, the
Fairmont Coal Company, a West Virginia corporation, on
the of January, 1906; that the plaintiff Kuhn was entitled of right to have all his surface and other strata overlying the coal supported in its natural state either by pillars
or blocks of coal or by artificial support; that on the day
named the defendant company mined and removed coal
from under the land, leaving, hox;ever, large blocks or pillars of coal as a means of supporting the overlying surface;
that the coal company, disregarding the plaintiff's rights, did
knowingly, willfully and negligently, without making any
compensation therefor, or for the damages arising therefrom,
mine and remove all of said blocks and pillars of coal so left,
by reason whereof and because of the failure to provide any
proper or sufficient artificial or other support for the overlying surface, the plaintiff's surface land, or a large portion
thereof, was caused to fall; and that it was cracked, broken
and rent, causing large holes and fissures to appear upon the
surface and destroying the water and water courses.
The contract under which the title to the coal originally
passed was executed in West Virginia and the plaintiff's
cause of action arose in that State.
A demurrer to the declaration was sustained by the Circuit
Court, an elaborate opinion being delivered by Judge Dayton,
Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 1013. The case
was then taken upon writ of error to the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
It appears from the statement of the case made by the
Circuit Court of Appeals that in the year 1902, after Kuhn's
deed to Camden, one Griffin brought, in a court of West

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Virginia, an action, similar in all respects to the present one,
against the Fairmont Coal Company, the successor of Camden.
His rights arose from a deed almost identical with that
executed by Kuhn to Camden. That case was ruled in favor
of the Coal Company, and, subsequently, was taken to the
Supreme Cout of West Virginia, which announced its opinion
therein in November, 1905. A petition for rehearing having
been filed, the judgment was stayed. But the petition was
overruled March 27, 1906, on which day, after Kuhn's suit
was brought, the decision previously announced in the Griffin
case became final under the rules of the Supreme Court of the
State. Grign v. Coal Co., 59 W. Va. 480.
The contention by the Coal Company in the court below
was that as the decision in the Griffin case covered, substantially, the same question as the one here involved, it
was the duty of the Federal court to accept that decision as
controlling the rights of the present parties, whatever might
be its own opinion as to the law applicable to this case. The
contention of Kuhn was that the Federal court was under a
duty to determine the rights of the present parties upon its
own independent judgment, giving to the decision in the
state court only such weight as should be accorded to it
according to the established principles in the law of contracts and of sound reasoning; also, that the Federal court
was not bound by a decision of the state court in an action
of trespass on the case for a tort not involving the title to
land.
Such being the issue, the Circuit Court of Appeals, proceeding under the Judiciary Act of March 3d, 1891, c. 517,
have sent up the following question to be answered:
"Is this court bound by the decision of the Supreme Court
in the case of Griffin v. Fairmont Coal Company, that being
an action by the plaintiff against the defendant for damages
for a tort, and this being an action for damages for a tort
based on facts and circumstances almost identical, the language of the deeds with reference to the granting clause being

OCTOBER TERM, 1909
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

in fact identical, that case having been decided after the contract upon which defendant relies was executed, after the
injury complained of was sustained, and after this action was
instituted?"
There is no room for doubt as to the scope of the decision
in the Griffin case. The syllabus-(p. 480) Which in West
Virginia is the law of the case, whatever may be the reasoning employed in the opinion of the court-is as follows:
"1. Deeds conveying coal with rights of removal should be
construed in the same way as other written instruments,
and the intention of the parties as manifest by the language
used in the deed itself should govern. 2. The vendor of land
may sell and convey his coal and grant to the vendee the
right to enter upon and under said land and to mine, excavate
and remove all of the coal purchased and paid for by him,
and if the removal of the coal necessarily causes the surface
to subside or break, the grantor cannot be heard to complain
thereof. 3. Where a deed conveys the coal under a tract of
land, together-with the right to enter upon and under said
land, and to mine, excavate and remove all of it, there is no
implied reservation in such an instrument that the grantee
must leave enough coal to support the surface in its original
position. 4. It is the duty of the court to construe contracts
as they are made by the parties thereto, and to give full force
and effect to the language used, when it is clear, plain, simple
and unambiguous. 5. It is only where the language of a contract is ambiguous and uncertain and susceptible of more
than one construction that a court may, under the wellestablished rules of construction, interfere to reach a proper
construction and make certain that which in itself is uncertain."
Nor can it be doubted that the point decided in the Griffin
case had not been previously adjudged by the Supreme Court
of that State. Counsel for the Coal Company expressly state
that the question here involved was never before the legislature
or courts of West Virginia until the deed involved in the

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Griffin case came before the Supreme Court of that State
for construction; that "until then there was no law and no
local custom upon the subject in force in West Virginia;"
and that "only after the holding of the state court in the
Griffin case could it be said that the narrow question therein
decided had become a rule of property in that State."
In this view of the case was not the Federal court bound to
determine the dispute between the parties according to its
own independent judgment as to what rights were acquired
by them under the contract relating to the coal? If the
Federal court was of opinion that the Coal Company was
under a legal obligation while taking out the coal in question
to use such precautions and to proceed in such way as not to
destroy or materially injure the surface land, was it bound
to adjudge the contrary simply because, in a single case, to
which Kuhn was not a party and which was determined after
the right of the present parties had accrued and become fixed
under their contract, and after the injury complained of had
occurred, the state court took a different view of the law?
If, when the jurisdiction of the Federal court was invoked,
Kuhn, the citizen of Ohio had, in its judgment a valid cause
of action against the Coal Company for the injury of which
he complained, was that court obliged to subordinate its view
of the law to that expressed by the state court?
In cases too numerous to be here cited the general subject suggested by these questions has been considered by this
court. It will be both unnecessary and impracticable to
enter upon an extended review of those cases. They are
familiar to the profession. But in the course of this opinion
we will refer to a few of them.
The question as to the binding force of state decisions received very full consideration in Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S. 20, 33. After judgment in that case by the United
States Circuit Court, the Supreme Court of the State rendered
two judgments, each of which was adverse to the grounds
ur)on which the Circuit Court had proceeded, and the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

tention was that this court should follow those decisions of
the state court and reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The opinion in that case states that in order to avoid misapprehension the court had given the subject special consideration, and the extended note at the close of that opinion
shows that the prior cases were all closely scrutinized by the
eminent Justice who wrote the opinion. A conclusion was
reached that received the approval of all the members of the
court. We place in the margin Ian extract from the opinion
I"We do not consider ourselves bound to follow the decision of
the state court in this case. When the transactions in controversy
occurred, and when the case was under the consideration of the Cir-

cuit Court, no construction of the statute had been given by the state
tribunals contrary to that given by the Circuit Court. The Federal
courts have an independent jurisdiction in the administration of
state laws, co6rdinate with, and not subordinate to, that of the state
courts, and are bound to exercise their own judgment as to the meaning and effect of those ldws. The existence of two codrdinate jurisdictions in the same territory is peculiar, and the results would be
anomalous and inconvenient but for the exercise of mutual respect

and deference. Since the ordinary administration of the law is carried
on by the state courts, it necessarily happens that by the course of
their decisions certain rules are established which become rules of
property and action in the State, and have all the effect of law, and
which it would be wrong to disturb. This is especially true with regard
to the law of real estate and the construction of state constitutions
and statutes. Such established rules are always regarded by the
Federal courts, no less than by the state courts themselves, as authoritative declarations of what the law is. But where the law has
not been thus settled, it is the right and duty of the Federal courts to
exercise their own judgment; as they also always do in reference to
the doctrines of commercial law and general jurisprudence. So when
contracts and transactions have been entered into, and rights have
accrued thereon inder a particular state of the decisions, or when there
has been no decision, of the state tribunals, the Federal courts properly
claim the right to adopt their own interpretation of the law applicable
to the case, although a different interpretation may be adopted by the
state courts after such rights have accrued. But even in such cases,
for the sake of harmony and to avoid confusion, the Federal courts
will lean towards an agreemncit of views with the state courts if the

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Mr. Justice Bradley. In Bucher v. Cheshire Railroad Co.,
125 U. S. 555, 584, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court,
observed (p. 584): "It may be said generally that wherever
the decisions of the state courts relate to some law of a local
character, which may have become established by those
courts, or has always been* a part of the law of the State,
that the decisions upon the subject are usually conclusive,
and always entitled to the highest respect of the Federal
courts. The whole of this subject has recently been very
ably reviewed in the case of Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.
20. Where such local law or custom has been established by
repeated decisions of the highest courts of a State it becomes
also the law governing the courts of the United States sitting
in that State." See also Jackson v. Chev, 12 Wheat. 153.
Up to the present time these principles have not been
modified or disregarded by this court. On the contrary, they
have been reaffirmed without substantial qualification in
many subsequent cases, some of which are here cited. East
Alabama Ry. Co. v. Doe, 114 U. S. 340; Bucher v. Cheshire
R. R. Co., 125 U. S. 555; Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S. 338;
B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. 8. 368; Folsom v. Ninetysix, 159 U. S. 611; Barber v. Pittsburg &c. Ry., 166 U. S. 83;
Stanley County v. Coler, 190 U. S. 437; Julian v. Central Trust
Co., 193 U. S. 93; Comm'rs &c. v. Bancroft, 203 U. S. 112;
Presidio County v. Noel-Young Bond Co., 212 U. S. 58.
question seems to them balanced with doubt. Acting on these principles, founded as they are on comity and good sense, the courts of
the United States, without sacrificing their own dignity as independent
tribunals, endeavor to avoid, and in most cases do avoid, any unseemly conflict with the well-considered decisions of the state courts.
As, however, the very object of giving to the national courts jurisdiction to administer the laws of the States in controversies between
citizens of different States was to institute independent tribunals
which it might be supposed would be unaffected by local prejudices
and sectional views, it would be a dereliction of their duty not to
exercise an independent judgment in cases not foreclosed by previous
adjudication."

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

We take it, then, that it is no longer to be questioned that
the Federal courts in determining cases before them are to be
guided by the following rules: 1. When administering state
laws and determining rights accruing under those laws the
jurisdiction of the Federal court is an independent one, not
subordinate to but codrdinate and concurrent with the jurisdiction of the state courts. 2. Where, before the rights of the
parties accrued, certain rules relating to real estate have been
so established by state decisions as to become rules of property and action in the State, those rules are accepted by the
Federal court as authoritative declarations of the law of the
State. 3. But where the law of the State has not been thus
settled, it is not only the right but the duty of the Federal
court to exercise its own judgment, as it also always does
when the case before it depends upon the doctrines of commercial law and general jurisprudence. 4. So, when contracts and transactions are entered into and rights have
accrued under a particular state of the local decisions, or
when there has been no decision by the state court on the particular
question involved, then the Federal courts properly claim the
right to give effect to their own judgment as to what is the
law of the state applicable to the case, even where a different
view has been expressed by the state court after the rights
of parties accrued. But even in such cases, for the sake of
comity and to avoid confusion, the Federal court should
always lean to an agreement with the state court if the question is balanced with doubt.
The court took care, in Burgess v. Seligman, to say that the
Federal court would not only fail in its duty, but would
defeat the object for which the national courts were given
jurisdiction of controversies between citizens of different
States, if, while leaning to an agreement with the state court,
it did not exercise an independent judgment in cases involving
principles not settled by previous adjudications.
It would seem that according to those principles, now
firmly established, the duty was upon the Federal court, in

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the present case, to exercise its independent judgment as to
what were the relative rights and obligations of the parties
under their written contract. The question before it was as
to the liability of the Coal Company for an injury arising
from the failure of that corporation, while mining and taking
out the coal, to furnish sufficient support to the overlying or
surface land. Whether such a case involves a rule of property in any proper sense of those terms, or only a question of
general law within the province of the Federal court to determine for itself, the fact exists that there had been no
determination of the question by the state court before the
rights of the parties accrued and became fixed under their
contract, or before the injury complained of. In either case,
the Federal court was bound under established doctrines to
exercise its own independent judgment, with a leaning, however, as just suggested, for the sake of harmony, to an agreement with the state court, if the question of law involved
was deemed to be doubtful. If, before the rights of the
parties in this case were fixed by written contract, it had
become a settled rule of law in West Virginia, as manifested
by decisions of its highest court, that the grantee or his successors in such a deed as is here involved, was under no legal
obligation to guard the surface land of the grantor against
injury resulting from the mining and removal of the coal
purchased, a wholly different question would have been
presented.
There are adjudged cases involving the meaning of written
contracts having more or less connection with land that
were not regarded as involving a rule in the law of real estate,
but as only presenting questions of general law touching
which the Federal courts have always exercised their own
judgment, and in respect to which they are not bound to
accept the views of the state courts. Let us look at some of
those cases. They may throw light upon the present discussion.
In Chicago City v. Robbins, 2 Black, 418, 428, which was

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

an action on the case for damages, the question was as to
the right of the city of Chicago-which was under a duty to
see that its streets were kept in safe condition for persons and
property-to hold one Robbins liable in damages for so using
his lot on a public street as to cause injury to a passer-by.
The city was held liable to the latter and sued Robbins on
that account. The state court, in a similar case, decided for
the defendant, and it was contended that the Federal court
should accept the views of the local court as to the legal rights
of the parties. But this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Davis,
said: "Where rules of property in a State are fully settled by
a series of adjudications, this court adopts the decisions of
the state courts. But where private rights are to be determined by the application of common-law rules alone, this
court, although entertaining for state tribunals the highest
respect, does not feel bound by their decisions."
In Lane v. Vick, 3 How. 464, 472; 476, the nature of the
controversy was such as to require a construction of a will
which, among other property, devised certain real estate
which, at the time of suit, was within the limits of Vicksburg,
Mississippi. There had been a construction of the will by the
Supreme Court of the State, 1 How. (Miss.) 379, and that
construction, it was insisted, was binding on the Federal
court. But this court said: "Every instrument of writing
should be so construed as to effectuate, if practicable, the
intention of the parties to it. This principle applies with
peculiar force to a will. . . . The parties in that case
were not the same as those now before this court; and that
decision does not affect the interests of the complainants
here. The question before the Mississippi court was, whether
certain grounds, within the town plat, had been dedicated to
public use. The construction of the will was incidental to the
main object of the suit, and of course was not binding on
any one claiming under the will. With the greatest respect,
it may be proper to say, that this court does not follow the
state courts in their construction of a will or any other instru-

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment, as they do in the construction of statutes. Where, as
in the case of Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 167, the construction of a will had been settled by the highest courts of the
State, and had long been acquiesced in as a rule of property,
this court would follow it, because it had become a rule of property.
The construction of a statute by the Supreme Court of a State
is followed, without reference to the interests it may affect,
or the parties to the suit in which its construction was involved. But the mere construction of a will by a state court
does not, as the construction of a statute of the State, constitute a rule of decision for the courts of the United States.
In the case of Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, the effect of section 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and the construction of
instruments by the state courts, are considered with greater
precision than is found in some of the preceding cases on the
same subject."
In Foxcroft v. Mallett, 4 How. 353, 379, the object of the
action was to recover certain land in Maine. The case turned
in part on the construction to be given to a' mortgage of
certain land to Williams College, and to local adjudications
relating to those lands, which, it was contended, were conclusive on the parties. "But," this court said, "on examining the particulars of the cases cited to govern this (3 Fairfield, 398; 4 Shepley, 84, 88; 14 Maine R. 51), it will be seen
that the construction of the mortgage to the college, in
respect to this reservation or condition, never appears to
have been agitated. If it had been, the decision would be
entitled to high respect, though it should not be regarded as
conclusive on the mere construction of a deed as to matters
and language belonging to the common law, and not to any
local statute. 3 Sumner, 136, 277."
In Russell v. Southard, 12 How. 139, 147, the controlling
question was whether in any case it was admissible to show
by extraneous evidence that a deed on its face of certain real
estate in Kentucky was really intended by the parties as a
security for a loan and as a mortgage. The court, speaking

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

by Mr. Justice Curtis, after citing adjudged cases sustaining
the proposition that evidence of that kind was admissible in
certain States, said: "It is suggested that a different rule is
held by the highest court of equity in Kentucky. If it were,
with great respect for that learned court, this court would not
feel bound thereby. This being a suit in equity, and oral
evidence being admitted, or rejected, not by the mere force
of any state statute, but upon the principles of general equity
jurisprudence, this court must be governed by its own views
of those principles "-citing Robinson v. Campbell, 3 Wheat.
212; United States v. Howland, 4 Wheat. 108; Boyle v. Zacharie
6 Pet. 635, 658; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Foxcroft v. Mallett, 4 How. 353, 379.
In Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497, 506, the question was
as to the nature and extent of the right of an owner of land
in Wisconsin, bordering on a public navigable water, to make
a landing, wharf or pier for his own use or for the use of the
public. There was a question in the case of dedication to
public use, and the city of Milwaukee sought to change or
remove the wharf erected by the riparian owner in front of
his lot. This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said:
"This question of dedication, on which the whole of that case
turned, was one of fact, to be determined by ascertaining the
intention of those who laid out the lots, from what they did,
and from the application of general common law principles
to their acts. This does not depend upon state statute or
local state law. The law which governs the case is the common law, on which this court has never acknowledged the
right of the state courts to control our decisions, except,
perhaps, in a class of cases where the state courts have established, by repeated decisions, a rule of property in regard to
land titles peculiar to the State."
In Louisville Trust Co. v. City of Cincinnati,76 Fed. Rep.
296, 300, 304, which was a suit by a Kentucky corporation,
it became necessary to determine the foi'ce and effect of a
mortgage originating in a state statute of Ohio and certain

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

municipal ordinances covering street easements in Cincinnati.
The state court, in a suit to which the trustee in the mortgage
was not a party, passed a decree declaring the scope, effect
and duration of contracts or ordinances under which the
mortgage, easements and franchises originated. It was insisted that the Federal court was bound to accept the views
of the state court. But the Circuit Court of Appeals, held
by Judges Taft, Lurton, and Hammond, ruled otherwise.
Judge Lurton, speaking for all the members of that court,
made an extended review of the authorities, and observed
that if the state decision was regarded as conclusive upon the
parties, "the constitutional right of the complainant, as a
citizen of a State other than Ohio, to have its rights as a
mortgagee defined and adjudged by a court of the United
States is of no real value. If this court cannot for itself
examine these street contracts and determine their validity,
effect, and duration, and must follow the interpretation and
construction placed on them by another court in a suit begun
after its rights as mortgagee had accrued, and to which it was
not a party, then the right of such a mortgagee to have a
hearing before judgment and a trial before execution is a
matter of form without substance. The better forum for a
suitor so situated would be a court of the State. . . _ The
validity, effect, and duration of the street easements granted
or claimed under these laws and ordinances is a question
which this complainant is entitled to have decided by the
courts of the United States, and the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Ohio, while entitled to the highest respect as a
tribunal of exalted ability, can be given no greater weight or
respect than its reasoning shall demand, where the contract
rights of a citizen of another State are involved, who was
neither a party nor privy to the suit in which that opinion
was delivered. The special fact, therefore, which justifies us
in determining for ourselves the true meaning and validity of
the Ohio statutes and city ordinances, out of which the rights
of this complainant spring, is the fact that it is a citizen of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

another State, and that the contract under which it has acquired an interest originated prior to the judicial opinion
relied upon as foreclosing our judgment."
Upon the general question as to the duty of the Federal
court to exercise its independent judgment where there had
not been a decision of the state court, on the question involved, before the rights of the parties accrued, Carroll
County y. Smith, 111 U. S. 556, and Great Southern Hotel Co.
v. Jones, 193 U. S. 532, 548, are pertinent. In the first-named
case the court was confronted with a question as to the
validity under the state constitution of a certain statute of
the State. Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering the unanimous
judgment of the court, said (p. 563): "It was not a rule
previously established, so as to have become recognized as
settled law, and which, of course, all parties to transactions
afterwards entered into would be presumed to know and to
conform to. When, therefore, it is presented for application
by the courts of the United States, in a litigation growing out
of the same facts, of which they have jurisdiction by reason
of the citizenship of the parties, the plaintiff has a right,
under the Constitution of the United States, to the independent judgment of those courts, to determine for themselves what is the law of the State, by which his rights are
fixed and governed. It was to that very end that the Constitution granted to citizens of one State, suing in another,
the choice of resorting to a Federal tribunal. Burgess v.
Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33." The other case-Great Southern
Hotel Co. v. Jones-presented a controversy between citizens
of different States. It was sought by the plaintiffs, citizens
of Pennsylvania, to enforce a mechanics' lien upon certain real
property in Ohio. The main question was as to the validity
of a statute of Ohio under which the alleged lien arose. It
was contended that a particular decision of the state court
holding the statute to be a violation of the state constitution
was conclusive upon the Federal court. But this court, following the rules announced in Burgess v. Seligman, rejected

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that view by a unanimous vote. It said (p. 548): "If, prior
to the making of the contracts between the plaintiffs and McClain,
the state court had adjudged that the statute in question
was in violation of the state constitution, it would have been
the duty of the Circuit Court, and equally the duty of this
court, whatever the opinion of either court as to the proper
construction of that instrument, to accept such prior decision
as determining the rights of the parties accruing thereafter.
But the decision of the'state court, as to the constitutionality
of the statute in question, having been rendered after the
rights of parties to this suit had been fixed by their contracts, the
Circuit Court would have been derelict in duty if it had not
exercised its independent judgment touching the validity of
the statute here in question. In making this declaration we
must not be understood as at all qualifying the principle
that, in all cases, it is the duty of the Federal court to lean
to an agreement with the state court, where the issue relates
to matters depending upon the construction of the constitution or laws of the State."
It has been suggested-and the suggestion cannot be passed
without notice-that the views we have expressed herein are
not in harmony with some recent utterances of this court,
and we are referred to East Cent. E. M. Co. v. Central Eureka
Co., 204 U. S. 266, 272. That case involved, among other
questions, the meaning of a deed for mining property. This
court in its opinion referred to a decision of the state court as
to the real object of the deed, and expressed its concurrence
with the views of that court. That was quite sufficient to
dispose of the case. But in the opinion it was further said
(p. 272): "The construction and effect of a conveyance between private parties is a matter- as to which we follow the
court of the State "-citing Brine v. Insurance Company, 96
U. S. 627, 636; DeVaughn v. Hutchinson, 165 U. S. 566.
Even if the broad language just quoted seems to give some
support to the contention of the defendant, it is to be observed that no reference is made in the opinion to the nu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

merous cases, some of which are above cited, holding that
the Federal court is not bound, in cases between citizens of
different States, to follow the state decision, if it was rendered
after the date of the transaction out of which the rights of the
parties arose. Certainly there was no purpose, on the part of
the court, to overrule or to modify the doctrines of those
cases; and the broad language quoted from East Cent. &c. v.
Central Eureka Co. must therefore be interpreted in the light
of the particular cases cited to support the view which that
language imports. What were those cases and what did they
decide?
Brine v. Insurance Company, one of the cases cited, was a
suit in the Federal Circuit Court to foreclose a mortgage on
real estate. A foreclosure and sale were had, and the decree,
following the established rules of the Federal court, allowed
the defendant to pay the mortgage debt in one hundred days;
and if the debt was not paid within that time, then the master was ordered to sell the land for cash in accordance with
the course and practice of the Federal court. When the mortgage was made there was in force in Illinois and had been for
many years, a statute which, if controlling, allowed the defendant, in a foreclosure suit, twel.ve months after sale to redeem the land sold. Thus, there was a conflict between the
local statute and the rules and practice obtaining in the Federal court, and the question was whether the state statute or
those rules governed the rights of the parties as to the time
of redemption. This court held that the statute of the State,
being in force when the mortgage in question was executed, entered into the contract between the parties and must control
the determination of their rights. Speaking by Mr. Justice
Miller, it said (p. 636): "The legislature of Illinois has prescribed, as an essential element of the transfer by the courts in
foreclosure suits, that there shall remain to the mortgagor the
right of redemption for twelve months, and to judgment creditors a similar right for fifteen months, after the sale, before
the right of the purchaser to the title becomes vested. This

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right, as a condition on which the title passes, is as obligatory
on the Federal courts as on the state courts, because in both
cases it is made a rule of property by the legislature, which had
the power to prescribe such a rule. . . . At all events, the
decisions of this court are numerous that the laws which prescribe the mode of enforcing a contract, which are in existence
when it is made, are so far a part of the contract that no change
in these laws which seriously interfere with that enforcement
are valid, because they impair its obligation within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States. Edwards v.
Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595. That this very right of redemption,
after a sale under a decree of foreclosure, is a part of the contract of mortgage, where the law giving the right exists when
the contract is made, is very clearly stated by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in the case of Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311."
DeVaughn v. Hutchinson, 165 U. S. 566, the other case cited,
involved the construction of a will made in 1867 devising real
estate in the District of Columbia, and the decision was based
upon the law of Maryland as it had been often declared by
the courts of Maryland to be while this District was part of
that State-indeed, as it was from the time Maryland became
an independent State.
It thus appears that in the Brine case the rights of the parties were determined in conformity with a valid local statute
in force when those rights accrued; while in the DeVaughn case,
the decision was based upon the law of Maryland, while the
District was a part of that State, evidenced by a series of decisions made by the highest court of Maryland, before the
rights of parties accrued. Nothing in this opinion is opposed
to anything said or decided in either of those cases. The
question here involved as to the scope and effect of the writing given by Kuhn to Camden does not depend upon any
statute of West Virginia, nor upon any rule established by a
course of decisions made before the rights of parties accrued.
So that the words above quoted from East Central &c. v.
Central Eureka Co. must not be interpreted as applicable to
VOL. ccxv-21

OCTO3EIR TERM, 1909.
HOLMES, WHITE

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

215 U. S.

a case like the one before us, nor as denying the authority
and duty of the Federal court, when determining the effect
of conveyances or written instruments between private parties, citizens of different States, to exercise its own independent judgment where no authoritative state decision had
been rendered by the state court before the rights of the parties accrued and became fixed.
Without expressing any opinion as to the rights of the parties under their contract, we need only say that, for the
reasons stated, the question sent to this court by the Circuit
Court of Appeals is answered in the negative. It will be so
certified.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
WHITE and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, dissenting.
This is a question of the title to real estate. It does not
matter in what form of action it arises; the decision must be
the same in an action of tort that it would be in a writ of
right.-The title to real estate in general depends upon the
statutes and decisions of the State within which it lies. I
think it a thing to be regretted if, while in the great mass of
cases the state courts finally determine who is the owner of
land, how much he owns and what he conveys by his deed,
the courts of the United States, when by accident and exception the same question comes before them, do not follow
what for all ordinary purposes is the law.
I admit that plenty of language can be found in the earlier
cases to support the present decision. That is not surprising
in view of the uncertainty and vacillation of the theory upon
which Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, and the later extensions of
its doctrine have proceeded. But I suppose it will be adnitted on the other side that even the independent jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States is a jurisdiction only to declare the law, at least in a case like the present,
and only to declare the law of the State. It is not an authority to make it. Swift v. Tyson was justified on the ground

KUHN v. FAIRMONT COAL CO.
215 U. S.

HOLMES, WHITE

and

MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

that that was all that the state courts did. But as has been
pointed out by a recent accomplished and able writer, that
fiction had to be abandoned and was abandoned when this
court came to decide the municipal bond cases, beginning
with Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175. Gray, Nature and
Sources of the Law, §§ 535-550. In those cases the court followed Chief Justice Taney in Ohio Life Ins. & Trust Co. v.
Debolt, 16 How. 416, in recognizing the fact that decisions of
state courts of last resort make law for the State. The principle is that a change of judicial decision after a contract has
been made on the faith of an earlier one the other way is a
change of the law.
The cases of the class to which I refer have not stood on
the ground that this court agreed with the first decision, but
on the ground that the state decision made the law for the
State, and therefore should be given only a prospective operation when contracts had been entered into under the law
as earlier declared. Douglass v. Pike County, 101 U. S. 677.
Green County v. Conness, 109 U. S. 104. In various instances
this court has changed its decision or rendered different decisions on similar facts arising in different States in order to
conform to what is recognized as the local law. Fairfield v.
Gallatin County, 100 U. S. 47.
Whether Swift v. Tyson can be reconciled with Gelpcke v.
Dubuque, I do not care to enquire. I assume both cases
to represent settled doctrines, whether reconcilable or not.
But the moment you leave those principles which it is desirable to make uniform throughout the United States and
which the decisions of this court tend to make uniform, obviously it is most undesirable for the courts of the United
States to appear as interjecting an occasional arbitrary exception to a rule that in every other case prevails. I never
yet have heard a statement of any reason justifying the power,
and I find it hard to imagine one. The rule in Gelpcke v.
Dubuque gives no help when the contract or grant in question
has not been made on the faith of a previous declaration of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
HOLMES, WHITE and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

215 U. S.

law. I know of no authority in this court to say that in general state decisioris shall make law only for the future. Judicial decisions have had retrospective operation for near a
thousand years. There were enough difficulties in the way,
even in cases like Gelpcke v. Dubuque, but in them there was a
suggestion or smack of constitutional right. Here there is
nothing of that sort. It is said that we must exercise our
independent judgment-but as to what? Surely as to the
law of the States. Whence does that law issue? Certainly
not from us. But it does issue and has been recognized by
this court as issuing from the state courts as well as from the
state legislatures. When we know what the source of the law
has said that it shall be, our authority is at an end. The law
of a State does not become something outside of the state
court and independent of it by being called the common law.
Whatever it is called it is the law as declared by. the state
judges and nothing else.
If, as I believe, my reasoning is correct, it justifies our
stopping when we come to a kind of case that by nature and
necessity is peculiarly local, and one as to which the latest
intimations and indeed decisions of this court are wholly in
accord with what I think to be sound law. I refer to the language of the court speaking through Mr. Justice Miller in
Brine v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 96 U. S. 627. To administer a different law (p. 635) is "to introduce into the
jurisprudence of the State of Illinois the discordant elements
of a substantial right which is protected in one set of courts
and denied in the other, with no superior to decide which is
right." I refer also to the unanimous decision in East Central
Eureka Mining Co. v. Central Eureka Mining Co., 204 U. S.
266, 272. It is admitted that we are bound by a settled course
of decisions, irrespective of contract, because they make the
law. I see no reason why we are less bound by a single one.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

this dissent.

and MR.

JUSTICE McKENNA

concur in

