OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

in possession of the land, free from any obligations with which
defendant can force him to comply until the expiration of
that time. Such a condition of affairs did not appeal to
equitable consideration. The action of the trial court was
sustained as entirely justified. We concur in that conclusion,
and nothing else calls for comment.
Judgment affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. ILLINOIS
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 233.

Argued October 15, 1909.-Decided January 10, 1910.

In determining whether an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be suspended or set aside, power to make-and not the
wisdom of-the order is the test and this court must consider all
relevant questions of constitutional power or right, all pertinent
questions as to whether the administrative order is within the scope
of the delegated authority under which it purports to be made, and
also whether even if in form it is within such delegated authority it is
not so in substance because so arbitrary and unreasonable as to
render it invalid.
In determining whether the action of the court below was or was not
correct, this court does so irrespective of the reasoning by which such
action was induced.
The equipment of an interstate railroad, including cars for transportation of its own fuel are instruments of interstate commerce and subject to control of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The act to regulate commerce has delegated to the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to consider, where complaint is made
on that subject, the question of distribution of coal cars, including
the carrier's own fuel cars, in times of car shortage, as a means of
prohibiting unjust preference or undue discrimination.
Under § 15 of the act to regulate commerce as amended June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 585, the Interstate Con merce Commission has power

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 453
215 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

to deal with preferential and discriminatory regulations of carriers
as well as with rates.
It is not beyond the power of the Interstate Commerce Commission to
require a railroad in distributing its coal cars to take into account
its own fuel cars in order not to create a preference of the mine to
which such cars are assigned over other mines.
Where an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission is sustained
by the court below in part and only the Commission appeals, the conclusions of the court below as to those portions of the order sustained
are not open to inquiry in this court.
Even if commerce 'in regard to the purchase of coal at a mine on a
railroad line by the railroad company which supplies its own cars
may end there, the power to use the equipment of the railroad to
move the coal is subject to the control of the Interstate Commerce
Commission -in order to prevent disdrimination against, or undue
preference of, other miners and shippers of coal.

THE facts, which involve the question of whether a duty
rested upon the railroad company to obey an order made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission in regard to the distribution of coal cars, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Assistant to the Attorney General, and
Mr. Luther M. Walter, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. L. A. Shaver and Mr. H. B. Arnold were
on the brief, for appellant:
Under §§ 12, 13, 14 of the Hepburn Act, June 29, 1906, 34
Stat. 584, the Interstate Commerce Commission has authority
to examine into and decide whether or not a railroad company
is violating any of the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act with respect to furnishing cars, and to direct it to cease
and desist from such violation and to prescribe just, fair and
reasonable regulations with respect to such transportation.
The Commission clearly had power to deal with unjust, preferential and discriminatory regulations and practices of carriers
under § 15 of the act as it stood prior to the Hepburn Act.
Whether or not it still exists under § 15 of the amended act
must be ascertained by examining the whole act as it now

OCTOB13El

TERM, 1909.

Argument for Appellant.

215 U. S.

stands, with a view to gathering the general intent and purpose
of Congress, and then by examining the various provisions by
which the general intent and purpose are sought to be made
effective.
The general intent and spirit of the act, taken with the
words themselves, show that the commission has the power.
This court has held that the act should be interpreted reasonably to accomplish its great purpose, to wit, to secure just and
reasonable charges, to prohibit unjust discriminations and to
prevent undue and unreasonable preferences. New Haven
R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 261.
The phrase in § 15 should not be construed to mean only
those practices which in some way increase or diminish the
amount of freight charges, or directly affect rates.
An order of the commission issued in pursuance of the authority conferred upon the commission by the courts is a
legislative act; it becomes the law, and cannot be set aside
by the courts unless it clearly violates constitutional rights.
Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 8, 18; Prentis v. Atlantic
Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 226, 227; Willcox v. Consolidated
Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 41; Noyes on American Railroad Rates,
203; Steenerson v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 69 Minnesota, 353.
The order of the commission must stand unless it appears,
either first that the commission failed to follow the procedure
required by law, or second, that upon the face of the proceedings, enforcement of the order would amount to a confiscation
of property. The so-called court review provided in the Hepburn Act was not designed to, and does not, give the Federal
courts any larger or different powers to protect the railroads
from an invasion of constitutional rights than such courts
would have possessed without any declaration on the subject.
The court review amendment merely confirms the jurisdiction
of the court, specifically defines the venue and authorizes suits
against the commission as an agency of the Government. The
history of this legislation supports no other conclusion.
A suit to set aside an order of the commission is not a mere

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 455
215 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

appeal from an inferior to a superior tribunal. There is no authority for the substitution of the court's judgment for the
commission's judgment. The only thing before the court, if
the commission proceeded regularly under the statute, is the
result reached. The courts cannot inquire into the steps by
which the result was reached, nor consider the methods. They
have the same and no greater power to review the reasons
which control the commission as they would those of Congress.
When there is a shortage of cars, not enough for all, then the
right of the shipper to the exclusive use of his private cars, and
in addition to 'a full share of the system cars of the railroad
company, must yield to the requirements of the law that all
shippers shall have an equal right to have their goods transported.
The shipper furnishing private cars is not penalized for using
them by a denial to him of a full share in addition of the
system cars in times of car shortage, because at such times he
is not entitled to a full share of system cars if to give him such
full share prevents that equality in" the transportation facilities of the railroad which the act to regulate commerce requires.
The cars claimed by the railroad to be private or devoted to
a special use are in fact merely rented by the railroad company, and ought to be a part of its available equipment.
There is no difference in principle between a railroad company's own fuel cars and foreign railway fuel cars or private
cars in so far as the duty exists to count all such cars against
the distributive share of the mines receiving them. Logan
Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 154 Fed. Rep.
497; United States v. B. & 0. RailroadCo., 165 Fed. Rep. 126;
Majestic Coal Co. v. Illinois Central Railroad Co., 162 Fed.
Rep. 810.
The Ohio Railroad Commission and other state railroad
commissions have held that it is the duty of the railroads to
count their private fuel cars in apportioning the distributive
shares of the available equipment to the mines. Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Receivers of the Illinois Collieries Co.

215 U. S.

Commission of Ohio v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 12 I. C. C. Rep.
398; Traer, Receiver, v. Chicago & Alton R. R. Co., 13 I. C. C.
Rep. 451; R. & R. Coal Co. v. Balt. & Ohio, 14 I. C. C. Rep. 86.
Mr. Eldon J. Cassoday, and Mr. Rush C. Butler for Receivers of the Illinois Collieries Company submitted a brief by
leave of the court:
The method of distribution of cars to be used in interstate
commerce is within the provisions of the act to regulate commerce and within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. Sections 1, 3, Act to Regulate Commerce;
United States ex rel. PitcairnCoal Co. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 154
Fed. Rep. 108; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. United States ex rel. Pitcairn Coal Co., 165 Fed. Rep. 113; S. C., 91 C. C. A., 147;
Logan Coal Co. v. Penn. R. Co., 154 Fed. Rep. 497; United
States ex rel. v. N. & W. Ry. Co., 143 Fed. Rep. 266; S. C.,
74 C. C. A. 404; Kingwood Coal Co. v. W. Va. N. Ry. Co., 125
Fed. Rep. 252; W. Va. N. R. Co. v. Kingwood Coal Co., 134
Fed. Rep. 198, 204; S. C., 67 C. C. A. 220; United States v.
Oregon R. & N. Co., 159 Fed. Rep. 975; Majestic Coal & Coke
Co. v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 810; Ohio R. R. Commission v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 12 I. C. C. Rep. 398, 404;
Traer, Receiver, v. C. & A. R. R. Co., 13 I. C. C. Rep. 451;
Royal Coal & Coke Co. v. Southern Ry. Co., 13 I. C. C. Rep.
440; Rail & River Coal Co. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 14 I. C. C.
Rep. 86.
The practice of the appellees, in failing and refusing to
charge against the percentage or distributive number of cars
to which certain mines would be entitled, cars sent to said
mines to be loaded with appellees' own fuel supply, is an unjust discrimination against the other coal mines on said lines
of railroad and is a violation of the provisions of the act to
regulate commerce. Section 3, Interstate Commerce Act.
The railroad company and a shipper do not stand on a footing of equality. N. Y. C. R. R. Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall.
357.

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v: ILL. CENT. R. R. 457
215 U. S. Argument for Receivers of the Illinois Collieries Co.

The right to use such cars is a matter separate and distinct
from and not in any way dependent upon or affected by the
counting or failure to count such cars. Traer, Receiver, v. C.
& A. R. R. Co., 13 1. C. C. Rep. 457.
The appellees use their practice of not counting such cars as
a scheme or device to give an advantage to the mine owner
from whom they buy their fuel, so as to influence and govern
the price of such fuel. Report of Interstate Comm. Comm. to
Congress, January 25, 1907.
The railroad companies cannot justify their practice of not
counting such cars on the ground that, without it, they would
be compelled to pay a higher price for their coal. New Haven
R. R. Co. v. InterstateComm. Comm., 200 U. S. 361, 399; Turnpike Road Co. v. Sanford, 164 U. S. 578, 596; Union Pac. R.
Co. v. Goodridge, 149 U. S. 680, Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466.
The rule or practice of counting or not counting cars has
been before the court and the commission in a number of cases.
Cases supra, and Coffman v. N. & W. R. Co., 109 Fed. Rep. 831.
The contract and non-contract mines are similarly situated.
Logan Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 154 Fed. Rep. 497;
Majestic Coal & Coke Co. v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 162 Fed.
Rep. 810.
Such practice is only operative during times of car shortage
and by it the railroad company is enabled by reason of its
failure to furnish adequate equipment to obtain a reduction
in prices and to give to its contract mines an undue advantage
over non-contract mines.
Such cars even when in use by the railroad company in
transporting its own fuel are still a part of the equipment of
the road and within the terms of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The cars' are engaged in a public use for the benefit of the
public and not alone of the railroad company.
The hauling of the railroad's own fuel coal constitutes a
"carriage."
Section 1, Interstate Commerce Act.
Such cars are used to obtain coal with which to operate
engines and trains which are engaged in interstate commerce

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellees.

215 U. S.

and are therefore an indispensable and necessary part of interstate commerce itself. Johnson v. So. Pac. Ry. Co., 196
U. S. 1.
Even though such cars when transporting the railroad's
fuel may not themselves be engaged in commerce, strictly
speaking, the failure to count them directly affects the distribution of the remaining cars which are engaged in interstate
commerce. Galveston & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217;
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v.
United States, 175 U. S. 211; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Atlantic
Coast Line v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328; Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Northern Securities Co. v. United States,
193 U. S. 197; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251; United States
V. Wells, Fargo Express Co., 161 Fed. Rep. 606; Inter. Comm.
Comm. v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25; Swift & Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38.
A comparison of the practice of the railroad companies, the
plan proposed by the Circuit Judge and the practice provided
for in the order of the commission, shows unjust discrimination in the two former methods. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Comm. Comm., p. 52, No. 502, p. 60; Traer, Receiver,
v. C. & A. R. R. Co., 13 I. C. C. Rep. 451, 455, 457.
The practice of the railroad companies has a direct and
immediate effect ipon the distribution of cars engaged in interstate commerce and is an unjust discrimination in violation
of the act to regulate commerce. Majestic Coal & Coke Co. v.
Illinois Central R. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 810; N. Y., N. H. & H.
R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361.
Mr. W. S. Kenyon and Mr. GarrardB. Winston, with whom
Mr. Robert Mather, Mr. F. S. Winston and Mr. J. M. Dickinson were on the brief, for appellees:
The order of the Interstate Commerce Commission establishing a method to be pursued in the future by the appellees
relative to the cars used for their own fuel supply is beyond
the power of that commission.

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 459
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.'

The commission's rule of distribution is not a regulation of
interstate commerce. Inter. Comm. Comm. v. Chicago G. W.
Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 108; Express Cases, 117 U. S. 1; A., T. & S.
F. R. R. Co. v. D. & New Orleans R. R. Co., 110 U. S. 667;
Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279; Central Stock
Yards Co. v. Louisville & Nashville Ry. Co., 192 U. S. 568;
East and West India Dock Co. v. Shaw, Law Rep. 39 Ch. Div.
524; West v. London & Northwestern Ry. Co., Law. Rep. 5
C. P. 622; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Inter. Comm. Comm., 162
U. S. 197; Inter. Comm. Comm. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.,
145 U. S. 263; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161.
Section 15 of the Interstate Commerce Act does not empower the Interstate Commerce Commission to make the
order enjoined. C., N. 0. & Tex. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Inter. Comm.
Comm., 162 U. S. 184; Inter. Comm. Comm. v. C., N. 0. & T.
P. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479.
1 The order is a taking of private property prohibited
by the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403.
By leave of the court, Mr. Francis I. Gowen, and Messrs.
Wayne MacVeagh, McKenney and Flannery filed a brief on behalf of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Whether a duty rested upon the Illinois Central Railroad
Company to obey an order made by the Interstate Commerce
Commission is the question here to be decided.
On the ground that preferences were created and discriminations engendered by regulations established by the
railroad company concerning the daily distribution of coal
cars to mines along its line in periods when the supply of such
cars was inadequate to meet the demand upon it for the
movement of coal, the order in question commanded the railroad company to desist from enforcing the regulations found
to be preferential, and for a future period of two years to de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

liver cars to mines along its line in conformity with the rule
announced by the commission.
A clearer perception of the questions to be considered will be
afforded by giving a brief statement of the cause of car
shortage referred to, accompanied with a mere outline of the
steps generally taken by carriers to deal with the subject and
the particular method applied by the Illinois Central Railroad
Company prior to the date when the complaint was made
against it, concerning which the order previously referred to
was entered.
It is conceded in argument that bituminous coal mines,
which are the character of mines here involved, must dispose
of their product as soon as the coal is delivered at the surface,
as it is not practicable for an operator to store such coal, and
the. amount that a mine will produce is therefore directly dependent upon the quantity that can be taken away day by
day. As a result of this situation it is also conceded that railroads upon whose lines coal mines are situated pursue a system
by which daily deliveries of cars, based upon requisitions of the
respective mines, are made to such mines to permit of the removal of their available output for that day.
Notwithstanding full performance by railway carriers of
the duty to have a legally sufficient supply of coal cars, it is
conceded that unforeseen periods arise when a shortage of
such cars to meet the demand for the transportation of coal
takes place, because, among other things, a, of the wide
fluctuation between the demands for the transportation of
bituminous coal at different and uncertain periods; b, the
large number of loaded coal cars delivered by a carrier beyond
its own line for transportation over other roads consequent
upon the fact that the coal produced at a particular point is
normally distributed for consumption over an extensive area;
and, c, because the cars thus parted with are subject to longer
detentions than usually obtain in the case of shipments of
other articles, owing to the fact that bituminous coal is often
shipped by mining operators to distant points to be sold after

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 461
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

arrival, and is hence held at the terminal points awaiting sale,
or because, owing to the cost of handling coal, and the difficulty of storing such coal, the car in which it is shipped is often
used by the shipper or purchaser at the terminal points as a
convenient means of storage or as an instrument for delivery,
without the expense of breaking bulk, to other and distant
points.
It is disclosed that the railroads of the United States generally, at various times, put in force regulations for the distribution of coal cars. Generally speaking, these regulations provide for fixing the capacity of coal mines in order to determine
the number of cars to which each might normally be entitled
to daily move its output of coal. And these regulations also
provide for a method of determining the pro rata share of the
cars daily allotted for distribution in times of car shortage.
Neither the method by which capacity was to be ascertained
nor the regulation for daily distribution upon the basis of such
capacity in case of shortage was identical among the various
railroad systems of the United States. The divergence, and
even conflict, between those systems is illustrated by the cases
of Logan Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 154 Fed. Rep.
497; United States ex rel. PitcairnCoal Co. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co.,
165 Fed. Rep. 113; cases cited at pages 503 and 504 of the report of the Logan Coal Co. case, and the case of Majestic Coal
& Coke Co. v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 810.
In a general sense, however, all the regulations of the various
railroads, either for ascertaining the capacity of coal mines or
in order to determine the pro rata share for daily distribution
of cars to the respective mines in case of shortage dealt with
four classes of cars: 1, system cars, that is, cars owned by the
carrier and in use for the transportation of coal; 2, company
fuel cars, that is, cars belonging to the company and used by it
when necessary for the movement of coal from the mines on its
own line, and which coal had been bought by the carrier and
was used solely for its own fuel purposes; 3, private cars, that
is, cars either owned by coal mining companies or shippers or

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

consumers, and used for the benefit of their owners in conveying coal from the mines to designated points of delivery; 4,
foreign railway fuel cars, that is, cars owned by other railroad
companies and which were by them delivered to the carriers
on whose lines mines were situated, for the purpose of enabling
the cars to be loaded with coal and returned to the company
by whorn the cars had been furnished, the coal being intended
for use as fuel by such foreign railroad companies.
The various regulations, irrespective of minor differences
between them, fell upon one or the other side of this broad line
of division. One system took into account class 2, the fuel cars
of the carrier, class 3, the private cars, and class 4, the cars of
foreign railroads, and deducted from the rated capacity of the
mine the sum of coal delivered by that mine in such cars, and
upon the basis thus resulting apportioned ratably in case of
shortage the system cars, that is, those embraced in class 1.
On the other hand the other class of regulation not only took
no account of the cars in classes 2, 3 and 4, as a means of rating
the capacity of the mine, but moreover did not charge against
any mine, for the purpose of ascertaining the daily pro riata
of the cars to which such mine was entitled, any car whatever
furnished such mine on such day embraced within classes 2, 3
and 4, that is, any company fuel car, foreign railway fuel car
or private car. By this system, therefore, where a mine was
entitled daily to a given pro rata of the cars subject to general
distribution it received its full share of such cars, and in addition on that day also received such of the company fuel cars,
foreign railway fuel cars and private cars as might have been
sent to it for loading on that day. This absolute disregard in
the allotment of the company fuel cars, foreign railway fuel
cars and private cars was not in all respects common to all the
systems which took no account of such cars in fixing capacity,
since in some of the regulations one or the other of the classes
was taken into account in fixing the pro rata for distribution.
Previous to 1907 the .Railroad Commission of the State of
Ohio filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission two

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 463
215 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

coml)laints against the Hocking Valley and another railroad
company. These complaints were based upon the ground that
the failure of the railroads in times of car shortage to include
in the pro rata of cars for distribution foreign railway fuel ears
and private cars, and to charge the mines which had received
such ears with the same as part of their distributive share,
created an undue preference.and worked unjust discrimination
in violation of the act to regulate commerce. On July 11, 1907,
the report and opinion of the commission was announced in the
cases referred to. R. R. Comm. of Ohio v. Hocking Val. Ry. Co.,
12 I. C. C. Rep. 398. It was declared that the complaints
were well founded, and the relief prayed was awarded. Nine
days afterwards-presumptively in ignorance of the finding of
the commission just referred to-the Illinois Central Railroad
Company promulgated rules governing the distribution of cars
to coal mines. Although by these rules foreign fuel cars,
private cars and company fuel cars were not taken into account in ascertaining the capacity of a mine or mines, such
cars were expressly directed not to be counted for the purpose
of the daily distribution of cars among the respective mines.
On August 15 following, however, presumably to cause the
regulations to conform to the interpretation of the Interstate
Commerce Act adopted by the commission in the Hocking

Valley ease, a circular was issued by the Illinois Central Railroad Company, to go into effect September 1, 1907, cancelling
the circular of July 20, 1907, and directing that account should
be taken in the distribution of cars to a particular mine or
mines of both foreign railway fuel and private cars. Before
the date fixed for the going into effect of this last-named
circular the Majestic Coal and Coke Company, a West Virginia
corporation, filed a suit against the Illinois Central Railroad
Company in the United States Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Illinois, complaining that to charge against its distributive share of coal ears, in the event of a car shortage, the
fuel ears and private cars furnished it would violate its legal
rights. After hearing, a temporary injunction, preventing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

going into effect of the regulations in the particulars mentioned, was issued. The distribution of coal cars thereafter
continued to be made as provided in the prior circular.
With this prelude we come more immediately to the origin
of the controversy before us.
On October 31, 1907, the Illinois Collieries Company filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission a complaint against
the Illinois Central Railroad Company. The regulations of the
railroad company as to the distribution of coal cars were assailed as unjustly discriminatory in violation of the act to
regulate commerce, particularly as respected the practice of
not taking into consideration foreign railway fuel cars and
private cars in determining the distribution of coal cars among
the various coal operators along the lines of the railroad on interstate shipments of coal. It appears that the complaint just
referred to was heard before the commission, with two other
complaints against other railroads involving the same general
subject. In its report, which was filed in all three of the cases
on April 13, 1908, Traer v. Chicago & Alton R. R. Co., 13 I. C.
C. Rep. 451, the commission held that not to count in times of
car shortage when the daily distributions were made against
the mine receiving the same company fuel cars, foreign railway
fuel cars and private cars was a violation of the act to regulate
commerce. In announcing this conclusion reference was made
to the previous opinion of the commission in the Hocking
Valley case, supra, and it was declared that the Illinois Central
Railroad Company on the hearing before the commission had
conceded the controlling effect of the previous ruling of the
commission. Considering the temporary injunction issued by
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, the commission declared that in view of the
decision of this court in the case of the Texas & Pacific Ry.
Company v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, it was the
duty of the commission to order the carrier to desist from the
unlawful discrimination.
Although the complaint in the case of the Illinois Central

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 465
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Company differed from the complaints in the two
other cases which were considered and passed upon by the
commission at the same time, in that it did not assail the
failure to take into account the company fuel cars in making
distribution in times of car shortage, nevertheless the commission declared that the Illinois Central Railroad Company,
both in its brief and argument, had conceded the importance
of the subject to that company and had invoked the action
of the commission thereon.
The order of the commission, as heretofore stated, therefore not only directed the desisting from the practice of failing to take into account the foreign railway fuel cars, private
cars and the company fuel cars, but also required the carriers
to establish regulations for a period of two years from July 1,
1908, providing for the counting of all such cars. The general scope of the order was, however, qualified by expressly
authorizing a railroad company to deliver to a particular
mine all the foreign railway fuel cars, the private cars and
the company fuel cars consigned or assigned to said mine,
even although the number thereof might exceed the pro rata
share of the cars attributable to said mine when ascertained
by taking into account all the cars which the order required
to be considered. Where, however, the number of such cars
was less than the pro rata share of the mine the order only
permitted the carrier to add a sufficient number of system
cars to make up the rightful pro rata number.
Being unwilling to comply with the order of the commission, the Illinois Central Railroad Company commenced the
suit which is now before us to enjoin in all respects the enforcement of the order of the commission. It was averred
that although the company was adequately equipped with
coal cars and with sufficient motive power and operative
forces, yet at times an inadequate supply of coal cars to meet
the demand arose from the circumstances which we have
previously stated. It was alleged that the regulations adopted
by the company for ascertaining the capacity of the mines
voL. ccxv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

and for the distribution of cars were in all respects just and
reasonable, and it was charged that the order of the commission, directing the taking into account of private cars in the
distribution of cars, was unjust, unreasonable, oppressive and
unlawful, because it deprived the owners of such cars of the
right to the use of their own property. It was further alleged
that, as to the foreign railway fuel cars, the order was also
unjust, unreasonable, oppressive and unlawful, because such
cars constituted no part of the equipment of the road, and,
failing to count them, could not constitute an unlawful discrimination or the giving of an unjust preference within the
intendment of the act to regulate commerce. Besides charging that the order to count the company fuel cars was unjust,
unreasonable, etc., it was averred that the attempt of the
commission to deal with such cars was beyond its power, and
was but an effort to deprive the company of its lawful right
to freely contract for the purchase of the fuel necessary for
the operation of its road. In addition, the proceedings in the
suit brought by the Majestic Coal Company were set out, the
granting of a temporary injunction therein as to counting
foreign railway fuel cars and private cars was alleged, and it
was charged that in any event, as to those two classes of cars,
the order of the commission was not lawful, since it compelled
the company to violate the injunction which was yet in force.
The commission answered by asserting the validity in all respects of the order by it made, substantially upon the grounds
which had been set out in its report and opinion announced
when the order was made. All the averments in the coinplaint as to want of power were traversed and it was expressly
charged that the subject of the distribution of coal cars as
dealt with by the order was within the administrative power
delegated to the commission by the terms of the act to regulate commerce. The nature and character of the preferences
and discriminations which had led the commission to conclude that unlawful discrimination and unjust preference
arose from the failure to count the classes of cars referred to

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 467
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was alleged in subdivision XIV of the answer, a portion
whereof is reproduced in the margin. 1 A certificate as to
the public importance of the cause was filed by the Attorney
General, in compliance with § 16 as amended by the act of
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, and the cause was there1 XIV. Defendant avers that the allotment by complainant of said

foreign railway fuel cars, private cars, and complainant's fuel cars to
the mines receiving them in addition to the full distributive shares of
such mines in the general distribution of cars by complainant and the
failure by complainant to count and charge said foreign railway fuel
cars, private cars, and company cars against the mines receiving them,
in said general distribution, results in undue and unreasonable preference or advantage to the mines and operators receiving such cars
and subjects the owners and operators of mines which do not receive
such cars to undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage in
the following respects, to wit:
(a) That the operator receiving the foreign railway fuel cars, private cars, or company fuel cars thereby receives a higher percentage
of cars than mines of equal capacity which do not receive such cars.
(b) That the operator receiving the foreign railway fuel cars, private
cars, or company fuel cars may operate his mine to a fuller capacity
and thereby reduce the cost of coal per ton, resulting in an increased
profit on his commercial coal.
(c) That the operator receiving foreign railway fuel cars, private
cars, or company fuel cars is enabled to increase the number of working places in the mine, is enabled to develop his mine more rapidly,
is enabled to increase his capacity rating, and in future reratings of
such mine by complainant for the purposes of car distribution the
mine would receive a higher rating and consequently a larger number
of cars in complainants' general distribution of cars.
(d) That the operator receiving the foreign railway fuel cars, private cars, or company fuel cars is enabled thereby to secure and hold a
larger, more efficient, and regular working force of miners and laborers.
(e) That the development of the mines which do not receive the
foreign railway fuel cars, private cars, or company fuel cars is retarded
in inverse ratio as the development of the mines receiving said cars is
accelerated.
(f) That by the arbitrary allotment of the foreign railway fuel cars,
private cars, or company fuel cars the complainant and the so-called
foreign railways are enabled to secure low prices on railway fuel because the operator receiving such cars is enabled to produce his com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

after submitted at the same time with one brought by the
Alton Railroad, involving a similar question, to a Circuit
Court held by Judges Grosscup, Baker and Kohlsaat. A
single opinion was announced in both cases. 000 Fed. Rep.
000. While deciding that the complainants were not entitled
to relief in so far as the order of the commission concerned
the counting of foreign railway fuel cars and private cars, it
was yet held that the railway companies were entitled to an
injunction restraining the enforcement of the orders of the
commission in so far as they directed the taking into account
of the cars employed by the company in hauling its own fuel.
The conclusion oil this latter subject was based upon the
theory that, as the railroad companies took the coal which
they bought for their own use from the tipple of a coal mine,
and thereafter moved it for their own account and not for
commercial purposes, the cars used for that purpose could
not be treated as being engaged in commerce, as "commerce
under these circumstances ends at the tipple." The court,
however, observed:
"But this does not mean that these cars do not affect the
problem of an equitable distribution of commercial equipment. The mine operators are objects of interest under the
interstate commerce law, not as diggers of coal, but as shippers
who tender a commercial product for transportation by interstate common carriers. The basis, therefore, on which
the mines in a district should be rated is not their average
output as a physical question, but the average output which
they respectively tender for transportation in commerce."
And in accord with this reasoning it was in conclusion remercial coal at much lower prices than do the mines which do not re-

ceive such arbitrary cars.
(g) That the opcrator of the mine receiving the foreign railway fuel
cars, private cars, or company fuel cars is thereby enabled to make
contracts for the delivery of coal distributed over a long period, to an

extent that the operator of the mines which do not receive such cars
cannot do.

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 469
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

marked that the complainants as to the cars used for hauling
their fuel were entitled to an injunction "against their being
compelled to take fuel cars into consideration except as a
means in determining the true capacities of the mines to
tender coal to them for transportation in commerce."
From the final decree enjoining the commission from enforcing its order, in so far as it directed the taking into account
the company fuel cars in the distribution of coal cars in times
of car shortage and in so far as it directed the future taking
such cars into account, the Interstate Commerce Commission
appeals.
It is stated in the brief of counsel for the railroad company
that, at the hearing below, despite the scope of the prayer of
the bill, no question was raised by the railroad company as
to the validity of the order of the commission to the extent
that it controlled private cars and foreign railway fuel cars.
Irrespective, however, of this admission, as the Interstate
Commerce Commission alone has appealed, the correctness of
the conclusions of the court below on these subjects is not
open to inquiry. And this also renders it unnecessary to consider in any respect the effect of the injunction to which we
have previously referred as issued in the suit filed on behalf
of the Majestic Coal Company, since such injunction only
related to foreign railway fuel cars and private cars. Besides,
it is stated in the brief of counsel that before the decision of
this case the preliminary injunction in favor of the Majestic
Coal Company was dissolved and no appeal was taken therefrom.
In consequence of one of the comprehensive amendments
to the act to regulate commerce, adopted in 1906, § 15, Act
June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 589, it is now provided
that "all orders of the commission, except orders for the payment of money, shall take effect within such reasonable time,
nr,t less than thirty days, and shall continue in force for such
period of time not exceeding two years, as shall be prescribed
in the order of the commission, unless the same shall be sus-

OCTO3ER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

pended or set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction."
The statute endowing the commission with large administrative functions, and generally giving effect to its orders concerning complaints before it without exacting that they be
previously submitted to judicial authority for sanction, it
becomes necessary to determine the extent of the powers
which courts may exert on the subject.
Beyond controversy, in determining whether an order of
the commission shall be suspended or set aside, we must consider, a, all relevant questions of constitutional power or
right; b, all pertinent questions as to whether the admoinistrative order is within the scope of the delegated authority

under which it purports to have been made; and, c, a proposition which we state independently, although in its essence
it may be contained in the previous one, viz., whether, even
although .the order be in form within the delegated power,
nevertheless it must be treated as not embraced therein, because the exertion of authority which is questioned has been
manifested in such an unreasonable manner as to cause it, in
truth, to be within the elementary rule that the substance,
and not the shadow, determines the validity of the exercise
of the power. Postal Telegraph Cable Company v. Adams,
155 U. S. 688, 698. Plain as it is that the powers just stated
are of the essence of judicial authority, and which, therefore,
may not be curtailed, and whose discharge may not be by
us in a proper case avoided, it is equally plain that such perennial powers lend no support whatever to the proposition
that we may, under the guise of exerting judicial power, usurp
merely administrative functions by setting aside a lawful
administrative order upon our conception as to whether the
administrative power has been wisely exercised.
Power to make the order and not the mere expediency or
wisdom of having made it, is the question. While, as we
have seen, the court below reasoned that the transportation
,of coal bought from a mine by the railroad company for. its
own use, after delivery to it in its coal cars at the tipple, was

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 471
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not commerce, because "commerce under these, circumstances ends at the tipple," it yet reasoned that such coal was
within the control of the interstate commerce law to the extent that a regulation compelling its consideration, for the
purpose of rating the capacity of a mine as a basis for fixing
its pro rata share of cars in times of shortage, would be valid.
Because of this reasoning, it is insisted, it appears that the
court below but substituted a regulation which it deemed
wise for one which it considered the commission had inexpediently adopted, and this upon the assumption by the court
that its authority was not limited to determining power.
Without intimating an opinion as to the merits of the proposition, we put it aside as irrelevant, since we must decide
whether the action of the court below was correct, irrespective of the reasoning by which such action was induced. We
further also dismiss from view a contention, strenuously
insisted upon in argument by the Government, to the effect
that in determining the issue of power we must treat the railroad company as being at fault for the failure to daily deliver
all the cars called for in times of car shortage. We put it
aside because it is in direct conflict with facts expressly admitted or impliedly conceded in the answer of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and from which facts we must take
it for granted that the equipment of coal cars of the railroad
company was reasonably adequate to meet all normal conditions, although it became insufficient at times because of
extraordinary circumstances, against which it was in reason
impossible to provide.
We think the issues for decision will be best disposed of by
at once considering the contentions advanced by the railroad
company to establish that there was a want of power in the
commission to make that portion of the order which the court
below enjoined. The contentions on this subject are stated
in argument in many different forms, and if not in some respects contradictory, are, at all events, confusing since, considered logically, we think they virtually intermingle power

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

and expediency as if they were one and the same thing. We
shall not, therefore, in making an analysis of the contentions,
follow their mere form of statement, but shall treat them all
as reducible to two propositions, viz: First. That the act to
regulate commerce has not delegated to the commission authority to consider, where a complaint is made on such subject, the question of the distribution of company fuel cars
in times of car shortage as a means of prohibiting unjust
preference or undue discrimination. Second. That even if such
power has been delegated to the commission- by the act to
regulate commerce, the order whose continued enforcement
was enjoined by the court below was beyond the authority
conferred by the statute.
As the Interstate Commerce Commission alone has appealed,
it is patent that those portions of the order of the commission
which concern foreign railway fuel cars and private cars, and
which the court below refused to enjoin, are not open to inquiry. The suggestion at once presents itself whether, if
these subjects are not open, they do not necessarily carry
with them the question of company fuel cars, on the ground
that the three classes rest upon one and the same consideration, and that to divorce them would bring about conditions
of preference and discrimination which the act to regulate
commerce expressly prohibits. In view, however, of the great
importance of the questions directly arising for decision, and
the fact that the court below has treated the company fuel
cars as distinct, we shall not be sedulous to pursue the suggestion, and come at once to the propositions of power previously stated.
First. That the act to regulate commerce has not delegated to
the commission authority to regulate the distributionof company
fuel cars in times of car shortage as a means of prohibiting unjust preferences or undue discrimination.
When coal is received from the tipple of a coal mine into
coal cars by a railway company, and the coal is intended for
its own use and is transported by it, it is said there is no con-

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 473
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

signor, no consignee and no freight to be paid, and therefore,
although there may be transportation, there is no shipment,
and hence no commerce. In changed form these propositions
but embody the reasoning which led the court below to its
conclusion that, under the circumstances, commerce ended
at the tipple of the mine. The deduction from the proposition
is, as the movement of coal under the conditions stated is not
commerce, it is therefore not within the authority delegated
to the commission by the act of Congress, as all such acts
have relation to the regulation of commerce, and do not,
therefore, embrace that which is not commerce. It is to be
observed, in passing, that if the proposition be well founded,
it not only challenges the authority of the commission, but
extends much further, and in effect denies the power of Congress to confer authority upon the commission over the subject. In all its aspects the proposition calls in question the
construction given to the law by the commission in every
case where the subject has been before it, and also assails
the correctness of numerous decisions in the lower Federal
courts, to which we have previously referred, where the subject, in various forms, was considered. It goes further than
this, since it, in effect, seeks to avoid the fair inferences arising from the regulations adopted by the railroad company.
Those regulations, in providing for the obligation of the railroad company to supply cars, and recognizing the duty of
equality of treatment, found it necessary, by express provision, to provide that private cars, foreign railway cars and
company fuel cars should not be counted against the mine
on the clay when furnished, thus implying that, under the
general rule of equality, if not restricted, it was considered
the duty would exist to consider such cars. The contention,
moreover, conflicts with the rule which, as we have seen, obtains in other and great systems of railroad, by which, for
the purpose of avoiding inequality and preference, foreign
railway fuel cars, private cars and company fuel cars are
made one of the factors upon which a mine is rated in order

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

to fix the basis upon which its distributive share of cars is to
be allotted in case of car shortage. And, from this, it must
follow, if the proposition, contended for be maintained, that
it would not only relieve the railroad company, whose rights
are here involved, froin the obligation of taking into account
its fuel cars in the making of the distribution, but from the
duty even to consider them for the purpose of capacity rating. As a result, it would lead to the overthrow of the system
of rating, prevailing on other railroads, by which, as we have
said, such cars are taken into account, a consequence which is
well illustrated by the case of Logan Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania

R. R. Co., 154 Fed. Rep. 497.
Under these conditions, it is clear that doubt, if it exist,
must be resolved against the soundness of the contentions
relied on. But that rule of construction need not be invoked,
as we think, when the erroneous assumption upon which the
proposition must rest is considered, its unsoundness is readily
demonstrable. That assumption is this, that commerce in
the constitutional sense only embraces shipment in a technical sense, and does not, therefore, extend to carriers engaged in interstate commerce, certainly in so far as so engaged,
and the instrumentalities by which such commerce is carried
on, a doctrine the unsoundness of which has been apparent
ever since the decision in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, and
which has not since been open to question. It may not be
doubted that the equipment of a railroad company engaged
in interstate commerce, included in which are its coal cars,
are instruments of such commerce. From this it necessarily
follows that such cars are embraced within the governmental
power of regulation which extends, in time of car shortage,
to compelling a just and equal distribution and the prevention of an unjust and discriminatory one.
The corporation as a carrier engaged in interstate commerce being then, as to its interstate commerce business,
subject to the control exerted by the act to.regulate commerce, and the instrumentalities employed for the purpose

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 475
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of such commerce, being likewise so subject to control, we
are brought to consider the remaining proposition, which is,
Second. That even ifpower has been delegated to the commission by the act to regulate commerce, the order whose continued
enforcement was enjoined by the court below was beyond the
authoritydelegated by the statute.
In view of the facts found by the commission as to preferences and discriminations resulting from the failure to
count the company fuel cars in the daily distribution in times
of car shortage, and in further view of the far-reaching preferences and discriminations alleged in the answer of the commission in this case, and which must be taken as true, as the
cause was submitted on bill and answer, it is beyond controversy that the subject with which the order dealt was within
the sweeping provisions of § 3 of the act to regulate commerce
prohibiting preferences and discriminations. But it is contended that although this be the case, as the order of the
commission not only forbade the preferences and discriminations complained of, but also commanded the establishment
of a rule, excluding such discriminations for a future definite
period of not exceeding two years, the order transcended the
authority conferred upon the commission. This proceeds
upon the assumption that § 15 of the act to regulate commerce, as enacted by the act of June 29, 1906, while conferring
upon the commission the authority, upon complaint duly
made, to declare a rate or practice affecting rates illegal, and
to establish a new and reasonable rule or practice affecting
such rates for a term not exceeding two years, has no relation to complaints concerning preferences or discriminations,
unless such practices, when complained of, are of a character
to affect rates, which it is insisted is not here the case. The
pertinent part of the section in question (15) reads as follows,
34 Stat. 589:
"That the commission is authorized and empowered, and
it shall be its duty, whenever, after full hearing upon a complaint made as provided in section 13 of this act, or upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

complaint of any common carrier, it shall be of the opinion
that any of the rates, or charges whatsoever, demanded,
charged, or collected by any common carrier or carriers, subject to the provisions of this act, for the transportation of
persons or property as defined in the first section of this act,
or that any regulations or practices whatsoever of such carrier or carriers affecting such rates, are unjust or unreasonable, or unjustly discriminatory, or unduly preferential or
prejudicial, or otherwise in violation of any of the provisions
of this act, to determine and prescribe what will be the just
and reasonable rate or rates, charge or charges, to be thereafter observed in such case as the maximum to be charged;
and what regulation or practice in respect to such transportation is just, fair, and reasonable to be thereafter followed;
and to make an order that the carrier shall cease and desist
from such violation, to the extent to which the commission
find the same to exist, and shall not thereafter publish, demand, or collect any rate or charge for such transportation
in excess of the maximum rate or charge so prescribed, and
shall conform to the regulation or practice so prescribed.
"All orders of the commission, except orders for the payment of money, shall take effect within such reasonable time,
not less than thirty days, and shall continue in force for such
period of time, not exceeding two years, as shall be prescribed
in the order of the commission, unless the same shall be suspended or modified or set aside by the commission or be suspended or set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction."
The contention gives to the words found in the earlier part
of the section, "any regulation or practice whatsoever of such
carrier or carriers affecting such rates," a dominant and controlling power so as to cause them to limit every other provision in the section, however general in its language. We do
not stop to critically examine the provision relied upon for
the purpose of pointing out, as a matter of grammatical construction, the error of the contention, because we think, when
the text of the section is taken into view and all its provisions

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. ILL. CENT. R. R. 477
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are given their natural significance, it obviously appears that
the construction relied upon is without foundation, and that
to sustain it would be to frustrate the very purpose which it
is clear, when the entire provision is considered, it was designed to accomplish, and thus would be destructive of the
plain intent of Congress in enacting the provision. The antecedent construction which the Interstate Commerce Act
had -necessitated, and the remedial character of the amendments adopted in 1906, all serve to establish the want of
merit in the contention relied upon. In addition, to adopt
it would require us to hold that Congress, in enlarging the
power of the commission over rates, had so drafted the amendment as to cripple and paralyze its power in correcting abuses
as to preferences and discriminations which, as this court has
hitherto pointed out, it was the great and fundamental purpose of Congress to further.
Conceding, for the sake of the argument, the existence of
the preferences and discriminations charged, it is insisted,
when the findings made by the commission are taken into
view and the pleadings as an entirety are considered, it results that the discriminations and preferences arose from the
fact that the railroad company chose to purchase its coal for
its fuel supply from a particular. mine or mines, and that, as
it had a right to do so, it is impossible, without destroying
freedom of contract, to predicate illegal preferences or wrongful discriminations from the fact of purchase. But the proposition overlooks the fact that the regulation addresses itself,
not to the right to purchase, but to the duty to make equal
distribution of cars. The right to buy is one thing and the
power to use the equipment of the road for the purpose of
moving the articles purchased in such a way as to discriminate or give preference are wholly distinct and different
things. The insistence that the necessary effect of an order,
compelling the counting of company fuel cars in fixing, in
ease of shortage, the share of ears a mine from which coal
has been purchased will be entitled to, will be to bring about

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

a discrimination against the mine from which the company
buys its coal and a preference in favor of other mines, but
inveighs against the expediency of the order. And this is
true also of a statement in another form of the same proposition, that is, that if, when coal is bought from a mine by a
railroad the road is compelled to count the cars in which the
coal is moved in case of car shortage, a preference will result
in favor of the mine selling coal and making delivery thereof
at the tipple of the mine to a person who is able to consume
it without the necessity of transporting it by rail. At best,
these arguments but suggest the complexity of the subject, and
the difficulty involved in making any order which may not be
amenable to the criticism that it leads to or may beget some
inequality. Indeed, the arguments just stated, and others
of a like character which we do not deem it essential to
specially refer to, but assail the wisdom of Congress in conferring upon the commission the power which has been lodged
in that body to consider complaints as to violations of the
statute and to correct them if found to exist, or attack as
crude or inexpedient the action of the commission in performance of the administrative functions vested in it, and
upon such assumption invoke the exercise of unwarranted
judicial power to correct the assumed evils. It follows from
what we have said that the court below erred in enjoining
the order of the commission, in so far as it related to company fuel cars, and its decree is therefore reversed, and the
case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissents.

