UNITED STATES v. SUTTON.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

by the mere grant of citizenship to renounce entirely its
jurisdiction over the individual members of this dependent
race. There is not in this case in terms a subjection of the
individual Indian to the laws, both civil and criminal, of the
State; no grant to him of the benefit of those laws; no denial
of the personal jurisdiction of the United States.
The act of May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34 Stat. 182, extending
to the expiration of the trust period the time when the allottees of the act of 1887 shall be subject to state laws, is
worthy of note as suggesting that Congress, in granting full
rights of citizenship to Indians, believed that it had been
hasty. See, upon the general questions discussed, United
States v. Mullin, 71 Fed. Rep. 682; Rainbow v. Young, 16]
Fed. Rep. 835; State v. Columbia George, 39 Oregon, 127;
State v. Columbia George, 201 U. S. 641; Couture v. United
States, 207 U. S. 581; Toy Toy v. Hopkins, 212 U. S. 542.
The judgment is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. SUTTON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 312.

Submitted October 15, 1909.-Decided December 20, 1909.

United States v. Celestine, ante, p. 278, followed, as to continuance

of jurisdiction of United States over offenses committed within
the limits of an Indian reservation.
The Indians, as wards of the Government, are the beneficiaries of
the prohibition against the introduction of liquor into Indian
country; and, under the Washington enabling act, jurisdiction and
control over Indian lands remains in the United States, and Congress has power to prohibit and punish the introduction of liquor
therein.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U..S.

The limits of an Indian reservation are not changed by allotments
in severalty during the trust period, and, where the lands allotted
are subject to restrictions against alienation and to defeasance, the
prohibition against liquor continues to be effective.

defendants were indicted in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Washington for
introducing liquor into the Indian country, as thus stated
in the indictment:
"To wit, into and upon a certain Indian allotment No. 670,
within the limits of the boundary of the Yakima Indian Reservation, in the Eastern District of Washington, which said
allotment had theretofore been allotted to a certain Indian,
a member of the Yakima tribe of Indians, named George
Wesslike, under and by virtue of the provision of the act of
Congress of February 8, 1887, entitled 'An act to provide for
the allotment of lands in severalty to Indians on the various
reservations, and to extend the protection of the laws of the
United States and the Territories over the Indians, and for
other purposes,' (24 Stat. 388,) said allotment being then and
now one held in trust by the Government for said allottee
and being inalienable by the said allottee without the consent
of the United States."
A demurrer was filed, and on that demurrer the following
facts were agreed to:
"1. That the Yakima Indian Reservation, in the Eastern
District of Washington, is inhabited by the Yakima and
other Indians under the general charge and control of an
Indian agent and superintendent of the United States.
"2. That prior to September 3, 1908, a very large number
of allotments of land within said reservation had been made
to Indians entitled thereto, which said allotments had been
made and allotted under and by virtue of the provision of
the act of Congress of February 8, 1887, known as the general
allotment act.
"3. That allotment No. 670, described in the indictment,
is a part of and within the boundaries of the Yakima Indian
THE

UNITED STATES v. SUTTON.
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Reservation, and the same had been made and allotted, and
the usual trust patent thereto issued to the allottee named in
the indictment under the provision of the act of February 8,
1887, prior to September, 1908.
"4. That the trust limitation has not yet expired and the
title to said allotment is still being held in trust by the Government; that the title to said allotment is not alienable by the
allottee without the consent of the United States.
"5. That on or about September 3, 1908, the defendants
did go on and upon said allotment described in the indictment, taking and carrying with them certain ardent spirits
and intoxicating liquor, to wit, alcohol, in a demijohn and
flasks."
The indictment vas founded on the act of January 30,
1897, 29 Stat. 506, which provides:
"That . . . any person who shall introduce or attempt
to introduce any malt, spirituous, or vinous liquor, including
beer, ale, and wine, or any ardent or intoxicating liquor of
any kind whatsoever into the Indian country, which term
shall include any Indian allotment while the title to the same
shall be held in trust by the Government, or while the same
shall remain inalienable by the allottee Without the consent
of the United States, shall be punished by imprisonment for
not less than sixty days, and by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars for the first offense and not less than two
hundred dollars for each offense thereafter."
The Yakima Reservation was established under the treaty
of June 9, 1855, 12 Stat. 951, which, in article 2, provides:
"All which tract shall be set apart, and, so far as necessary,
surveyed and marked out, for the exclusive use and benefit
of said confederated tribes and bands of Indians, as an Indian
reservation; nor shall any white man, excepting those in the
employment of the Indian Department, be permitted to reside upon the said reservation without permission of the tribe
and the superintendent and agent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

"ARTICLE VI. The President may, from time to time, at

his discretion, cause the whole or such portions of such reservation as he may think proper, to be surveyed into lots, and
assign the same to such individuals or families of the said
confederated tribes and bands of Indians as are willing to
avail themselves of the privilege, and will locate on the same
as a permanent home, on the same terms and subject to the
same regulations as are provided in the sixth article of the
treaty with the Omahas, so far as the same may be applicable."
The demurrer was sustained, and thereupon the Government brought the case here on writ of error under the act of
March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United States.
There was no appearance or brief for the defendant in
error.
MR.

JUSTICE

BREWER, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The question whether the indictment charges any offense
against the laws of the United States involves the validity of
the act of January 30, 1897, as applied to the facts stated,
and therefore the case is one properly before us under the act
providing for writs of error in certain instances in criminal
cases. Ch. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246; United States v. Keitel, 211
U. S. 370, 397.
We have recently considered, in United States v. Celestine,
ante, the question of the jurisdiction of the United States
over offenses committed within the limits of a reservation,
as also the effect of allotments therein upon its continued
existence, and further discussion of those matters is unnecessary. The limits of the Yakima Reservation were not changed
by virtue of the allotments that are referred to in the stipula-

UNITED STATES v. SUTTON.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of facts. The lands allotted were subject to restrictions
against alienation, and the title which was conferred by the
allotments was subject to defeasance. Sixth Article, Treaty
with the Omahas, 10 Stat. 1043-5; United States v. Celestine.
The offense charged was not one committed by a white man
upon a white man, United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621;
Draper v. United States, 164 U. S. 240, or by an Indian upon
an Indian, United States v. Celestine, ante, but it was the introduction of liquor into an Indian reservation. In this offense
neither race or color are significant. The Indians, as wards
of the Government, are the beneficiaries, but for their protection the prohibition is against all, white man and Indian
alike. Legislation of this nature has been for a long time
in force. Fourth see., chap. 174, Laws 1832, 4 Stat. 564;
ยง 2139, Rev. Stat. If the Yakima Reservation were within'
the limits of a Territory there would be no question of the validity of the statute under which this indictment was found,
but the contention is that the offense charged is of a police nature and that the full police power is lodged in the State, and
by it alone can such offenses be punished. By the second
paragraph of ยง 4 of the enabling act with respect to the
State of Washington, (c. 180, 25 Stat. 677,) the people of that
State, disclaimed all right and title "to all lands lying within
said limits owned or held by any Indian or Indian tribes;
and that until the title thereto shall have been extinguished
by the United States, the same shall be and remain subject
to the disposition of the United States, and said Indian lands
shall remain under the absolute jurisdiction and control of
the Congress of the United States." Construing this, in connection with other provisions of the enabling act, it was held
in Draper v. United States, 164 U. S. 240, that it did not deprive the State of jurisdiction over crimes committed within
a reservation by others than Indians or against Indians,
following in this United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621.
But in terms "jurisdiction and control" over Indian lands
remain in the United States, and there being nothing in the

'OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

section withdrawing any other jurisdiction than that named
in Draper v. United States, undoubtedly Congress has the
right to forbid the introduction of liquor and to provide
punishment for any violation thereof. Couture, Jr., v. United
States, 207 U. S. 581. It is true that only a per curiam opinion was filed in that case, and the judgment was affirmed on
the authority of United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432;
McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458, but an examination of the
record shows that its facts are similar to those in the present
case. See also an opinion by Shiras, District Judge, in United
States v. Mullin, 71 Fed. Rep. 682, and one by Circuit Judge
Van Devanter, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit, in Rainbow v. Young, 161 Fed. Rep. 835.
Without pursuing the discussion further, we are of opinion
that the District Court erred in its ruling, and the judgment
is
Reversed.

COMMISSIONERS OF SANTA FE COUNTY v. TERRITORY OF NEW MEXICO EX REL. COLER.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

Nos. 42, 43.

Submitted November 29, 1909.-Decided December 20, 1909.

Although a defense to the merits if pleaded in the original action
might have prevented rendition of the judgment, it cannot be
urged to prevent mandamus from issuing to enforce the judgment.
Under the laws of New Mexico, where there is no possible excuse
for a board of county commissioners not to comply with a judgment,
a peremptory writ of mandamus in the first instance is authorized.
Where the bill shows it is clearly the purpose of defendant officers
not to perform a duty imposed upon them, demand is not necessary
before suit for mandamus.

