FLAHERTY v. HANSON.
215 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA EX REL. FLAHERTY
v. HANSON, SHERIFF OF GRAND FORKS COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.
No. 47.

Submitted November 29, 1909.-Decided January 17i 1910.

A State cannot place a burden on a lawful taxing power of the United
States; nor can it place a burden upon the person paying a tax to
the United States solely because of such payment and without
reference to the doing by such person of any act within the State
and subject to its regulating authority.
A State cannot so exert its police power as to directly hamper or

destroy a lawful authority of the United States.
A state statute requiring the holder of a Federal liquor license to
perform duties in. conflict with the requirement of the Federal
statute is an exercise of power repugnant to the Constitution and
cannot be enforced; and so held as to chap. 189, General Laws of
North Dakota, 1907, requiring the holder of such a license to file
and publish a copy thereof.
Qucere, whether the payment to the United States of the special liquor
tax and taking a receipt therefor creates a prima facie presumption
that the person holding the receipt is engaged in the liquor business.
16 N. Dak. 347, reversed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality of a statute
of North Dakota, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Edward Engerud, Mr. Daniel B. Holt, Mr. John S.
Frame and Mr. George A. Bangs for plaintiff in error:
The act complained of, chap. 189, Gen'l Laws, 1907, of
North Dakota is not a regulation for sale of liquor and is not a
proper exercise of the police power of the State. It relates
only to the holders of Federal licenses.
Even if such was the intent of the legislature, effect cannot

be so given to it unless the language is plain and unambiguous.
Courts cannot imagine an intent and twist the language so as
to substitute what the court thinks the law should have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

215 U. S.

instead of what it is. Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 526;
United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358; United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 95; United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 395.
The act does not regulate the liquor business in the State
because it does not apply to all persons in the State.
The act deprives the state court of the power to decide who
are liquor dealers within the meaning of the state law. It
affects only those dealers who obey the Federal law and post
their receipts.
The incriminating facts under the statute are the possession of a Federal tax receipt and failure to register and publish it.
The statute is an attempt to exercise police power inherent
in the State, but it cannot be enforced without resort to the
Federal statutes. This situation is foreign to our form of
government. Butchers' Union v. Crescent City, 111 U. S. 746;
Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506; United States v. Tarble, 13
Wall. 397; Cooley, Const. Law, 399; Thorpe v. Railroad Co.,
27 Vermont, 140.
The act is an unlawful interference with Federal regulations.
The fact that the state legislature intended by the law in
question to make the enforcement of the prohibition laws
of the State more easy and certain cannot save it if in truth
it interferes in any manner with a subject over which the
Federal Government has control. Bowman v. Chicago, &c.,
125 U. S. 475; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412.
There can be no question made of the right of Congress to
raise revenue for the maintenance of the Federal Government
by taxing those who engage in the sale of liquors, and it is
equally within the power of Congress to prescribe the conditions under which that tax shall be paid, and the notice
which the person paying it shall give to the public of the fact
of such payment.
While the State is not prohibited from also taxing the persons who engage in that business because of the fact that Congress has seen fit to tax them it cannot lay upon those persons

FLAHERTY v. HANSON.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

duties and obligations different from those imposed by Congress.
The sovereignty of a State extends to everything which exists by its own authority or is introduced by its permission,
but does not extend to those means which are employed by
Congress to carry into execution powers conferred on that
body by the people of the United States. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539;
Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1
To the same effect also see Farmers' &c. Bank v. Dearing,
91 U. S. 29; Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220; Ohio v. Thomas,
173 U. S. 276; Sturgis v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.
344; Commonwealth v. Petty, 29 S. W. Rep. 291; Cranson v.
Smith, 37 Michigan, 309; Hollida v. Hunt, 70 Illinois, 109;
Commonwealth v. Felton, 101 Massachusetts, 204; Crittenden
v. White, 23 Minnesota, 24; People v. Kennedy, 38 California,
147; State v. Pike, 15 N. H. 83.
Besides being an unwarranted usurpation of authority over
transactions and relations between the Federal Government
and its citizens, the act interferes with and impedes the
operations of the Federal laws relating to internal revenue.
There was no appearance or brief for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

By § 18 of the act of February 8, 1875, ch. 36, 18 Stat. 307,
as amended by § 4 of the act of March 1, 1879, ch. 125, 20 Stat.
327, 333, a special tax of twenty-five dollars is imposed on retail dealers in liquors, as therein defined, and a tax of twenty
dollars on a retail dealer in malt liquors. By Rev. Stat.,
§§ 3232 and 3233 a person is forbidden to engage in or carry
on any trade or business made subject to a special tax until
the tax has been paid, and it is made the duty of one engaging
in a trade or business on which a special tax is imposed by law

OCTO3ER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

to register with the collector of the district "his name or style,
place of residence, trade or business, and the place where such
trade or business is to be carried on." In addition, Rev. Stat.,
§ 3239, as amended by the act of February 27, 1877, ch. 69, 19
Stat. 240, requires every person engaging in any business,
made liable to a special tax, except tobacco peddlers, to place
and keep conspicuously in his establishment or place of business all stamps denoting the payment of said special tax, and
penalties are affixed for non-compliance. So also any one
carrying on a business made liable to a special tax without
payment of the tax is subject to fine and imprisonment under
§ 16 of the act of 1875.
By other sections of the Revised Statutes it is provided as
follows:
"SEC. 3240. Each collector of internal revenue shall, under
regulations of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, place
and keep conspicuously in his office, for public inspection, an
alphabetical list of the names of all persons who shall have paid
special taxes within his district, and shall state thereon the
time, place, and business for which such special taxes have
been paid.
"SEc. 3243. The payment of any tax imposed by the internal-revenue laws for carrying on any trade or business shall
not be held to exempt any person from any penalty or punishment provided by the laws of any State for carrying on the
same within such State, or in any manner to authorize the
commencement or continuance of such trade or business contrary to the laws of such State or in places prohibited by
municipal law; nor shall the payment of any such tax be held
to prohibit any State from placing a duty or tax on the same
trade or business, for State or other purposes."
The State of North Dakota on March 13, 1907 (Laws No.
Dak., 1907, p. 307), enacted a law requiring the registration
and publication of any receipt, stamp or license, showing the
payment of the special tax levied under .the laws of the United

FLAHERTY v. HANSON.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States upon the business of selling distilled, malted and fermented liquor. Briefly, the law provides as follows: A notice
of the particulars contained in the receipt or license and other
details respecting the place where the tax receipt or license is
posted, etc., is required to be made for three weeks in official
newspapers, and the fees for publication are declared to be the
same "as allowed by law for the publication of other legal
notices." The holder of the receipt or license is also required
to place and keep posted, at all times, with the government tax
receipts or license, an affidavit of the fact of publication and
the obtaining of such license, etc., together with a copy of the
notices or advertisements. A duly authenticated copy of the
tax receipt or license is required to be filed with a named official, to whom a ten-dollar filing fee is to be paid, and such
official is required to publish, in certain official newspapers, the
first week in each month, a list of all such tax receipts or
licenses filed during the previous month, such notice to be
published one week in each newspaper.
Upon complaint made before a committing magistrate, for
the county of Grand Forks, State of North Dakota, R. E.
Flaherty, by the name of R. C. Flarty, was held to answer upon
a charge of neglecting t9 register and publish a government
receipt for the payment of an internal revenue tax on the business of a retail dealer in malt liquors. Having been committed
to the custody of the sheriff, Flaherty unsuccessfully made application for a writ of habeas corpus to a judge of a state District Court. Afterwards a similar application was made to the
Supreme Court of the State and the writ was granted by that
court, but, upon hearing, the writ was quashed. State ex rel.
Flaherty v. Hanson, 16 No. Dak. 347. This writ of error was
thereupon prosecuted.
The detention complained of was asserted to be illegal upon
the ground that the law upon which the prosecution was based
was repugnant to the state and Federal Constitutions. We,
of course, have to deal solely with the claim of alleged repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

The law of North Dakota, which we have already summarized, is in the margin.'
The state court was of opinion that the law made the person
An act providing for the publication and registration of special tax
receipts or licenses from the Government of the United States
to sell distilled, malt and fermented liquors, issued to persons in
North Dakota, the payment and collection of registration fees
and publication fees, regulating the posting and exhibiting of
such tax receipts or licenses, prescribing the duties of officials
and owners and lessors of property in relation thereto, prescribing
penalties for failure to perform the duties prescribed and other
regulations pertaining to the sale of intoxicating liquors.
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of North
Dakota:
§ 1. Liquor license. Tax receipt must be registered.-Every receipt, stamp or license showing payment of the special tax levied
under the laws of the United States upon the business of selling
distilled, malt or fermented liquor, issued to or held by any person,
firm or corporation in this state shall be registered and published as
in this act required.
§ 2. Notice to be published. Contains what.-Immediately upon
posting or displaying the special tax receipt or license mentioned in
said section one of this act as required under government regulations,
it shall be the duty of the person in whose name such tax receipt or
license is issued, to cause to be published for three successive weeks
in the official newspaper of the county and for the same period in the
official newspaper of the city, if within an incorporated city, a notice
which shall contain the following information: Name of person to whom
the government tax receipt or license is issued; date of special tax
receipt or license; description of property where said tax receipt or
license is posted, and, if within an incorporated city, the number of
the lot and block and street number and setting forth specifically the
room, building or place where said tax receipt or license is posted;
the name of the owner and the name of the lessor of the property in
which said tax receipt or license is posted. Upon discontinuance of
business or removal of the special tax receipt or license mentioned
in section one of this act to another building or place, a similar notice
containing the information prescribed in this section, shall be published in the same manner as prescribed herein, and setting forth
further the fact of removal, giving date and description of place to
which such removal is made as fully as in the original notice.

FLAHERTY v. HANSON.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

who had paid the special United States tax and taken a receipt
therefor subject to the burdens which the law imposed, wholly
without reference to whether such person so paying the tax
§ 3. Copy of receipt filed with auditor.-It shall be the further duty
of any person to whom a tax receipt or license from the government
of the United States is issued, as mentioned in section one of this act,
to file a duly authenticated copy of the same before 'or immediately
upon posting, if in an incorporated city with the city auditor, otherwise with the county auditor of the county and pay a fee for the filing
thereof of ten dollars, which fee shall be turned into the general fund
of the city or county as the case may be.
§ 4. Auditor publishes list of licenses.-The city auditor, if in an
incorporated city, or county auditor, if not within an incorporated
city. shall be required to publish in the official newspaper of the city
and each of the official newspapers of the county the first week in each
month a list of all such tax receipts or licenses filed during the previous
month, such notice to be published one week in each newspaper.
§ 5. Fees for publication. Copy posted.-The fee for publication
of notices required under this act shall be the same as allowed by law
for publication of other legal notices and the publisher may require
the fee for such publication to be paid in advance. Upon the expiration of the publication required by this act the publisher or manager
of the newspaper in which said notice is published shall make an
affidavit of publication with a copy of the advertisement attached
thereto, together with the copy of notice or advertisement referred
to herein shall be posted and remain posted at all times with the tax
receipt or license referred to in section one of this act.
§ 6. Owner of premises must publish, when. Penalty for failure.In case the person to whom the tax receipt or license referred to in
section one of this act shall be issued, shall fail to cause to be published
the notice required by this act, it shall be the duty of the owner or
lessor of the premises whereon or wherein the tax receipt or license
from the government of the United States referred to in section one
of this act shall be posted, to cause such advertisement to be published as in this act required and if such owner or lessor shall knowingly fail to do so he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 7. Duty of officers.-It shall be the duty of every sheriff, deputy
sheriff, constable, mayor, marshal, police judge and police officer of
any city or town having knowledge of any violation of the provisions
of this act to notify the state's attorney of the fact of such violation
and to furnish him the names of any witnesses within his knowledge

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

and taking the receipt had posted the same, as required by the
laws of the United States, or done any act within the State.
The court said (p. 353):
"The argument of petitioner's counsel to the effect that the
act applies only to those persons who have complied with the
federal statute with reference to posting the receipts for the
payment of such tax is, we think, unsound. While section 2
of the act, when given a literal construction, and without considering the other portions of the act, would appear to sustain
petitioner's contention, in this respect, we think it apparent
that when the whole act is construed together the legislative intent that the same shall apply to all who have paid
the federal tax is apparent and such intent must be given

effect."
Considering the contention that the sole purpose was to
burden the person who imade a payment of a tax to the United
by whom such violation can be proven. If any such officer shall fail
to comply with the provisions of this section he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction, in addition to the punishment
therefor prescribed by law, shall forfeii his office. For failure or neglect of official duty in the enforcement of this act any of the city or
county officers herein referred to may be removed by civil action.
§ 8. Duty of county auditor.-It shall be the duty of the county
auditor of each county to apply to the internal revenue department
of the government of the United States the first week in each month
for a list of all special tax receipts or licenses mentioned in section one
of this act issued to persons within his county, naming the persons,
date and places, and the same shall be immediately published one
week in each of the official newspapers of the county and city. The
cost of procuring such information, upon filing of a duly verified
voucher, shall be paid by the county as other county expenses are
paid.
§ 9. Penalty.-Failure on the part of any person to comply with
the provisions of this act shall constitute a misdemeanor.
§ 10. Emergency.-Whereas, it is desirable that the publicity required by this act shall begin as soon as possible, an emergency exists
and this act shall be in force from and after its passage and approval.
Approved March 13, 1907. (Laws of Nor. Dak., 1907, p. 307.)

FLAHERTY v. HANSON.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States, and thus in effect hinder the making of such payments,
the court said (p. 350):
"Such is not the scope nor intent of the act, as we construe
it; but, on the contrary, the obvious purpose sought to be accomplished by its enactment was to furnish knowledge to the
public and all concerned of the fact that the persons who have
paid such tax to the government are or may become engaged
in the business of selling intoxicating liquors contrary to the
laws of this state. Its purpose, in other words, was solely to
furnish knowledge to aid in the enforcement of our statute
against the unlawful traffic in intoxicating liquors.
"The legislature, in enacting this law, merely did what it
had the unquestioned right to do under the police power of the
state. Such power is very broad and it is limited only by the
constitution and laws of the United States and the constitution of this state. That the legislature has the right, within
the police power of the state, to provide that the possession of
an internal revenue tax receipt for the payment of the government tax upon the occupation of retail dealer in fermented and
distilled liquors shall constitute primafacie evidence that the
possessor is violating, or has violated the prohibition law of the
state, is too well settled to admit of serious doubt. 23 Cyc.
255, and cases cited. Yet such a law is no less fr ee from the
objection urged by petitioner's counsel than is the act in question. If such a law is constitutional, then why cannot the
legislature also enact a law making it a public offense for any
citizen of the state to procure such a receipt and neglect or refuse to furnish a public record thereof, and to give the most
complete publicity to the fact of its issuance? Such a law
would certainly have a tendency to aid in the better enforcement of the law against such illegal traffic, and we are aware
of no provision, either in the federal Constitution or statutes
or in the constitution of the state, which directly or impliedly
prohibits such legislation."
As thus interpreted, the law was held not to be repugnant to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opiuion of tie Court.

215 U. S.

the Constitution of the United States, and to be but a lawful
exercise of the police power of the State to regulate the traffic
in liquor within the State.
The errors assigned insist that the statute, as thus construed, is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States:
First, because, under the guise of the exertion of the police
power of the State, the law really imposes a burden directly
upon the exertion by the Government of the United States of
its lawful power of taxation, and because, even if this be not
the case, the conditions and requirements of the statute are so
in conflict with the act of Congress concerning the payment of
the tax and the issuance of the receipt as to amount to a direct
burden upon the constitutional power of Congress to tax.
The propositions, which are in substance one and the same,
we think are well founded. Under the construction placed
upon the statute by the court below we see no escape from the
conclusion that it immediately and directly places a burden
upon the lawful taxing power of the United States, or, what is
equivalent thereto, places the burden upon the person who
pays the United States tax, solely because of the payment of
such tax and wholly without reference to the doing by the person of any act within the State which is subject to the regulating authority of the State. That the attempted exertion
of such a power is repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States is so elementary as to require nothing but statement.
We place in the margin,I however, a few of the numerous cases
in which the principle has been announced or recognized.
'M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405, 406, 436; Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Osborne v. Bank o/ United States, 9 Wheat. 738;
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 448, 449; Willson v. Blackbird
Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245, 251; The License Cases, 5 How. 504,
573, 574, 579; Sinnott v. Davenport, 22 How. .227; Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 584; Davis v. Elmira Savings Bank,
161 U. S. 275, 283; Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S.
613, 625, 626; Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664,
667; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 59; Plummer v. Coler, 178
U. S. 115, 117; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 151.

FLAHERTY v. HANSON.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But if the mere form in which the burdens imposed by the
statute be disregarded and their essence be considered, nevertheless we are of the opinion that the statute must be held to be
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. This follows, because it is clear that in principle a State may not so
exert its police power as to directly hamper or destroy a lawful
authority of the Government of the United States. Here,
again, the doctrine is elementary, and finds clear and consistent expression in the cases previously cited. Its potentiality, however, as applied to the case in hand, is so pointedly
illustrated by the case of United States v. Snyder, 149 U. S.210,
that we briefly refer to that decision. In that case a Circuit
Court of the United States had refused to enforce, in favor of
the United States, a lien upon real estate for taxes under the
internal revenue laws, on the ground that the lien, or assessment for the tax, had not been recorded in the mortgage
records for the parish of Orleans, where the real estate in question was situated, as required by the laws of Louisiaaa, and
that the proceeding to enforce the lien had not been brought
within the period fixed by the state law. The Circuit Court,
therefore, in effect, had held that it was in the power of the
State to burden, control or regulate the right of the United
States to assess and collect taxes under its constitutional power
of taxation. In deciding that this view was unsound it was
said (p. 214):
"The power of taxation has always been regarded as a
necessary and indispensable incident of sovereignty. A government that cannot by self-administered methods, collect
from its subjects the means necessary to support and maintain
itself in the execution of its functions is a government merely
in name. If the United States, proceeding in one of their own
courts, in the collection of a tax admitted to be legitimate,
can be thwarted by the plea of a state statute prescribing that
such a tax must be assessed and recorded under state regulation, and limiting the time within which such tax shall be a
lien, it would follow that the potential existence of the gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S:

ernment of the United States is at the mercy of state legislation.
"Moreover, it scarcely seems necessary to look beyond the
Constitution itself for a decisive reply to the question we are
now considering. The 8th section of the 1st article declares
that 'the Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts and excises, . . . but all duties, imposts
and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States.'
The power to impose and collect the public burthens is here
given in terms as absolute as the language affords. The provision exacting uniformity throughout the United States itself
imports a system of assessment and collection under the exclusive control of the general government. And both the grant
of the power and its limitation are wholly inconsistent with the
proposition that, the States can by legislation interfere with
the assessment of Federal taxes, or set up a limitation of time
within which they must be collected."
Undoubtedly, as suggested by the court below, there are decisions of state courts holding that in a proceeding to enforce
a penalty or to punish for a violation of a state law as to the
sale of liquor the payment of the special United States tax and
taking of a receipt therefor by the defendant may be offered
in evidence, and creates a primafacie presumption that the
person paying the tax and holding the receipt was engaged in
the business of selling liquor. Without in anywise intimating
an opinion as to the soundness of the decisions thus referred
to, and assuming only for the purpose of the argument their
correctness, we yet fail to see how in any respect they can be
considered persuasive as to the compatibility of the statute
here under consideration with the Constitution of the United
States.
Nor is there merit in the contention that the cases of Allen
v. Riley, 203 U. S. 347; Woods v. Carl, 203 U. S. 358, and
Ozan Lumber Company v. Union County Bank, 207 U. S. 251,
tend to support the proposition that the statute in question
was a valid exercise of the police power of the State and not a

BRILL v. WASHINGTON RY. & ELECTRIC CO. 527
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

direct burden upon the taxing power of the Government of the
United States. In the cases relied upon it was but held that
certain state statutes regulating the sale within a State of
patent rights or patented articles were valid because but a
reasonable exertion of the police powers of the State over acts
done in the State, and were hence not inconsistent with the
legislation of Congress over the subject. But that, as we have
stated, is not the character of the legislation here involved.
Indeed, testing the provision of the law under consideration
by the criterion of reasonableness which was applied in the
cases relied upon, it becomes manifest that the act here in
question is directly antagonistic to the legislation of Congress
concerning the subject with which the state statute deals,
since that statute adds onerous burdens and conditions in addition to those for which the act of Congress provides, and
which burdens are, therefore, inconsistent with the paramount
right of Congress to exert, within the limits of the Constitution,
an untrammelled power of taxation.
Reversed and remanded.
THE. CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA
TICE HOLEs dissent.

BRIL v. WASHINGTON

RAILWAY

and MR. JUS-

AND ELECTRIC

COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 66.

Argued December 10, 13, 1909.-Decided January 17, 1910.

Where a decree to which he is privy has established the right of a

manufacturer to sell an article, there is force in the argument that
such right should be recognized in another suit against his customer

and defended by him. Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285.
Devices used in connection with steam railway cars are not patentable

