GRAVES v. ASHBURN.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

of the roadbed and the negligence of the conductor were so
entirely without foundation as to warrant the conclusion that
the local corporation and the conductor were fraudulently
joined to avoid the Federal jurisdiction. Indeed, it is to be
noted in this connection that at the close of the evidence
the trial court directed a verdict in favor of the local corporation and the conductor. It is true that the right to remove
depends upon the allegations of the petition, but the course
of the case in the state court is an illustration of the possible
result of an investigation of the truth of the allegations of
the petition for removal.
I therefore reach the conclusion that, upon the face of the
petition for removal, there were allegations which ended the
jurisdiction of the state court, and a sufficient statement of
facts to enable the Federal court to investigate the truthfulness thereof with a view to determine whether they were so
false and fictitious as to show that they were made with a
view to prevent the removal to the United States court.
In my opinion the judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

concurs in this dissent.

GRAVES v. ASHBURN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued December 7, 1909.-Decided December 20, 1909.

Where the remedy at law is of doubtful adequacy and the policy of
the State is clearly indicated for the protection of an important
industry, equity may interfere, although under different circumstances an injunction might be denied; and so held as to an injunction against cutting or boxing timber on pine lands in Georgia.
Possession of unenclosed woodland in natural condition is a fiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

of law rather than a possible fact, and can reasonably be assumed
to follow the title; and, in this case, held that a suit in equity could
be maintained to remove cloud on title and cancel a fraudulent
deed of timber lands in Georgia notwithstanding there was no
allegation of possession.
A suit in equity may be maintained to cancel a deed improperly given
where the invalidity does not appear on its face, and under which
by.the state law, as in Georgia, possession might give a title.
The fact that the defendant has, during the pendency of an equity
action to set aside a deed, continued to waste the property does not
destroy the jurisdiction of the court; the bill may be retained and
damages assessed.
The objection of multifariousness is one of inconvenience, and, after
trial, where the objection was not sustained by the lower court
and defendants did not stand upon their demurrer setting it up,
it will not prevail in this court in a case where the bill charged a
conspiracy between several trespassers whose trespasses extended
over contiguous lots treated as one.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Marion Erwin, with whom Mr. William J. Wallace
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Alfred R. Kline and Mr. Robert L. Shipp for respondents.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the petitioners against
H. T. Crawford, W. W. Ashburn, now represented by his
executrix, his lessees, and, originally, against other defendants who have been disposed of and are not before us. The
petitioners show title in themselves, derived from the State,
to four nearly square lots of land, of about 490 acres each,
contiguous to each other and making one large square in the
Eighth District of Colquitt County, Georgia. The right hand
upper square upon the map is numbered 353, the left hand
upper square, 354, the left hand lower, 383, and the right
hand lower, 384. This land had upon it pine woods valuable

GRAVES v. ASHBURN.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for timber and turpentine. The bill alleges that the petitioners being residents of New York employed a firm of
lawyers to look after the same; that by a breach of trust and
without title or authority a deed was made on behalf of the
firm purporting to convey the north half of lot 353 to the
defendant Ashburn; that he had notice of the want of title,
but nevertheless let the timber privileges to another defendant, and that the latter was about to cut the timber and
had already boxed the trees and taken turpentine from other
portions of the same lot. In pursuance of the same general
fraudulent plan another voidable or void conveyance was
made to Crawford of lot 383, and thereafter Crawford began
to box the trees on that lot and to carry away the turpentine.
Further particulars are not necessary here. The bill sought
an injunction against boxing the trees, carrying away turpentine, or cutting timber, and a cancellation of the fraudulent deeds.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill against Crawford, on
the ground that the plaintiffs had a complete remedy at law,
and it did not pass on the title to lot 383 and the south half
of 353. It declared the plaintiffs' title to lots 354, 384 and
the north half of 353, and granted the relief prayed in respect
of them against Ashburn and others. There were cross appeals, and the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the bill,
concurring with the Circuit Court as to Crawford, and holding, with regard to Ashburn, that so far as the cloud upon the
title was concerned it did not appear sufficiently, from the
bill, that the plaintiffs were in possession, and if they were,
the deed to Ashburn did not constitute a cloud. As to the
cutting of trees, it was held that the remedy at law was complete.
We shall deal first with the last ground of decision, which
involves a difference of opinion between different Circuit
Courts of Appeals. It is assumed, as was found by the Circuit Court, that the plaintiffs' title was made out and that
the defendant is or may be responsible for the wrong. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant is responsible we are of opinion that an injunction
ought to issue. The industry concerned is so important to
the State of Georgia and the remedy in damages is of such
doubtful adequacy that equity properly may intervene, although in different circumstances an injunction against cutting ordinary timber might be denied. The policy of the
State is indicated by ยง 4927 of the Civil Code, 1895, continuing earlier acts.

"In all applications

.

.

.

to enjoin the

cutting of timber or boxing or otherwise working the same
for turpentine purposes, it shall not be necessary to aver or'
prove insolvency, or that the damages will be irreparable.
Although in form addressed to procedure this implies a
principle grounded upon a view of public policy. See Camp
v. Dixon, 112 Georgia, 872. Gray Lumber Co. v. Gaskin, 122
Georgia, 342. The same result has been reached apart from
statute by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
and in other cases. Peck v. Ayres & Lord Tie Co., 116 Fed.
Rep. 273. United States v. Guglard, 79 Fed. Rep. 21. King v.
Stuart, 84 Fed. Rep. 546. Whatever the ultimate disposition
of the case a final decree should not be entered until the evidence has been considered in the light of the rule that we lay
down. We leave the further consideration to the court below.
As the case is before us, it is proper to add that we perceive
no sufficient reason in the grounds stated for denying a cancellation of the deed to Ashburn. The first of these grounds
is that the plaintiffs do not allege that they are in possession
of the land concerned. We infer that the premises, or the
greater part of them, are woodland, not enclosed by fences',
but in their original natural condition. If so, then possession
is a fiction of law rather than a possible fact, and it would
be reasonable to assume that possession remains with the
title. Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229. Georgia Code, ยง 3878.
We may say more broadly, and without qualifying Lawson
v. United States Mining Co., 207 U. S. 1, 9, that in view of
the statute, the relief, in case of such lands, should not be
made to depend upon shadowy distinctions, according to the

GRAVES v. ASHBURN.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

greater or less extent of the trespasses committed. See Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15. Simmons Creek Coal Co. v.
Doran, 142 U. S. 417, 449. It has been intimated by the
Georgia court that relief would be granted, irrespective of
possession. Pierce v. Middle Georgia Land & Lumber Co.,
131 Georgia, 99. Griffin v. Sketoe, 30 Georgia, 300. See also
Sharon v. Tucker, 144 U. S. 533, 536, 543. The other ground
mentioned is that if Ashburn should sue, his deed would not
enable him to recover. But in any case proper for relief the
deed does not convey a good title. It is enough that the
invalidity does not appear upon its face, but rests partly on
matter in pais, and that possession under it for seven years
might give a title by the Georgia Code, ยง 3589, embodying
earlier statutes.
The fact that Crawford during the pendency of the suit
had cut the trees on a portion of the land did not destroy the
jurisdiction of the court. If that or the other grounds that
we have mentioned were the reasons for dismissing the bill
as to him, it should be retained and damages assessed. Milkman v. Ordway, 106 Massachusetts, 232, 253. If different
facts from those that we have discussed were found to exist
it does not appear.
It is urged that the bill is multifarious. But it charges a
conspiracy between the several trespassers, and trespasses
extending over the greater part of the four contiguous lots
treated as one. The objection of multifariousness is an
objection of inconvenience. The defendants did not stand
upon their demurrers setting it up. There has been a trial
after long delay. In view of the evidence and the fact that
the objection did not prevail with the lower courts, we are
of opinion that it should not prevail now. While the decree
must be reversed, our decision is without prejudice to any
finding upon the facts consistent with the rules that we have
laid down.
Decree reversed and case remitted to the Circuit Court for
further proceedings.

