OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

do not think
the Comptroller is within the words "any agent," and dissent from that ruling. In other respects they concur.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNAand MR. JUSTICE DAY

LATHROP, SHEA & HENWOOD COMPANY v. INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.
.ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 2.

Argued October 22, 1909.-Decided December 6, 1909.

Where plaintiff in good faith insists on the joint liability of all the
defendants until the close of the trial, the dismissal of the complaint
on the merits as to the defendants who are citizens of plaintiff's
State does not operate to make the cause then removable as to nonresident defendants and to prevent the plaintiff from taking a verdict
against the defendants who might have removed the cause had they
been sued alone, or if there had originally been a separable controversy as to them.
THE facts, which involve the validity of the removal
cause to the Federal court, are stated in the opinion.

of a

Mr. Clarence M. Bushnell for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. Walter Artz for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
The parties were respectively plaintiff and defendant in

the court below, and we shall so designate them.
The plaintiff brought suit against the defendant and the
Pittsburg, Shawmont and Northern Railroad Company in
the Supreme Court of Erie County, New York, for the sum

LATHROP, SHEA & CO. v. INTERIOR CONSTR'N CO. 247
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of $43,038.88, upon a contract entered into between the defendant, the Interior Construction and Improvement Company, and the plaintiff, by which the Construction Company
agreed to construct certain portions in Pennsylvania and New
York of the line of the railroad company, and for materials
and the use of certain articles by the railroad. It is alleged
in the petition of the plaintiff that the railroad company was
organized by the consolidation of other railroad companies,
and for the purpose of carrying out the plans of such consolidation undertook the construction of a railroad from certain
points in Pennsylvania to the village of Angelica in the State
of New York. That in pursuance of this purpose the railroad
company entered into a contract with the Construction Company, and in payment for the construction of the railroad
agreed to issue and did issue to the company its stocks and
bonds, which were largely in excess of cost of construction.
That the Construction Company was organized solely for the
purpose of building the railroad and to secure to the promoters
and organizers thereof the profits to be made by the construction of the railroad and the manipulation of securities. That
the officers, directors and owners of the majority of the capital
stock of the railroad had like relation to the Construction
Company and the management of the latter was controlled
by them. And it is averred that the Construction Company
was the agent and representative of the railroad company,
and that the latter became and is responsible and liable for
the acts and obligations of the Construction Company. Due
performance by plaintiff of its contract is alleged.
It is further alleged that the railroad company is a New
York corporation and the Construction Company is a New
Jersey corporation.
There was personal service of the summons on the railroad company on the twenty-fourth of October, 1904. That
company appeared and answered. The service upon the
Construction Company was made on the sixteenth of November, 1904, by serving the summons on the secretary of state

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

of the State of New York. The Construction Company made
a motion to set aside the service of summons on the ground
that it was irregular and void. The company made no other
appearance. The motion was denied, and appeal was taken
to the Appellate Division of the court. That court affirmed
the ruling, and denied leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals.
The Construction Company's time to answer was extended
to February 6, 1905, and, upon motion of the company, the
case was removed to the United States Circuit Court on the
ground of a separable controversy, but was subsequently remanded upon motion of the plaintiff. The motion to set
aside the service of summons was denied. Lathrop, Shea &
Henwood Co. v. Interior Construction & Improvement Co.,
135 Fed. Rep. 619. Upon the return of the case to the state
court, a motion was made by the Construction Company to
extend its time to appear and answer in the action until
twenty days after the determination of the motion then pending, made in behalf of the railroad company, to compel the
plaintiff to elect which defendant it would proceed against,
to the exclusion of the other. The motion was denied, also
that made by the railroad company. The referee to whom
the issues raised by the railroad company had been referred,
to hear and determine, reported dismissing the complaint
as to that company, and judgment thereon was entered on
the twenty-sixth of October, 1905. The judgment was affirmed by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court. But,
pending the appeal, upon motion of the Construction Company the case was removed to the Circuit Court, but that
court remanded 'the case, saying that "until the determination of the appeal by the co-defendant, in the absence of fraud
or improper joinder of defendants for the purpose of interfering with or obstructing the Construction Company's right of
removal, it is not thought that a separable controversy exists." Lathrop, Shea & Henwood Co. v. Interior Construction
& Improvement Co., 143 Fed. Rep. 687.
On the'twenty-third of September, 1905, an affidavit of the

LATHROP, SHEA & CO. v. INTERIOR CONSTR'N CO. 249
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

I

default of the Construction Company having been filed, an
order was made in the Supreme Court, reciting the fact, and
the facts showing such default, and appointing a referee "to
take proofs of the cause of action set forth in the plaintiff's
complaint." The referee reported that there was due plaintiff the' sum of $47,323.91. The report was confirmed and
judgment entered for that amount.
Subsequently, the Appellate Division having sustained the
judgment dismissing the action as to the railroad company,
the case was again, on the motion of the company, removed
to the Circuit Court and a motion made in that court to set
aside the service of summons on the Construction Company
and to vacate the judgment. Concurrently with that motion
plaintiff moved to remand the case to the state court. The
motion of the Construction Company was granted and the
action dismissed for want of jurisdiction over the company.
Lathrop, Shea & Henwood Co. v. Interior Construction &
Improvement Co., 150 Fed. Rep. 666.
The motion was granted on the ground that the facts
showed that the company had ceased to do business in the
State and held no property therein.
It will be seen that a question of jurisdiction alone is presented, the Circuit Court certifying "that no evidence was
introduced upon the hearing of the motion, the issues being:
"I. Whether this court had obtained jurisdiction over this
defendant by the service of a summons upon the secretary
of state of the State of New York as provided by section 16
of the General Corporation Law of said State of New York.
"II. Whether the proceedings in and the decisions of the
courts of the State of New York construing said corporation
law were controlling upon this court.
"III. Whether the proceedings taken by said defendant
in said state court are res adjudicataupon defendant."
But there is a question of jurisdiction paramount to that
passed on by the Circuit"Court. It will be observed that the
action against the railroad company was not dismissed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

plaintiff, but, against its contention, by the Supreme Court
of the State, whose judgment was affirmed, also against its
contention, by the Appellate Division of that court. This
did not take jurisdiction from the state court to proceed
against the Construction Company nor make the judgment
against it invalid.
It was held in Powers v. C. & 0. Ry., 169 U. S. 92, that a
case may become removable after the time 'prescribed by
statute, upon the ground of a separate controversy upon the
subsequent discontinuance of the action by the plaintiff
against the defendants, citizens of the same State with the
plaintiff. In Whitcomb v. Smithson, 175 U. S. 635, 637, the
Powers case was commented on, and a different effect was
ascribed to a ruling of the court dismissing the action as to
one of the defendants than to a discontinuance by the.voluntary act of the plaintiff. The action was against Whitcomb
and another who were receivers of the Wisconsin Central
Company and the Chicago Great Western Railway Company
for personal injuries received by Smithson while serving the
Chicago Great Western Railway Company as a locomotive
fireman in a collision between the locomotive on which he
was at work and another locomotive operated by the receivers appointed by United States Circuit Court. The case
came to trial, and at the close of the testimony counsel for
the Chicago Great Western Railway Company moved that
the jury be "instructed to return a verdict in behalf of that
defendant," which motion the court granted. An application was then made by the receivers to remove the case to the
Circuit Court of the United States, which was denied. The
court instructed the jury to return a verdict for the railway
company, which was done, and thereupon the case went to
the jury, who returned a verdict against the receivers, upon
which judgment was entered. The judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, to which a writ of error
was issued from this court. Passing on motions to dismiss or
affirm and answering the contention of the receivers that they

LATHROP, SHEA & CO. v. INTERIOR CONSTR'N CO. 251
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

acquired the right of removal as though they were the sole
defendants, when the court directed a verdict in favor of the
railway company, this court said by the Chief Justice: "This
might have been so if when the cause was called for trial in
the state court, plaintiff had discontinued his action against
the railway company, and thereby elected to prosecute it
against the receivers solely, instead of prosecuting it on the
joint cause of action set up in the complaint against all of the
defendants. Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway, 169 U. S.
92. But that is not this case. The joint liability was insisted
on here to the close of the trial, and the non-liability of the
railway company was ruled in invitum. . . . This was
a ruling on the merits, and not a ruling on the question of
jurisdiction. It was adverse to plaintiff, and without his
assent, and the trial court rightly held that it did not operate
to 'make the cause then removable, and thereby to enable
the other defendants to prevent plaintiff from taking a verdict against them."
The Whitcomb case and the Powers case are commented on
and impliedly approved in Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
Dixon, 179 U. S. 131, 138. And again in Kansas City Suburban Belt Ry. Co. v. Herman, 187 U. S. 63; Fritzlen v. Boatmen's
Bank, 212 U. S. 364, 372. See also Alabama Great Southern
Ry. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206.
It follows from these views that the order of the Circuit
Court setting aside the service of the summons on the Construction Company and vacating the judgment against it and
dismissing the action must be
Reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to grant the
motion of plaintiff to remand the case to the Supreme Court
of the State of New York. So ordered.

