OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

as to the issues made. We concur with the Court of Appeals
of New York in holding that as the Probate Court had jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter, its judgment,
rendered after hearing, that the plaintiff was not entitled to
the relief demanded by her and that her petition be dismissed,
it must be taken, upon the record of this case, that the latter
court determined against the plaintiff the fact of her being
the wife of the defendant at the time she sought separate
maintenance and support.
It is doubtful whether the plaintiff, in her pleadings or
otherwise, sufficiently asserted any right belonging to her
under the Constitution of the United States. But if it were
assumed that she did, the result, even upon that hypothesis,
is that, upon the present showing by the plaintiff, there is no
substantial ground to contend that the court below did not
give such faith and credit to the judgment of the Probate
Court of Massachusetts as were required by the Constitution,
and, therefore, this court has no authority to review the final
judgment of the New York court. The writ of error must be
dismissed.
It is so ordered.
BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
ON

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 339.

Argued October 15, 18, 1909.-Decided December 6, 1909.

Only distinct points of law that can be distinctly answered without
regard to other issues can be certified to this court on division of
opinion: the whole case cannot be certified even when its decision
turns upon matter of law only.
Appellate jurisdiction implies the determination of the case by an
inferior court, and the transfer of the case to the appellate court
without such determination amounts to giving the appellate court
original jurisdiction.

B. & 0. R. R. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM.
215 U. S.

217

Statement of the Case.

Congress cannot extend the original jurisdiction of this court beyond
that prescribed by the Constitution; and an act providing for
certifying questions of law will not be construed as permitting
certification of the entire case before any judgment has been rendered below.
Under § 1 of the expediting act of February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat.
823, the case, although turning only on a point of law cannot be
certified to this court, in absence of any judgment, opinion, decision, or order determinative of the case below.

THIS was a bill in equity filed by the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Maryland against the Interstate Commerce Commission, July 20, 1908, which prayed for a preliminary injunction and a final decree enjoining, annulling
and suspending a certain order of the commission served
June 24, 1908, in a proceeding before the commission entitled
"Rail and River Coal Company vs. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company."
On July 27, 1908, the Attorney-General, in compliance
with § 16 of the act to regulate commerce, as amended by
the act of June 29, 1906, filed in the court the certificate of
general public importance under the expedition act of February 11, 1903. In accordance with the provisions of the
act of February 11, 1903, the two Circuit Judges, by order
filed August 26, 1908, designated the Honorable Thomas J.
Morris, District Judge for the District of Maryland, to sit

with them on the hearing and disposition of the case.
The application for the preliminary injunction was set for
hearing September 22, 1908. Defendant's answer was filed
September 19, 1908. By order entered September 23, 1908,
the application for the preliminary injunction was denied.
Replication was filed and testimony taken, and, there being no substantial dispute as to the facts, Mr. Arthur Hale,
complainant's general superintendent of transportation, and
also chairman of the car efficiency committee of the Americar
Railway Association, was able to testify as to all matters

OCTOIEA Tfl;Ml,M1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

that counsel deemed necessary to bring to the court's attention, and was the only witness.
December 14, 1908, the cause came on for final hearing,
and was argued before the two Circuit Judges and the District Judge designated by them. No final decree or judgment was entered, but the presiding judge entered the following order:
"This cause came on this day to be further heard, and was
argued by counsel, and the court having fully considered
the bill, answer, deposition and other papers filed herein,
the judges sitting finding themselves divided in opinion as
to the decree that should be entered herein,
"It is now ordered, that in accordance with the act of
Congress applicable hereto, that this case be certified for
review to the Supreme Court of the United States.
"December 14, 1908."
The cause was docketed in this court and the transcript
of record filed January 25, 1909, as "On a. certificate from
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland."
The act of Congress of February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat.
823, contains two sections, as follows:
"(1) That in any suit in equity pending or hereafter
brought in any Circuit Court of the United States under the
act entitled 'An act to protect trade and commerce against
unlawful restraints and monopolies,' approved July second,
eighteen hundred and ninety, 'An act to regulate commerce,'
approved February fourth, eighteen hundred and eightyseven, or any other acts having a like purpose that hereafter
may be enacted wherein the United States is complainant,
the Attorney-General may file with the clerk of such court
a certificate that, in his opinion, the case is of general public
importance, a copy of which shall be immediately furnished
by such clerk to each of the circuit judges of the circuit in
which the case is pending. Thereupon such case shall be
given precedence over others and in every way expedited,

B. & 0. R. R. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 219
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and be assigned for hearing at the earliest practicable day,
before not less than three of the circuit judges of said circuit, if there be three or more; and if there be not more than
two circuit judges, then before them and such district judge
as they may select. In .the event the judges sitting in such
case shall be divided in opinion, the case shall be certified
to the Supreme Court for review in like manner as if taken
there by appeal as hereinafter provided.
"SEC. 2. That in every suit in equity pending or hereafter
brought in any Circuit Court of the United States under any
of said acts, wherein the United States is complainant, including cases submitted but not yet decided, an appeal from
the final decree of the Circuit Court will lie only to the Supreme Court and must be taken within sixty days from the
entry thereof: Provided, That in any case where an appeal
may have been taken from the final decree of the Circuit
Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals before this act takes
effect, the case shall proceed to a final decree therein, and an
appeal may be taken from such decree to the Supreme Court
in the manner now provided by law."
Section 16 of the Hepburn Act, so called, of June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 592, provides:
"The venue of suits brought in any of the Circuit Courts
of the United States against the commission to enjoin, set
aside, annul, or suspend any order or requirement of the
commission shall be in the district where the carrier against
whom such order or requirement may have been made has
its principal operating office, and may be brought at any'
time after such order is promulgated.
"The provisions of 'An act to expedite the hearing and
determination of suits in equity, and so forth,' approved
February eleventh, nineteen hundred and three, shall be,
and are hereby, made applicable to all such suits, including
the hearing on an application for a preliminary injunction,
and are also made applicable to any proceeding in equity to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

enforce any order or requirement of the commission, or any
of the provisions of the act to regulate commerce, approved
February fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, and
all acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto. It shall
be the duty of the Attorney-General in every such case to file
the certificate provided for in said expediting act of February eleventh, nineteen hundred and three, as necessary to
the application of the provisions thereof, and upon appeal
as therein authorized to the Supreme Court of the United
States, the case shall have in such court priority in hearing
and determination over all other causes except criminal
causes.

.

.

.

An appeal may be taken from any inter-

locutory order or decree granting or continuing an injunction
in any suit, but shall lie only to the Supreme Court of the
United States: Provided further, That the appeal must be
taken within thirty days from the entry of such order or
decree and it shall take precedence in the appellate court
over all other causes, except causes of like character and criminal causes."
Mr. W. Irvine Cross and Mr. Hugh L. Bond, Jr., with
whom Mr. W. Ainsworth Parker was on the brief, for the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Assistant to the Attorney-General, with
whom Mr. Luther M. Walter and Mr. Orla E. Harrison,
Special Assistants to the Attorney-General, were on the brief,
for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

By the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, a review by certificate is limited to the certificate or its equivalent by the Circuit Courts, made after final judgment, of the question, when
raised, of their jurisdiction as courts of the United States,

B. & 0. R. R. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM.
215 U. S.

221

Opinion of the Court.

and to the certificate by the Circuit Courts of Appeal of
questions of law in relation to which the advice of this court
is sought as therein provided, which certificates are governed
by the same rules as were formerly applied to certificates of
division. United States v. Rider, 163 U. S. 132; The Paquete
Habana, 175 U. S. 677, 684; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railway Company v. Williams, 205 U. S. 444. And it has
been established by repeated decisions that questions certified to this court upon a division of opinion must be distinct
points of law clearly stated so that they can be distinctly
answered without regard to other issues of law or of fact;
and not questions of fact or of mixed law and fact involving
inferences of fact from particular facts stated in the certificates; nor yet the whole case even if divided into several
points. Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S. 426, 433.
And finally it has been settled that the whole case, even"
when its decision turns upon matter of law only, cannot
be sent here by certificate of division.
In White v. Turk, 12 Pet. 238, it was said: "The certificate
of the judges, in this case, leaves no doubt that the whole
cause was submitted to the Circuit Court, by the motion to
set aside the judgment on the bond. And, had the court
agreed in opinion, and rendered a judgment upon the points
submitted; it would have been conclusive of the whole matter
in controversy between the parties. This certificate, therefore, brings the whole cause before this Court; and, if we were
to decide the questions presented, it would, in effect, be the
exercise of original, rather than appellate jurisdiction." This
practice was declared irregular by Chief Justice Taney in Webster v. Cooper, 10 How. 54, and the Chief Justice added that it
"would, if sanctioned, convert this court into one of original
jurisdiction in questions of law, instead of being, as the Constitution intended it to be, an appellate court to revise the
So Mr. Justice Miller, in
decisions of inferior tribunals."
United States v. Perrin,131 U. S.55, 58, said:
"But it never was designed that, because a case is a trouble-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

some one, or is a new one, and because the judges trying the
case may not be perfectly satisfied as regards all the points
raised in the course of the trial, the whole matter shall be
referred to this court for its decision in advance of the regular trial, or that, in any event the whole case shall be thus
brought before this court.
"Such a system converts the Supreme Court into a nisi
prius trial court; whereas, even in cases which come here for
review in the ordinary course of judicial proceeding, we are
always and only an appellate court, except in the limited
class of cases where the court has original jurisdiction."
Without discussing the evolution of the use of certificates
reference to the legislation given below may be profitable.1
'Section 6 of the "Act to amend the judicial system of the United
States," April 29, 1802, c. 31, 2 Stat. 156, 159, provided:
"That whenever any question shall occur before a Circuit Court,
upon which the opinions of the judges shall be opposed, the point upon
which the disagreement shall happen, shall, during the same term,
upon the request of either party, or their counsel, be stated under the
direction of the judges, and certified under the seal of the court, to
the Supreme Court, at their next session to be held thereafter; and
shall, by the said court, be finally decided. And the decision of the
Supreme Court, and their order in the premises, shall be remitted
to the Circuit Court, and be there entered of record, and shall have
effect according to the nature of the said judgment and order: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall prevent the cause from
proceeding, if, in the opinion of the court, further proceedings can be
had without prejudice to the merits. . ."
This act was superseded by that of June 1, 1872, c. 255, 17 Stat.
196, which provided:
"That whenever, in any suit or proceeding in a Circuit Court of
the United States, being held by a justice of the Supreme Court and
the circuit judge or a district judge, or by the circuit judge and a
district judge, there shall occur any difference of opinion between the
judges as to any matter or thing to be decided, ruled, or ordered by
the court, the opinion of the presiding justice or the presiding judge
shall prevail, and be considered the opinion of the court for the time
being; but when a final judgment, decree, or order in such suit or
proceeding shall be entered, if said judges shall certify, as it shall be

B. & 0. R. R. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM.
215 U. S.

223

Opinion of the Court.

In the present case no final judgment or decree or order
determinative of the merits was rendered, but the court ordered "that this case be certified for review to the Supreme
Court of the United States," and that "a transcript of the
record and proceedings of the cause aforesaid, together with
all things thereunto relating, be transmitted to the said
Supreme Court of the United States; and the same is transmitted accordingly."
The act of Congress of February 11, 1903, provided in its
first section that on the certificate of the Attorney-General
the case should be assigned for hearing before not less than
their duty to do if such be the fact, that they differed in opinion as to
any question which, under the act of Congress of April twenty-ninth,
eighteen hundred and two, might have been reviewed by the Supreme
Court on certificate of difference of opinion, then either party may
remove said final judgment, decree, or order to the Supreme Court,
on writ of error or appeal, according to the nature of the case, and
subject to the provisions of law applicable to other writs of error or
appeals in regard to bail and supersedeas."
That was carried forward in 1874, by §§ 650, 652, 654, 693 and 697
of the Revised Statutes. Section 6 of the Judiciary Act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828, provided:
"SEc. 6. . . . Excepting that in every such subject within
its appellate jurisdiction the Circuit Court of Appeals at any time may
certify to the Supreme Court of the United States any questions or
propositions of law concerning which it desires the instruction of that
court for its proper decision.
"And thereupon the Supreme Court may either give its instruction
on the questions and propositions certified to it, which shall be binding upon the Circuit Courts of Appeals in such case, or it may require
that the whole record and cause may be sent up to it for its consideration, and thereupon shall decide the whole matter in controversy in
the same manner as if it had been brought there for review by writ of
error or appeal.
"And excepting also that in any such case as is hereinbefore made
final in the Circuit Court of Appeals it shall be competent for the
Supreme Court to require, by certiorari or otherwise, any such case
to be certified to the Supreme Court for its review and determination
with the same power and authority in the case as if it it had been
carried by appeal or writ of error to the Supreme Court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

three judges, and that "in the event the judges sitting in
such case shall be divided in opinion, the case shall be certified to the Supreme Court for review in like manner as if
taken there by appeal as hereinafter provided." The order
of the Circuit Court pursues the language of this provision
and attempts to send up the whole case to be determined by
this court. This invokes the exercise of original jurisdiction,
and cannot be sustained.
In a note to United States v. Ferreira, 13 How. 40, 52,
which was inserted by order of the court, the Chief Justice
states the substance of the case of the United States v. Yale
Todd, which was decided in February, 1794, but not printed,
as there was at that time no official reporter. This note thus
concludes:
"In the early days of the Government, the right of Congress to give original jurisdiction to the Supreme Court, in
cases not enumerated in the Constitution, was maintained
by many jurists, and seems to have been entertained by the
learned judges who decided Todd's case. But discussion
and more mature examination has settled the question otherwise; and it has long been the established doctrine, and we
believe now assented to by all who have examined the subject, that the original jurisdiction of this court is confined
to the cases specified in the Constitution, and that Congress cannot enlarge it. In all other cases its power must be
appellate."
Such is the settled rule, and it is inadmissible to suppose
that it was the intention' of Congress to run counter to it.
Ordinarily in the Federal courts, in the absence of express
statutory authority, no appeal can be taken or writ of error
brought except from a final decree or to a final judgment.
McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661, 665; Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How.
201, 205. There is no final judgment or decree in this case,
nor any judicial determination from which an appeal would
lie. The Alicia, 7 Wall. 571, is in point. In that case it appeared that on the ninth day of January, 1863, a decree of

B. & 0. R. R. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM.
215 U. S.

225

Opinion of the Court.

condemnation had been entered in the District Court against
the Alicia and her cargo for violation of the blockade. From
this decree an appeal was allowed and taken to the Circuit
Court; and on the eighteenth of May, 1867, an order was
made in that court on the application of the parties in interest-there being at this time, in the Circuit Court, no order,
judgment or decree in the case-for the transfer of the cause
to this court under the thirteenth section of the act of June 30,
1864, which enacted that prize causes, depending in the
Circuit Court, might be so transferred. This court held that
the cause was removed to the Circuit Court by the appeal
from the decree of the District Court and that that decree
was vacated by the appeal, and that the Circuit Court acquired full jurisdiction of the cause and was fully authorized to
proceed to final hearing and decree. And Chief Justice Chase
said (p. 573): "Nor can it be doubted that, under the Constitution, this court can exercise, in prize causes, appellate
jurisdiction only. 'An appellate jurisdiction necessarily implies some judicial determination, some judgment, decree,
or order of an inferior tribunal, from which an appeal has
been taken. But in this case there had been no such order,
judgment, or decree in the Circuit Court; and there was no
subsisting decree in the District Court, from which an appeal could be taken. We are obliged to conclude that, in
the provision for transfer, an attempt was inadvertently
made to give to this court a jurisdiction withheld by the
Constitution, and, consequently, that the order of transfer
was without effect. The cause is still depending in the Circuit Court."
The result is that the order must be set aside and the case
remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to proceed in
conformity with law.
Ordered accordingly.
voL. ccxv-15

