OLD NICK WILLIAMS CO. v. UNITED STATES. 541
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

OLD NICK WILLIAMS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 26.

Argued November 9, 10, 1909.-Decided January 24, 1910.

A writ of error is not actually brought until filed in the court which
rendered the judgment, and the same rule is applicable to appeals.
Credit Company v. Arkansas Central Railway, 128 U. S. 261.

The statutory time for taking appeals from one Federal court to another is prescribed by act of Congress and must be calculated accordingly; it cannot be extended by order of the court.
Assignment of errors does not require the previous settlement of the
bill of exceptions, and failure to file the writ within the statutory
time is not excused because there was delay on the part of the trial

judge in settling the bill.
Assignment of errors is not a jurisdictional requirement; and, although
by the rule errors not assigned are disregarded, the court at its option may notice a plain error not assigned or specified.
152 Fed. Rep. 925, affirmed.

THIS was an indictment in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of North Carolina against the
Old Nick Williams Company, a corporation which was authorized to carry on the business of a rectifier, and which was
convicted of violating the second paragraph of § 3317 of the
Revised Statutes by the verdict of a jury finding it guilty of
carrying on the business of a rectifier with intent to defraud the
United States of the tax on the spirits rectified by it. The
verdict was rendered November 28, 1905, and motions to set
aside the verdict and for new trial and in arrest of judgment
were severally made and overruled, and thereupon judgment
was entered on that day sentencing defendant to pay a fine of
$5,000 and be taxed with the costs. On the same day it was
ordered that the defendant have ninety days to prepare its bill
of exceptions, and that the attorney for the United States have

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

thirty days, after being served with the defendant's bill of exceptions, to make objections thereto, and that the court would
settle the bill of exceptions upon ten days' notice to the attorneys of the parties, and that when filed the bill of exceptions
should be deemed as made in ample time.

January 17, 1906, by consent of the parties, the court by its
order further extended the time for preparing and filing defendant's bill of exceptions to March 15, 1906, and afterwards
extended the time to April 1. On July 27, 1906, the court, over
the objection of the attorney for the United States, made an
order which recited that defendant had filed with the clerk its
bill of exceptions, to which the United States attorney had
filed certain objections and proposed amendments, so that the
bill of exceptions had not been settled and signed by the court
within six months from the date of the entry of the judgment,
and the court, being of opinion that defendant was entitled,
under the circumstances, to have the bill of exceptions settled
and a writ of error and citation issued and served nunc pro
tunc as within the time required by law, directed that the attorneys should appear before him August 7, 1906, and have the
bill of exceptions settled and signed by the court, and further
ordered that when the bill of exceptions was settled and signed
and after a petition for a writ of error and assignments of error
had been filed by defendant, the writ of error and citation in
due form should be issued and served, all to bear date as of the
fifteenth of April, 1906, that being the date on which the defendant filed its proposed bill of exceptions with the clerk, and
which was within six months from the entry of the judgment.
Thereafter, on September 12, 1906, defendant, having presented its petition for the allowance of a writ of error and its
assignment of errors, the court signed an order allowing the
writ of error and directing that the writ of error and citation
when issued bear date April 15, 1906. Thereupon the writ of
error was issued on September 12, 1906, as of April 15. The
attorney for the United States moved to dismiss the writ of
error because not sued out within six months after the entry of

OLD NICK WILLIAMS CO. v. UNITED STATES. 543
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the judgment. The statute restricting the time for writs of
error in such cases is § 11 of the act of Congress of March 3,
1891 (26 Stat. 826, 829 c. 517), and reads:
"SEC. 11. That no appeal or writ of error by which any
order, judgment, or decree may be reviewed in the circuit
courts of appeals under the provisions of this act shall be taken
or sued out except within six months after the entry of the order, judgment, or decree sought to be reviewed."
The writ was dismissed for the reasons given in the opinion
by Morris, J., reported in 152 Fed. Rep. 925.
Mr. Charles A. Moore, with whom Mr. William P. Bynum
was on the'brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The rule has long been settled that "a writ of error is not
brought, in the legal meaning of the term, until it is filed in the
court which rendered the judgment. It is the filing of the writ
that "removes the record from the inferior to the appellate
court, and the period of limitation prescribed by the act of
Congress must be calculated accordingly." Taney, C. J., in
Brooks v. Norris, 11 How. 204; Polleys v. Black River Company, 113 U. S. 81; Credit Company v. Arkansas Central Railway, 128 U. S. 258; Farrarv. Churchill, 135 U. S. 609; Conboy
v. Bank, 203 U. S. 141.
The same rule is applicable to appeals as to writs of error.
Section 1012, Revised Statutes. As Mr. Justice Bradley said
in Credit Company v. Arkansas Central Railway, 128 U. S. 261:
"An appeal cannot be said to be 'taken' any more than a
writ of error can be said to be 'brought' until it is, in some way,
presented to the court which made the decree appealed from,
thereby putting an end to its jurisdiction over the cause, and
making it its duty to send it to the appellate court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

There the appeal was allowed by Mr. Justice Miller on the
last day on which an appeal could be taken (Revised Statutes,
§ 1008), but was not presented to the court below nor filed with
the clerk until five days after the prescribed time had expired.
It was held that the appeal must be dismissed, and Mr. Justice
Bradley added:
"The attempt made, in this case, to anticipate the actual
time of presenting and filing the appeal, by entering an order
nunc pro tunc, does not help the case. When the time for taking an appeal has expired, it cannot be arrested or called back
by a simple order of court. If it could be, the law which limits
the time within which an appeal can be taken would be a dead
letter."
In Farrarv. Churchill, 135 U. S. 609, it was held that a
cross appeal in equity, like other appeals, must be entered
within the time limited, calculating from the date of the decree, and because in that case petition,°order and bond were
not filed in the Circuit Court until after the lapse of two years
from the entry of the decree the cross appeal was dismissed.
It was ruled also that the failure to file an assignment of errors,
although required by the act of Congress, and the rule of court,
was not jurisdictional and could be waived. Revised Statutes,
§ 997; Rule 11; School District v. Hall, 106 U. S. 428.
In Conboy v. Bank, 203 U. S. 141, it was held that the time
within which an appeal may be taken under § 25b of the bankruptcy act and general order in bankruptcy XXXVI runs from
the entry of the original judgment or decree, and when it has
expired is not revived by a petition for a rehearing, and that
where the right of appeal has been lost, appellant cannot reinvest himself with that right by filing such petition, and Credit
Company v. Arkansas Central Railway, 128 U. S. 258, 261, was
cited with approval.
Plaintiff in error contends that the delay in settling the bill
of exceptions was not its fault, but was attributable to the
judicial engagements of the trial judge, and that until the bill
of exceptions was settled its counsel could not intelligently

OLD NICK WILLIAMS CO. v. UNITED STATES. 545
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prepare the assignment of errors which should accompany the
petition for the writ of error. But the assignment of errors
does not require the previous settlement of the bill of exceptions, and can be formulated before that takes place. In
Waldron v. Waldron, 156 U. S. 361, cited in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals, the judgment was entered July 10, 1890, and
the writ of error was dated July 15, 1890, but the bill of exceptions was not settled during the-term, and, because of subsequent delays, not until February, 1891, yet this court held it to
be in time in the circumstances. But the writ of error had already issued and been deposited with the clerk of the trial
court, and after that the time for complying with it might by
proper authority be enlarged. Mussina v. Cavazos, 6 Wall.
355.
As we have stated, the assignment of errors is not a jurisdictional requirement, and although by the rule errors not assigned would be disregarded, the court might at its option
notice a plain error not assigned or specified.
The delay in the present case in taking out the writ of error
was not the act of the court, but of plaintiff in error. At all
events, plaintiff in error might have brought its writ of error
within the time prescribed by statute, and the court had no
power to allow it after the time limited had expired.
Judgment affirmed.

voL. ccxv-35

