FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. ESTHERVILLE.
215 U. S.

341

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

As we are of opinion that the plaintiff in error has no such
rights as it claims, even if we assume that it has all the rights
of the original corporation created by the charter, it is unnecessary to consider other difficulties in the case.
Judgment affirmed.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CITY COUNCIL OF
ESTHERVILLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 64.

Argued December 10, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

Where the validity of the local statute under which national bank
shares are assessed was not drawn in question, but the only objection in the state court was that the assessment was in excess'
of actual value, exorbitant, unjust and not in proportion with other
like property, no Federal right was set up or denied and this court
has no jurisdiction to review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Writ of error to review 136 Iowa, 203, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles A. Clark for plaintiff in error:
The statutes of Iowa, §§ 1305-1322 of the Code, provide
a scheme of taxation of banks by which the franchises, good
will, good business management, dividend earning power,
and United States bonds held as required by law are all included by force of the very statutes themselves, while all of
these elements are excluded by force of the same statutes,
as to moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
and invested in the very moneyed institutions which come
in competition with national banks.
This discrimination against national banks is clearly not
warranted but forbidden by § 5219, Rev. Stat., and renders

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

215 U. S.

the Iowa system of taxing national banks utterly null and
void. San Francisco Nat. Bank v. Dodge, 197 U. S. 70;
Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 581; Bradley v. The People,
4 Wall. 462; People v. Commissioners, 94 U. S. 418; People
v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 543; Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121
U. S. 145, 152; Owensboro Nat. Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S.
679, 683; Hubbard v. Board, 23 Iowa, 145.
There is no power to tax the shares of national banks
except as allowed by act of Congress, now §5219, Rev. Stat.
Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 516; Owensboro
Nat. Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 668; People v. Weaver,
100 U. S. 539, 543; Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Osborn
v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; McCullough v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316; Bank of Albia v. City Council, 86 Iowa, 36, 37.
The assessor, the board of equalization, and the courts of
Iowa, are no less bound to keep within the sole warrant of
authority for taxing national bank shares than the legislature
itself.
The objections of plaintiffs in error before the board that
the proposed taxation was "exorbitant and unjust," and
that the valuation of shares could not exceed the value of
assets, as in the case of state banks, moneyed institutions and
lirivate banks and bankers, raised, ex vi termini, questions
as to the validity of the Iowa statutes under § 5219, Rev.
Stat.
These objections were all urged before the District and
Supreme Courts. The courts were bound to take judicial
notice of the Federal and state statutes, authorizing the
taxation complained of, as "matters of which judicial notice
is taken need not be stated in a pleading." Code, § 3632.
The Supreme Court of Iowa knew perfectly well that the
system of taxation of which plaintiffs in error complained
was wholly void under § 5219, Rev. Stat. Hubbard v. Board,
23 Iowa, 145. And see Bank v. Dodge, 197 U. S. 70.
The exercise of jurisdiction by this court to protect constitutional rights cannot be declined when it is plain that the

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. ESTHERVILLE.
215 U. S.

343

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

fair result of a decision is to deny the rights. Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 230; Smithsonian Institution v. St. John, 214
U. S.279.
The same rule applies to rights arising under statutes of
the United States enacted to protect constitutional rights as
in the present instance. Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S.
540, 548; Navigation Co. v. Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552;
McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S.117; M., K. & T. Ry. Co.
v. Elliott, 184 U. S.530, 534; Arrowsmith v. Harmoning, 118
U. S. 194; Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. Needles, 113 U. S. 574;
People v. Hoffman, 7 Wall. 16; Williams v. Weaver, 100 U. S.
547; Waite v. Dowley, 94 U. S.527; Swope v. Lefflngwell, 105
U. S. 3.
The jurisdiction cannot be defeated by showing that the
record does not in direct terms refer to statutory or constitutional provision, nor expressly state that a Federal question was presented. The true jurisdictional test is whether
it appears that such a question was decided adversely to the
Federal right claimed. Murray v. Charleston, 96 U. S. 432,
441; Crowell v. Randall, 10 Pet. 368; Eureka Co. v. Yuba
County Court, 116 U. S.410.
The contention of plaintiffs in error arises under clause 2
of § 709, Rev. Stat., and hence need not be set up and claimed
with the particularity required under clause 3. Water Power
Co. v. Street Railway Co., 172 U. S.487; Chapman v. Goodnow,
123 U. S.527, 548.
Where the Federal question arises upon the record, this
court has jurisdiction to review, although the state court
evades a decision of that question upon the ground that it
was not argued either orally or in print as its decisions required, in order to have the Federal question there passed
upon. Des Moines Nay. Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S.
554; Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 hf. S.518, 519.
The Iowa scheme for taxation of national banks is null and
void upon its face. Home Savings Bank v. City of Des Moines,
205 U. S. 503; San FranciscoNat. Bank v. Dodge, 197 U. S.80.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

Under their general prayer for relief, plaintiffs in error
are entitled to have the illegal assessments wholly annulled
and set aside. Oteri v. Scalzo, 145 U. S. 578; Tyler v. Savage,
143 U. S. 79; Jones v. Van Doren, 130 U. S. 684.
Iowa decisions are to same effect. Pond v. Waterloo &c.
Works, 50 Iowa, 596; Hoskins v. Rowe, 61 Iowa, 180; Lavcrty
v. Sexton, 41 Iowa, 435; Herring v. Neely, 43 Iowa, 157; Hait
v. Ensign, 61 Iowa, 724.
Mr. Byron M. Coon for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an appeal under § 1373 of the Code of Iowa from
the action of the members of the city council of the city of
Estherville, Iowa, sitting as a board of equalization and review, in fixing the assessed value of the shares of stock in the
plaintiff bank for the year 1906. The shares of stock in the
plaintiff bank were assessed by the assessor on the basis of
the book or assessed value obtained by adding the capital,
surplus and undivided profits of the bank and dividing the
sum total by the number of shares of capital stock to ascertain
the value of one share, a proper deduction having been made
on account of real estate owned by the bank. The Board of
Review and Equalization raised the assessed valuation of the

shares to $130 per share. The bank and its shareholders appeared before the Board and objected to its action and to the
valuation fixed by them as being in excess of the actual value,
and exorbitant and unjust. The bank contended that the
stock was not assessed and valued in proportion to other like
personal property in the city of Estherville, but was grossly
in excess thereof, and constituted unfair and unequal taxation, and that the taxable value of the shares of the stock in
the bank should be found as the assessor had previously found
it. But the Board adhering to its own judgment, plaintiffs
perfected an appeal to the District Court of Emmett County,

. FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. ESTHERVILLE.
215 U. S.

345

Opinion of the Court.

Iowa. In that court plaintiffs filed a pleading containing a
recital of the facts and demanding relief, and reiterating the
same contention as made below and the same claim as to the
proper manner to arrive at the assessable valuation of said
shares of stock. Answer was filed in behalf of the Board,
wherein it was denied that the assessment as raised was
unjust, and asserted that the market value was the proper
criterion for valuation, and that the actual and market value
of the stock in question was even greater than that fixed in
the raised assessment. It was also denied that the assessment
was unfair as related to the assessment on other like property.
The District Court sustained the action of the Board of
Review, whereupon the case was appealed to the Supreme
Court of Iowa, which affirmed the decree of the District Court.
First Nat. Bank v. Estherville, 136 Iowa, 203. In the Supreme
Court it was contended for the first time that the action of
the Board worked a violation of § 5219 of the United States
Revised Statutes, touching upon state taxation of National
Bank shares. Because of the fact that such matter was not
presented to the Board or suggested on the trial in the court
below, the Supreme Court refused to entertain the question.
What the court said was this (p. 206):
"In doing so we shall first dispose of a matter of contention brought forward for the first time in argument in this
court. This contention is through the action of the. defendant
board as complained of, there was worked a violation of
§ 5219 of U. S. Revised Statutes, having to do with the subject of state taxation of national shares. As confessedly such
matter was not presented to the board, or suggested on the
trial in the court below, we cannot give consideration thereto
on merits in this court. And this is to follow our repeated decisions bearing on the subject. Railway Co. v. Cedar Rapids,
106 Iowa, 476; Trust Co. v. Fonda, 114 Iowa, 728."
And further (p. 208):
"On appeal to the District Court the statute (Code, § 1373)
provides for a hearing as in equity. This, however, is not to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

be construed as clothing the court with jurisdiction to sit as
an assessing tribunal. Frost v. Board, 114 Iowa, 103; Farmers'
&c. Co. v. Fonda, 114 Iowa, 728."
We are met at the threshold by a motion to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction. It was ruled in Tyler v. Judges of
Registration, 179 U. S. 405, 408, that although "it is true that
under the third clause of § 709, Rev. Stat., where a title,
right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under Federal law,
such title, etc., must be 'specially set up or claimed' and that
no such provision is made as to cases within the second clause,
involving the constitutionality of state statutes or authorities,
but it is none the less true that the authority of such statute
must 'be drawn in question' by some one who has been affected by the decision of the state court in favor of its validity,
and that in this particular the three clauses of the section are
practically identical."
In order to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error
to the highest court of a State in which a decision could be
had it must appear affirmatively that a Federal question was
presented for decision, that its decision was necessary to the
determination of the cause, and that it was actually decided
or that the judgment rendered could not have been given
without deciding it.
The only complaint made before the reviewing board and
the District Court was that the assessment was in excess of
the actual value of such stock and exorbitant and unjust, and
that the taxable value thereof should be no greater sum than
is obtained by adding the capital, surplus and undivided
profits of said bank, subtracting therefrom the amount of the
bank's capital invested in real estate, and dividing the remainder by the number of its shares of capital stock to obtain
the true assessable value of one share of stock; also that "said
stock is not assessed and valued in proportion to other like
personal property in the city of Estherville, but is grossly in
excess thereof, and unfair to these appellants and is unequal
taxation."

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. ESTHERVILLE.
215 U. S.

347

Opinion of the Court.

These were not Federal questions. No mention of the
national banking act was made, nor any right or privilege
claimed under, it, nor were the provisions of the Revised
Statutes invoked by name or otherwise. There was no assertion of an issue in the case claiming the local statutes to be in
conflict with or repugnant to the terms of § 5219 of the
Revised Statutes, or the Constitution of the United States.
Plaintiffs filed a written pleading in the District Court, in
which they set out all proceedings leading up to the appeal
and the grounds for their complaint against the action of the
equalization board, and when the case went to trial filed an
amendment, alleging the additional grievance of inequality.
Section 1322 of the Iowa Code reads as follows:
"National, state and savings banks.-Shares of stock of
national banks shall be assessed to the individual stockholders at the place where the bank is located. Shares of
stock of state and savings banks and loan and trust companies shall be assessed to such banks and loan and trust
companies and not to the individual stockholders. At the
time the assessment is made, the officers of national banks
shall furnish the assessor with a list of all the stockholders
and the number of shares owned by each, and he shall list
to each stockholder under the head of corporation stock the
total value of such shares. To aid the assessor in fixing the
value of such shares, the corporations shall furnish him a
verified statement of all the matters provided in the preceding section, which shall also show, separately, the amount of
capital stock, and the surplus and undivided earnings, and
the assessor, from such statement and other information he
can obtain, including any statement furnished to and information obtained by the auditor of state, which shall be furnished
him on request, shall fix the value of such stock, taking into
account the capital, surplus and undivided earnings. In
arriving at the total value of the shares of stock of such corporations, the amount of their capital actually invested in
real estate owned by them and in the shares of stock of cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

porations owning only the real estate (inclusive of leasehold
interest, if any) on or in which the bank or trust company is
located, shall be deducted from the real value of stich shares,
and such real estate shall be assessed as other real estate, and
the property of such corporations shall not be otherwise
assessed."
But the court held that the assessor need not rely entirely
upon the statements which the bank is required by the section
to furnish, but might take into consideration other information he might obtain, and, construing that section in connection with § 1305 of the Code of Iowa reading, "All property
subject to taxation shall be valued at its actual value. .
Such assessed value shall be taken and considered as the taxable value of such property, upon which the levy shall be
made. Actual value of property as used in this chapter shall
mean its value in the market in the ordinary course of trade,"
found that the shares should be assessed at their market
or sale values, and then the court proceeded to ascertain, on
the facts, whether the shares were taxed at more than their
market value and whether, at a greater rate in proportion to
the value of other like personal property.
If plaintiffs in error believed that the local statute was
unconstitutional and invalid because of conflict with the Federal Constitution or statute, they could and should have said
so, but the validity of the act was nowhere specifically drawn
in question.
Writ of error dismissed.

