SNYDER v. ROSENBAUM.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

SNYDER v. ROSENBAUM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 25.

Argued November 8, 9, 1909.-Decided December 6, 1909.

In this case the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Oklahoma, involving contract rights, is affirmed.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of the Territory followed to the
effect that the facts stated constituted duress within the meaning
of the territorial statute.
Stating only part of a statutory definition of duress in the charge
to the jury held not reversible error, it not appearing that the
defendant was hurt thereby.
18 Oklahoma, 168, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Gardiner Lathrop, with whom Mr. Armwell L. Cooper,
Mr. John E. Wilson and Mr. John S. Wright were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. J. Wrightsman and Mr. J. J. Darlingtan,with whom
Mr. Carl Meyer and Mr. L. W. Lee were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error brought by the executors of Robert
M. Snyder to reverse a judgment upon a written contract in
favor of one Stribling, assigned by him to the defendant in
error, Rosenbaum. Snyder v. Stribling, 18 Oklahoma, 168.
The contract was dated September 1, 1909, and purported
to be a sale by Stribling of 12,700 head of steer cattle, then
in pasture near Gray Horse, Oklahoma, of which 12,500 were

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

to be counted out to the purchaser; with particulars as to
age. Also, of from 3,200 to 3,500 acres of corn, 1,400 acres of
cane, and about 5,000 acres of hay, all near the same place.
Also, of certain horses, mules, wagons, and ranch outfit, employed by Stribling about the said cattle. By a later clause
the farms where the fodder was were specified, and it was
added that the exact acreage was not guaranteed. The
agreed price was $500,000, to be paid, first, by the transfer
to Stribling of a ranch in Arizona, with the herd and outfit
thereon, at the valuation of $150,000; next, by the assumption of an encumbrance of $240,000 on 10,500 of the cattle
sold; 'the balance . . . to be paid '. . . or accounted for satisfactorily to said Stribling with . . . days
of the signing of this instrument.' It was agreed that 10,500
of the cattle were free from encumbrances except the $240,000
just mentioned, and that if there was any encumbrance of
the remaining 2,000 such encumbrance should be deducted
from the purchase price. "Said cattle to be counted within
fifteen days." Both parties to the contract Were experienced

men.
Stribling alleged performance of the contract on his part
and a breach by Snyder in not conveying his Arizona ranch,
and in not accounting for a cash balance of $5,200. The
answer set up a document of October 1, 1900, signed by
Snyder and Stribling, and addressed to a third party, as a
supplemental contract; denied performance of this or the
original agreement by Stribling, stating various details of
failure, and alleged fraud. The replication averred that to
secure an extension of time for the payment of the mortgage
on the cattle referred to in the original contract, Stribling and
Snyder, on September 5, made an agreement with the holder,

by one part of which Snyder agreed to market enough of the
cattle to pay the notes that were overdue, and by which he.
also bound himself to pay the other mortgage notes as they
fell due. The replication continued that on October 1, 1900,
Stribling had delivered the cattle and other property, and

SNYDER v. ROSENBAUM.
215 U. S.

•Opinion of the Court.

that Snyder, being in possession of them, told Stribling that
unless he signed the document set up in the answer he would
not pay for the cattle or pay the mortgage debt or release
the cattle; that both parties understood that this threat, if
carried out, would lead to an immediate foreclosure and
Stribling's ruin, and that in those circumstances, characterized as duress, Stribling signed.
There was a trial and the jury found for the plaintiff. It
made in addition a very great number of special findings, establishing, subject to any question of law that may have been
reserved, much more than was necessary to support the verdict. It found the following facts among others: In pursuance of the September contract, 12,391 head of cattle were
counted out to the purchaser, and the counting of the rest of
the 12,500 was stopped by the purchaser's agent, he being
satisfied, and there being enough cattle in sight to make up
the total. After the count, on or about September 26, 1900,
the purchaser took possession and Stribling then ceased to
exercise control over the property. This included 12,500
head of cattle, the horses, mules, wagons, harness, pastures,
camp outfit and such feed as was there. Stribling asked
Snyder for a settlement and Snyder made no objection to
the correctness of the count or to the representations as
to the acreage of feed or to Stribling's performance otherwise,
but nevertheless refused to do his part. He sold the cattle
again by a transaction which it is not necessary to trace, and
the negotiations concerning which were not known to Stribling at the time of Snyder's threats mentioned in the replication, and of the signing of the document of October 1. The
threats alleged are found to have been made and to have induced Stribling to sign, without other consideration. At
this time the value of the cattle was going down, and that of
the Arizona property was going up, facts that may partly
account for Snyder's conduct. It is found that he wanted to
avoid the September contract, and to get the cattle by merely
discharging the liens. But the parties did not carry out the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215. U. S.

provisions of the October document, and upon this finding
and the finding as to the pressure under which it was executed
it is unnecessary to state its provisions. They were more
onerous to Stribling in several respects, requiring a further
count, and forfeiting the Arizona property if the full number
was not turned over and payment made for any deficiency
within five days of the count.
All fraud on Stribling's part is negatived, and the upshot of
the whole matter is that he performed his contract in every
respect except that there was not so much fodder as was supposed, and for that the jury made an allowance of nine thousand dollars.
The argument for the plaintiffs in error discusses the evidence at great length. But we shall deal only and very briefly
with the rulings that seem to us to require notice. It is enough
to say at the outset that there was some evidence to support
the special findings that we have mentioned. But it is urged
that, this being a suit upon the contract, if it was not performed to the letter, the plaintiff cannot recover. The judge
instructed the jury that a contract of this kind, for the delivery
of a certain number of cattle, is severable, and that if the whole
number of cattle or the full number of acres of feed were not
delivered, still the plaintiff could recover the contract price less
an allowance for the damage occasioned by the failure. This is
assigned as error. It is unnecessary to consider whether the
construction of the contract was too liberal in favor of the
plaintiff or whether it embodied the understanding upon which
such dealings take place. The jury found that all the cattle
were delivered. As to the deficiency in the acreage of fodder,
the contract stated that the precise amount was not guaranteed, and the jury found that Snyder was acting on his own inspection. The deficiency did not go to the root of the contract. Furthermore if, after the parties have had a full trial,
and after such specific findings as were made, any amendment were necessary, which we are far from intimating, no
doubt it would be allowed. The defendant suffered no possi-

SNYDER v. ROSENBAUM.
215 U. S.

ble surprise.

Opinion of the Court.

See also Wilson's Stats. Oklahoma, 1903,

§ 4344.
It is objected further that the other cattle, above the 10,500
mentioned in the contract as mortgaged, and the fodder were
subject to liens for about $110,000. But this possibility was
contemplated by the contract, the liens were satisfied out of
the purchase price, and no harm was done. Finally, it is said,
that the delivery was not made within fifteen days. But, by
statute, time is not of the essence of a contract, 'unless by its
terms expressly so provided.' Wilson, Stats. 1903, § 809.
The delay ,was not the fault of Stribling, but was due to
Snyder and his agents. The cattle were accepted without objection on that ground, and if the delay could have been complained of under the circumstances, performance ad diem was
waived.
The other principal defense and the ground of counterclaim relied upon was the alleged contract of October 1. As
the validity of this contract was denied and the execution
of it said to have been abandoned, of course the judge was
right in refusing instructions that assumed it to be in force.
But complaint is made of an instruction to the jury in the
language of the statutes as to duress and undue influence.
Probably through a mechanical slip, only a part of the statute
as to duress was recited, so that fraudulent confinement of
the person seemed to be stated as an exhaustive definition.
But this did not hurt the defendant, if for no other reason,
because there was no pretence of duress in that sense. The
judge then went on to quote the definition of one form of undue- influence, as 'taking a grossly oppressive and unfair
Wilson,
advantage of another's necessities or distress.'
Stats. 1903, § 746. It is objected that undue influence was
not pleaded. But the facts were pleaded and were found by
the jury in like form. We should assume that those facts
amounted to undue influence within the meaning of the
Oklahoma statutes until the Supreme Court of the State says
otherwise' But it is said that they do not amount to duress,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

and therefore an instruction should have been given, as asked,
that there was no evidence of duress. We see no reason for
not following the opinion of the territorial court that the facts
also constituted duress within the meaning of the statute.
See Silsbee v. Webber, 171 Massachusetts, 378. But it does not
seem to matter what they are called if they are found to have
existed. Furthermore, we see no ground on which we can go
behind the finding that neither side carried out the alleged
October contract. There was some evidence to that effect,
and we are not concerned with its weight. We do not think
it necessary to mention all the points that we have examined.
Upon the whole case weare of opinion that no error of law is
disclosed that entitles the plaintiffs in error to a new trial.
Judgment affirmed.

RIO GRANDE DAM AND IRRIGATION COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

No. 49.

Argued December 3, 1909.-Decided December 13, 1909.

Where a case is opened that further evidence may be produced, it
is also open for the amendment of the original pleadings or for

additional pleadings appropriate to the issues; and permission
by the lower court to file such supplemental complaint is not inconsistent with the mandate of this court remanding the case with
directions to grant leave to both sides to adduce further evidence.
Under the provisions of the Code of New Mexico allowing supplemental pleadings alleging facts material to the issue, the fact that
the defendant corporation has, since the suit was, brought by the
Government to enjoin it from so building a dam as to interfere with
the navigability of an international river, failed to exercise its
franchise in accordance with the statute, is germane to the object
of the suit and may be pleaded by supplemental complaint.

