OCTOBER TERM, 1909
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. HARRIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 19.

Argued November 2, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

The words "public lands" in legislation refer to such lands as are subject to sale or other disposal unider general laws, and no other meaning will be attributed to them unless apparent from the context of
or circumstances attending the legislation.
While the power of Congress continues over lands sought to be acquired under preemption and homestead laws until final payment,
an entryman in actual possession cannot be dispossessed of his
priority at the instance of an individual.
While a grant of right of way may take effect as of the date of the
grant that date must be found in the act prescribing the finally
adopted route.
In this case the rights of a bona fide settler holding a patent under preemption law and his grantee held superior to those of the railroad
company under the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, 494, granting
public lands for a railway right of way.
76 Kansas, 255, affirmed.
THE admitted facts are that on April 22, 1861, Bernhard
Blou settled upon and improved the northeast quarter of
section 12, township 14 south, of range 3, in Saline County,
Kansas, and on May 13, 1861, filed the declaratory statement
required by the preemption laws. Blou, by occupation, cultivation and improvements, preserved all his rights under the
preemption until September 5, 1865, when, having made no
payment or final proof, he changed his pre~thption entry to one
under the homestead act of May 20, 1862. He continued in
occupation, on December 8, 1870 made final proof under his
homestead entry, and, on March 15, 1872 received a patent.
By the act of July 1, 1862, the general Union Pacific Railroad act, 12 Stat. 489, 493, c. 120, the Leavenworth, Pawnee
and Western Railroad Company, whose name was changed
to the Union Pacific Railroad Company, Eastern Division,

UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HARRIS.
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and thereafter to the Kansas Pacific Railway Company, was
granted a right of way 200 feet in width on each side of
its road, through the public lands of the United States.
The plaintiff in error, hereinafter called the defendant, has
succeeded to the right, title and interest of the Leavenworth
company. The route of the company as prescribed by the
act ran from Missouri up the Kaw River until it reached the
Republican River, and then north along the left bank of that
river to intersect with the one hundredth meridian in the
Territory of Nebraska. On July 17, 1862, the company filed
its map of general route, and caused the lands within the
limits of fifteen miles thereof on either side of the proposed
route to be withdrawn from sale. Under the amendatory act
of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 356, c.216, the company filed another map, designating the same general route. Neither of
these routes came within forty-five miles of the tract in controversy. Among the changes in the last-named act is one
providing in ยง 3 for the condemnation of a right of way 200
feet wide through land occupied by the owner or claimant.
The act of July 3, 1866, 14 Stat. 79, c. 159, changed the route
to extend westwardly towards Denver. Under this act the
company located and constructed its road westwardly along
the Smoky Hill River instead of northwestwardly along the
Republican River, and, as located and constructed, the road
passed through the quarter-section which Blou was then seeking to acquire under the homestead law.
On January 20, 1873, Bernhard Blou executed and delivered to the Kansas Pacific Railway Company, the successor of the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company, a deed for a right of way through said quarter-section,
which deed the railway company accepted and paid him the
consideration named in it. The land in controversy is a strip
150 feet wide, lying immediately south of a line fifty feet
south of the center of the track of the defendant through the
quarter-section. On November 10, 1882, Blou sold and conveyed to John Erickson by warranty deed all that part of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

quarter-section lying south of the railroad track, containing
101 acres. The defendant's in error, hereinafter called the
plaintiffs, derive title from Erickson. The plaintiffs and those
under whom they claim had exclusive possession of the land
in question from May, 1861, to August, 1902; broke and
cultivated it, and paid all taxes assessed upon it since the
issue of the patent. In August, 1902, the defendant fenced
and took possession of the tract in controversy, whereupon
this action to recover possession was commenced by the
plaintiffs. The court found in their favor, and rendered judgment accordingly. This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State (Union Pacific R. R. v. Harris,76
Kansas, 255), and thereupon the case was brought here on
error.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. R. W. Blair was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. T. F. Garver and Mr. L. C. Milliken for defendant in
error, submitted.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The grant of the right of way was "through the public
lands." What is meant by 'public lands' is well settled.
As stated in Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, 763: "The words
'public lands' are habitually used in our legislation to describe such as are subject to sale or other disposal under general laws." See also Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481, 490;
Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 391. If it is claimed
in any given case that they are used in a different meaning, it
should be apparent either from the context or from the circumstances attending the legislation. While the power of
Congress over lands which an individual is seeking to acquire
under either the pre6mption or the homestead law remains
until by the payment of the full purchase price required by
the former law or the full occupation prescribed by the lat-

UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HARRIS.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ter, yet under the general land laws of the United States one
who, having made an entry, is in actual occupation under the
preemption or homestead law cannot be dispossessed of his
priority at the instance of any individual. Hastings &c. Railroad Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S.357, 363, 364. In other words,
one who has taken land under the preemption or homestead
law acquires an equity of which he cannot be deprived by
any individual under the like laws. Now at the time of the
passage of the act of July 3, 1866, Blou was and had been for
several months in actual occupation under the homestead
law. Did Congress intend by its legislation to deprive him of
that equity which he had under the general land laws as
against any one proceeding under those laws?
Any possible rights of the railroad company in this land
commence with the act of July 3, 1866, for while the acts of
1864 and 1866 were in amendment of the act of 1862, yet
the route prescribed by the acts of 1862 and 1864 was far to
the east of this land, and only by the act of 1866 was the
company authorized to construct a road through or near it.
True, as held in RailroadCompany v. Baldwin, 103 U. S.426;
Bybee v. Oregon & California Railroad Company, 139 U. S.
663, 679; Northern Pacific Railway Company v. Hasse, 197
U. S. 9, 10, the grant of the right of way is absolute, and takes
effect as of the date of the grant. But that date must be found
in an act prescribing the finally adopted route.
A case much relied upon by the railroad company, as
showing the intent of Congress in its grant of the right of way
to the Union Pacific Railroad Company and its tributaries,
is Union Pacific Ry. Company v. Douglas County, 31 Fed.
Rep. 540. In it it was held:
"It was the evident intention of Congress by the act of
July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 491, giving a right of way to the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, to grant such right of way through
those lands which by surveys should be found to be sections 16
and 36, the school sections which it intended to give to the
future State of Nebraska, pursuant to the provisions of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

organic act of 1854, 10 Stat, 283, creating the Territory of
Nebraska."
In other words, it was held that although Congress had in
1854 created the Territory of Nebraska, with the provision that
when the lands within it were surveyed sections 16 and 36 in
each township should be reserved for school purposes, it
meant by the act of 1862 to grant a right of way to the railroad company through lands which should thereafter be found
to be those sections. But that decision does not reach to the
precise question here presented, and many of the reasons
which led to it are inapplicable here. It was well known
that a large part of western Nebraska was at the time of the
passage of the act of 1862 not only unoccupied but unsurveyed. The speedy construction of the railroad to the Pacific
was desired, and nothing was said about a condemnation of
the right of way. jBy the amendatory act of 1864, however,
provision was made for such condemnation through land
occupied by an owner or claimant. In Washington & Idaho
Railroad Company v. Osborn, 160 U. S. 103, it appeared that
Osborn was a settler upon unsurveyed public land and had
placed improvements thereon, and intended when the surveys were made to preempt the same under the preemption
laws of the Government. The railroad company was vested
by the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 482, c. 152, with a right
of way through the public lands of the United States, subject
to the exception of "lands within the limits of any military
park or Indian reservation, or other lands specially reserved
from sale" (ยง5). Osborn did not come within the terms of
this exception. The act of March 3, 1875, authorized the legislature of any Territory to provide the manner in which private lands and possessory claims of lands of the United States
might be condemned, and further, that when no provision
should have been made such condemnation might be made
in accordance with ยง 3 of the act of July 2, 1864, supra. And
upon this the court, sustaining Osborn's claim of payment
for the right of way, said (p. 109):

UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HARRIS.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"It must, therefore, be conceded that Osborn did not, by
maintaining possession for several years and putting valuable improvements thereon, preclude the Government from
dealing with the lands as its own, and from conferring them
on another party by a subsequent grant.
"On the other hand, it would not be easy to suppose that
Congress would, in authorizing railroad companies to traverse
the public lands, intend thereby to give them a right to run
the lines of their roads at pleasure, regardless of the rights
of settlers."
It is true, as suggested in Western Pacific Railroad Company v. Tevis, 41 California, 489, 493, that the condemnation
proceedings named by the act of July 2, 1864, were in territorial courts, whereas Kansas at that time was a State. But
undoubtedly the thought of Congress was the protection of
an owner or claimant by condemnation proceedings and not
in what courts those proceedings should be had.
Further, "this right of way through school sections had been
accepted without challenge for twenty years" (31 Fed. Rep.
541). This indicated the general understanding, and was
significant. The contrary appears here. The railway company not only did not disturb the possession of the settler
for nearly forty years, but on the other hand purchased and
paid him for a right of way through the tract.
We are of opinion that the case of Crier v. Innes, 160 U. S.
103, is, as respects the case at bar, inconsistent with that in
the 31st Fed. Reporter, and must be held to have to that
extent overruled it. We do not think that it would be profitable to cite the many other cases which touch the question
before us more or less closely, or to seek to point out the differences between them and this, or to notice all the general
expressions which are to be found in them.
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of Kansas did
not err, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

