OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

215 U. S.

TIGLAO v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 37.

Argued November 1, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

Writ of error and not appeal is the proper method to bring up to this
court a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands in
a case affecting title to land in Court of Land Registration. Cariho
v. InsularGovernment, 212 U. S. 449.
In this case the grant involved was made without authority by subordinate officials, was void ab initio, and conveyed no title to the
original grantee or those holding under him.
A man cannot take advantage of his ignorance of the law, and where
all that is done to give him a title is insufficient on its face, the
grantee is chargeable with knowledge, does not hold in good faith,
and in such a case prescription does not run from the date of the
instrument under which he claims.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr. J. H.
Blount and Mr. Evans Browne for plaintiff in error and appellant:

The concession of 1873 made by the Municipal Board of
Mabalacat did transmit to plaintiff in error's grantor certain
rights. Book 4, Title 12, Law 1 of the compilation of Spanish
Colonial Laws printed in 1828 in House Doc. No. 121, 20th
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 38; see also 3 Philippines, 540; Law 8,
Book 4, Title 12, Laws of the Indies permitting applications
for land grants in townships where there is a court. As to
occupation ripening into title, see Solicitor General's brief in
Carifio Case, 212 U. S. 449.

TIGLAO v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
215 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error and Appellees.

Evangelista v. Bascos, 5 Philippines, 255, which holds otherwise to contention of plaintiff in error is unsound. Possession
under the circumstances of this case confers title by prescription as against the State. See Cariio v. Insular Government,
212 U. S. 449; Book 4, Title 12, Law 14, Recopilacion de Leyes
de las Indias; 3d Partida, Title XXIX, Law 18; ยง 1957, Spanish
Civ. Code War Department, transl. 1899; Mortgage Law of
1893. The Philippine Government Act of July 1, 1902, was
meant to carry out in good faith Art. VIII of the treaty of
1898, and all legislation of the United States concerning the
Philippines indicates a policy to protect all property rights
in land, complete or inchoate, existing at the time of the treaty
and held in good faith. As to good faith, see ยง 1950, Spanish
Civil Code for Cuba, Porto Rico and the Philippines. In this
case good faith cannot be questioned. See 3 Philippines, 540;
and royal order of 1862, cited in 5 Philippines, 548.
The original grantor took under a valid grant and cultivated the land in dispute and some interest or title must have
vested by his occupation. In appropriating this land for
military purposes, supposing that it was for this land, the authorities made a mistake and that fact cannot affect the
owner's interest.
Under the laws for town government as stated in 1 Census
Report Phil. Ils. 365, disposition of pueblo lands when aoproved by the Parish Priest was sufficient to protect title.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Paul Charlton, Law Officer,
Bureau of Insular Affairs, for defendants in error and appellees:
This court has no jurisdiction of the appeal. Writ of error
is the proper method of bringing to this court a case instituted in the Court of Land Registration for registration of
ownership. Cariho v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449, 456.
The case being here only upon writ of error, the facts must be
accepted as found below.
This land was royal domain when the Gobernadorcillo and

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendants in Error atid Appellees.

215 U. S.

Principales of the pueblo of Mabalacat attempted to convey
it to Lacson. There is no evidence of proprietorship of any
part of the land by the pueblo of Mabalacat. Under Spanish
law a pueblo did not become the owner of any part of the
royal domain unless special grant was made to it and the
extent and boundaries of the grant were specially designated
by the proper granting authority, United States v. Santa Fe,
165 U. S. 675, 691; United States v. Sandoval, 167 U. S. 278;
and even when the lands were specially set apart for a pueblo
the fee remained in the King.
Law 1 of Book 4, Title 12, of the Laws of the Indies did not
authorize the grant of 1873 to Lacson. That law relates only
to grants to new settlers from such lands as have been assigned for the new settlement as a whole by the viceroy, governor of the colony or other representative of the King. It
cannot authorize a grant attempted long after a town had
come into existence and without any connection with its
foundation or early settlement. The attempted grant to
Lacson was made 200 years or more after the island of Luzon
was made a Spanish colony and an indefinite time after the
town of Mabalacat arose. There is no proof that Mabalacat
is a town of Spanish foundation or that it ever had any grant
of land from which such distribution could be made to individual settlers under Law 1 of Title 12. This law does not
contemplate or authorize a grant of 1,200 hectares (some
3,000 acres) such as was made to Lacson. If Law 1, Title 12,
can apply at all to this case, it was necessary that the grant
to Lacson should be made by the "viceroy or governor thereto
authorized by" the King. It did not authorize a grant by
the gobernadorcillo and principales.
The fact that the
Gobernadorcillo and Principales of Mabalacat assumed to
make the grant to Lacson can raise no presumption of their
authority to make it. Hayes v. United States, 170 U. S. 637,
647; Chavez v. United States, 175 U. S. 552, 558. That the
viceroy or governor of the colony was the proper granting
authority under Spanish law, see United States v. Arredondo,

TIGLAO v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
215 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error and Appellees.

6 Pet. 691; United States v. Percheman, 7 Pet. 50; United
States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436; United States v. Segui, 10 Pet.
306; United States v. Chaires, 10 Pet. 308; United States v.
Seton, 10 Pet. 309; United States v. Sibbald, 10 Pet. 313;
United States v. Rodman, 15 Pet. 130; United States v. Acosta,
1 How. 24; United States v. Peralta, 19 How. 343; United
States v. Workman, 1 Wall. 745; Serrano v. United States,
5 Wall. 451.
Law 8 of Book 4, Title 12, of the Laws of the Indies did not
authorize the Gobernadorcillo and Principales of Mabalacat to
make the grant to Lacson. This law relates only to grants
where the royal audiencia sits. That was only at Manila, until
February 26, 1886, when a second audiencia was established
at Cebu. Law 8 is also limited to grants of land in a ciudad
(city) or a villa. Mabalacat, as a pueblo, was neither a ciudad nor a villa. Law 8 requires that the grant be signed by
the viceroy or president and deputies "in the presence of the
clerk of the cabildo (council)." The grant to Lacson had no
such signature. This law also requires that the grant under
it "be recorded in the book of the council." The grant to
Lacson is not shown to have been recorded anywhere. Concerning the effect of absence of record of a grant, see United
States v. Teschmaker, 22 How. 392, 405; Luco v. United States,
23 How. 515, 543; Palmer v. United States, 24 How. 125, 128;
Peralta v. United States, 3 Wall. 434, 439; Hays v. United
States, 175 U. S. 248, 257, 258; United States v. Ortiz, 176
U. S. 422, 426.
If either Law 1 or Law 8 authorized town officials to grant
royal lands, it was superseded by the royal decrees of October 15, 1754, and December 4, 1786,-at least as to agricultural lands such as comprised the attempted grant to
Lacson. These decrees provided a systematic method of disposing of royal lands, and the decree of 1786 gave exclusive
jurisdiction in such matters to the intendants or perhaps to
the viceroy or other governor of the colony as head of the
treasury or personal representative of the King.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

Appellant acquired no title by prescription. The grant to
Lacson in 1873 did not give just title, for the Gobernadorcillo
and Principales had no authority to make the grant; and
possession cannot be deemed to be in good faith when it is
under a grant void by operation of law. Hayes v. United
States, 170 U. S. 637, 650.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes by writ of error and appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, affirming a judgment of the Court of Land Registration, which denied registration of a tract of land. It is admitted that the
facts as found by the two courts may be assumed to be true,
ReavYis v. Fianza, ante, p. 16; but apart from the concurrence of the courts below the proper proceeding in a case of
this kind is by writ of error, and therefore the appeal is dismissed. Carihw v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449. So
much being established, the grounds on which the plaintiff
in error can claim title may be stated in a few words. On
July 13, 1873, the Gobernadorcillo and Principales of the
town of Mabalacat in the Province of Pampanga, Luzon,
executed an instrument, marked 0. K. by the Parish Priest,
purporting to grant the land, with qualifications not needing
to be noticed, to one Rafael Lacson, under whom the plaintiff in error claims. Possession was held until 1885 and since
then has been abandoned. The land was public land. The
questions brought here were whether the original grant was
valid, or, if not, whether the possession that followed it without interruption for ten years and more conferred title by
prescription under the royal decree of June 25, 1880. This
decree, states the rule of prescription in the usual terms of
the civil law. It confers ownership on those who shall establish that they have possessed the lands in question for the
requisite time under just title and in good faith. See Civil
Code. Arts. 1952, 1953, 1957.

TIGLAO v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As we understand the later briefs filed in behalf of the plaintiff in error, the vain attempt to justify the grant under the
Recopilacion de Leyes de las Indias, Book 4, Title 12, Law 1,
is given up, and therefore we shall spend no time upon
that. There is, however, an effort to support it under a
decree of January 4, 1813., 1 Reynolds, Spanish & Mexican
Land Laws, 83. This was a scheme of the Cortes to reduce
public and crown lands to private ownership, after reserving one-half for the public debt. When certain preliminaries
had been accomplished, as to which we have no information, the other half was to be allotted in the first place to
retired officers and soldiers who had served in the present
war, &c., as a patriotic reward. Of the remaining land there
was to be given, gratuitously and by lot, to every resident
of the respective towns who applied, a tract, under certain
limitations. The proceedings on these grants were to be had
by the constitutional common councils, and the provincial
deputations were to approve them. Although this decree
purported to apply to crown lands 'in the provinces beyond
the sea' as well as to those in the peninsula, it would seem,
on the face of it, to have been intended for Spaniards, and to
have had but doubtful reference to the natives of conquered
territory.
But there are other answers to the suggestion that are free
from doubt. The decree has been said to have been repealed
in the following year. United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 436,
455. Hall, Mexican Law, 48. But compare United States v.
Vallejo, 1 Black, 541. Hayes v. United States, 170 U. S. 637,
653, 654. But even if it be assumed, as it is by the argument
for the plaintiff in error, that either that or later legislation
to similar effect instituted a working system in the Philippines, a large assumption, it is admitted that the conditions
of the supposed gratuity were not fulfilled. Our attention has
not been called to any law giving authority to the ill-defined
body that attempted to make the grant. The land was not
distributed by lot, and the essential requirement of approval

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Ovinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

by a higher authority was wholly neglected. In view of the
admission to which we have referred we find it unnecessary
to follow the learned and able argument of the SolicitorGeneral. There is a hint, to be sure, that the grant may be
presumed to have satisfied native custom and may be sustained upon that ground. But such a notion would be a
mongrel offspring of Spanish law and ignorance, and no
reason is given for making the presumption other than a
guess. Unauthorized grants of public lands by subordinate
officials seem to have been a noticeable feature in other
Spanish colonies. Whitney v. United States, 181 U. S. 104,
114, 115. The real object of the reference to the decree of
1813 is to found a claim of prescription by showing a just
title for the possession which is proved to have been maintained for ten years.
Lacson, the original grantee, held the land until 1881, when
he conveyed it to Pedro Carrillo and his wife. Possession was
abandoned in 1885 without further change of title. Therefore the only 'just title' to which the possession can be referred is the original grant. The phrase justo titulo is explained to mean a title such as to transfer the property,
Schmidt, Civil Law of Spain and Mexico, 289, 290; see Partidas, 1. 18, T. 29, P. 3; or as it is defined in the Civil Code of
a few years later than the decree of 1880, "that which legally suffices to transfer the ownership or property right, the
prescription of which is in question." ยง 1952. Of course
this does not mean that the titulo must have been effective
in the particular case, for then prescription would be unnecessary. We assume, for instance, that if a private person in
possession of crown lands, seeming to be the owner, executed
a formally valid conveyance under which his grantee held,
supposing his title good, possession for ten years might create
an indisputable right. But if the public facts known by the
grantee showed that the' conveyance to him was void, we
understand that it would not constitute a starting point for
the running of time, and that the grantee's actual belief

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

417

Syllabus.

would not help his case. Indeed, in such a case he would not
be regarded as holding in good faith, within the requirement
of the decree, because a man is not allowed to take advantage

of his ignorance of law. The subject is fully expounded in
Hayes v. United States, 170 U. S. 637, 650 et seq.
All that was done to give Lacson a lawful title was insufficient on its face. Therefore, on the facts known to him he
was chargeable with knowledge that he had acquired no legal
rights, and it was impossible that the period of prescription
should begin to run from the date of the instrument under
which he claimed. The possession of Carrillo and his successors, after the conveyance to him in 1881, was not maintained for ten years, and therefore the claim of the plaintiff
in error must fail.
Judgment affirmed.

CITY OF MINNEAPOLIS v. MINNEAPOLIS STREET
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 46.

Argued December 2, 3, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

This court will consider the nature of a corporation organized under
a state law only so far as may be necessary to determine Federal
rights.
Franchises to public service corporations will not be extended by implication, but whatever is plainly and legally granted is protected
by the contract clause of the Constitution.
Where the corporate existence has been recognized after the expiration
of the shorter period and the State has not moved in quo warranto,
a franchise legally granted by municipal ordinance and legislative
enactment for the life of the charter of a public service corporation

cannot be impaired during the term specified in the charter filed
before the grant was made, although such term be longer than that
allowed by the act under which the corporation was organized.

A franchise contract may extend beyond the life of the corporation
to which it is granted; at the end of the corporate life it is a divisible
asset.

VOL. CCXV-

2

7

