'OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

section withdrawing any other jurisdiction than that named
in Draper v. United States, undoubtedly Congress has the
right to forbid the introduction of liquor and to provide
punishment for any violation thereof. Couture, Jr., v. United
States, 207 U. S. 581. It is true that only a per curiam opinion was filed in that case, and the judgment was affirmed on
the authority of United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432;
McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458, but an examination of the
record shows that its facts are similar to those in the present
case. See also an opinion by Shiras, District Judge, in United
States v. Mullin, 71 Fed. Rep. 682, and one by Circuit Judge
Van Devanter, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit, in Rainbow v. Young, 161 Fed. Rep. 835.
Without pursuing the discussion further, we are of opinion
that the District Court erred in its ruling, and the judgment
is
Reversed.

COMMISSIONERS OF SANTA FE COUNTY v. TERRITORY OF NEW MEXICO EX REL. COLER.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

Nos. 42, 43.

Submitted November 29, 1909.-Decided December 20, 1909.

Although a defense to the merits if pleaded in the original action
might have prevented rendition of the judgment, it cannot be
urged to prevent mandamus from issuing to enforce the judgment.
Under the laws of New Mexico, where there is no possible excuse
for a board of county commissioners not to comply with a judgment,
a peremptory writ of mandamus in the first instance is authorized.
Where the bill shows it is clearly the purpose of defendant officers
not to perform a duty imposed upon them, demand is not necessary
before suit for mandamus.

SANTA FE COUNTY v. COLER.
215 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Where parts of a county have been detached by statute which provides for the detached portions bearing their proportion of indebtedness, the counties to which those portions are attached are not
necessary parties to a suit to recover obligations of the original
county. After judgment the original county which is primarily
liable may enforce contribution through the proper officers for the
proportionate share of the detached portions.
In this case it was held that the facts justified the amount of the
tax levy required by the writ of mandamus as modified by the
Supreme Court of the Territory.
Practice of the courts in a Territory is based upon local statutes and
procedure and this court is not disposed to review the decisions of
the Supreme Court of the Territory in such cases, and, following the
Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico, this court holds that
the power of that court to affirm or reverse and remand includes
the power to modify, and extends to proceedings in mandamus.
14 New Mexico, 134, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. B. Renehan for appellant:
The peremptory writ of mandamus should not have been
issued without a hearing or opportunity for respondents
to be heard. The writ is confined to the requirement of
official duties of a ministerial character. 2 Spelling, Ex. Rem.,
§§ 1432-1434, 1437.
The court in mandamus proceedings can inquire into the
original judgment so far as to ascertain whether the claim
is legally payable out of the taxes sought to be applied.
Railroad Co. v. New Mexico, 72 Pac. Rep. 14; Brownsville v.
Loague, 129 U. S. 505.
The mandamus cannot be issued as there was no demand
before suit. Spelling, Ex. Rem., §§ 1381, 1447. The action
should have been directed against the treasurer of the county
and not against the county board. Sections 4021, 4062, C. L.
1897; and see § 343; Bass v. Taft, 137 U. S. 752; Ex parte
Rowland, 104 U. S. 615.
Where the facts are, as in this case, disputed, a peremptory
writ cannot issue in the first instance. 13 Ency. P1. & Pr. 722;

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

215 U. S.

and see also 13 Ency. P1. & Pr. 773-775; State v. Goodfellow,
1 Mo. App. 145.
The Supreme Court of New Mexico had no jurisdiction to
modify the judgment of the lower court by changing the
theory and cause 9 f action. Under C. L. 1897, §897, the
power of the appellate court is limited to revising or modifying
a judgment only in actions at law or equity and not in such
proceedings as mandamus. Territory v. County Commissioners, 5 New Mex. 17. There being no statute in the Territory providing for jury trials in mandamus common-law
procedure governs and the Supreme Court can only reverse
or affirm. State v. Suwannee County, 21 Florida, 1; Castle v.
Lawler, 47 Connecticut, 340; and see § 10, C. L. 1897, p. 43,
act of September 30, 1850.
The remedy given by the statute, § 343, C. L. 1897, is exclusive. Fourth Nat. Bank v. Francklyn, 120 U. S. 751; 7
Ency. P1. & Pr. 372.
The pleading being on information and belief is insufficient
as the pleader had knowledge of the facts. Jones v. Pearl
Mining Co., 20 Colorado, 417; Nichols v. Hubert, 150 Missouri,
620.
The counties of Rio Arriba and Torrance were necessary
parties under the existing laws of the Territory. Subsection 5, C. L. 1897, subs. 175; § 6, ch. 114, L. 1905; ch. 70,
L. 1903; ch. 24, L. 1903; ch. 20, L. 1903.
Underothe act of June 8, 1878, c. 168, 20 Stat. 101, explanatory of § 1889, Rev. Stat., the Territory was prohibited
from issuing these bonds. Lewis v. Pinia, 155 U. S. 67.
Although held valid in Coler v. County Commissioners, 6 New
Mex. 88, the question of their validity under the act was not
raised. The validating act of June 16, 1897, c. 30, 29 Stat.
487, although construed in Utter v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 498,
does not validate these bonds as it is too indefinite to determine which bonds are validated. There is no element of
res judicatain this case. The judgments are not attacked, only
the method of enforcement and the excessive amount of the

SANTA FE COUNTY v. COLER.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

levy. Railway Co. v. Territory, 72 Pac. Rep. 14; United States
v. Macon County, 99 U. S. 591; Brownsville v. Loague, 129
U. S.502.
Mr. Charles A. Spiess for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

These appeals are prosecuted to review judgments of the
Supreme Court of New Mexico, modifying, and affirming as
modified, judgments of mandamus of the District Court of
Santa F6 County, commanding the appellants to levy a tax
of ten mills in each case on each dollar of taxable property in
the county, to pay certain judgments for the amount of principal and interest upon bonds issued by the county. The
cases are here on separate records, but as they are submitted
together we dispose of them, as the Supreme Court of the
Territory did, in one opinion.
The proceedings were commenced by petitions, which are
alike, except as to the amount of the judgment recovered.
In No. 42 it is alleged to be $60,926.02; in No. 43 it is alleged
to be $74,358.19. Both judgments were recovered in the
District Court of the county in which the petitioners (appellees here) were complainants and the board of county commissioners were defendants. It is alleged that the judgments
ordered the sums due as above stated, and the interest thereon
to become due at five per cent per annum from the date of
the judgments, "to be assessed and levied upon and out of
the taxable property situate in the said county of Santa F6,
and to cause the same to be collected in the manner provided, by law, and to pay the same out of the treasury of said
county t6 the said complainants, their legal representatives or
assignees, upon the delivery of a proper voucher therefor."
Default in the payment of each of the judgments and its
requirements is alleged, and that the board held a meeting
during the month of July or August, 1905, and made a levy

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

for various territorial purposes, but "wholly failed and refused to make any levy whatsoever, and still fail and refuse
to make any levy whatsoever, for the said year of 1905, for
the purpose of raising funds to pay the aforesaid judgment
and interest and costs thereon." The want of a plain, speedy
and adequate remedy at law is also alleged. Peremptory
writs of mandamus were issued without a hearing.
Subsequently the appellants filed a petition in each case
in the District Court and prayed "that the peremptory order
be suspended herein, and that they be permitted to show
cause and be heard before the order and writ are made permanent."
To sustain this prayer they alleged that at the date of the
rendition of the judgments of appellees all of the property
within the county of Santa F6 subject to taxation was liable
for the payment of its pro rata. of the judgments; that the
thirty-fifth legislative assembly "eliminated" portions of
Santa F6 County, and attached them respectively to the
county of Rio Arriba and the county of Torrance, and made
them subject to their proportions of the indebtedness of
Santa F6 County; that the taxable property situate therein
is liable for its part of the indebtedness; that the county
commissioners are without jurisdiction to levy and assess
taxes upon it, and that the peremptory writs include only
"the property and territory within the present boundaries"
of Santa F6, and do not pretend to include that in Rio Arriba
and Torrance; that by a mandamus issued out of the district
court on the twenty-fifth day of January, 1901, the county
commissioners were required to levy a tax upon the taxable
property in Santa F6 sufficient in amount to produce a sum
of $135,284.19, with interest thereon from the twenty-fourth
of September, 1900, until paid at five per cent per annum,
and $30.00 costs, the said sum being for the amount of the
judgments in cases 4091 and 4092 of the district court of
Santa F6 County; that the board obeyed the writ and levied
eighty-two mills on each dollar of taxable valuation, and

SANTA FE COUNTY v. COLER.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

certified the same to the treasurer and ex officio tax collector
of the county, and directed him to place the same on the tax
rolls and collect in the manner provided by law; that the levy
is still standing on the tax rolls of the county, and is a lien
upon the taxable property of the county as then existing,
and subject to the payment of the judgments; that the commissioners are without authority to enforce the same, and
that the levy is ample and sufficient to cover the amount of
the judgments in cases Nos. 4091 and 4092, and that the levy
of ten mills in each case is largely in excess of the amount
required, and is "unjust and unfair" to the taxpayers of the
county of Santa F6, and ruinous to its "progress and prosperity." It is alleged that the board is entitled to be heard
on the amount of levy, or whether any levy should be ordered,
as there exists a legal and adequate levy to cover the judgments; that it is impossible to determine the amount of levy
necessary to be made for the year succeeding 1905 until the
tax roll for that year has been completed and the. amount of
taxable property determined; that the board should not be
held in default until -the time shall arrive when the levy can
be made, and they shall have failed to perform their duty;
that the levy of the tax, as required by the writ, is not one
which the law "enjoins as a duty resulting from an office,
trust or station," because the levy of eighty-two mills, when
collected, will be sufficient to pay the judgments, and that
it is not a duty of the board to collect it, but "the duty of the
treasurer and ex officio tax collector of Santa F6 County."
It is alleged appellees have a plain, speedy and adequate
remedy at law.
As an additional ground of the motions, it is alleged that
the act of Congress, by which the bonds are "pretended to
have been validated, approved, and confirmed, is inaefinite,
uncertain, and incapable of reasonable interpretation and
enforcement, so as to be applied to any bonds issued by the
county of Santa F6," and does not sufficiently identify what
bonds are intended to be validated, approved and confirmed;

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

nor what holders of the bonds, it being alleged that they "are
subjects of different ownership and are not all in the hands of
one person, and it cannot be determined from the said act of
Congress what holder of said bonds, in excess of the amount
named in the said act of Congress, shall not have the benefits
of validation." And further, that at the time of the passage
of the act of Congress there was more than one refunding act
in force in the Territory, but what refunding act is referred to
by the act of Congress is not disclosed.
The motions to suspend the peremptory writs were denied
and the orders denying them were affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Territory. The latter court, however, modified
the writs, as will be presently pointed out.
The assignments of error in the Supreme Court of the Territory repeated and emphasized the grounds urged in the
motions to suspend the peremptory writs of mandamus. In
this court the modification of the judgments by the Supreme
Court of the Territory is attacked and some new contentions
are made.
The case is submitted on briefs, andwe shall not attempt
to trace an exact correspondence of the arguments of appellants with the assignments of error, nor indeed shall we follow
the details of the argument, but consider those matters only
which we think can in any way affect the merits of the controversy. It will be observed in the beginning that the writs
of mandamus issued by the District Court are but the execution by it of its judgments of the twenty-fourth of September,
1900, the amounts of which the board of commissioners were
ordered to assess against the taxable property of the county
and pay the same. We may say, therefore, at the outset that
whatever could have been urged to prevent the rendition of
the judgments cannot now be urged to prevent their enforcement. This disposes of the defense made against the orders
under review, that the act of Congress validating the bonds
is uncertain and indefinite, even if it had merit otherwise.
The objections that are urged against the act of Congress are

SANTA FE COUNTY v. COLER.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that it cannot be understood from it what refunding act is
referred to, there being two, it is contended, or whether all
of the bonds issued under it have been validated or only an
amount thereof, not exceeding $172,500.00, and if no more
than $172,500.00, which bonds have been validated. And
it is urged further that there is no identification of what
holders of the bonds in excess of the amount named in the
act of Congress shall not have the benefits of the validation.
Manifestly such defenses should have been set up in the
original actions and are now precluded by the judgments
therein rendered. It is established by the judgments that
the amount of bonds issued was in accordance with the act
of Congress and was not excessive in amount, and also that
the plaintiffs in the action (appellees here) were legal owners
of such bonds and entitled to the "benefits of validation."
Murphy v. Utter, 186 U. S. 95, 113. The appellants, therefore, are confined to the other objections urged by them.
The principal of these objections is that peremptory writs
should not have been issued without a hearing, and that there
should have been a demand made of the commissioners before
suit. As to the first, it may be said that it probably appeared
to the District Court that the board could have no possible
excuse, and in such case a peremptory writ is authorized in
the first instance by the laws of the Territory. By § 2764 of
the Compiled Laws of New Mexico for the year 1897 it is provided that "when the right to require the performance of the
act is clear, and it is apparent no valid excuse can be given
for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be
allowed in the first instance."
The second ground is also untenable. The original judgments expressed the obligation of the board. They imposed
the duty of levying taxes to pay them, and, it is alleged, that
the board had levied taxes for other territorial and county
purposes, but had failed and refused to make any levy whatever to pay the judgments. In other words, it is averred,
that it is clearly the purpose of the board not to perform the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

duty imposed upon it. In such a case no demand is necessary.
Northern Pacific R. R. v. Dustan, 142 U. S.492, 508.
We are therefore brought to the consideration of the suffi-ciency of the excuses which the board made in its motions to,
suspend the writs. We may briefly repeat them: (1) that
portions of Santa F6 County were attached to other counties,
which portions are subject to the payment of the judgments,
and that the board is without jurisdiction over them; (2)
that a levy of eighty-two mills had been made, which is a
lien upon the property of Santa F6 County "as then existing,"
and that the board is without authority to enforce the collection of the levy; (3) that the levy of twenty mills (ten in each
case) is excessive; (4) that the board was entitled to be heard
as to the amount of the levy, or whether any levy was necessary, "there existing upon the tax rolls a legal and adequate
levy to cover" the judgments which it is the duty of the tax
collector to collect; (5) that it was impossible to determine
the amount of the levy necessary for the year succeeding the
year 1905 until the rolls for that year had been completed
and the amount of taxable property determined; (6) that the
board is not in default and should not be held liable until in
default.
The District Court evidently considered that these excuses
were without substantial merit, and such also was the view of
the Supreme Court of the Territory. To the first, that is that
the portions of Santa F6 County which had been segregated
from it should have been included in the writs, it was replied
by the Supreme Court that it was provided by Chapter 20 of
the Session Laws of 1903 that such.segregated portions were
required to contribute their just proportion to the bonded
debt of Santa F6, that provision was made for assessment,
levy and collection of such proportion by the officers of the
new county upon the order of the old county, and that the
money collected should be paid into the treasury of the old
county. It was therefore decided that the county of Santa
F6 could "compel contribution from the two other counties

SANTA FI. COUNTY v. COLER.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which had received a portion of its territory, in proportion
to the amount of taxable property received, and this is the
method provided by law." This view of the statute is not
directly attacked by appellants, and, if it may be said that
the general argument is a criticism of it, the answer is what
was said in English v. Arizona, 214 U. S.359, 363, that "unless in a case of manifest error, this court will not disturb a
decision of the Supreme Court of a Territory construing a
local statute." Chapter 20 of the Session Laws of 1903 is an
answer also to other contentions of appellants. If the county
of Santa F6 is primarily liable for the bonds she is the proper
party to an action upon them, and through her officers the
payment of the judgments recovered can be enforced. The
contention of appellants, therefore, that the counties of Rio
Arriba and Torrance are "necessary parties to a complete
determination of the case," is untenable, as indeed all other
contentions that are based upon the addition to those counties
of portions of Santa F6 County.
The most serious contentions of appellants are that the
levy of eighty-two mills was sufficient to pay the judgments,
interest and costs, and that the levy of twenty mills in addition was excessive. We think, however, that the reply made
by the Supreme Court of the Territory adequately disposed
of them. The learned court pointed out that the resolution
of the board of county commissioners, a copy of which appears
in the record, showed that the levy of eighty-two mills had
the purpose only, and was sufficient only, to pay the then
amount of the judgments, together with -interest. It was
further pointed out that the interest to accrue was not provided for, and that it amounted on the day when the peremptory writs of mandamus were issued to $32,874.05. It follows necessarily, as the court said, that the contention that
the eighty-two mills levied was sufficient, "isunfounded and
untrue in fact." To the contention that the twenty mills
levied are excessive, in that they are more than sufficient to
pay $32,874.05, the court replied that, if this were so, the
voL. ccxv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

peremptory writs should not have been issued. But, the
court added, it is not shown that the assessable value of property in Santa F6 County has increased, while it does appear
on the other hand that portions of the county had been cut
off; therefore, it was said, it is fair to presume "that the
assessed valuation of the county is not in excess of what it
was in 1901, when the eighty-two mills levy was made."
From this presumption it was concluded that twenty mills
would produce, if collected in full, $32,996.00, an excess only

of $112.05.

And it was observed that since the peremptory

writs were issued interest had accrued to the amount of
$10,000.00.

The writs required not only the levy of twenty mills for
the year 1905, but for each and every year thereafter and
until the judgments with interest and costs be paid. This
the Supreme Court pronounced error, and modified the judgments by striking out the requirements for a continuous levy.
This appellants assign as error, contending that the Supreme
Court had no jurisdiction to modify the judgments of the

lower court, and that by doing so it changed the "theory and
cause of action." The argument to sustain the contention is
somewhat roundabout. Exclusive original jurisdiction in

mandamus, it is said, is conferred on the District Court by
§ 2771 of the laws of the Territory, and, while an appeal lies
to the Supreme Court as in other civil actions (§ 2772), that
the power of the court to modify the judgment of a district
court, given by § 897,1 does not extend to a judgment in
1 "In

all cases now pending in the Supreme Court or which may
be hereafter pending in the Supreme Court, and which may have
been tried by the equity side of the court, or which may have been
tried by a jury on the common law side of the court, or in which a
jury may have been waived and the case tried by the court or the
judge thereof, it shall be the duty of the Supreme Court to look into
all the rulings and decisions of the court which may be apparent upon
the records, or which may be incorporated in the bill of exceptions,
and pass upon all of them and upon the errors if any shall be found
therein, in the rulings and decisions of the court below, grant a new

SANTA FE COUNTY v. COLER.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mandamus. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, it is
urged, "was simply to affirm or reverse and remand." This,
it will be observed, is very general. It would seem even to
imply that the Supreme Court has not even the power of direction, but must leave the District Court to get right ultimately through successive judgments, appeals and reversals.
And the anomaly is attempted to be sustained by saying that
mandamus is not included in the useful power given to the
Supreme Court by § 897 in cases taken to it to "render such
other judgment as may be right and just and in accordance
with law," because, it is said, that mandamus "is not a case
on the equity side of the court, nor is it one tried on the law
side with a jury, nor is it one in which a jury has been waived
and trial had by the court or judge, especially as concerns the
present proceeding." This is a misunderstanding of the
statute. Its purpose is to not only give the power to review,
but to prevent its defeat through the. distinction between
causes of action and modes of trial. Further argument is
unnecessary. Even if the contention had grounds of support
it would be answered by the case of English v. Arizona, 214
U. S. 359, and the case of Armijo v. Armijo, 181 U. S. 558,
561. In the latter case we said that practice "in the courts
of the Territory is based upon local statutes and procedure,
and we are not disposed to review the decision of the Supreme
Court in such cases. Sweeney v. Lomme, 22 Wall. 208." Of
the other contentions of appellants, it is enough to say that
they are without merit.
Judgments affirmed.
trial or render such other judgment as may be right and just, and
in accordance with law; and said Supreme Court shall not decline to
pass upon any question of law or fact which may appear in any record
either upon the face of the record or in the bill of exceptions, because
the cause was tried by the court or judge thereof without a jury, but
shall review said cause in the same manner and to the same extent
as if it had been tried by a jury."

