MANKIN v. LUDOWICI-CELADON CO.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

devices claimed by them. It certainly covers the collocation
of the spring links and semi-elliptic springs. One of the claims
of Brill and Curwen is, "12. The combination in a car truck
of the side frames, the equalizing-bars movably and resiliently
suspended from the side frames, and a bolster supported on
said equalizing-bars, substantially as described." It is said
that the Brill patent did not follow the Thyng invention for
more than fifty years. The answer is that for most of that
time it was not wanted. Very soon after the change in street
railway travel required it it came.
If the plaintiff's claim could be sustained, which we cannot
admit, it would be confined to the specific form of link described. There would be little room for the doctrine of
equivalents. The defendant's device does not use a ball and
socket but uses a rigid link supported by a relatively unyielding spiral spring in the frame of the truck, and does not infringe the very narrow claim which is the most that in any
view could be allowed.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissents.

MANKIN v. UNITED STATES FOR THE USE OF
LUDOWICI-CELADON COMPANY.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 167.

Submitted January 7, 1910.-Decided January 17, 1910.

Under the labor and material law of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33
Stat. 811, amending the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278,
indemnity is provided for persons furnishing labor and materials
to a subcontractor as well as to the contractor in chief for the construction of a public building.
The indemnity extends to the full amount furnished notwithstanding
the contractor may have already paid the subcontractor in full or

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

215 U. S.

in part. Provisions in state statutes, limiting recovery against contractor to amount remaining unpaid to subcontractor, do not affect
suits under the Federal statute which contains no such provisions.
The decision in Hill v. American Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197, in regard
to claims against subcontractors under the act of 1894, followed as
to such claims under the statute as amended in 1905.
158 Fed. Rcp. 1021, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Federal
labor and material act of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat.
811, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. V. Meredith, Mr. J. JordanLeake, Mr. T. C. Catchings
and Mr. 0. W. Catchings for plaintiff in error:
The statute must be strictly construed as a mechanic's lien
statute and as such does not, as amended in 1905, inure to the
benefit of subcontractors. The act as amended differs in this
respect from the statute as construed, in Hill v. Am. Surety Co.,
'200 U. S. 197. No matter how meritorious his service the
statute does not protect one who is. not clearly within it.
Phillips on Mech. Liens, 2d ed., §§ 36, 47 et seq.; Wood v.
Donaldson, 17 Wend. 550; Donaldson v. Wood, 22 Wend. 395;
Boisot, Mech. Liens, §§ 246 et seq.; McGuire v. Ohio R. R. Co.,
33 W. Va. 63.
Under the statute as amended the contractor and surety
company are not and should not be required to pay twice, and
the material men are only entitled to recover the amount remaining unpaid to the subcontractor which in this case is for
less than the amounts claimed by the material men and
awarded by the court below.
Where the owner is compelled to pay twice the statute is
highly penal and must be construed strictly against one seeking that result. West Lumber Co. v. Knapp, 122 California, 81;
Hampton v. Christenson, 84 Pac. Rep. 200; Alderman v. Hartford Co., 66 Connecticut, 47; Nixon v. Cydon Lodge, 56 Kansas,
298; Dunn v. Rankin, 27 Ohio, 132; Morrison v. Whaley, 16
R. I. 715.

MANKIN v. LUDOWICI-CELADON CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The New Jersey statute has been construed as not requiring
payment beyond the amount due the subcontractor. Garrison
v. Borio, 47 Atl. Rep. 1060; and see also as to New York rule,
Brainard v. Kings County, 84 Hun, 290, aff'd 155 N. Y. 538;
Phillips, Mech. Liens, 2d ed., § 61, citing Renton v. Conley, 49
California, 188, and McKnight v. Washington, 8 W. Va. 666;
Stout v. Golden, 9 W. Va. 231; McIntire v. Barnes, 4 Colorado,
288; Boisot, Mech. Liens, § 255; Wadsworth v. Hodge, 88 Alabama, 500.
If the rule were otherwise a contractor might have to pay
those supplying materials to the subcontractor more than
he agreed to pay the subcontractor himself. McMurray v.
Brown, 91 U. S. 256, 266; Hunler v. Truckee Lodge, 14 Nebraska,
24, 41; Fullerton Lumber Co. v. Osborn, 72 Iowa, 472; Wolf v.
Penna. R. R. Co., 29 Pa. Sup. Ct. 439; Knelly v. Howarth, 208
Pa. St. 487; Mullikeir v. Harrison,44 S.E. Rep. 426; Gridley v.
Sumner, 43 Connecticut, 14; Lumber Co. v. Smith, 35 So. Rep.
693; Merriott v. Crane Co., 126 Ill. App. 337, 343; Am. Surety
Co. v. United States, 127 Alabama, 349; General Supply Co. v.
Hunn, 126 Georgia, 615; Vandenberg v. Walton, 92 Pac. Rep.
149; see Digest of laws of various States in Alexander's Lien
Laws; Southeastern States, Alabama, p. 35; Florida, p. 114;
Mississippi, p. 435; North Carolina, p. 474; South Carolina,
p. 525; Virginia, p. 694.
Mr. C. H. Alexander, Mr. W. C. Bowman, Mr. Richard F.
Reed and Mr. GerardBrandon for defendants in error.
MR.JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit, wherein a judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Mississippi in favor
of the defendants in error was affirmed. The facts are: The
Mankin Construction Company on February 27, 1905, entered
into a contract with the Secretary of the Treasury for the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

struction of a certain post-office building in the city of Natchez,
Mississippi, and gave bond under the act of February 24, 1905,
(33 Stat. 811, c. 778), amending the act of August 13, 1894,
(28 Stat. 278, c. 280). This bond was conditioned that the
Mankin Construction Company should "promptly make payment to all persons supplying them labor or materials in the
prosecution of the work contemplated by said contract."
Upon this bond the Title, Guaranty & Trust Company of
Scranton, Pa., was surety.
The Mankin Construction Company on April 29, 1905, entered into a written contract with one W. E. Smythe as subcontractor, by the terms of which Smythe agreed to furnish
certain plumbing, gasfitting, sheet-metal, tile roofing, etc., to
be used in the construction and erection of the post-office
building. The building was completed about July 12, 1906,
was accepted by the Government, and payment therefor was
made to the Mankin Construction Company in accordance with
the terms of the contract.
The defendants in error, the Ludowici-Celadon Company,
the Nelson Manufacturing Company, and the J. L. Mott Iron
Works, respectively, sold and delivered to Smythe, the subcontractor, certain materials which he used in the construction
of the post-office building, as required by' the original contract.
Smythe failed to make full payment on account of such purchases, and no suit having been brought by the United States
under the act of Congress (33 Stat. 811), within six months,
affidavit was made by the Ludowici-Celadon Company that it
had supplied labor and material for the prosecution of the
work of constructing the post-office building; and it was furnished with a copy of the contract and bond, as required by
the act, and thereupon instituted suit in the name of the
United States in the United States Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Mississippi against the Mankin Construction Company and its surety.
The Nelson Manufacturing Company and the J. L. Mott
Iron Works intervened in the action, and claimed the right

MANKIN v. LUDOWICI-CELADON CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

also to recover on account of the materials furnished by them
respectively. There was a judgment upon the bond in favor
of the claimants. It also appears that the Mankin Construction Company had paid Smythe, the subcontractor, the
amount due him under the contract, less $644.57, before receiving any notice from either of the claimants of their respective claims against Smythe. The judgment upon the
bond was in favor of the United States for the use of the
Ludowici-Celadon Company in the sum of $1,217.78, for the
use of the Mott Iron Works in the sum of $709.97, for the use
of the Nelson Manufacturing Company in the sum of $2,129.47.
The amount due upon the accounts not being disputed, the
court instructed the jury to find for the claimants.
Upon writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit that court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court upon the authority of Hill v. The American Surety Co.,
200 U. S. 197. In the Hill case this court held that one who
furnished labor or materials in the carrying out of a contract
for public works, although such materials were furnished to a
subcontractor, to whom a part of the work had been let, could
recover upon a bond given under the act of August 13, 1894
(28 Stat. 278, c. 280). In the Hill case it was held that, construing the bond in the light of the statute, and the purpose of
Congress to provide security for payment for labor and material going into the construction of a public building, it was
intended thereby to provide indemnity for a person or persons
who furnished labor or materials to the subcontractor, thereby
enabling the contractor to meet his engagement to supply the
material and labor necessary to the construction of a public
building.
The present action accrued after the passage of the statute
of February 24, 1905, amending the act of August 13, 1894,
in which original act a right of action was given in the name of
the United States for the use and benefit of the persons supplying the labor or materials in the prosecution of the work provided for in the contract, and requiring a bond for the benefit

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of tile Court.

215 U. S.

of such persons. In that act there was no limitation upon the
number of actions which might be brought, nor was there any
preference given to the United States in a recovery upon the
bond. In the amended act a single action was provided for,
and priority was given to the claim and judgment of the
United States. In such suit any person or company who had
furnished labor or material used in the construction or repair
of any public building was allowed to intervene in the suit by
the United States on the bond, and to have their rights and
claims adjudicated; and it was further provided that if no suit
should be brought by the United States within six months
of the completion and final settlement of the contract then the
person or persons supplying the labor or materials should,
upon filing an affidavit in the Department under the direction
of which the work had been done, or the materials furnished,
be furnished with a certified copy of the contract and bond,
and might thereupon bring an action in the name of the United
States in the Circuit Court of the United States in the district
where the contract was performed and executed. There are
other provisions looking to the distribution of the recovery
upon the bond, and providing for bringing all creditors into the
single suit which is authorized to be instituted.
In respect to the condition of the bond required to be given,
the language of the amended act is precisely the same as that
contained in the act of August 13, 1894, and the condition is
that "such contractor or contractors shall promptly make
payments to all persons supplying him or them with labor and
materials in the prosecution of the work provided for in such
contract."
It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that the act of
February 24, 1905, differs from the act of August 13, 1894, in
that a copy of the contract and bond is to be furnished for the
purpose of suit to the "person or persons supplying the contractor with labor and materials," and upon furnishing an
aiffidavit to the Department under whose direction the work
has been prosecuted, that the labor ahd materials for the

MANKIN v. LUDOWICI-CELADON CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prosecution of said work has been supplied, but payment for
which has not been made, whereas, in the act of August 13,
1894, it is provided that any person or persons making an application therefor, and furnishing an affidavit to the Department that the labor and materials for the prosecution of such
work had been supplied by him or them, payment for which
had not been made, shall have a certified copy of the contract
and bond for the purpose of bringing suit thereon.
In both statutes a copy of the contract and bond is to be
furnished upon an affidavit that labor and materials for the
prosecution of the work has been supplied by the persons applying for such copy. In the amended statute it is provided
that if the action is not instituted by the United States within
six months, then the person or persons supplying the contractor with labor and materials, and furnishing the affidavit
that the same were supplied for the prosecution of such work,
shall have a certified copy of the contract and bond for the
purposes of the suit. The additional phrase used in this connection, "the person or persons supplying the contractor with
labor and materials," it is contended, shows that only those
who furnish labor and materials directly to the contractor come
within the benefit of the act. We cannot agree with this contention. The phrase, "person or persons supplying the contractor with labor and materials," are the words embodied in
both statutes alike in the requirement of a bond for their
benefit. In the Hill case it was distinctly held that "persons
supplying the contractor with labor and materials" included
not only the subcontractor, but any one who furnished labor
and materials to the subcontractor for carrying out the work
contracted for. There is nothing in, the provision as to who
shall have a copy of the bond for the purpose of suit which
changes or limits the obligation of the bond under identical
requirements in both statutes, alike embracing, as construed
in the Hill case, persons furnishing labor and materials to a
subcontractor.
As to the other point, that the Mankin Construction Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

pany had paid to Smythe, the subcontractor, the amount due
him, except the sum of $644.57, before receiving notice of the
claims of the outstanding debts recovered in this case, there is
no provision in the statute that notice shall be given to the
contractor of claims against the subcontractor and limiting
the recovery to the amount unpaid at the time of such notice.
Such provision is found in some of the state statutes, and is
made a condition of recovery in some of the mechanics' lien
acts; but this case is controlled by the Federal act under consideration and the obligation of the bond, which requires payment to all persons supplying labor and material in the prosecution of the work contemplated by the contract.
As was said in the Hill case, the contractor can protect himself by requiring a bond securing him against liability on account of engagements of the subcontractor with persons who
furnish labor and material upon his order. Indeed, the present
contract contained, as the record shows, a provision that the
general contractor reserved the right to require a full release
from all claims for which he had become liable for materials
furnished to, or work done for, the subcontractor, on account
of materials and work required by the contract, with the right
to withhold any amount due to the subcontractor until such
release should be furnished.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that this case is
ruled by the decision made in Hill v. American Surety Company, supra. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court, is, therefore,
Affirmed.

