UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

ject is to ascertain whether the prisofier can lawfully be detained in custody; and if sufficient ground for his detention
by the Government is shown, he is not to be discharged for
defects in the original arrest or commitment. Ex parte Bollman & Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75, 114, 125; Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509, 519; United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S.
621, 624; Kelly v. Thomas, 15 Gray, 192; The King v. Marks, 3
East, 157; Shuttleworth's Case, 9 Q. B. 651."
The District Judge was right, and his final order discharging the writ of habeas corpus is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT

No. 236.

OF WISCONSIN.

Argued October 14, 1909.-Decided December 6, 1909.

Whether the person deceived by false entries is the person intended
by the statute, and whether the averments as to the deceit are
sufficient to sustain the indictment, are questions which involve
the construction of the statute on which an indictment for making
false entries in violation of § 5209, Rev. Stat., is based, and this
court has jurisdiction to review under the Criminal Appeals Act
of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.
The construction of a statute in a particular, in regard to which no
question was raised, will not prevent the determination as an
original question of how the statute should be construed in that
particular when controverted in a subsequent case.
The rule of strict construction of penal statutes does not require a
narrow technical meaning to be given to words in disregard of their
context and so as to frustrate the obvious legislative intent.
Notwithstanding the rule of strict construction the offense of deceiving an agent by doing a specified act may include deception of the
officer appointing the agent where the statute is clearly aimed at
the deception; and under § 5209, Rev. Stat., the making of false

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

215 U. S.

entries with the intent to deceive any agent appointed to examine
the affairs of a national bank, includes an attempt to deceive the
Comptroller of the Currency by false entries made in a report directly to him under § 5311, Rev. Stat.
Where intent is an essential ingredient of a crime it may be charged
in general terms and its existence becomes a question for the jury,
excepting only where the criminal intent could not as a matter of
law have existed under any possible circumstances.
Under Rev. Stat. § 5209, false entries as to the condition of a national
bank may be made with intent to injure the bank even though
they show the bank to be in a more favorable condition than it
actually is, and the question of intent to injure is one for the jury.
, reversed.
Fed. Rep.
facts, which involve the construction of § 5209, Rev.
Stat., are stated in the opinion.
THE

The Solicitor General for the United States:
The allegation in each count of the indictment that the
false entry in the report to the Comptroller of the Currency
was made "with intent thereby to injure and defraud the
bank" is sufficient to sustain the indictment. The natural
result of false entries in such a report is an injury to the
association; and the officer making such false entries, and
those aiding and abetting him in making them, are conclusively presumed to intend such result. As to the proper
rule with reference to proof of criminal intent under § 5209,
Rev. Stat., see United States v. Harper,33 Fed. Rep. 481, 482.
All national banks are under the supervision and control
of the Comptroller of the Currency, with the approval of the
Secretary of the Treasury. The Comptroller may cause
examinations of national banks to be made as often as he
may deem necessary to keep himself informed as to their
exact condition (§ 5240, Rev. Stat.); and if at any time he
shall find that a national bank is in an insolvent condition
or that the law has been knowingly violated by its officers
or agents, he shall have it placed in the hands of a receiver
and its assets distributed (§ 5239, Rev. Stat.) Act June 30,
1876, 19 Stat. 63.

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
215 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

National bank examiners are but -agents of the Comptroller, and their acts are his in contemplation of law. TheComptroller, while not required by statute to make personal
examination of an association's books, is necessarily vested
with the right so to do, and is in fact an agent appointed to
examine the affairs of every national bank. Since the object
of every examination is to give information to the Comptroller, who alone has power to act, the purpose of every
false entry in a report must be primarily to deceive the Comptroller, though the deception be practiced through an examiner appointed by him.
The Comptroller, therefore, being an agent appointed to
examine the affairs of national banks, the allegation in each
count that the entry was made with intent "to deceive an
agent appointed to examine the affairs of such associations,
to-wit, the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States,"
is sufficient.
The clause in § 5209, which declares it to be an offense
to make false entries in a report has been liberally construed
by the courts. United States v. Hughitt, 45 Fed. Rep. 47;
United States v. Booker, 80 Fed. Rep. 376; Bacon v. United
States, 97 Fed. Rep. 35.
Mr. T. J. Connor for defendant in error:
This court has not jurisdiction to review under the act of
March 2, 1907. The indictment was dismissed below because the charge of intent was not sufficiently stated. The
construction of the statute was not involved. United States
v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370. This appears by the opinion which
as part of the record is conclusive here. Jacks v. Helena,
115 U. S. 288; Keiger v. RailroadCo., 125 U. S. 39.
The decision below was right. The statute though defining the offense as a misdemeanor in fact makes it a felony,
United States v. Cadwalader, 59 Fed. Rep. 677,-an infamous
crime, Fulsom v. United States, 160 U. S. 122,-and the
severity of the punishment negatives the idea that mere

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of tile
Court.

215 U. S.

technical violations are to be punished. The statute being
highly penal must be strictly construed. United States v.
Potter, 56 Fed. Rep. 97.
The Comptroller of the Currency is not "an agent" within
the strict construction of the statute. As to the construction
of § 5209, Rev. Stat., see Clement v. United States, 149 Fed.
Rep. 305; United States v. Barton, 10 Fed. Rep. 874.
A false report such as is charged in the indictment and
which makes the bank appear in better shape than it really is,
is not made with intent to injure the bank.
Even though a report be false, if it makes the bank
appear stronger than it really is there is no intent to injure it.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The trial court quashed portions of each count of the indictment and sustained a demurrer to the remainder. This
direct review is sought because of the contention that the
rulings in question were based on a construction of Rev.
Stat., § 5209.
Each of the six counts charged Corbett, one of the defendants, who was cashier of the Bank of Ladysmith, a national
banking association, with making a false entry as to the
condition of the bank in a report made to the Comptroller
of the Currency. The charge was that the false entry was
made with the intent to injure and defraud said association
and to deceive an agent appointed to examine the affairs of
such association, to wit, the Comptroller of the Currency of
the United States. Newman and McGill, the other defendants, who were directors and respectively president and vicepresident of the bank, were charged in each count with having with like intent aided, abetted, etc., Corbett in the making
of the false entry. The motion to quash was directed against
that portion of each count which charged that the alleged
acts were done with intent to deceive an agent appointed to

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

examine, etc. The demurrer challenged generally the sufficiency of the averments of each count.
It is insisted that there is no jurisdiction to review, because the decision below was not based upon the invalidity or
construction of any statute. We think that, within the ruling
in United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, the construction of
Rev. Stat., § 5209 was involved. The suggestion of want of
jurisdiction is, therefore, without merit.
In disposing of the merits we shall consider separately the
rulings on the motion to quash and upon the demurrer.
1. The motion to quash.
The motion was sustained upon the theory that no offense
was stated by the charge of making a false entry in the report
to the Comptroller of the Currency with the intent to deceive an agent appointed to examine the affairs of the bank,
viz., the Comptroller of the Currency, because that official
was not such an agent. While this was the only question
actually decided, nevertheless the reasoning which led the
court to the conclusion by it applied went further and caused
the court to declare that the statute in the particular mentioned was in effect inoperative. This because not alone was
the intent to deceive the Comptroller of the Currency not
embraced, but also the intent to deceive an agent appointed
to examine was excluded so far as a report made to the
Comptroller was concerned, as such agent would be required
to examine the books and papers of the bank and not a report
made to the Comptroller.
We are thus called upon to construe Rev. Stat., § 5209.
The material portion of that section is as follows:
"Every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk, or agent
of any association

.

.

.

who makes any false entry in

any book, report, or statement of the association, with intent . . .
or to deceive

to injure or defraud the association, . .
.
.
.
any agent appointed to examine the

affairs of any such association, and every person who with
like intent aids or abets any officer, clerk, or agent in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
, Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

violation of this section, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

.

Before. analyzing its text we briefly refer to authorities
relied upon on one side or the other as affirming or denying
the correctness of the construction affixed to the section by
the court below.
In United States v. Bartow, 10 Fed. Rep. 874, Benedict,
District Judge, sustained a motion to quash certain, counts
of an indictment, which charged the making of a false entry
in a report to the Comptroller of the Currency, with the intent to deceive that officer, and held in a brief opinion that
the Comptroller was not an agent appointed to examine the
affairs of a national banking association within the meaning
of the statute.
In Cochran v. United States, 157 U. S. 286, which involved
a review of convictions under indictments for making false
entries in reports made to the Comptroller of the Currency,
in violation of Rev. Stat., § 5209, passing on the objection
that no one, except he who verified reports made to the
Comptroller, could be convicted under the indictments, the
court, among other things, said (p. 294):
"If the statements of Thomas be taken as true, he, although verifying the reports as cashier, could not be held
criminally liable for their falsity, since he took and believed
the statements of Cochran and Sayre as to the truth and
correctness of such reports. If this be true, there was lacking on his part that intent to defraud the association, or to
deceive the Comptroller of the Currency, which is made, by
§ 5209, a material element of the offense."
On page 298 the court considered a refusal to give an instruction, which, in the course of defining a false entry, said:
"The intention to deceive is essential to constitute a violation of the statute, and you must be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt from the evidence, first, that the defendants
or one of them made a false entry in said report; and, second,
that it was made with the intention of misleading or deceiv-

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing the Comptroller of the Currency, or some other person
or persons alleged in the said indictment."
It was held that the refused instruction was substantially
embodied in the charge as given, wherein, among other things,
the trial court said (p. 298):
"The intent must have been, as laid in the indictment,
to mislead and deceive one of these parties, either some of
the officers of the bank or the officer of the Government appointed to examine into the affairs of the bank. . . . So
that you must find, not only the fact that there was an omission to make'the proper entry, but that with it was an intent
to conceal the fact from somebody who was concerned in the
bank, or concerned in overseeing it, and supervising its operations and the conduct of its business."
Since the decision of the Cochran case, and without citing
that case on that subject, in Clement v. United States, 149
Fed. Rep. 305, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, considering an objection that an allegation in a
count was immaterial which charged that a false entry was
made in a report' to the Comptroller of the Currency, with
intent to deceive that official and any agent who might be
appointed to examine the affairs of a bank, said (p. 316):
"That is quite correct so far as the allegation concerning
-the intent to deceive the Comptroller is concerned. Such
intent is not one of those requisite under § 5209 to constitute an offense. But the contention is not correct in so
far as the allegation relates to the intent to deceive an agent
who might be appointed to examine the affairs of the bank."
Irrespective of the direct conflict between the statement
just quoted and the reasoning of the court below in the case
at bar, it is apparent that neither the Bartow nor the Clement
case, in view of the Cochran case, can be considered as persuasive. The Cochran case, however, it is urged should not
be treated as authority, because it does not appear that any
question was raised concerning the construction of the statute
in the particular now controverted, but that the meaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

of the statute was taken for granted, and hence the mere
assumption which was indulged in when deciding the Cochran
case should not now prevent a determination of the significance
of the language of the statute. As the report of the Cochran
case indicates that the premise relied on is true, we come to
consider the meaning of the section as an original question.
The report to the Comptroller, in which the entries were
charged to have been false, and to have been made with the
intent to deceive that officer as an agent appointed to examine, etc., was clearly one made under the provisions of
Rev. Stat., § 5211, which reads as follows:
"Every association shall make to the Comptroller of the
Currency not less than five reports during each year, according to the form which may be prescribed by him, verified
by the oath or affirmation of the president or cashier of such
association, and attested by the signature of at least three
of the directors. Each such report shall exhibit, in detail
and under appropriate heads, the resources and liabilities
of the association at the close of business of any past day
by him specified; and shall be transmitted to the Comptroller
within five days after the receipt of a request or requisition
therefor from him."
The authority conferred by this section upon the Comptroller is but one among the comprehensive powers withwhich he is endowed by the statute for the purpose of examining and supervising the operations of national banks, preventing and detecting violations of law on their part, appointing receivers in case of necessity, etc. From the nature
of these powers it would seem clear that the Comptroller is
an officer or agent of the United States, expressly as well
as impliedly clothed with authority to examine into the
affairs of national banking associations, and therefore a false
entry made in a report to him is directly embraced in the
provision of Rev. Stat., § 5209. But it is argued while this
may be abstractly' true, it is not so when the provision of
Rev. Stat., § 5240 is considered, conferring power upon the

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Comptroller, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to appoint suitable agents to make an examination of
the affairs of every national banking association. Because of
this power the contention is that the words "any agent appointed to examine the affairs of any such bank" should be
construed as embracing only the subordinate agents whom
the Comptroller is authorized to appoint. But to so hold, we
think, would do violence to the text of § 5209, and conflict
with its context, and would, besides, frustrate the plain purpose which the section as a whole was intended to accomplish, especially if it be considered in the light of cognate
provisions of the statute. We say the first, because the
particular words of the text relied upon, "any agent appointed
to examine," etc., are all-embracing, and cannot reasonably
be held to exclude the Comptroller, the principal agent endowed by the statute with the power to examine national
banks. Indeed, the words "any agent" would seem to have
been used in the broadest sense for the express purpose of
excluding the possibility of the contention now made. Nor
does the fact that the section of the Revised Statutes empowering the Comptroller to call for reports from national
banks is contained in a section subsequent to the one which
embodies the provision authorizing the Comptroller to appoint agents to examine, give force to the contention that
the Comptroller cannot be embraced by the words "any
agent." The provision in question was originally contained
in the act of 1864, which moreover forbade certain acts in
the transaction of the affairs of national banks, empowered
the Comptroller of the Currency to exercise supervisory
power, to call for reports from the associations and to bring
into play other authority substantially as found in the law
as now existing. This was followed by the provision giving
to the Comptroller the right to appoint subordinate examiners, the whole being concluded by a section containing provisions which are now substantially embodied in Rev. Stat.,
§ 5209. It is apparent that such provisions embraced acts
voL. ccxv-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

forbidden and matters regulated by previous sections, including the reports to be made by the associations to the
Comptroller and the examination of books and papers by the
agents appointed by the Comptroller. The intention cannot
be reasonably imputed of punishing an intent to deceive a
subordinate of the Comptroller by means of false entries in
a report required to be made directly to the Comptroller and
for his information and guidance, and yet at the same time
not to punish the intent to deceive the very officer to whom
the report was to be made. Including the reports to be made
to the Comptroller in the comprehensive grouping of the
section excludes the conception that such officer was not
considered as embraced in the words "any officer appointed,"
etc. But the argument is that, however cogent may be the
considerations just stated, they are here inapplicable, because
the statute is a criminal one, requiring to be strictly construed. The principle is elementary, but the application
here sought to be made is a mistaken one. The rule of strict
construction does not require that the narrowest technical
meaning be given to the words employed in a criminal statute
in disregard of their context and in frustration of the obvious
legislative intent. United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385.
In that case, answering the contention that penal laws are
to be construed strictly, the court said (p. 395):
"The object in construing penal, as well as other statutes,
is to ascertain the legislative intent. . . . The words
must not be narrowed to the exclusion of what the legislature
intended to embrace; but that intention must be gathered
from the words, and they must be such as to leave no room
for a reasonable doubt upon the subject. . . . The rule
of strict construction is not violated by permitting the words
of the statute to have their full meaning, or the more extended
of two meanings, as the wider popular instead of the more
narrow technical one; but the words should be taken in such
9 sense, bent neither one way nor the other, as will best manifest the legislative intent."

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is to be observed that the rule thus stated affords no
ground for extending a penal statute beyond its plain meaning. But it inculcates that a meaning which is within the
text and within its clear intent is not to be departed from
because, by resorting to a narrow and technical interpretation
of particular words, the plain meaning may be distorted and
the obvious purpose of the law be frustrated. Bolles v.
Outing Co., 175 U. S. 262, 265, and especially United States
v. Union Supply Company, decided this term, ante, p. 50.
Indeed, the aptness of the application of the principle
just stated to the case in hand is well illustrated by the following considerations. If by distorting the rule of strict
construction we were to construe the words of the statute,
"any agent appointed to examine," so as to exclude the
Comptroller of the Currency, the principal agent appointed
for such purpose, by the same method we should be compelled to adopt the reasoning of the court below and to
narrow the statute so as' to exclude the intent to deceive by
false entries in the report, an agent to whom the report was
not to be made and who might not be called upon to examine
the same, thus, in effect, as to intent to deceive any agent,
destroying the statute. And this impossible conclusion at
once serves to point out the correctness of the interpretation
of the statute assumed in the Cochran case, that the intent to
deceive, for which the statute provides, is an intent to deceive the official agents concerned in overseeing the bank
and supervising its operation and the conduct of its business, including, of necessity, the Comptroller of the Currency
and the subordinate agents or examiners whom the statute
authorized him to appoint.
2. The demurrer.
Where intent is an essential ingredient of a crime it is
settled that such intent may be charged in general terms and
that the existence of the intent becomes, therefore, a question to be determined by the jury upon a consideration of
all the facts and circumstances of the case. Evans v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

States, 153 U. S. 584. It is, of course, to be conceded that
where the facts charged to have been done with criminal
intent are of such a nature that on the face of the indictment
it must result as a matter of law that the criminal intent
could not under any possible circumstances have existed,
the charge of such intent, in general terms, would raise no
issue of fact proper to go to a jury. It was upon the conception that the facts alleged in the indictment under consideration excluded the possibility under any circumstances of the
existence of the particular criminal intent charged, that the
court below was led to sustain the demurrer. The court
said:
"The indictment also charges that the entries were made
with intent to injure and defraud the bank itself, but how
this could be does not appear. It is barely possible that
some harm might indirectly have come to the bank by the
publication of the false report in the vicinity of the place
where the bank was located, but this possibility is not sufficient to show the definite intent shown by the statute. The
report must have been madc with the purpose on the part
of those signing it to injure and defraud the bank. The report could not possibly change the actual condition of the
bank, and a false report showing a better condition than in
fact existed might as readily be a benefit to the bank as a
detriment. At all events, the detriment would be merely
speculative, insufficient to afford proof of a positive intent
to injure and defraud the bank."
But to these views we cannot give our assent. Because
the false entries in the report showed the bank to be in a more
favorable condition than it was in truth did not justify .the
conclusion that the entries in the report could under no circumstances have been made with the intent to injure the
bank, unless it be true to say that it must follow, as a matter
of law, that to falsely state in an official report a bank to be
in a better condition than it really is, under every and all
circumstances is to benefit and not to injure the bank. But

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this view would do violence to the statute, which exacts
truthful reports upon the conception that the knowledge
by the officials of the Government of the true condition of
the bank is conducive to the safeguarding of its interests
and its protection from injury and wrong. It was undoubtedly within the power of the Comptroller of the Currency,
if the bank was out of line, or if its affairs were in a disordered
or precarious condition, or if its officers had embarked in
transactions calculated to injuriously affect the financial
condition of the bank, to apply a corrective, and thus save
the bank from injury and future loss. Certainly, as a matter
of law, it cannot be held, although such transactions were
concealed in a report made to the Comptroller by false statements exhibiting a more favorable condition of the bank
than would have appeared if the truth had been stated, that
no intent to injure the bank could possibly be imputed, even
although the necessary effect of the false statement was to
prevent the Comptroller from exerting the powers conferred
upon him by law for the protection of the bank from injury.
And these considerations also effectually dispose of the
theory that the acts charged to have been falsely reported,
in and of themselves, were of such a character as to exclude
the possibility of a criminal intent to injure the bank. The
counts charged false entries as to the amount of bad debts
due the bank, as to the suspended paper held by the bank,
as to the amount due the bank by its president as indorser,
guarantor or otherwise, and as to the assets of the bank,
by reporting that it owned various pieces of real estate which
it really only held as security. We are of opinion that the
alleged false statements did not so exclude the possibility
of an intention to injure the bank as to justify so declaring
as a matter of law, and that the case should have been submitted to a jury to determine the question of intent in the
light of all the facts and circumstances existing at the time
of the making of the alleged false entries.
Reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

do not think
the Comptroller is within the words "any agent," and dissent from that ruling. In other respects they concur.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNAand MR. JUSTICE DAY

LATHROP, SHEA & HENWOOD COMPANY v. INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.
.ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 2.

Argued October 22, 1909.-Decided December 6, 1909.

Where plaintiff in good faith insists on the joint liability of all the
defendants until the close of the trial, the dismissal of the complaint
on the merits as to the defendants who are citizens of plaintiff's
State does not operate to make the cause then removable as to nonresident defendants and to prevent the plaintiff from taking a verdict
against the defendants who might have removed the cause had they
been sued alone, or if there had originally been a separable controversy as to them.
THE facts, which involve the validity of the removal
cause to the Federal court, are stated in the opinion.

of a

Mr. Clarence M. Bushnell for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. Walter Artz for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
The parties were respectively plaintiff and defendant in

the court below, and we shall so designate them.
The plaintiff brought suit against the defendant and the
Pittsburg, Shawmont and Northern Railroad Company in
the Supreme Court of Erie County, New York, for the sum

