INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. CHICAGO &c. R. R. 479
215 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. CHICAGO
& ALTON RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 232.

Argued October 15, 1909.-Decided January 10, 1910.

Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad Company,
ante, p. 452, followed as to power, under the act to regulate commerce, of the Commission to make reasonable arrangements for the
distribution of coal cars to shippers, including cars for transportation of fuel purchased by the railroad company for its own use.
Where the case is submitted on bill and answer, a fact, alleged in
the complaint and denied in the answer and for which proof is deuianded, cannot be considered, especially where, as in this case,
there is a contrary finding of a body such as the Interstate Commerce Commission.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Assistant to the Attorney General, and
Mr. Luther M. Walter, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. L. A. Shaver and Mr. H. B. Arnold,
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. W. S. Kenyon and Mr. GarrardB. Winston, with whom
Mr. Robert Mather, Mr. F. S. Winston and Mr. J. M. Dickinson were on the brief, for appellees.
By leave of the court, Mr. Eldon J. Cassoday and Mr.
Rush C. Butler filed a brief for Receivers of the Illinois Collieries Company.
By leave of the court, Mr. Francis I. Gowen and Messrs.
Wayne MacVeagh, McKenney and Flannery filed a brief on
behalf of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

215 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is controlled by the opinion just announced in
the case of Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central
Railroad Company, ante, p. 452. The complaints made to
the commission were alike in both cases, and they were
heard before that body at the same time, and one report was
made in both cases. The order, in both cases, was the same.
Like bills for injunction were filed in the court below, and
there also they were heard together and were disposed of in
one opinion. There is only this difference between the two
cases. In this the bill for injunction contained the following
averment concerning a small number, out of the thousands
of coal cars forming part of the equipment of the road:
"That your orator has purchased and now operates on its
line 360 steel hopper-bottom coal cars; that said cars are of
an extreme height, to wit, ten feet; that, by reason of such
height, said cars can be unloaded only upon specially constructed trestles; that no consignees to whom coal is shipped
from mines on your orator's line own or have the use of such
trestles, and that such cars are not available for commercial
shipment of coal. And your orator avers that it at all times
restricts these cars to the service of hauling your orator's
own fuel supply, and that by reason of such restriction and
by reason of the fact that your orator alone has the means
of unloading said hopper-bottom cars, said cars never constitute a part of your orator's equipment available for commercial shipments of coal."
The answer of the commission denied all knowledge of the
truth of the averments thus made, and called for proof on
the subject. No proof was made, and the cause was submitted to the court below on bill and answer. In view of this
fact, and in consideration moreover of the weight which the
law gives to the finding of the commission, as to the existence
of unlawful preference and the operative effect of the order
which the commission made, until set aside, we think the mere

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. PITCAIRN COAL CO.
215 U. S.

481

Syllabus.

averment of the facts referred to in no way causes this case
to differ from the Illinois Central case. Of course, under
these circumstances we intimate no opinion as to how far had
the facts alleged as to the hopper cars been established, they
would to the extent of such cars have taken this case out of
the rule announced in the Illinois Central case. It follows
that the judgment must be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissents.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES EX REL. PITCAIRN COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED

STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF AP-

PEALS FOR THE FOURTH

No. 289.

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 18, 19, 1909.-Decided January 10, 1910.

Regulations which are primarily within the competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission are not subject to judicial supervision
or enforcement until that body has been properly afforded an opportunity to exert its administrative functions. Texas & Pacific
Railway Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, applied, and
Southern Railway Co. v. Tilt, 206 U. S. 428, distinguished.
The distribution to shippers of coal cars including those owned by
the shippers and those used by the carrier for its own fuel is a matter involving preference and discrimination and within the competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the courts cannot interfere with regulations in regard to such distribution until
after action thereon by the commission.
Even if not assigned as error, this court will consider the jurisdictional question of whether there is power in the court, in view of
the provisions of the act to regulate commerce, to grant the relief
prayed for in regard to matters within the competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Under the court review provisions of ยง 15 of the act to regulate commerce as amended in 1906, the courts are limited to the question
of power of the commission to make the order and cannot consider
the wisdom or expediency of the order itself. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad, ante, p. 452.

VOL. ccxv-31

