MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

417

Syllabus.

would not help his case. Indeed, in such a case he would not
be regarded as holding in good faith, within the requirement
of the decree, because a man is not allowed to take advantage

of his ignorance of law. The subject is fully expounded in
Hayes v. United States, 170 U. S. 637, 650 et seq.
All that was done to give Lacson a lawful title was insufficient on its face. Therefore, on the facts known to him he
was chargeable with knowledge that he had acquired no legal
rights, and it was impossible that the period of prescription
should begin to run from the date of the instrument under
which he claimed. The possession of Carrillo and his successors, after the conveyance to him in 1881, was not maintained for ten years, and therefore the claim of the plaintiff
in error must fail.
Judgment affirmed.

CITY OF MINNEAPOLIS v. MINNEAPOLIS STREET
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 46.

Argued December 2, 3, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

This court will consider the nature of a corporation organized under
a state law only so far as may be necessary to determine Federal
rights.
Franchises to public service corporations will not be extended by implication, but whatever is plainly and legally granted is protected
by the contract clause of the Constitution.
Where the corporate existence has been recognized after the expiration
of the shorter period and the State has not moved in quo warranto,
a franchise legally granted by municipal ordinance and legislative
enactment for the life of the charter of a public service corporation

cannot be impaired during the term specified in the charter filed
before the grant was made, although such term be longer than that
allowed by the act under which the corporation was organized.

A franchise contract may extend beyond the life of the corporation
to which it is granted; at the end of the corporate life it is a divisible
asset.

VOL. CCXV-

2

7

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellants.

215 U. S.

An ordinance enacted before electricity was used as motive power
prohibiting any power that would be a public nuisance will not be
construed as excluding electricity; and a public service corporation
accepting an ordinance permitting change from horse to electric
power does not abandon its rights under the original ordinance so
that they are no longer protected by the contract clause of the
Constitution.
Where all that is necessary is to determine whether a right under a
state charter is now in existence, the decree should be confined
thereto, and should not attempt to determine the further duration

of the charter under state statutes.
Waiver to a reasonable extent of certain privileges under a franchise

does not withdraw the other privileges from the protection of the
contract clause of the Constitution.
The ordinance granted by the city of Minneapolis, in 1875, to the
Minneapolis Street Railway for the life of its charter continues
for fifty years from 1873, when the corporation was organized, and
the fare cannot be reduced during that period below five cents; and
the ordinance of 1907, directing the sale of six tickets for twentyfive cents is void under the contract clause of the Constitution.

THE facts, which involve the franchise of the Minneapolis
Street Railway Company and whether the obligation of its contract was impaired by a subsequent ordinance, requiring it to
sell six tickets for twenty-five cents, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Lancaster, with wh6m Mr. Frank Healy
and Mr. John F. McGee were on the brief, for appellants:
The corporation was organized in 1873 under Title II and
not Title I of Ch. 34, Minn. Revision of 1866, as amended in
1868 and 1873; the life of the charter was necessarily limited to
thirty years, and contract rights, if any existed, terminated in
1903, as they were limited to the term of the charter. In fact,
the provisions of Title I repel the idea that § 1 was intended
to authorize the formation of street railway corporations.
The word "railroad" or "railway" as used in Title I includes only commercial steam railroads and does not include
street railways which fall under the head of transportation
as used in Title II. Manhattan Trust Co. v. Sioux City Cable
Ry., 68 Fed. Rep. 82; Williams v. Railway Co., 41 Fed. Rep.

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

419

Argument for Appellants.

556; Chap. 5, McClain's Iowa Code; Sears v. Marshalltown
St. Ry. Co., 65 Iowa, 742; Fidelity Trust Co. v. Douglass, 73
N. W. Rep. 1039; Mass. Trust Co. v. Hamilton, 88 Fed. Rep.
588; Sutherland on Stat. Con., § 241; Freiday v. Sioux City
Co., 60 N. W. Rep. 656; Thompson v. Simon, 20 Oregon, 60.
A general term will be given a restricted construction when
other provisions in the same section point unmistakably
thereto. Dieler v. Estill, 22 S. E. Rep. 622; Railway Co. v.
Cedar Rapids, 76 N. W. Rep. 728; Trust Co. v. Warren, 121
Fed. Rep. 323.
The ordinances of 1875, and 1878, as ratified by the legislature in March, 1879, do not constitute a contract for the life
of the charter that the street railway company can always
charge five cents whether operated as a horse or an electric
road. That right only extended so long as it was operated as
a horse railroad. Omaha Horse Ry. v. Cable Co., 30 Fed. Rep.
324. Grants of this nature are construed strictly for the publie interests. Perrinev: Canal Co., 9 How. 172; Charles River
Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 422; Bridge Proprietorsv.
Hoboken, 1 Wall. 116; Indianapolis Cable Ry. v. Citizens' Ry.,
127 Indiana, 369; Railway v. Denver City Ry., 2 Colorado,
673; Third Ave. Ry. v. Newton, 1 N. Y. Supp. 197; North
Chicago Ry. v. Lakeview, 105 Illinois, 207; Stein v. Bienville
Water Co., 34 Fed. Rep. 145; affirmed, 141 U. S. 67; Gas Light
Co. v. Saginaw, 28 Fed. Rep. 529; Water Co. v. Knoxville, 189
U. S. 434; Slidell v. Grandjean, 111 U. S. 412; Coosaw Mining
Co. v. South Carolina, 144 U. S. 550; Stanislaus County v. Irrigation Co., 192 U. S. 201; Owensboro v. Waterworks Co., 191
U. S. 358; Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265; Gaslight
Co. v. Chicago, 194 U. S. 1; Minn. & St. L. Ry. v. Gardner,
177 U. S. 332; Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578; Teachout v. Street Railway Co., 38 N. W. Rep. 145. These cases
hold that a horse street railway and an electric street railway
are separate and distinct; that there was reserved to the city
full power to grant to any other corporation the right to
build and operate an electric road; and that as the ordinance

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

of 1907 related to an electric road it does not impair the contract, if any, with the company operating a horse railroad.
The right to make such ordinance was under the general
reserved power of the city and State, and all such grants are

to be construed liberally for the public under the reserved
powers. Water Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587. Corporations
accept such grants subject to all reservations. Telephone
Co. v. Richmond, 98 Fed. Rep. 671; S. C., 103 Fed. Rep. 31;
Detroit v. Railway Co., 185 U. S. 388; Fath v. Tower Grove
Ry., 16 S. W. Rep. 913; General Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 52 N. E.
Rep. 880; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 487; Jackson Ry. Co. v.
Interstate Ry. Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 306; Commonwealth v. Railway, 27 Pa. St. 339. And see 21 Pa. St. 22; Farrellv. Railway
Co., 61 Connecticut, 127; Endlich on Interpretation, § 354.
Public policy does not permit unnecessary inference of authority to make a contract which affects the continuance of the
sovereign power and duty to make such laws as public welfare
may require. Long v. Duluth, 49 Minnesota, 281; Georgia
Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Stone v. Trust Co., 116
U. S. 307, 326. See also Fanning v. Gregoire, 16 How. 530;
Gaslight Co. v. Middletown, 59 N. Y. 229; Minturn v. Larue,
23 How. 435; Hoffmann v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 435; Alcott v.
Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; Water Co. v. Syracuse, 116 N. Y.
167; Indianapolis Ry. Co. v. Street Railway Co., 127 Indiana,
369; Elliott on Roads and Streets, 2d ed., § 736; Electric Ry.
Co. v. Cleveland, 204 U. S. 116.
The burden is on appellee to show the existence of the
contract.
Mr. M. B. Koon, with whom Mr. N. M. Thygeson and
Mr. M. D. Munn were on the brief, for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota, enjoining the city

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Minneapolis from enforcing, as against the Minneapolis
Street Railway Company, appellee, a certain ordinance of the
city of Minneapolis, passed February 9, 1907, prescribing the
rate of fare for the transportation of passengers over any street
railway line, or lines, of the company in the city of Minneapolis.
The case was tried upon amended bill and answer. The
ground alleged for injunction in the amended .bill was in substance that the ordinance of February 9, 1907, violated the
terms of a previous and subsisting contract, prescribing the
rates of fare to be charged by the company in the city of
Minneapolis. It appears in the record that the railway company was organized on July 1, 1873, and that its alleged contract arises from an ordinance of the city of Minneapolis passed
July 9, 1875, ratified by an act of the legislature of the State of
Minnesota passed March 4, 1879. We shall have occasion later on to deal more specifically with this ordinance and ratifying act.
It is sufficient for the present purpose to say that it is the
contention of the company that by the ordinance of July 9,
1875, and the ratifying act, it became the owner of an irrepealable contract for the term of fifty years from the date of its
organization, by the terms of which it had the right to charge
a fare not exceeding five cents for each person carried on any
continuous line which might be designated by the city council
of the city, such continuous line, however, not to exceed three
miles in length. The contract, it is alleged, is violated by the
ordinance of February 9, 1907, requiring the sale of six tickets
for twenty-five cents.
The existence of the alleged contract is denied by the city
upon several grounds. It is urged that the complainant company was so organized that its charter, and consequently its
corporate life, expired thirty years after the date of its incorporation, that is, on July 1, 1903, and, therefore, its contract rights, ceased and terminated at that time. This contention is based upon the incorporation of the company, which,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

it is insisted, could only be under Title IV of the laws of
Minnesota, which includes transportation and other lawful
business, and limits corporations organized thereunder to a
continuation for not more than thirty years. Bissell's Stats.
of Minn. 1873, p. 443.
It is the contention of the company that it was organized
under Title I of the laws of Minnesota (Bissell's Stats. 1873,
p. 419), for a term of fifty years. Title I is headed "Of corporations empowered to take private property for public uses,"
and includes corporations "for the purpose of building, improving and operating railways,

.

.

.

and all works of

internal improvement which require the taking of private
property or any easement therein." Pertinent provisions of
Title I as to incorporation are given in the margin.'
' Title I.
Of corporations empowered to take private property for public uses.
SEc. 1. Any number of persons, not less than five, may associate
themselves and become incorporated for the purpose of building,
improving, and operating railways, telegraphs, canals, or slackwater
navigation, upon any river or lake, and all works of internal improvement which require the taking of private property or any easement
therein.
SiC. 2. They shall organize by adopting and signing articles of
incorporation, which shall be recorded in the office of the register of
deeds of the county where the principal place of business is to be, and
also in the office of the Secretary of State in books kept for such purposes.
SEC. 3..
Said articles shall contain:
First. The name of the corporation, the general nature of its business, and the principal place, if any, of transacting the same.
Second. The time of commencement and the period of continuance
of said corporation.
Third. The amount of capital stock of said corporation, and how
to be paid in.
Fourth. The highest amount of indebtedness or liability to which
said corporation shall at any time be subject.
Fifth. The names and places of residence of the persons forming
such association for incorporation.

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Title II is "Of corporations for pecuniary profit other than
those named in Title I." The pertinent parts of that title are
given in the margin.'
Sixth. The names of the first board of directors, and in what officers
or persons the government of the corporation and the management of
its affairs shall be vested, and when the same are elected.
Seventh. The number and amount of the shares in. the capital
stock of said corporation.
SEC.

4. When articles are filed, recorded and published, as afore-

said, the persons named as corporators therein become a body corporate
[provisions follow in this section as to management of business, amendment of articles of incorporation, etc.].
SEC. 5. No such corporation shall be formed to continue more than
fifty years in the first instance, but it may be renewed from time to
time for periods not longer than fifty years: Provided, that threefourths of the votes cast at any regular election for the purpose are
in favor of such renewal, and those desiring a renewal purchase the
stock of those opposed thereto at its current value.
1 Title IV. (This is Title II of Chapter XXXIV of the Statutes of 1866.)

Of corporations for pecuniary profit other than those named in Title I.
Sec. 98 (45, as amended by act of March 10, 1873). Any number of
persons not less than three, who have or shall, by articles of agreement
in writing, associate according to the provisions of this title under any
name assumed by them for the purpose of engaging in and carrying
on the business of mining, smelting or manufacturing iron, copper, or
other minerals, or for producing the precious metals, or for quarrying
and marketing any kind of ore, stone, slate or other mineral substance,
or for constructing, leasing or operating docks, warehouses, elevators

or hotels, or as a mutual savings fund, loan or building association,
manufacturing gas, or for any kind of manufacturing, lumbering,
agricultural, mechanical, mercantile, chemical, transportation or other
lawful business, and who have or shall comply with the provisions of
this title, shall, with their associates, successors, and assigns, constitute a body corporate and politic under the name assumed by them
in their articles of agreement; provided, no company shall take a name
previously assumed by any otler company. Any mutual saving fund,
loan or building association, is authorized to loan funds and to secure
such loans by mortgage or other security, and any premiums taken by
any such association for the preference or priority of such loans, shall
not be deemed interest within the meaning of section one of chapter twenty-three of the general statutes. Any such association is

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

Much of the elaborate briefs of counsel in this case is devoted to a discussion of the question of the organization of
this corporation, and as to whether it was under the one title
or the other. This is not a proceeding in quo warranto, and the
jurisdiction of the Federal court rested upon the contention
that the company has a contract right protected from impairment by a legislative act of the State. It is only necessary to
examine the question of the incorporation and organization of
the company so far as is required to determine whether or not
this alleged contract right exists, and whether it has been
violated by the ordinance of the city of Minneapolis, attacked
in the amended bill.
There can be no question that the attempted incorporation
of this company was under Title I of the statutes already referred to. It was incorporated by five persons. It states the
business for which it was formed, "to construct and operate
authorized and empowered to purchase at any sheriff's or other judicial
sale, or at any other sale, public or private, any real estate, upon
which such association may have or hold any mortgage, judgment,
or lien, or other incumbrance, or in which such association may have
an interest, and the real estate so purchased, to sell, convey, lease,
or mortgage at pleasure, to any person or persons whatsoever.
SEc. 99 (46, as amended by act of February 28, 1870). The provisions of sections two, three, four, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven,
forty-two, and forty-four of title one shall apply to and be observed
by corporations organizing under this title.
SEC. 100 (47, as amended by act of February 27, 1873). The
amount of capital stock in any such corporation shall in no case be
less than ten thousand dollars nor more than five hundred thousand
dollars, and shall be divided into shares of not less than ten dollars
nor more than fifty dollars each, except that the capital stock of
mutual building and loan associations may be divided into shares of
two hundred dollars each, but the capital stock and number of shares
may be increased at any regular meeting of the stockholders; provided, the capital stock when so increased shall not exceed five hundred thousand dollars.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

SEc. 105 (52). No corporation shall be formed under this title to

continue more than thirty years.

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

railways in the streets and highways of the city of Minneapolis
and its suburbs in the county of Hennepin, State of Minnesota." It states the time of the commencement of the corporation to be the first of July, 1873, and the period of continuance thereof to be fifty years thereafter. The shares of
capital stock are twenty-five hundred at $100 each.
Under Title II the corporate life is limited to not fmore
than thirty years, and the shares of capital stock are to be not
less than $10 or more than $50 each.
The corporation has continued to act since the expiration of
the thirty years which would have been its corporate life had it
been organized under Title II. There have been no proceedings, so far as the record shows, to inquire into its corporate
existence since the expiration of the thirty years, and this
record discloses that a number of ordinances have been passed
by the city of Minneapolis since July 1, 1903, requiring of the
corporation the construction of additional lines of railway upon
certain of the streets of the city of Minneapolis, and to otherwise discharge its duties as a continuing corporation.
This record therefore shows that the company undertook to
organize under Title I, for the period of fifty years, has continued to act as such corporation, and was so acting at the
tine of the passage of the ordinance of February 9, 1907.
We proceed to examine the question, Did the ordinance of
July 9, 1875, together with the ratifying act of 1879, make a
contract between the city of Minneapolis and the street railway company, which would endure for the period of fifty
years? Section I of the ordinance of July 9, 1875, provides:
"SEC. I. That the Minneapolis Street Railway Company
be and is hereby granted, during the term of its charter, the
exclusive right and privilege of constructing and operating a
single or double track for a passenger railway line, with all
necessary tracks for turnouts, sidetracks and switches, in such
streets of said city as the city council may deem suited to street
railways, subject to the terms, conditions and forfeitures hereinafter contained; provided, that the city council reserves the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

right to limit the said company to the construction of a single
track upon such street or streets as it may deem proper.
Section VIII of the same ordinance provides:
"SEC. VIII. The said company may regulate and establish
from time to time such rates of fare for the transportation
of passengers and freight over its lines of railway as it may
deem proper; provided, that the charge for carrying a person, including hand baggage, from one point to another
within the city limits, whether by one or more lines operated
by the same company shall not exceed five cents on any one
line; provided, further, that the city of Minneapolis hereby
reserves the right to alter and regulate the rate to be charged
by the said companies, their successors and assigns, for the
transportation of passengers and freight at the expiration of
five years from the approval of this ordinance, and every five
years thereafter, fixing the same at such rates as the city
council of said city may deem just and reasonable; provided,
that the city shall not reduce the passenger's fare below five
cents, over any one continuous line, and what shall be considered a continuous line may be designated by the city
council of the said city, but that said council shall not designate any such continuous line to be more than three miles in
length."
I
Section XVII of the ordinance provides:
"SEC. XVII. Within thirty days from the publication of
this ordinance said company shall file with the city clerk a
written acceptance of the grants hereinabove made, with the
conditions, regulations and limitations above expressed, signed
by the president and secretary of said company, and when so
accepted this ordinance shall operate as a contract between
the city and said cdmpany, and upon failure to file such acceptance as aforesaid, then the above grant shall not become
operative to vest any rights, privileges or franchises whaisoever."
It also appears that the company filed its acceptance in
writing of the ordinance on August 18, 1875.

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In considering the terms of this ordinance and what it
undertook to accomplish on its face, we are to bear in mind
that public grants of this character are not to be extended
by implication, and that all that is granted must be found in
the plain terms of the act. This principle has been so frequently and recently announced in this court that it is unnecessary to cite the cases which have established it. Recognizing this principle, it must also be remembered, that grants
of the character of the one under consideration here, when
embodying the terms of a dontract, are protected by the
Federal Constitution from impairment by subsequent state
legislation, and notwithstanding the principle of strict construction, whatever is plainly granted cannot be taken from
the parties entitled thereto by such legislative enactments.
Statutes and ordinances of this character are not to be extended by construction, nor should they be deprived of their
meaning, if it is plainly and clearly expressed.
Examining this ordinance in the light of these principles,
there is no ambiguity in section VIII, which gives to the city
the right to regulate the fares to be charged, provided the
same are not reduced below five cents for each passenger
over any one continuous line, to be designated by the city,
of not more than three miles in length. By § I of the same
ordinance the right and privilege of constructing and operating a railway line subject to the terms, conditions and forfeitures named in the ordinance is granted to the street railway
company "during the term of its charter."
What did this mean? The company had undertaken to
organize, and filed its certificate of incorporation-which is
its charter under the laws of Minnesota-and had therein
stated its term of existence to be for fifty years from the first
day of July, 1873. There was a positive requirement of the
law that this period of duration should be stated in the
certificate filed for the purpose of procuring incorporation,
and it was there found, and was duly filed, recorded and published as required by law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

It is unreasonable to suppose that the city and the company at that time entered into any inquiry or controversy
as to whether the company could lawfully incorporate for
more than thirty years. The charter referred to in the ordinance could not have been anything else than the certificate
of incorporation required by law. Of this the city was bound
to take notice, and when it granted the privileges "during the
term of the charter," it could have meant nothing less than
during the period named in the charter. As was declared
by the Supreme Court of Minnesota in City of Duluth v.
Duluth Gas and Water Company, 45 Minnesota, 210, 214, a
case involving the extent of rights conferred upon a water
company by a city ordinance, "The council must be held,
when dealing with defendant, to know its character, its purposes, and powers, as disclosed by its articles of incorporation."
We come now to the terms of the ratifying act of March 4,
1879. Laws of Minn., 1879, p. 410, c.299. This act is as
follows:
"An act to confirm the grant of the city of Minneapolis to
the Minneapolis Street Railway Company.
"Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Minnesota:
"SEC. I. That whereas, the city of Minneapolis did, by
an ordinance entitled 'An ordinance authorizing and regulating street railways in the city of Minneapolis,' passed by the
city council of said city on the ninth (9th) day of July, one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-five (1875), and approved by the mayor of said city on the seventeenth (17th)
day of July, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five
(1875), and by an ordinance passed July third (3d), one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight (1878), and
amended July eighth (8th), one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-eight (1878), and approved July tenth (10th), one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight (1878), grant to
the Minneapolis Street Railway Company the right to construct and maintain a street railway through the streets of

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

429

Opinion of the Court.

said city, with certain rights and privileges in said ordinance
particularly set forth. Now the said right to construct and
maintain said street railway through the streets of said city,
with the rights and privileges as set forth and qualified in
said ordinance, is hereby legalized and granted to said company.
"SEC. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage."
The ordinances of July, 1878, referred to in the ratifying act,
concerned certain streets in the city of Minneapolis, and are
not important to be considered in this connection.
It has not been suggested in the elaborate briefs presented
by the learned counsel for the city, that the state legislature
at that time had not the constitutional right to pass this
ratifying act.
In Green v. Knife Falls Boom Corporation, 35 Minnesota,
155, the Supreme Court of Minnesota sustained a special law
conferring new, and independent franchises, and enlarged
powers upon the boom company, a corporation organized
under Title II, and, originally not having the power of eminent domain, nor to take tolls, nor to obstruct the navigable
portions of the St. Louis River.
By the special act the corporation was given power over
the navigation and use of the river as respects the passage of
logs, the power to exercise the right of eminent domain was
conferred upon it, the right to charge toll upon all logs passed
through their works, and to receive and take entire. charge
and control of timber which might run or be driven through
the same, and to boom, scale and deliver such timber, as
provided in the act, with a lien upon all such logs, which
might be enforced by sale.
It was held that, by a long course of legislation and practical
construction, such legislation was justified and ought not to
be disturbed. The constitutional amendment of 1881, it was
said, made such legislation impossible thereafter, because the
legislature is therein prohibited from enacting any special,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.
or private laws, in the following cases:

215 U. S.
"

For grant-

ing corporate powers, or privileges, except to cities." In this
case the court referred to Ames v. Lake Superior & Miss.
R. R. Co., 21 Minnesota, 241, in which it seems to be held
that under the former constitution, prohibiting the formation
of corporations, except for municipal purposes, under special
acts, such special acts stopping short of creating new corporations, might be passed by the legislature. See opinion
upon rehearing, pages 284, 285.
Looking to the terms of the act of March 4, 1879, we find
that the right to construct and maintain the street railway
upon the streets of the city, with the rights and privileges as
set forth and qualified in the ordinance, is "legalized and
granted to said company." Language could scarcely be
plainer, and, if we are correct in construing the ordinance,
as granting the right and privilege of maintaining railways
in the streets of Minneapolis, for the charter term of fifty
years, upon the terms therein mentioned, a vital part of
which concerns the right of the company to charge a certain
fare for passengers carried, it follows that this privilege, with
the others, was vested in the company by the legislature of
the State of Minnesota.
We may note in this connection that the mere fact that a
contract mayextend beyond the term of the life of a corporation does not destroy it. This principle was recognized by
this court in Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' Street Railway Co.,
184 U. S. 368, in whiich it was held that a city ordinance
granting the use of the streets of the city for a term which
would extend the grant for sixteen years beyond the life of
the corporation did not invalidate it. It was held that the
limitation upon the corporate life of the company did not
prevent it from taking franchises, or other property, the title
to which would not expire with the corporation itself; and
further, that at the end of its corporate life, if such property
were still in existence, it would be an asset divisible among
the shareholders after the payment of debts, or it might, if

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO. , 431
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assignable, be transferred to any other person, or company,
competent to hold it.
The ratifying act, being within the power of the legislature,
vested this contract right in the company, notwithstanding
the want of power in the city to make it at the time it was
entered into. Nash v. Lowry, 37 Minnesota, 261.
The principle is well stated by Morawetz in his work on
Corporations, vol. 1, § 319, 2d ed.:
"Where the legislature, by statute, recognizes and acquiesces in the existence of a corporation which was formed
by the corporators without the proper authority, it thereby
invests the association with the right of continuing to act in a
corporate capacity for the purposes and in the manner that
it publicly assumed to act. And if rights or franchises are
conferred'upon an association claiming to be incorporated, it
thereby becomes authorized to exercise the powers expressly
conferred, and such others as the legislature appears to have
imputed to it."
See as to effect of validating acts, Los Angeles v. Los Angeles
City Water Co., 177 U. S. 558; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S.
400, 454.
But, it is contended, if a contract is found to exist, its
rights were lost by virtue of the ordinance of September 19,
1890, authorizing the street railway company to change its
mode of operation from the use of horse power to electricity.
It is insisted that by the acceptance of the electrical power
ordinance the company abandoned any rights it had under the
ordinance of 1875 and the ratifying act of 1879; and, furthermore, that by the express terms of the ordinance of September 19, 1890, the right to control the future rates of fare was
thereby vested in the city to an extent unlimited, except by
constitutional inhibitions against confiscatory legislation.
As to the termination of the rights of the company by reason of the substitution of electricity for horse power, is there
such abandonment of the rights originally secured that they
no longer exist? It is contended that the original ordinance

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

was limited to the right to operate street Vailways by horse
or pneumatic power, and that when the ordinance of September 20, 1890, was passed conditions were entirely changed,
and a new and different mode of operation was substituted,
and rights existing under the original ordinance were terminated and abandoned.
Let us see if the ordinance of 1875 was limited to the use
of animal or pneumatic power. Section IV of that ordinance
provides:
"SEC. IV. The cars to be used upon such tracks shall be

propelled with either animal or pneumatic power, as the said
company deem advisable, provided that no propelling power
or machinery of any sort shall be used after it shall prove to
be a public nuisance, and said company may connect with
any other railway upon which power is used similar to that
authorized to be used on street railways by the city council;
but no locomotive, freight or passenger car, such as are
usually run over the general railways of this State for the
transportation of freight and passengers, shall be used upon
any of said tracks, unless authorized by the city council;
provided, that the said Minneapolis Street Railway Company,
and any other street railway company which the council may
charter under section 3 of this ordinance, shall each allow
the other to connect with and jointly use such portions of
the track belonging to each as the convenience of the traveling
public may require, upon such equitable terms as may be
agreed upon by the said companies, or as may be determined
by the District Court of Hennepin County."
There can be no doubt that, in the then state of the art,
the use of electric power as the means of operating the cars
of the company was not specifically in contemplation. While
pneumatic power is also suggested, there does not seem to be
any means of operation by that method. That the use of
other motive power might be developed in the progress of
street railway operation, we think, was clearly indicated in
the ordinance itself. For while animal or pneumatic power is

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

433

Opinion of the Court.

named, it is provided that no propelling power shall be used
after it shall be proved a public nuisance, and that the company might connect with other street railroads upon which
power is used similar to that authorized to be used by street
railways by the city council, but steam'power cars, such as
are in common use, should not be used upon the city tracks,
unless so authorized by the city council.
In these terms of the ordinance it is evident that the
parties had in mind that other propelling power might be
developed, and it was the purpose of the city council to keep
control of its use so as to prevent it from becoming a public
nuisance in the streets. There was no positive limitation to
animal power and the possible progress and improvement in
the means of propelling cars, contemplated by the parties,
was carried into effect when the city passed, and the company accepted, the ordinance of September 19, 1890. By
that ordinance the railway company was authorized to operate all its existing lines, and all its lines to be thereafter-constructed in the city, by electricity as the motive power.
Section VIII of that ordinance provides:
"SEC. VIII. In the construction, maintenance and operation of said lines of street railway, said Minneapolis Street
Railway Company, its successors and assigns, shall at all
times be subject to all the conditions and limitations and
other provisions of an ordinance entitled ' An ordinance authorizing and regulating street railways in the city of Minneapolis,' passed July 9, 1875, and approved July 17, 1875, as
the same has been amended and is now in force, and all other
ordinances of said city now in force or hereafter adopted, so
far as applicable."
It is the contention of the city that by the terms of this
ordinance the street railway company became subject to
regulation by the ordinances of the city then in force, or
thereafter adopted, including the right to regulate and control the amount to be charged for fares for the transportation
of passengers.
VOL.

ccxv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

In construing this section we must bear in mind that the
company then had, as we have heretofore said, a contract
upon the subject of fares, which limited the city in its right
to'regulate the same toga reduction not below five cents per
passenger upon any one, continuous line. It needs no argument to demonstrate that the right to charge passenger fares
is of the very essence of the contract, essential to the operation
and success of the enterprise. Detroit v. Detroit Citizens'
Street Railway Co., 184 U. S. 368, 384.
In section VI of the ordinance of September 19, 1890, it is
provided:
"SEc. VI. Passenger cars on all said lines shall run between
extreme limits on all extensions to or near the intersection
of Washington avenue with Hennepin avenue, without change
to passengers traveling thereon, and after November 1, 1890,
said street railway company shall issue transfer checks at
the junction of said lines at Washington and Hennepin
avenues, to any passenger on any of said lines, who shall pay
one full fare, which transfer check shall entitle passenger so
receiving the same to a continuous passage on either of said
connecting lines; provided, that no passenger shall be entitled to more than one transfer check for one fare; and provided further, that said transfer check shall be used only by
the person receiving the same for a continuous passage, and
shall be used on the next car departing on the connecting line
upon which it is to be used. And, if any of the lines of said
railway do not connect at said Washington and Hennepin
avenues, transfer checks shall be given at the point nearest
to the crossing of Washington and Hennepin avenues, where
such lines do connect with a line reaching said junction point
at Washington and Hennepin avenues."
This is the only section which mentions the subject of fares,
and it is therein provided that transfer checks may be issued
at certain points to persons paying "one full fare," the transfer check tO be used only by the person receiving the same,
for one continuous passage.

MINNEAPOLIS v. STREET RAILWAY CO.
215 U. S.

435

Opinion of the Court.

The rate of fare had been fixed in the ordinance of July 9,
1875, and if it was intended to change it it would seem clear
that the parties would have entered into new negotiations
concerning it, and would have adopted, if that was desirable,
some definite measure concerning it. The ordinance of July 9,
1875, was not attempted to be repealed, and is referred to
in section VIII of the ordinance of September 19, 1890, "as
the same as has been amended, and as now in force," and
adopted, "so far as applicable," concerning the things mentioned in section VIII.
It is true that by the ordinance of July 9, 1875, there was
no right to reduce the passenger fare below five cents over
any one continuous line not more than three miles in length,
to be designated by the city council. By the terms of the
ordinance of September 19, 1890, transfers were to be allowed,
so that, for one full fare, a passenger might receive a continuous trip very considerably exceeding three miles in length
-it is stated in one of the briefs to include a trip of eleven
miles. But we do not understand that the acceptance of this
regulation had the effect to abrogate the contract as to the
right to charge a fare of five cents over one continuous line,
that is, for one continuous passage. Acquiescence in a regulation which may not have been deemed injurious, and may
have been deemed wise and expedient, does not preclude a
contest against the enforcement of regulations which are
injurious and violative of contract rights. Los Angeles v.
Los Angeles City Water Co., 177 U. S. 558, 579.
The right to future control under section VIII was to include
the "construction, maintenance, and operation" of the lines
of the street railway company. Did this undertaking have the
effect to abrogate the contract right already existing, and to
subject the company for the future as to the right to charge
fares, to the discretion of the city council? Or, do the terms
"construction, maintenance, and operation" have reference
to the manner of carrying on the business of the road, the
laying of its tracks, the use of the streets, the keeping up of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

the equipment, the safety of the passengers and the public,
and similar matters not involving the right to charge fares?
We think these terms refer to the latter class of rights and
privileges. Such is the import of the words used, and the
subject of rates of fare is not mentioned. The case already
referred to, Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' Rwy. Co., 184 U. S.
368, is an instructive one upon this point. In that case it
was held that a street railway company having a valid contract, giving it the right to charge five cents for the transportation of each passenger, did not lose that right by accepting the terms of an ordinance reserving the right to
make such further rules, orders and regulations as to the city
council may seem proper. Wilson v. Standefer, 184 U. S. 399.
We therefore reach the conclusion that when the ordinance
complained of, that of February 9, 1907, was enacted by the
city council, the company was the owner of a valuable contract right secured to it by the ordinance of July, 1875, ratified by the enactment of the legislature of the State of Minnesota on March 4, 1879, which secured to the company for fifty
years from July 1, 1873, the contract right to charge five cents
per passenger for one continuous trip. We think that the
requirement of the ordinance, that the company should operate its roads by the sale of tickets six for a quarter, as required by the ordinance of February 9, 1907, was an enactment by legislative authority which impaired the obligation
of the contract thus held and owned by the complainant
company. We therefore reach the conclusion that the decree of the Circuit Court enjoining the execution of the ordinance, for the reasons stated, should be affirmed.
An examination of the decree, however, shows that it goes
beyond the necessities of the case in specifically decreeing
that the complainant company is a corporation organized
under Title I of chapter 34 of the Statutes of Minnesota for
the year 1866, with charter rights as alleged in the amended
bill. It also decrees that the contract under the ordinances
of July 9, 1875, and July 18, 1878, as ratified by the act of

MECHANICAL APPLIANCE CO. v. CASTLEMAN. 437
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

March 4, 1879, constituted a contract for and during the term
of complainant's charter, as alleged in the amended bill. In
the amended bill it is alleged that the charter rights of the
company were extended to March 1, 1937; this is undoubtedly
averred because of the amendment to the charter which appears in the record, extending the term of the company's
corporate life until that time. The decree as it stands might
be construed as establishing a contract to endure until March,
1937.
All that was necessary to adjudge was that the company,
by virtue of the ordinance of July 9, 1875, as amended in
July, 1878, as ratified and confirmed by the act of the legislature of the State of Minnesota of March 4, 1879, constituted a valid contract for the term of fifty gears from July 1,
1873, which is still so far in force as to prevent the city council from reducing the rate of fare below the sum of five cents
for each passenger for one continuous passage, and enjoining
the city from publishing and enforcing the ordinance of
February 9, 1907, because the same impaired the obligation
of the subsisting contract aforesaid.
The decree of the Circuit Court should be modified so as to
meet these requirements, and, so modified,
Affirmed.

MECHANICAL APPLIANCE COMPANY v. CASTLEMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 48.

Argued December 3, 1909.-Decided January 3, 1910.

Whether defendant was subject to service of process at the place where
served is one of the jurisdictional questions which may be-brought
directly to this court under § 5 of the Court of Appeals Act as
amended January 20, 1897, c. 68, 29 Stat. 492. Remington v. Central Pacific Railroad Co., 198 U. S. 95.

