OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

in the title of the painting, and a slight change in the description, but these matters are immaterial and cannot enlarge the
right of the plaintiff. We think the same principle, in this
aspect, controls, as in the case of a patent. The plaintiff had
already exhausted his statutory right and the second attempt
availed him nothing.
These views render it unnecessary to consider whether the
record shows a publication of the painting prior to November 5, 1901. For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that
the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in holding that the attempted duplication of the copyright was void and of no effect.

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. STEVENSON
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 292.

Argued October 14, 15, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

On writ of error taken by the United States under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, where the indictment was dismissed as not sustained by the statute and also as bad
on principles of general law, this court can only review the decision
so far as it is based on the invalidity or constructionof the statute;
it cannot consider questions of general law. United States v. Keitel,
211 U. S.370.
In determining whether a special remedy created by a statute for enforcing a prescribed penalty excludes all other remedies, the intention of Congress may be found in the history of the legislation, and,
in the absence of clear and specific language, Congress will not be
presumed to have excluded the Government from a well-recognized
method of enforcing its statutes.
The fact that a penal statute provides for enforcing the prescribed penalty of fine and forfeiture by civil suit does not necessarily exclude
enforcing by indictment; and so held in regard to penalty for assisting the immigration of contract laborers prescribed by §§ 4 and 5 of
the Immigration Act of February 20, 1907, c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898.
Although the term misdemeanor has at times been used in the statutes

UNITED STATES v. STEVENSON.
215 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

of the United States without strict regard to its common-law meaning a misdemeanor at all times, has been a crime, and a change in a
statute by which that which before was merely unlawful is made a
misdemeanor will not be presumed to be meaningless.
When the Government prosecutes by indictment for a penalty that it
might sue for in a civil action the person proceeded against is entitled to all constitutional protection as to production of witnesses
against him and a verdict cannot be directed against him as might
be the case in a civil action.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
On the construction of the statute: This court has jurisdiction to review the action of the District Court in sustaining the
demurrer to tle second count of the indictment, which charged
defendants with assisting contract laborers to migrate from
Canada into the United States in violation of § 4 of the Immigration Act.
The Criminal Appeals Act, in allowing immediate appeal
when the particular questions of law enumerated in the act
have been decided against the Government, intends unquestionably to rid the Government of the obstruction of criminal
justice through mistakes of the inferior courts on such questions of law. There is nothing in this act which forbids the
idea that in such case as the present the Government can have
a review by this court, either of the question of statutory construction alone, or of both that question and the other question on which the lower court rested its judgment; nor does
the act limit this court's consideration to the single question
which gives the right of appeal.
In cases where the question which gives the right of appeal
requires determination, but the actual decision of another
point by the lower court equally led to the judgment below-so
that this court's decision of the question which gives the right
of appeal must be supplemented by deeision of the other
question by the lower court in order to ascertain what conse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

215'U. S.

quences upon the judgment below this court must attach -to
its own decision of the question which gives the right of appeal-each questibn made by the lower court a basis of its
judgment is involved in the appeal. Under the circumstances
of this case, the court ought to pass upon both questions actually decided below.
When this court finds the lower court right upon the point
which made direct appeal to this court allowable, it 'can at
once affirm the judgment of the lower court without considering any other question raised or decided in the lower court.
United States v. McDonald, 207 U. S. 120; United States v.
Mason, 213 U. S. 120. And when this court finds the lower
court wrong upon the point which made appeal allowable' it
can at once reverse the judgment of the lower court without
considering any other questions raised in the lower court but
not actually decided by it. United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S.
393; United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370.
Indictment is an allowable mode of prosecution for violating
§ 4 of the Immigration Act of 1907;' and the action of debt allowed by § 5 is not exclusive. The wording of § 5 as to action
of debt is merely permissive and does not prohibit indictment';
and no intention to deny the Government the ordinary remedies of indictment or information for prosecution for a penalty will be inferred. Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall.
227, 238, 239; Crofton's Case, 1 Mod. 34; United States v. Stock]
ing, 87 Fed. Rep. 857.
Either indictment or information will lie under a statute
creating an offense punishable by penalty and which prescribes
no remedy or allows some special remedy not intended to be
exclusive; because they are ordinary and approved methods
of prosecution for an offense not above a misdemeanor.
As to indictment: 2 Hawk. P. C., ch. 25, § 4; 1 Chitty Crim.
Law (Am: Ed., 1847), *162; Harris's Crim. Law (London, 101),
p. 333; United States v. Chouteau, 102 U. S. 603, 610.
As to information: 2 Hawk. P. C., ch. 26, §§ 1, 2; 1 Chitty's
Crim. Law, *844, 845; 4 B1.Com. 309, 310; Harris's Crim.

UNITED STATES v. STEVENSON.
215 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Law, p. 343; United States v. Buzzo, 18 Wall. 125; Ex parte
Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, 424, 425.
Mr. Herbert Parker, Mr. Charles C. Milton and Mr. Henry
H. Fuller, for defendants in error, submitted:
On the construction of the statute: A violation of § 4 of the
Immigration Act cannot be prosecuted by indictment. While
made a misdemeanor no penalty is prescribed in this section,
and the next section provides for recovery of a money penalty
by suit. This constitutes a debt which is recoverable only by
civil action.
It is a universal rule of statutory interpretation that, where
a statute prescribes a particular mode of procedure for the enforcement of a lenalty for an offense therein created, that
mode of procedure must be followed. The word "may" in the
statute is applicable to the parties who are permitted to maintain the civil action, any one of whom may so proceed. 1
Wharton's Crim. Law, § 25; United States v. Moore, 11 Fed.
Rep. 248; United States v. Howard, 17 Fed. Rep. 638; United
States v. Craft, 43 Fed. Rep. 374.
We have, therefore, the case of an act described as a misdemeanor in which there is no provision whatsoever for punishment, except by a penalty to be recovered by civil action.
There is no alternative punishment or procedure mentioned
in this statute, nor is there any general statute providing for a
penalty for misdemeanor.
It follows, therefore, that the provisions of the statute providing a civil process to enforce the penalties for violation of
§ 4 are exclusive, and no indictment will lie. United States v.
McElroy, 115 Fed. Rep. 252; Moller v. United States, 57 Fed.
Rep. 490, 495.
It is obvious from the history of § 4 that Congress may have
intended to change the character of the offense set forth by
said section from the civil to the criminal side, for § 4 of the
Immigration Act of March 3, 1903, characterizes the offense as
"unlawful," and, in the present section, which is, in effect, a
VOL. ccxv-13

OCTO3ER TERM, 190).
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

rebnactment of the act of 1903, a change is made by substituting the words "a misdemeanor" for the Word "unlawful,"
and it is submitted that the mere characterization of an act as
a misdemeanor, without some accompaniment rendering such
offense punishable by criminal process, cannot avail to alter
the technical and true character of such offense, or create by
implication an indictable crime.
The nature of the statute is essentially penal, and no loose
construction is permissible. The forfeiture for the offense and
the method by which such forfeiture may be secured to the
United States are prescribed in the same section of the statute,
and it is submitted that the procedure therein set forth must
be followed.
Unless a criminal procedure is provided iii terms, none such
can be called to the assistance of an intent, however manifest
it may be made to appear. A crime can be created only by
express declaration of a statute. It camnot take form, through
colorable suggestions of intent, nor can it rest upon implications, especially where such are in conflict with the express
provision of the statute.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes to this court under the provisions of the
Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246,
providing for writs of error on behalf of the United States in
certain criminal cases. The defendants in error were indicted
for the violation of the Immigration Act of February 20, 1907,
c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898, and charged with unlawfully assisting
certain alien contract laborers to migrate from Canada to the
United States, in violation of the statute. The District Court,
upon demurrer to the indictment, held the second count thereof
to be invalid, because the sole remedy for a violation of the statute was in a civil action for the recovery of a penalty under § 5
of the act. The court also held the second count bad because
it did not sufficiently specify the acts of assistance constituting

UNITED STATES v. STEVENSON.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the alleged offense. Rulings were made concerning the first
count not involved in this proceeding.
From this statement it is apparent that the court below proceeded upon two grounds, one of which concerned the construction of the statute, the other of which decided the invalidity of the indictment upon general principles of criminal
law. We are therefore met at the threshold of the case with
the question whether a writ of error will lie in such a case as
the one under consideration, under the provisions of the Criminal Appeals Act of 1907.
This statute was before the court in the case of United States
v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, and is given in full in the margin of the
report of that case. In that case it was held that the purpose
of the statute being to permit a review in this court of decisions
based upon the invalidity or construction of the criminal
statutes of the United States, the decisions of the lower courts
were intended to be reviewed only upon such questions, and
the whole case could not be brought here for review. In the
Keitel case it was insisted that this court should consider the
validity of the indictment upon questions of general law not
decided in the court below. We are here confronted with a
case in which a decision of the court below sustaining a demurrer to an indictment involves not only the construction of
a Federal statute, but another ground upon which the decision
was also rested, which involves the sufficiency of the indictment on general principles.
The object of the criminal appeals statute was to permit the
United States to have a review of questions of statutory construction in cases where indictments had been quashed, or set
aside, or demurrers thereto sustained, with a view to prosecuting offenses under such acts when this court should be of opinion that the statute, properly construed, did in fact embrace
an indictable offense. Inasmuch as the United States could
not bring such a case here after final judgment, it was intended
to permit a review of such decisions as are embraced within the
statute, at the instance of the Government, in order to have a

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 TL S.

final and determinative construction of the act and to prevent
a miscarriage of justice if the construction of the statute in the
court below was unwarranted.
In the Keitel case this court said (211 U. S. 398):
"That act [of March 2, 1907], we think, plainly shows that
in giving to the United States the right to invoke the authority
of this court by direct writ of error in the cases for which it
provides contemplates vesting this court with jurisdiction only
to review the particular question decided by the court below
for which the statute provides."
As the question of general law involved in the decision of the
court below is not within either of the classes named in the
statute, giving a right of review in this court, we must decline
to consider it upon this writ of error.
We come now to consider the construction of the statute and
the validity of the indictment in that respect. Sections 4 and 5
of the Immigration Act under consideration are given in the
margin.'
1SEC. 4. That it shall be a misdemeanor for any person, company,
partnership, or corporation, in any manner whatsoever, to prepay the
transportation or in any way to assist or encourage the importation or
migration of any contract laborer or contract laborers into the United
States, unless such contract laborer or contract laborers are exempted
under the terms of the last two provisos contained in section two of this
act.
SEC. 5. That for every violation of any of the provisions of section four of this act the persons, partnership, company, or corporation
violating the same, by knowingly assisting, encouraging, or soliciting
the migration or importation of any contract laborer into the United
States shall forfeit and pay for every such offense the sum of one

thousand dollars, which may be sued for and recovered by the United
States, or by any person who shall first bring his action therefor in his
own name and for his own benefit, including any such alien thus promised labor or service of any kind as aforesaid, as debts of like amount
are now recovered in the courts of the United States; and separate
suits may be brought for each alien thus promised labor or service of
any kind as aforesaid. And it shall be the duty of the district attorney
of the proper district to prosecute every such suit when brought by the
United States.

UNITED STATES v. STEVENSON.
215 U. S.

Opinioi2 of the Court.

A reading of these sections makes it apparent that the act
makes it a misdemeanor to assist or encourage the importation
of contract laborers, and that violations thereof may be punished with forfeiture and payment of $1,000 for each offense,
which, it is provided, may be sued for and recovered by the
United States, or by any person bringing the action, as debts
of like amounts are recovered in the courts of the United
States; and it is made the duty of the district attorney of the
proper district to prosecute every such suit when brought by
the United States.
The contention of the defendants in error is that the action
for a penalty is exclusive of all other means of enforcing the
act, and that an indictment will not lie as for an alleged offense
within the terms of the act. The general principle is invoked
that where a statute creates a right and prescribes a particular
remedy that remedy, and none other, can be resorted to. An
illustration of this doctrine is found in Globe Newspaper Company v. Walker, 210 U. S. 356, in which it was held that in the
copyright statutes then in force Congress had provided a system of rights and remedies complete and exclusive in their
character. This was held because, after a review of the history
of the legislation, such, it was concluded, was the intention of
Congress.
The rule which excludes other remedies where a statute creates a right and provides a special remedy for its enforcement
rests upon the presumed prohibition of all other remedies. If
such prohibition is intended to reach the Government in the
use of known rights and remedies, the language must be clear
and specific to that effect. Dollar Savings Bank v. United
States, 19 Wall. 227, 238, 239. In the present case, if it could
be gathered from the terms of.the statute, read in the light of
the history of its enactment, that Congress has here provided
an exclusive remedy intended to take from the Government
the right to proceed by indictment, and leaving to it only an
action for the penalty, civil in its nature, then no indictment
will lie, and the court below was correct in its conclusion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

It is undoubtedly true that a penalty of this character, in
the' absence of statutory provisions to the contrary, may be
enforced by criminal proceedings under an indictment. The
doctrine was stated as early as Adams v. Woods, 2 Cranch, 336,
340, wherein Mr. Chief Justice Marshall said:
"Almost every fine or forfeiture under a penal statute, may
be recovered by an action of debt as well as by information.....
.. In this particular case, the statute which
creates the forfeiture does not prescribe the mode of demanding it; consequently, either debt or information would
lie."
In Lees v. United States, 150 U. S. 476, 479, the doctrine was
laid down that a penalty may be recovered by indictment or
information in a criminal action, or by a civil action in the
form of an action for debt. It is to.be noted that this statute
(§5 of the Immigration Act) does not in terms undertake to
make an action for the penalty an exclusive means of enforcing it, and only provides that it may be thus sued for and recovered. There is nothing in the terms of the act specifically
undertaking to restrict the Government to this method of enforcing the law. It is not to be presumed, in the absence of
language clearly indicating the contrary intention, that it was
the purpose of Congress to take from the Government the
well-recognized method of enforcing such a statute by indictment and criminal proceedings.
When we look to the history of the act we think it becomes
manifest that Congress did not so intend. The Immigration
Act of March 3, 1903, c. 1012, 32 Stat. 1213, was amended by
the act of February 20, 1907, c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898, now under
consideration. The original act made it unlawful to assist or
encourage the importation or migi'ation of certain aliens into
the United States. The amended act declares that such assistance, etc., shall be a misdemeanor. It is not to be presumed that this change is meaningless, and that Congress had
no purpose in making it. Nor can we perceive any purpose in
making the change except to manifest the intention of Con-

UNITED STATES v. STEVENSON.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gress to make it clear that the acts denounced should constitute a crime which would carry with it the right of the
Government to prosecute as for a crime. This term "misdemeanor" has been generally understood to mean the lower
grade of criminal offense as distinguished from a felony.
It is true that the term has often been used in the statutes
of the United States without strict regard to its commonlaw meaning, and sometimes to describe offenses of a high
grade, which have been declared in the statutes to be misdemeanors. In the statutes of the States the term has generally been defined as embracing crimes not punishable by
death or imprisonment in the penitentiary. And we may
note that the new penal code of the United States which
will go into effect on January 1, 1910 (§ 335, c. 321, 35 Stat.
1088), provides that all offenses which may be punished by
death, or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, shall
be termed felonies; all other offenses shall be termed misdemeanors. But at all times a misdemeanor has been a
crime. Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66,
69.
Congress having declared the acts in question to constitute
a misdemeanor, and having provided that an action for a
penalty may be prosecuted, we think there is nothing in the
terms of the statute which will cut down the right of the Government to prosecute by indictment if it shall choose to resort
to that method of seeking to punish an alleged offender against
the statute. Nor does this conclusion take away any of the
substantial rights of the citizen. He is entitled to the constitutional protection which requires the Government to produce the witnesses against him, and no verdict against him can
be directed, as might be the case in a civil action for the penalty. Hepner v. United States, 213 U. S. 103.

We therefore reach the conclusion that the court erred in
sustaining the demurrer to the second count of the indictment,
so far as that ruling is based upon the construction of the
statute in question. The judgment is reversed and the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

215 U. S.

remanded to the District Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. STEVENSON (NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 293.

Argued October 14, 15, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

Where Congress has made an act a crime and indictable it follows that
if two or more conspire to commit the act they conspire to commit an
offense against the United States within the meaning of § 5440, Rev.
Stat.; and so held in regard to conspiring to assist immigration of
contract laborers in violation of § 4 of the Immigration Act of
February 20, 1907, c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898.
It is within the power of Congress to regulate the punishment of crimes
and it may make the punishment for conspiring to commit a crime

greater than that for committing the crime itself.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States:
Even if indictment will not lie for a violation of § 4 of the

Immigration Act of 1907, Congress has made that offense an
express misdemeanor; and such statutory classification of the
crime brings a conspiracy to commit it unmistakably within
§ 5440, Rev. Stat. Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66, 99;
United States v. Van Schaick, 134 Fed. Rep. 592; Cohen v.
United States, 157 Fed. Rep. 651; United States v. Tsokas, 163
Fed. Rep. 129.
It is enough in any case to make an "offense against the
United States" within the meaning of § 5440, Rev. Stat., that
the offense which the conspiracy contemplates is a crime, in
the fundamental sense of a prohibited public wrong, visited
with personal punishment. Neither the mode of prosecution
nor the severity of the punishment for the offense is material.

