EVERETT v. EVERETT.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

such parties do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy,
all the parties to such conspiracy shall be liable to a penalty of
not less than one thousand dollars and not more than ten thousand dollars, and to imprisonment not more than two years."
Inasmuch as we have already held that Congress, in making
the assistance of contract laborers into the United States a
misdemeanor, has made the same a crime indictable as such
under the Immigration Act of 1907, it must necessarily follow
that if two or more persons, as is charged in the indictment
under consideration, conspire to assist such importation, they
do conspire to commit an offense against the United States
within the terms of § 5440 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. In this view, applying the principles laid down
in the opinion in case No. 292, ante, we think that the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the second count of the
indictment. Nor does it make any difference that Congress
has seen fit to affix a greater punishment to the conspiracy to
commit the offense than is denounced against the offense itself; that is a matter to be determined by the legislative body
having power to regulate the matter. Clune v. United States,
159 U. S.590.
Judgment reversed.

EVERETT v. EVERETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 1.

Argued October 22, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

Where the fundamental fact in issue in a suit by a wife for separate
maintenance is whether there was a marriage, and the court having
jurisdiction finds that the wife's petition should not be granted but
should be dismissed, the courts of another State must, under the full
faith and credit clause of the Constitution, regard such decree as determining that there was no marriage even though the husband may
have asserted other defenses; nor can the wife, in a suit depending
solely on the issue of whether there was a marriage, prove by oral

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

testimony, in the absence of a bill of exceptions, that the decree may
have rested on any of the other defenses asserted by the husband.
180 N. Y. 452, affirmed.
THIS is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of New York upon the ground that the final order of
that court, entered pursuant to the mandate of the Court of
Appeals of New York in this case, failed to give full faith and
credit to the judicial proceedings in a certain action determined in the Probate Court of Suffolk County, Massachusetts.
The facts out of which this question arose may be thus
summarized:
The present plaintiff in error, Georgia L. Everett, on or
about April 1st, 1897, brought this action in the Supreme
Court of Kings County, New York, against the defendant in
error, Edward Everett, alleging that she and the defendant
were lawfully intermarried in that county before a Justice of
the Peace, on the thirtieth day of October, 1884; that under
the false pretense that that marriage would never be recognized by his family, and that a ceremonial marriage would
have to take place before a Minister of the Gospel, the defendant, on or about December 17th, 1887, fraudulently instituted
an action in the same court to have the above marriage annulled; that the plaintiff had a valid defense to such action,
but in consequence of fraudulent representations to her by
the defendant she made no defense therein, by reason whereof
a decree was rendered on or about April 9th, 1888, declaring
that the alleged marriage between her and the defendant was
null and void; and that they had lived and cohabited together
as husband and wife from the date of said marriage down to
and including June 1st, 1891.
The specific relief asked in this case, brought in 1897, was
a judgment that the decree of April 9th, 1888, in the case
brought in 1887, be vacated and set aside, and that it be adjudged that the marriage between the plaintiff and the defendant was binding and in full force and effect.
The defendant, by answer, controverted all the material

EVERETT v. EVERETT.
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

facts alleged in this case relating to the obtaining of the above
decree of April 9th, 1888. He set forth various grounds of
defense, but none of them raised any question of a Federal
nature. He made, however, a separate, special defense herein
based upon the record of certain proceedings in the Probate
Court of Suffolk County, Massachusetts.
The allegations of the answer as to those proceedings were
substantially these: That on or about February 21st, 1895,
the present plaintiff, Georgia L. Everett, brought an action
against him in the Probate Court of Suffolk County Massachusetts, claiming to be, as was the defendant, a resident of
Boston, and also claiming to be his lawful wife; that he had
failed, without just cause, to furnish suitable support for her
and had deserted her; that she was living apart from him for
justifiable cause; that she prayed that such order be made
for her support as the court deemed expedient; that process
was duly issued out of the said court and served on this defendant and he duly appeared; that on or about March 21st,
1895, on motion of this defendant, the court ordered the plaintiff to file in that case full specifications as to how, when and
where she became the lawful wife of the defendant; that pursuant to that order, on or about April 1st, 1895, the plaintiff
filed in the said Probate Court her specifications, wherein she
stated that she was married to this defendant on or about October 31st, 1884, in Brooklyn, New York, by John Courtney,
Esq., Justice of the Peace, and further that a legal marriage
according to the laws of the State of New York was entered
into in that State between her and this defendant on or about
April 15th, 1888, by mutual consent, consummation, acknowledgment and cohabitation in that State, and that such consent,
acknowledgment and cohabitation continued in New York, and
also in Massachusetts, from April 15th, 1888 to May 30th, 1891,
at which time, she alleged, this defendant deserted her. She
also stated in her petition in the Probate Court "that her marriage with this defendant was still-to wit, on April 1, 1895of legal force and effect. Yet defendant deserted her on or

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

about May 30, 1891, and had contributed nothing to her
support since that time." "Thereafter," the answer alleged,
"this defendant, according to the course and practice of the
said court, duly answered the said petition, and admitted
that he and the said petitioner were married on or about October 30, 1884, in Brooklyn, by John Courtney, Esq., Justice of
the Peace, and alleged that the said marriage had been duly
adjudged to be null and void by this court by its judgment
rendered April 9th, 1888, in the suit brought by this defendant against the plaintiff herein for the purpose of having the
said marriage annulled, which is the same judgment hereinbefore ;n this answer, and also in the amended complaint
herein referred to. In respect to the supposed marriage between this defendant and the plaintiff herein-alleged in the
said specifications filed by the plaintiff in her said suit in
the Probate Court to have taken place on or about April 15,
1888-this defendant answered that at the time of the said
marriage performed on or about October 30, 1884, by John
Courtney, Justice of the Peace, and both at the time of the
alleged marriage stated in the specifications, filed by the said
plaintiff, to have taken place April 15, 1888, and at all
other times subsequent to, as well as long before October 30,
1884, the said plaintiff was the wife of one William G. Morrison, and that by reason thereof the said supposed marriages
between this defendant and the said plaintiff by her alleged
were, and each of them was, null and void. Thereafter such
proceedings were duly had that the said cause came on to be
heard and was heard by the said Probate Court upon the
issues raised as aforesaid upon this defendant's said answer'
to the plaintiff's said petition, and the said court found the
said issues for this defendant, and thereupon made its decree
March 25, 1897, whereby the court found and decided that
the prayer of the plaintiff's said petition should not be granted
and adjudged that the said petition be dismissed; and that the
said judgment remains of record, and in full force and effect."
In her reply the plaintiff, admitting that she had instituted

EVERETT v. EVERETT.
215 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in the Massachusetts court the action above referred to,
alleged that her petition in that case was one "for separate
maintenance and that the issues involved in the present action
were in nowise considered in that action

.

.

.

that said

petition was dismissed upon the understanding that in case the
relationship of husband and wife should be established between the plaintiff and the defendant by said Supreme Court,
and upon the proceedings pending therein, the petition for
separate support was to be renewed, and said judgment of
said Probate Court, the County of Suffolk, Commonwealth
of Massachusetts, entered on or about the twenty-fifth day
of March, 1897, did not determine the questions at issue in
the present proceedings, and was entered with leave to renew
the said proceedings, as hereinbefore set forth."
There was a finding of facts in the present case by the Supreme Court of New York, one of which was that the plaintiff and the defendant were duly married before the Justice
of the Peace as above stated, and 'that after such marriage
they lived and cohabited together as husband and wife up to
June 1st, 1891, and that she was never married to any person
other than the present defendant. The court, by its final decree, set aside and vacated the decree of April 9th, 1888, annulling the marriage before the Justice of the Peace, and
adjudged that the contract of marriage thus evidenced was
in full force and effect. But that decree was affirmed by the
Appellate Division. It is stated in the opinion of the Court of
Appeals that there were several trials and appeals in this case
to the Appellate Division. Everett v. Everett, 48 App. Div.
475; 75 App. Div. 369; 89 App. Div. 619.
Finally, the case was carried to the Court of Appeals of
New York, where the judgment was reversed February 21st,
1905, 180 N. Y. 452, but, for reasons stated in the opinion
of that court, the reversal was with directions to dismiss her
complaint upon the merits. That decree is now here for review.
It appears from its opinion that the Court of Appeals of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

New York adjudged the decision in the Probate Court of
Massachusetts to be conclusive, as between the parties, as to
the question whether the plaintiff was the wife of the defendant, entitled to be regarded as holding that relation to him.
The Court of Appeals of New York said (p. 459): "The Massachusetts judgment was based upon the petition of the wife
and it was founded upon the allegation that she was the
defendant's wife; that he had deserted her and had failed to
contribute to her support. These allegations of fact were
put in issue by the defendant and must have been determined
by the court. An exemplification of the judgment record in
the action which annulled the marriage was presented to the
Probate Court and admitted in evidence. The court had
jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter of the controversy, and its judicial power extended to every material
question in the proceeding. The determination of the court
that the plaintiff was not entitled to the relief demanded in
her petition must be deemed to have included the question
as to the validity of her marriage. In other words, the court
must have determined the question whether the petitioner
was in fact the defendant's wife, and this involved an inquiry
with respect to the question whether at the time of her marriage before the Justice of the Peace at Brooklyn she had another husband living. There was evidence before the court
on that question, since the record of the judgment annulling
the marriage in this State was before it. That judgment of a
sister State was entitled in the present action to full faith and
credit under the Constitution of the United States, any statute, rule or procedure or even any constitutional provision in
any State, to the contrary notwithstanding. The provision of
the Federal Constitution with respect to the force and effect
to be given to the judgments of other States, and the act of
Congress passed in pursuance thereof, is the supreme law of
the land, and any statute or rule of practice in this State that
would tend to detract or take from such a judgment the force
and effect that it is entitled to under the Federal Constitution

EVERETT v. EVERETT.
215 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and in the State where rendered must be deemed to be inoperative. So we think that that judgment was conclusive
upon the parties to this action with respect to all the questions which were involved in the proceedings and decided by
the court, and clearly one of thbse questions was the status
of the present plaintiff. She alleged that she was the defendant's wife, and this allegation must be deemed to have been
negatived by the decision in the proceeding."
The court, in addition, considered and disposed of some
questions of a non-Federal nature in respect to which the
trial court was held to have erred. But it thus concluded its
opinion (p. 464): "There are many other questions in this
case which have been discussed at length upon the argument
and are to be found in the briefs of the respective counsel,
but it is unnecessary to consider them. We think that the
judgment must be reversed, and as there appears to be at
least one conclusive obstacle to the plaintiff's success, a new
trial would be useless, and so the complaint should be dismissed upon the merits." The one conclusive obstacle thus
found to be in the plaintiff's way was the judgment of the
Massachusetts court in the action brought by the plaintiff in
error against the defendant in error.
Mr. Frank H. Stewart, for plaintiff in error, submitted:
The dismissal of the complaint by the state court was upon
the ground-that the action of the probate court in Massachusetts was a "conclusive obstacle" to the plaintiff's success.
This involved the determination of the effect in Massachusetts of the action of said probate court, in accordance with
§ 1, Art. IV, of the Constitution and of § 905, Rev. Stat. See
Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481; McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet.
312, 326; Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 610, 619.
The determination by the courts of one State of the effect to
be given to the judicial proceedings of a sister State is open to
review by this court upon writ of error. Huntington v. Attrill,
146 U. S. 657.
voL. ccxv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

215 U. S.

Particularly when the highest court of a State has decided
against the effect which it was claimed proceedings in another
State had by the law and usage of that State. Green v. Van
Buskirk, 7 Wall. 145. See also Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S.
28; Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 621; Gt. West. Tel. Co. v. Purdy,
162 U. S. 335; Iuntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 684; Harding v.
Harding, 198 U. S. 325.
That in the present case the New York court has given too
great effect to the Massachusetts proceedings, instead of too
little, does not render its decision any the less reviewable by
this court. Board of Pub. Works v. Columbia College, 17 Wall.
521, 529; Wood v. Watkinson, 17 Connecticut, 500, 505; Suydam v. Barber et al., 18 N. Y. 468, 472; Warrington v. Ball, 90
Fed. Rep. 464.
The state court erred in determining that the effect of the
judicial proceedings in the probate court of Massachusetts was
to render res judicata the issue raised by the complainant in
this case.
The issue in this case is one which the probate court of
Massachusetts did not and could not pass upon by actual decree, or affect by the legislative part of that decree. See
Statutes of Massachusetts, chap. 153, § 33.
The issue in this case was not rendered res judicata by the
judicial proceedings in Massachusetts.
It was not a fact which was, or could have been, litigated or
decided in Massachusetts. See Kerr v. Kerr, 41 N. Y. 272.
The issue of this case was not a matter necessary to be determined by the Massachusetts probate court in the action
taken by it.
The petition was simply dismissed. The ground for dismissal may have been any one of the grounds set up. There is
nothing in the record to show that the Massachusetts court
did not reach its result on some ground other than that which,
it is contended, renders that result res judicata.
It cannot therefore be held, upon the face of the record, that
there was identity of issues and resulting res judicata. Umlauf

EVERETT v. EVERETT.
215 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Umlauf, 117 Illinois, 584; and see Harding v. Harding, 198
U. S. 337, 338.
It is clearly the law of Massachusetts, of New York, and the
general law that, when a general result may have been reached
by the determination of any undeterminate one of several
facts, no particular fact is conclusively determined. Stannard
v. Hubbell, 123 N. Y. 520; House v. Lockwood, 137 N. Y. 259;
Stokes v. Foote, 172 N. Y. 327, 342; Burlen v. Shannon, 99
Massachusetts, 200; Lea v. Lea, 99 Massachusetts, 493; Foye
v. Patch, 132 Massachusetts, 105, 111; Stone v. Addy, 168
Massachusetts, 26.
The issue of this case was not in fact a matter determined by
the Massachusetts probate court.
The burden of proof was upon the husband, for it is the defendant who sets up the estoppel. Vaughn v. O'Brien, 57
Barb. 491, 495; Foye v. Patch, 132 Massachusetts, 105, 111;
Cromwell v. Sack, 94 U. S. 351.
The issue in this case was not rendered res judicata because
the alleged decree in Massachusetts did not import a decree on
the merits.
The entry in the Massachusetts probate court, "Petition
Dismissed" does not necessarily import a decree on the merits.
And a consideration of the extrinsic evidence shows that there
was a voluntary dismissal on the part of the wife at a time
when she had a perfect right to dismiss her petition, which dismissal was acquiesced in by the husband and permitted by the
court. The mere fact that the court did not see fit to grant her
request that the decree should contain the customary technical
words "without prejudice" is not conclusive upon her rights.
Lanphier v. Desmond, 187 Illinois, 382; Haldeman v. United
States, 91 U. S. 584.
And, since the decree purported only to deny to the wife
affirmative relief, it did not bar a new application on her part
for separate maintenance. Buckman v. Phelps, 6 Massachusetts, 448; Pettee v. Wilmarth, 5 Allen, 144.
For the Court of Appeals to hold the contrary was to deny

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

215 U. S.

to the Massachusetts decree the effect which the wife claimed
it had by law and usage in Massachusetts.
The issue in the present case arises on a different state of
facts from the facts upon which the Massachusetts proceedings
were predicated.
Mr. George Zabriskiefor defendant in error:
In a suit of this character it is necessary in New York, as
well as in the Federal courts, and elsewhere to allege and prove
two distinct things: first, that the party complaining had a
good defense on the merits to the claim upon which the judgment impeached was rendered; and second, that he was prevented from availing himself of that defense by the fraud of
the other party. 2 Story, Equity, § 885a; Blank v. Blank, 107
N. Y. 91; Whittlesey v. Delaney, 73 N. Y. 571; Kimberly v.
Arms, 40 Fed. Rep. 548; White v. Crow, 110 U. S. 183; Ableman v. Roth, 12 Wisconsin, 81; Dobbs v. St. Joseph Fire Ins.
Co., 72 Missouri, 189; Williams v. Nolan, 58 Texas, 708.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals proceeded upon two
grounds, of which at least one presents no Federal question.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals rests quite as much
upon their determination of the issue of fraud, which involves
no Federal question.
In such a case this court will not assume jurisdiction. Allen
v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149; Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land
Co., 163 U. S. 63; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300; Klinger v.
Missouri, 13 Wall. 257.
No Federal question is involved.
A right, privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution must, under clause 3 of § 709 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, be claimed in the court below by the
party seeking the advantage of it. Johnson v. N. Y. Life Ins.
Co., 187 U. S. 491, 495; EasternBuilding & Loan Assn. v. Williamson, 189 U. S. 122; Glenn v. Garth, 147 U. S. 360; Lloyd v.
Matthews, 155 U. S. 222.
Where the plaintiff in error claims merely that the state

EVERETT v. EVERETT.
215 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

court erroneously construed the judgment of a court of another
State, without denying that the state court gave to the judgment the effect which such construction warrants, there is no
question of faith and credit involved which this court has
jurisdiction to review. Allen v. Alleghany Company, 192 U. S.
458; Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335; Johnson v. N. Y. Life Ins.
Co., 187 U. S. 491; Banholzer v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 178 U. S.
402; Lloyd v. Matthews, 155 U. S. 222; Glenn v. Garth, 147 U. S.
360.
If upon any ground this court have jurisdiction, the judgment of the state court upon the plea of res judicata is right.
A final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, upon the
merits of the cause, is conclusive between the parties upon the
material matters thereby necessarily determined. Embury v.
Connor, 3 N. Y. 511, 552; Dobson v. Pearce, 12 N. Y. 156; Prey
v. Hegeman, 98 N. Y. 351; Griffin v. Long Island R. R. Co., 102
N. Y. 449.
Such being the ordinary rule of law there is no evidence in
the record to indicate that in Massachusetts the decree of the
probate court would be accorded any other or different faith
or credit.
In ascertaining what credit is given to judicial proceedings
in the State where they took place, this court is limited to the
evidence on that subject before the court whose judgment is
under review. Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43, 57.
The conclusiveness of the decree is not impaired by the fact
that the cause of action in the suit in which the judgment was
rendered is different from the cause of action in the suit at bar.
Doty v. Brown, 4 N. Y. 71; Lythgoe v. Lythgoe, 75 Hun, 147;
S. C., 145 N. Y. 641.
In such instances the judgment is conclusive as to those
matters in issue upon the determination of which the finding or
verdict was actually rendered. Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94
U. S. 351, 352, 353; Southern PacificR. R. Co. v. United States,
168 U. S. 1, 48, 49; Bell v. Merrifield, 109 N. Y. 202, 211.
The form of the proceeding does not effect the conclusive-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

ness of the decree. The efficacy of the judicial determination
attaches no less to summary, special or statutory proceedings,
than to actions. Culross v. Gibbons, 130 N. Y. 447; Reich v.
Cochran, 151 N. Y. 122; Smith v. Zalinski, 94 N. Y. 519;
Matter of Livingston, 34 N. Y. 555.
The sufficiency of the proof upon which the court acted is
not open to consideration where the judgment is pleaded as a
bar or is relied on as evidence; otherwise the judgment would
not be conclusive, and there could be no such thing as res
judicata. Crescent Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S.
141, 159; Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 449, 510;
Grignon'sLessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319, 339; Comstock v. Crawford, 3 Wall. 396, 406.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

We have no concern about the disposition made by the
state court of questions of mere local law, and have only to
inquire whether, as required by the Constitution of the United
States, it gave full faith and credit to the proceedings had in
the Probate Court in Massachusetts. Const., Art. IV, § 1. If
it did, the judgment must be affirmed; otherwise, reversed.
That the proceedings in the latter court were judicial in their
nature, and that the New York court intended to give them
full faith and credit, cannot be doubted. The Probate Court
is a court of record, established by the General Court of Massachusetts under the authority of the constitution of that Commonwealth. Const. Mass. 1822; Pub. Stat. Mass. 1882, p.
871, c. 156. It has jurisdiction when a wife for justifiable
cause is actually living apart from her husband to make such
order as it deems expedient concerning her support. Ibid.
And when it has jurisdiction of the parties and subjectmatter its decree, until reversed or modified, is as conclusive
in Massachusetts as the judgments of other courts there.
Watts v. Watts, 160 Massachusetts, 464; Langhton v. Atkins,
1 Pick. 535; Dublin v. Chabourn, 16 Massachusetts, 433.

EVERETT v. EVERETT.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In the suit in Massachusetts the fundamental fact was put
in issue as to whether the plaintiff was the wife of the defendant and entitled, as such, to sue for support while living apart
from her alleged husband. The New York court adjudged
that, as between the parties, and, so far as the question before us is concerned, that fact had been determined by the
Massachusetts court adversely to the plaintiff; for, the latter
court ruled, after hearing the parties, that the relief asked
from it should not be granted and dismissed the plaintiff's
petition. So reads the record of the Massachusetts court.
It is said, however, that for aught that appears from the
record of the Probate Court, as produced herein, that court
may have declined to grant the. relief asked by the alleged
wife without considering at all the fact of her marriage, but
only on the ground that she was living apart from the defendant without justifiable cause. But the answer to this contention is that the question whether the plaintiff was the
lawful wife of the defendant, as well as the question whether
she was entitled to separate maintenance while living apart
from her alleged husband, were in issue in the Probate Court,
and if, in order to prove that the court below gave undue
faith and credit to the Massachusetts judgment, the plaintiff
was entitled to show by oral testimony that there was really
no dispute in the Probate Court as to the fact of her being the
wife of the defendant, and that the only actual dispute at the
hearing was whether she had justifiable cause for living apart
from him, no such proof appears to have been made by her.
No bill of exceptions as to the evidence in the Probate Court
seems to have been taken, and we have before us only a record
showing that the plaintiff, claiming to be the wife of the defendant herein, sued for separate maintenance and support,
alleging that she was living apart from him for justifiable
cause, and that the relief asked was denied and her petition
dismissed without any statement of the specific grounds on
which the court proceeded and without any qualifying words
indicating that the decree was otherwise than upon the merits

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

as to the issues made. We concur with the Court of Appeals
of New York in holding that as the Probate Court had jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter, its judgment,
rendered after hearing, that the plaintiff was not entitled to
the relief demanded by her and that her petition be dismissed,
it must be taken, upon the record of this case, that the latter
court determined against the plaintiff the fact of her being
the wife of the defendant at the time she sought separate
maintenance and support.
It is doubtful whether the plaintiff, in her pleadings or
otherwise, sufficiently asserted any right belonging to her
under the Constitution of the United States. But if it were
assumed that she did, the result, even upon that hypothesis,
is that, upon the present showing by the plaintiff, there is no
substantial ground to contend that the court below did not
give such faith and credit to the judgment of the Probate
Court of Massachusetts as were required by the Constitution,
and, therefore, this court has no authority to review the final
judgment of the New York court. The writ of error must be
dismissed.
It is so ordered.
BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
ON

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 339.

Argued October 15, 18, 1909.-Decided December 6, 1909.

Only distinct points of law that can be distinctly answered without
regard to other issues can be certified to this court on division of
opinion: the whole case cannot be certified even when its decision
turns upon matter of law only.
Appellate jurisdiction implies the determination of the case by an
inferior court, and the transfer of the case to the appellate court
without such determination amounts to giving the appellate court
original jurisdiction.

