OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

was sustained in a well-considered opinion by the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia. Hyde v. Southern Ry.
Co., 31 App. D. C. 466.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas is
Affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. STICKNEY
AND OTHERS, RECEIVERS OF THE CHICAGO GREAT
WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITEI)

STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 251.

Argued October 12, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

A carrier may charge and receive compensation for services that it may
render, or procure to be rendered, off its own line, or outside of the
mere transportation thereover.
Where the terminal charge is reasonable it cannot be condemned, or the
carrier charging it required to change it because prior charges of
connecting carriers make the total rate unreasonable.
In determining whether the charge of a terminal company is or is not
reasonable the fact that connecting carriers own the stock of the
terminal company is immaterial, nor does that fact make the lines
of the terminal company part of the lines or property of such connecting carriers.

The inquiry authorized by ยง 15 of the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, relates to all charges made by the carrier; and,
on such an inquiry, the carrier is entitled to have a finding that a
particular charge is unreasonable before he is required to change it.
Where the charge of a terminal company is in itself reasonable the
wrong of a shipper by excessive aggregate charges should be corrected by proceedings against the connecting carrier guilty of the
wrong.
The convenience of the commission or the court is not the measure of
justice, and will not justify striking down a terminal charge when
the real overcharge is the fault of a prior carrier.
164 Fed. Rep. 638, affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. STICKNEY.
215 U. S.

99

Argument for Appellant.

ON December 10, 1907, the Interstate Commerce Commission entered an order requiring certain railroads running into
Chicago to cease and desist from making a terminal charge of
two dollars per car for the transportation of live stock beyond
the tracks of said railroads in Chicago, and for delivery thereof
at the Union Stock Yards, and requiring them to establish and
put in force for said services a charge of one dollar per car.
Compliance with this order was postponed by the commission
until May 15, 1908. On May 7, 1908, the appellees filed this
bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Minnesota, to restrain the enforcement of said order, averring
that the actual cost to them for such terminal services exceeded in each instance the sum of two dollars per car, and
that the companies were making delivery at a charge less than
such actual cost; that therefore the reduction of the charge by
the commission to one dollar per car was unreasonable, oppressive and unlawful. A hearing was had before three judges of
the Eighth Circuit and a restraining order entered as prayed
for by the railroad companies, from which order an appeal was
taken to this court.

Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Assistant to the Attorney General, and
Mr. S. H. Cowan, special attorney, for the appellant:
For the history of this controversy before the courts and the
commission see Keenan v. Atchison & C. R. R. Co., 64 Fed.
Rep. 992; Walker v. Keenan, 73 Fed. Rep. 755; Reports, 7 1. C.
C. 513, and 555a; Int. Com. Comm. v. C., B. & Q. R. R.
Co., q8 Fed. Rep. 173; S. C., 103 Fed. Rep. 249; S. C., 186
U. S. 320; Cattle Raisers' Assn. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 10
I. C. C. 83, and 11 I. C. C. 296; Commodity Rates St. Louis to
Texas Points, 11 I. C. C. 238; Cattle Raisers' Assn. v. C., B. &
Q. R. R. Co., 12 I. C. C. 507; and this case below, 164 Fed. Rep.
638.
This case is even stronger for the commission than that in
which the terminal charge was condemned in 186 U. S. 320.
The power of the commission to make orders such as the one in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

215 U. S.

volved is legislative and an order should not be set aside by
the courts unless it violates property rights guaranteed by the
Constitution. Maximum Rate Cases, 167 U. S. 479; Reagan v.
Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154 U. S. 362; Knoxville v. Water Co.,
212 U. S. 1; Willcox v. Consol. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Prentis v.
Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210; Home Telephone Co. v.
Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265; Honolulu Transit Co. v. Hawaii,
211 U. S. 282.
Under the old law the function of the Interstate Commerce
Commission was in its nature judicial. It passed upon the
reasonableness of existing rates and the courts reviewed its
conclusions just as they review those of an inferior judicial
tribunal, treating the commission as a referee of the Circuit
Courts of the United States. See 37 Fed. Rep. 614; New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. v. The Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184; Maximum Rate Cases, 167 U. S. 479. Under
the act as now amended the commission fixes the rate and the
courts have the same authority to review that they would if
the rate had been fixed by Congress itself. The so-called
"Court Review" amendment, which is embodied in the Hepburn Act, is merely declaratory. The only thing added is the
venue and the express authorization of suits against the commission as a representative of the Government.
It is not the reasonableness of the rate which is now before
the court; that question is submitted exclusively to the commission. The rate fixed by the commission may in the judgment of the court be unreasonable and yet it will not be declared unlawful unless it is so unreasonable as to constitute a
confiscation of property. Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1;
San Diego Land & Town Co. v. NationalCity, 174 U. S. 739,754.
The commission did not err in considering the terminal
charge and the through rates together. That was settled in the
C., B. & Q. Case, 186 U. S. 320, and there has been no change
since then. The sole result of the terminal charge is to increase the cost to the shipper for the same service. Nor did
the Hepburn Act since passed alter the situation. In neither

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. STICKNEY.
215 U. S.

101

Argument for Appellant.

case has there been an obligation to make a terminal charge.
The railroads have created the Union Stock Yards and made
it their depot and the only available place for delivery of live
stock in Chicago. It is the greatest live stock market in
America and the other depots they have established are paper
depots and no real terminal service exists. It is a pretense for
the terminal charge. Covington Stock Yards v. Keith, 139
U. S. 128. No charge above one dollar per car is justifiable.
Putting the two dollars terminal charge on at Chicago and not
at other points made an unjust discrimination against Chicago
and is not justifiable.
The order does not violate constitutional rights even if one
dollar is less than the cost of terminal service.
The rule adopted below is that where railroad companies
publish a terminal charge for terminal service, and the commission is called upon to declare .whether or not it is reasonable, the commission must, as a matter of law, determine this
question solely by the cost of the terminal service, independent
of the fact that the through rate already includes compensation for the terminal service and independent of the fact
that the transaction as a whole is profitable to the roads.
This is not sustained by reason or authority. To uphold it
is to say that the railroads can charge twice for the same service, and the commission is without power to strike off the
charge which is last put on. Even if the railroads had in this
case, actually and in good faith, .separated the terminal service
from the through'service, and the terminal charge from the
through charge, the commission could reduce the terminal
charge if they found that the through charge was high enough
to include it.
But the railroads have not separated these two services and
charges. They cannot separate the services because a shipment of live stock from the point of origin to the Union Stock
Yards is one transaction and inseparable.
If a carrier adds a charge for a pretended separate service,
which is already included in another service for which he is

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellee.

215 U. S.

amply paid, the commission may reduce the extra charge,
even to a point below the cost of the pretended separate service. Southern RailroadCo. v. The St. Louis Hay & GrainCo.,
214 U. S. 297, distinguished.
The cost of a particular service is not a proper test of the
reasonableness of the charge for it when the service performed
is part of a larger transaction. Minn. & St. Paul R. R. v.
Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257, 267; St. Louis & S. F. R. R. Co. v.
Gill, 156 U. S. 649. See also Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.
v. N. C. Corp. Coin., 260 U. S. 1; Cov. & Lex. Turnpike Co. v.
Sanford, 164 U. S. 596; A. & V. R. R. Co. v. Railroad Com. of
Miss., 203 U. S. 496; RailroadCo. v. Well & Neville, 96 Texas,
408.
In the present case, even if one dollar per car be below the
cost of the particular service, the railroads cannot complain,
since the whole charge for the whole service is admittedly
profitable.
It is not shown that the commission's allowed charge of
one dollar per car is less than cost of terminal service. The
commission's order applies only to whole transaction from
point of origin and as so considered the charge is not below
cost.
Every intendment of law and fact should avail to support
the order of the commission.
When questions of fact are submitted to executive or administrative officers of the Government their conclusions are
final. When questions so submitted involve both fact and law
the conclusion will not ordinarily be disturbed by the courts.
Even when a question of law only is submitted to other departments the courts will make every presumption in favor
of the interpretation reached. Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne,
194 U. S. 106;'Marquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473.
Mr. William D. McHugh and Mr. Walker D. Hines for appellee: The railroad companies have divided their said rates and

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. STICKNEY.
215 U. S.

103

Argument for Appellee.

have made a distinct charge for transportation from the points
of shipment to Chicago, and a separate terminal charge for
delivery to the stock yards, a point beyond the lines of the
respective carriers.
The separate terminal charge of two dollars per car made by
the railroad companies for the delivery by them of live stock
to the stock yards, a point beyond the lines of their respective
railroads, is not excessive since it is less than the actual cost to
the railroads for the performance of such service.
Each appellee had the right to divide the charge for transportation so as to have one rate from point of shipment to a
point on its tracks in Chicago, and a separate charge thence to
the stock yards. Walker v. Keenan, 73 Fed. Rep. 755; S. C.,
7 I. C. C. Rep. 548; ยง 6 of the Act to Regulate Commerce;
Interstate Comm. Comm. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 186 U. S.
320, 335.
The commission's order is contrary to the Constitution.
Amendment V, and see as to right of carrier to compensation
for additional service, So. Ry. Co. v. St. Louis Hay Co., 214
U. S. 297, 301.
There is no authority for, nor do cases cited by appellant
sustain proposition that in order to set aside a rate prescribed
by the commission, the carrier must show confiscation as to
all its business.
The commission's order was made under clear error of.law.
The courts have power to set aside any order of the commission not conforming to the statute. As to the power conferred
on the commission by the statute, see Vol. 2, Hearings Before
Senate Interstate Commerce Committee, pp. 1662-1674. The
power of the court to review on mixed questions of law and
fact, or of law alone, may be exercised without regard as to
whether a constitutional right has been violated.
Judicial intervention is expressly contemplated by the act
itself and in this case is especially appropriate because the
regulation is of vested rights and not of matters wholly under
power of Government. The right of owners of railroads to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

adequate protection exists independently of consent of the
Government.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The controversy as to this terminal charge has been of long
duration. A history of it antecedent to the present litigation
is to be found in Interstate Commerce Commission v. C., B. &
Q. R. R. Company, 186 U. S. 320.
It is well to understand the precise question which is presented in this case. That question is the validity of the terminal charge of two dollars per car. The report of the commission opens with this statement: "The subject of this
complaint is the so-called terminal charge of $2 per car imposed
by the defendants for the delivery of carloads of live stock at
the Union Stock Yards in Chicago," and its order was in terms
that the railroad companies be"required to cease and desist on or before the 1st day of February, 1908, from exacting for the delivery of live stock at the
Union Stock Yards, in Chicago, Ill., with respect to shipments
of live stock transported by them from points outside of that
State, their present terminal charge of $2 per car.
"It is further ordered that said defendants be, and they are
hereby notified and required to establish and put in force on or
before the 1st day of February, 1908, and apply thereafter
during a period of not less than two years, for the delivery of
live stock at the Union Stock Yards, in said Chicago, with
respect to shipments of live stock transported by them from
points outside the State of Illinois, a terminal charge which
shall not exceed $1 per car, if any terminal charge is maintained by them."
The sixth section of the act known as the "Hepburn Act,"
(an act to amend the Interstate Commerce Act, passed on
June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584), requires carriers to file
with the commission and print and keep open to inspection

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. STICKNEY.
215 U. S.

105

Opinion of the Court.

schedules showing, among other things, "separately all terminal charges . . . and any rules or regulations which in
any wise change, affect, or determine any part or the aggregate
of such aforesaid rates." By ยง 15 the commission is authorized
and required, upon a complaint, to inquire and determine
what would be a just and reasonable rate or rates, charge or
charges. This, of course, includes all charges, and the carrier
is entitled to have a finding that any particular charge is unreasonable and unjust before it is required to change such
charge. For services that it may render or procure to be rendered off its own line, or outside the mere matter of transportation over its line, it may charge and receiVe compensation. Southern Railway Co. v. St. Louis Hay Co., 214 U. S. 297.
If the terminal charge be in and of itself just and reasonable it
cannot be condemned or the carrier required to change it on
the ground that it, taken with prior charges of transportation
over the lines of the carrier or of connecting carriers, makes the
total charge to the shipper unreasonable. That which must be
corrected and condemned is not the just and reasonable terminal charge, but those prior charges which must of themselves be unreasonable in order to make the aggregate of the
charge from the point of shipment to that of delivery unreasonable and unjust. In order to avail itself of the benefit
of this rule the carrier must separately state its terminal or
other special charge complained of, for if many matters are
lumped in a single charge it is impossible for either shipper or
commission to determine how much of the lump charge is for
the terminal or special services. The carrier is under no
obligations to charge for terminal services. Business interests
may justify it in waiving any such charge, and it will be considered to have waived it unless it makes plain to both shipper
and commission that it is insisting upon it. In the case in 186
U. S. supra, we sustained the decree of the lower court, restraining the reduction of the terminal charge from $2 to $1 as
to all stock shipped to Chicago, although the commission had
stated that there had been a reduction of the through rate

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

from certain points by from $10 to $15, in reference to which
reduction and its effect upon the order of the commission we
said, speaking by Mr. Justice White, after quoting from the
report of the commission (pp. 338, 339):
"In other words, it was held that the rate, which was unjust and unreasonable solely because of the $1 excess, continued to be unjust and unreasonable after this rate had been
reduced by from ten to fifteen dollars. This was based, not
upon a finding of fact-as of course it could not have been so
based-but rested alone on the ruling by the commission that
it could not consider the reduction in the through rate, but
must confine its attention to the $2 terminal rate, since that
alone was the subject-matter of the complaint. But, as we
have previously shown, the commission, in considering the
terminal rate, had expressly found that it was less than the
cost of service, and was therefore intrinsically just and reasonable, and could only be treated as unjust and unreasonable by
considering 'the circumstances of the case;' that is, the
through rate and the fact that a terminal charge was included
in it, which, when added to the $2 charge, caused the terminal
charge as a whole to be unreasonable. Having therefore decided that the $2 terminal charge could only be held to be
unjust and unreasonable by combining it with the charge embraced in the through rate, necessarily the through rate was
entitled to be taken into consideration if the previous conclusions of the commission were well founded. It cannot be
in reason said that the inherent reasonableness of the terminal
rate, separately considered, is irrelevant because its reasonableness is to be determined by considering the tlrough rate
and the terminal charge contained in it, and yet when the
reasonableness of the rate is demonstrated, by considering the
through rate as reduced, it be then held that the through rate
should not be considered. In other words, two absolutely conflicting propositions cannot at the same time be adopted. As
the finding was that both the terminal charge of $2 and the
through rate as reduced when separately considered were

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. STICKNEY.
215 U. S.

107

Opinion of the Court.

just and reasonable, and as the further finding was that as a
consequence of the reduction of from ten to fifteen dollars per
car, the rates, considered together, were just and reasonable, it
follows that there can be no possible view of the case by which
the conclusion that the rates were unjust and unreasonable can
be sustained."
The tariff schedules of the appellees make clear the separate
terminal charge for delivery from their own lines to the Union
Stock Yards. We quote the schedule of the Chicago and
Northwestern Railroad Company:
"The live stock station and stock yards of this company in
Chicago are located at Mayfair, and the rates named herein
apply only to live stock intended for delivery at, or received
and transported from the stock yards of the company at Mayfair, in Chicago.
"Upon all live stock consigned to or from the Union Stock
Yards in Chicago, or industries located on the Union Stock
Yards Railway or the Indiana State Line Railway, and transported and delivered to or received and transported from said
Union Stock Yards or said industries located on said Union
Stock Yards Railway, or the Indiana State Line Railway,
aforesaid, a charge of two dollars ($2.00) per car will be made
for the special and separate service of transporting such cars to
said Union Stock Yards, or to said industries on said Union
Stock Yards Railway, or the Indiana State Line Railway, from
this company's own rails, or of transporting such cars from
said Union Stock Yards, or said industries on said Union Stock
Yards Railway, or the Indiana State Line Railway, to this
company's own rails."
The others are equally specific. In some of them, as in
those of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company, it is provided:
"The attention of the shipper must be and is called to the
fact that the transportation charge on live stock delivered at
our own yards at Corwith in Chicago will be two dollars ($2.00)
per car less than when delivered at the Union Stock Yards

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

at Chicago, or at industries'located on the Union Stock Yards
Railway or the Indiana State Line Railway, and the agent
should ascertain definitely at which point the shipper desires
delivery to be made. The live stock contract must then be
filled out so as to show the correct destination and rate as provided by the tariff and amendments."
Further, it is shown by the affidavits that the amount of
such terminal charge is not entered upon the general freight
charges of the companies, but is kept as a separate item. The
Union Stock Yards Company is an independent corporation
and the fact, if it be a fact, that most or even all of its stock is
owned by the several railroad companies entering into Chicago
does not make its lines or property part of the lines or property
of the separate railroad companies.
With reference to the reasonableness of the terminal charge,
it was stipulated on the hearing before the Interstate Commerce Commission that all the testimony taken in the former
proceedings might be considered. It also appears that additional testimony was there offered. None of this testimony
has been printed in the record presented to us. We have, however, our former decision as well as the report of the commission on the recent hearing, and also the affidavits filed on this
application, and can consider them. It appears from the
former case that, after some discussion, when testimony was
being offered on the question of reasonableness, the commission suggested that it was probably unnecessary t.o offer
further evidence, and said (186 U. S. 327):
"'To remove all doubt upon that subject, however, if it is
not clearly found, we now find that, looking entirely to the
cost of service, and including as a part of that cost the trackage charge paid the Union Stock Yards and Transit Cornpany and the unloading charge paid that same company, the
amount of this terminal, if, under the circumstances of this
case, it is proper to impose the charge is reasonable. If any
modification of the present findings is necessary, they are
hereby modified to that extent."'

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. STICKNEY.
215 U. S.

109

Opinion of the Court.

And in the excerpt put into the margin in the opinion of this
court is a statement of the actual and estimated expense to the
different railroads for making such delivery, which makes it
quite clear that the charge was a reasonable one. This finding
as to the reasonableness of the charge was repeated again by
the commission.
In its report in the present case it said:
"The original case did not show the cost of making delivery
of other kinds of carload freight at this market, but the present
record shows that the average cost to one defendant, the
Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company, of delivering all kinds of carload freight, including live stock, is $5.40
per car, while the cost of delivering live stock is not far from
$2 per car. The testimony further indicates that the average
cost of delivering all kinds of carload freight does not differ
much in the case of the Santa Fe from that in the case of the
other defendants, although it does not appear that several of
the defendants are at greater expense than $2 per car in making delivery of live stock at the stock yards. We think it
fairly appears upon this record that the total cost to these
defendants of delivering live stock at the Union Stock Yards,
including the trackage charge, is not much, if any, above onehalf the average cost of handling all carload freight in the city
of Chicago."
Under those circumstances it seems impossible to avoid the
conclusion that, considered of and by itself, the terminal
charge of two dollars a car was reasonable. If any shipper is
wronged by the aggregate charge from the place of shipment
to the Union Stock Yards it would seem necessarily to follow
that the wrong was done in the prior charges for transportation, and, as we have already stated, should be corrected by
proper proceedings against the companies guilty of that wrong,
otherwise injustice will be done. If this charge, reasonable in
itself, be reduced the Union Stock Yards Company will suffer
loss while the real wrongdoers will escape. It may be that it
is more convenient for the commission to strike at the terminal

- OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

charge, but the convenience of commission or court is not the

measure of justice.
We are unable to find any error in the conclusions of the trial
judges, and their order is, therefore,
Affirmed.

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK v. SUDDATH, RECEIVER OF AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK
OF ABILENE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 12.

Argued April 20, 1909.-Decided November 29, 1909.

When a bank refuses to do the particular thing requested with securities delivered to it for that purpose only, it is its duty to return the
securities and no general lien in its favor attaches to them.
The fact that a bank has in its possession securities which were sent to it
for a particular purpose and which it is its duty to return to the
sender, does not justify its retaining them for any other purpose
under a banker's agreement giving it a general lien on all securities deposited by the sender.
A banker's agreement giving a general lien on securities deposited by
its correspondent will not be construed so as to give it a broad meaning beyond its evident scope and in conflict with the precepts of
duty, good faith and confidence necessary for commercial transactions; nor will a printed form prepared by the banker be so extended
by the construction of any ambiguous language.
In this case it was held that the retention by a bank of securities for a
purpose different from that for which they were sent by its correspondent could not be predicated on the consent of the latter, and
that inaction of the correspondent could not be construed as consent.
149 Fed. Rep. 127, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

