OCTOBER, TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

.215' U. S.

REAVIS v. FIANZA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 16.

Argued April 26, 27, 1909.-Decided November 1, 1909.

This court has jurisdiction of this case; for, even if the requisite amount
is not involved, the meaning and effect of a provision of the Philippine Organic Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stats. 691, is involved.
The provision of § 45 of the Organic Act of the Philippine Islands re-

lating to title to mines by prescription refers to conditions as they
were before the United States came into power and had in view the
natives of the islands and intention to do them liberal justice.
Courts are justified in dealing liberally with natives of the Philippines in
dealing with evidence of possession. Cariho v. Insular Government,*
212 U. S.449.
The limitation of size of mining claims in § 22 of the Philippine Organic Act applies only to claims located after the passage of that act.
Under § 28 of the Philippine Organic Act a valid location could not
be made if the land was occupied by one who was already in possession before the United States came into power, and the claim of one
locating under those conditions does not constitute an adverse claim
under § 45 of that act.
A right to an instrument that will confer a title in a thing is a right to
the thing itself, and a statutory right to apply for a patent to mining
lands is a right that equity will specifically enforce.
Although, if seasonably taken, an objection to the form of remedy
might be sustained, after trial on the merits it comes too late.
7 Philippine Rep. 610, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, with whom Mr. Paul Fuller was on the brief, for appellant:
This court has jurisdiction both as the basis of the amount
involved, and because the construction of a statute of the

REAVIS v. FIANZA.
215 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

United States (Act of July 1, 1902, § 45; 32 U. S. Stat. 703)
is in question. The facts as well as the law are before the
court for review. De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S. 309.
The judgment of the Court of First Instance was plainly
and manifestly against the weight of evidence. The Philippine Supreme Court should have decided according to the preponderance of the evidence. Act of Feb. 25, 1907, No. 1596,
Acts of Phil. Com.
Plaintiffs had no title to the mines at the time of the cession and have acquired none since. Both under Spanish law
and ours, mines can be acquired in private ownership only by
compliance with governmental regulations. Translation of
Mining Law and Regulations, War Dep't, July, 1900; Royal
Decree of May 14, 1867; United States v. Castillero, 2 Black,
1, 166. After the cession the Spanish Mining Laws continued
in force until further legislation by Congress. Strother v.
Lucas, 12 Pet. 410, 436. The act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat.
910, forbade for the time being any government grant of
mining rights, and thus suspended recourse to former law.
Unless plaintiffs have acquired some rights of property under
the act of July 1, 1902, they have none now, and are mere
trespassers.
Section 45 of the act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 703, is almost
identical with § 2332, Rev. Stat. It confers no title, but
merely prescribes what evidence shall entitle a claimant to a
patent, upon compliance with requirements of § 37 and determination of any adverse claim under § 39. Plaintiffs at
most have only a right to apply for a patent ;-a jus ad rem,
not a jus in re. The Young Mechanic, 2 Curt. 404; S. C., Fed.
Cas. No. 18,180; The Carlos F. Roses, 177 U. S. 655, 666; 2
Lindley on Mines, § 688; In re Smith Brothers, 7 Copp's L. 0. 4;
Buffalo Zinc & Copper Co. v. Crump, 69 S. W. Rep. 572;
Cleary v. Skiffich, 28 Colorado, 362; McCowan v. Maclay, 16
Montana, 234.
Rights founded on possession must yield to a "location"
under the statutes. Horswell v. Ruiz, 67 Colorado, 111;
VOL. ccxv-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

215 U. S.

Kendall v. San Juan Mining Co., 144 U. S. 658. Reavis's
peaceable adverse entry interrupted plaintiffs' possession and
prevented them from acquiring title thereunder. Belk v.
Meagher, 104 U. S. 279, 287. Plaintiffs' possession was insufficient under the Philippine statute of limitations. Phil.
Code of Proc., § 41; Hamilton v. South Nev. Gold & Silver
Min.Co., 33 Fed. Rep. 562. A "location" can only be made
for a territory not exceeding 1,000 feet by 1,000 feet. 32 Stat.
697, § 22.
This case is to be distinguished from Cariho v. The Insular
Government, 212 U. S. 449. There the boundaries were defined; the possession was definite and exclusive, and the
lands were agricultural and hence prescriptible even against
the Spanish Crown. Here the plaintiffs ask the court to
declare that because a particular family of Iggorrots have
habitually roamed over a whole mountain-side and taken out
a little loose gold, they have acquired legal title to all the
mineral wealth below the surface within whatever boundaries they now choose to assert. Such a ruling would prevent the development of the mineral resources of the Philippine Islands. The Iggorrots' conceptions of private property
hardly included subterranean rights. The appellant asks the
court to appreciate a peculiar colonial problem rather than
to weigh conflicting claims as to mining boundaries.
Plaintiffs were not entitled to an injunction. Their rights
were doubtful and disputed. Lawson v. U. S. Mining Co.,
207 U. S. 1; Gwillim v. Donellan, 115 U. S.45; Tacoma Ry.
& Power Co. v. Pacific Traction Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 259. They
were out of possession when suit was brought. Lacassagne
v. Chapuis, 144 U. S.119; Whithead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146.
They should have sued at law to recover possession. Bago
v. Garcia, 5 Phil. Rep. 524; Bishop of Cebu v. Mangaran, 6
Phil. Rep. 286; Barlin v. Ramirez, 7 Phil. Rep. 41; Bla'k v.
Jackson, 177 U. S. 349; Potts v. Hollen, 177 U. S.365.
The judgment of the trial court should have been reversed
for errors in the exclusion of material evidence. There is a

REAVIS v. FIANZA.
215 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

presumption of harm from such exclusion. Buckstaff v. Russell, 151 U. S. 626, 637; Crawford v. United States, 212 U. S.
183, 203.
Mr. Henry E. Davis for appellees:
There is no force in the contention that plaintiffs had no
title to the mines in controversy at the time of the cession of
the Philippine Islands and have not since acquired any. The
case comes under the temporary government act, especially
§ 45 thereof, 32 Stat. 691, 703, which mutatis mutandis is,
with very slight changes, identical with § 2332, Rev. Stat.,
taken from the act of May 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 91. The scheme
of these acts was clearly to recognize in the inhabitants of
territory newly acquired by the United States, rights equivalent to those of location and possession, and of themselves
conferring a right to a patent for mining lands, independently
of compliance with requirements of laws of the former sovereignty and local laws and customs inherited therefrom, or
enacted or adopted in analogy to the institutions thereof.
Rev. Stat., § 2332, provides an additional mode of acquisition of mineral land from the Government, and, where possession has continued for the prescribed period before an
adverse right exists, it is equivalent to a location under the
laws of Congress. Anthony v. Jillson, 83 California, 296, 302;
Altoona &c. Co. v. Integral &c. Co., 114 California, 100, 105;
Min. Co. v. Bullion Min. Co., 3 Saw. 634, 657, 658; Harris v.
Equator &c. Co., 8 Fed. Rep. 863; Belk v. Meagher, 104 U. S.
279, 287; Lavignino v. Uhlig, 26 Utah, 125.
Upon completion of a location and until patent issues, the
Government holds the title in trust for the locator; and a
title so acquired will be quieted on a bill in equity even against
the holder of a correct paper title. Noyes v. Mantle, 127 U. S.
348, 351; Min. Co. v. Bullion Min. Co., ubi supra.
In dealing with the Philippines, the United States meant
to treat its inhabitants as it had treated those of our former
Mexican territory, and, indeed, to put the former on an even

OCTOB.ER '.ERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellecs. "

215 U. S.

more favored footing. Carifio v. Insular Government, 212
U. S. 449.
Accordingly, it is beside the question whether plaintiffs have
or have not acquired any title to the mines in controversy
since our acquisition of the Philippines, the facts being that
it is not contended that plaintiffs ever undertook to acquire
formal title to the mines during the Spanish occupation; that,
almost immediately upon our occupation, they were prohibited
by law from acquiring such title; that they were on their way
to the acquisition of such when they encountered interference
by the action of the defendant; and that the object of this
case was and is to free themselves from such interference.
. Plaintiffs have not mistaken their forum, they have a
right to the remedy sought in this action.
Section 39 of the act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stats. 701, is mutatis mutandis, an exact reproduction of § 2326, Rev. Stat.,
as amended by act of 1881, with the difference that the question of title is provided to be determined by judgment of the
court instead of by verdict of a jury. Plaintiffs, instead of
going through the form of applying for a patent upon the'
ground of compliance with § 45 of the act of July 1, 1902,
elected directly to institute proceedings in equity. The propriety of this proceeding might have been raised by demurrer
or apt objection in the answer, but defendant, having answered without objection of any kind to the proceeding or the
jurisdiction of the court, and having converted his answer
into a petition or cross-bill for affirmative defense, closed the
door upon any question as to the propriety of the proceeding
itself or the jurisdiction to determine the same of the tribunal
in which it was instituted. 16 Cyc. Law, 117, 129, 131, and
cases cited.
Any objection to thC jurisdiction or proceeding comes too
late in the appellate tribunal. Perego v. Dodge, 163 U. S.
160, 164, 166, 168.
The character and extent of plainitiff's possession are unimportant, it being plain that the acts of mining on the part of

REAVIS v. FIANZA.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiffs were as continuous as the nature of the business
and the customs of the country permitted, and such as to permit them to do acts of mining of which the methods, although
crude, were yet such as.were practiced and customary among
their people, "and produced gold." Stephenson v. Wilson,
37 Wisconsin, 482; 2 Lind. on Mines, § 688.
The description of the premises in controversy, being by
name of a property well known, is sufficient. Glazier Mining
Co. v. Willis, 127 U. S. 471, 480.
And the limitation of § 22 of the act of July 1, 1902, has
application only to claims located after the passage of the act.
The alleged exclusion of competent and material evidence
cannot be considered, -as the same is not to be found in the
reasons assigned for the motion for a new trial, nor in the bill
of exceptions, so-called, nor in the assignments of error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the appellees to restrain
the appellant from setting up title to certain gold mines in
the Province of Benguet, or interfering with the same, and
to obtain an account of the gold heretofore taken from the
"mines. The trial court rendered a judgment or decree granting an injunction as prayed. Exceptions were taken on the
grounds that the findings of fact were against the weight of
evidence and that the judgment was against the law. The
Supreme Court reexamined the evidence and affirmed the
decree below. Then the case was brought here by appeal.
The appellees make a preliminary argument against the
jurisdiction of this court, while the appellant asks us to re~xamine the evidence and to reverse the decree on the facts as
well as the law. We cannot accede to either of these contentions. We are of opinion that this court has jurisdiction. For
if the affidavits of value should be held to apply to the whole
of Reavis's claims and not to only that part of them that are
in controversy here, still a statute of the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

namely, a section of the organic act (§ 45, concerning mining titles in the Philippines), is"involved," within the meaning
of § 10 of the same act, which determines the jurisdiction of
this court. Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stats. 691. The
meaning and effect of that section are in question, and our
construction even has some bearing upon our opinion that
the findings of the two courts below should not be reopened.
For apart from the general rule prevailing in such cases, De
la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S. 303, 309, we shall refer to
the law for special reasons why those findings should not be
disturbed in a case like this.
The appellees are Iggorrots, and it is found that for fifty
years, and probably for many more, Fianza and his ancestors
have held possession of these mines. He now claims title
under the Philippine Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1369, § 45, 32
Stat. 691. This section reads as follows:
"That where such person or association, they and their
grantors have held and worked their claims for a period equal
to the time prescribed by the statute of limitations of the
Philippine Islands, evidence of such possession and working of
the claims for such period shall be sufficient to establish a
right to a patent thereto under this Act, in the absence of any
adverse claim; but nothing in this Act shall be deemed to impair any lien which may have attached in any way whatever
prior to the issuance of a patent."
It is not disputed that this section applies to possession
maintained for a sufficient time before and until the statute
went into effect. See Soper v. Lawrence Brothers Co., 201 U. S.
359. The period of prescription at that time was ten years.
Code of Procedure in Civil Actions, August 7, 1901, No. 1.90,
§ 40; 1 Pub. Laws of Phil. Comm. 378, 384. Therefore, as the
United States had not had the sovereignty of the Philippines
for ten years, the section, notwithstanding its similarity to
Rev. Stats., § 2332, must be taken to refer to the conditions as
they were before the United States had come into power. Especially must it be supposed to have had in view the natives of

REAVIS v. FIANZA.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the islands, and to have intended to do liberal justice to them.
'By § 16 their occupancy of public lands is respected and made
to confer rights. In dealing with an Iggorrot of the Province
of Benguet it would be absurd to expect technical niceties, and
the courts below were quite justified in their liberal mode of
dealing with the evidence of possession and the possibly rather
gradual settling of the precise boundaries of the appellees'
claim. See Cariio v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449. At
all events, they found that the appellees and their ancestors
had held the claim and worked it to the exclusion of all others
down to the bringing of this suit, and that the boundaries were
as shown in a plan that was filed and seems to have been put in
evidence before the trial came to an end.
It cannot be said that there was no evidence of the facts
found, for the plaintiff Fianza testified, in terms, that his
grandfather and father had owned the mines in question, and
that he and the other appellees owned them in their turn, that
they had all worked the mines, that no one else had claimed
them, and that the appellant had interfered with his possession,
and when he put up a sign had torn it down. No doubt his
working of the mines was slight and superficial according to our
notions, and the possession may not have been sharply asserted
as it would have been with us, whether from Iggorrot habits
or from the absence of legal title under Spanish law. But it
sufficiently appears that the appellees' family had held the
place in Iggorrot fashion, and to deny them possession in favor
of Western intruders probably would be to say that the natives
had no rights under the section that an American was bound
to respect. Whatever vagueness there may have been in the
boundaries, it is plain that the appellant attempted to locate a
claim within them, and Fianza testified that the plan to which
we have referred followed the boundaries that his father showed
to him. It is said that the claim is larger than is allowed by
§ 22. But the limitation of that section applies only to claims
"located after the passage of this act."
It is to be assumed then that the appellees and their ances-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

tors had held possession and had worked their claims for much
more than the period required by §45, before the moment
when the statute went into effect. It is to be assumed that the
possession and working continued down to within two months
of that moment. But the appellant says that he entered and
staked his claims before that time and then was in possession
of them. On this ground, as well as others that are disposed
of by the findings below, he contends that there was an adverse claim within the meaning of the act. But the ground in
question was not unoccupied and therefore he could not make
a valid claim under §28. See also act of March 2, 1901, c. 803,
31 Stats. 895, 910. He refiled a location in October, 1902, but
he did not and could not make the required affidavit because
of the prior occupation, and at that date Fianza was within
the act, unless he already had been deprived of its benefits.
Moreover, it is found that Fianza's possession continued down
to the bringing of this suit. This is justified by the evidence
and is not contradicted by the bill. The bill, to be sure, alleges
that Reavis in 1900 illegally entered and deprived the appellees
of their mines and that he still continues to maintain his unjust claim. But further on it alleges that in the spring of 1902
Reavis was directed by the Governor of Benguet not to molest
the appellees; that he then waited in Manila, and after the
promulgation of the law "again entered," set stakes and filed
a notice of location. So that the bill does not mean that he
was continuously in possession or that he was in possession
when the law took effect. We are of opinion that there was no
adverse claim that would have prevented the appellees from
getting a patent under §45. See Belk v. Meagher, 104 U. S. 279.,
284. Altoona Quicksilver Mining Co. v. Integral Quicksilvei
Mining Co., 114 California, 100, 105. See also McCowan v.
Maclay, 16 Montana, 234, 239,.240.
It is suggested that the possession of Fianza was not under
a claim of title, since he could have no title under Spanish law.
But whatever may be the construction of Rev. Stats., § 2332,
the corresponding § 45 of the Philippine Act cannot be taken

REAVIS v. FIANZA.
215 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to adopt from the local law any other requirement as to the
possession than the length of time for which it must be maintained. Otherwise, in view of the Spanish and American law
before July 1, 1902, no rights could be acquired and the section
would be empty words, whereas, as we have said before, another section of the act, § 16, still further shows the intention
of Congress to respect native occupation of public lands.
Again it is urged that the section of itself confers no right
other than to apply for a patent. But a right to an instrument
that will confer a title in a thing is a right to have the thing.
That is to say, it is a right of the kind that equity specifically
enforces. It may or may not be true that if the objection had
been taken at the outset the plaintiffs would have been turned
over to another remedy and left to apply for a patent, but after
a trial on the merits the objection comes too late. See Perego
v. Dodge, 163 U. S. 160, 164; Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354,
395.

Some objections were taken to the exclusion of evidence.
But apart from the fact that they do not appear to have been
saved in the exceptions taken to the Supreme Court, and irrespective of its admissibility, the evidence offered could not
have affected the result. An inquiry of Fianza, whether he
claimed the mines mentioned in the suit or those measured by
the surveyor who made the plan to which we have referred, was
met by the allowance of an amendment claiming according to
the plan. A question to another of the plaintiffs, whether she
saw any Iggorrots working for Reavis, would have brought out
nothing not admitted by the bill, that Reavis did for a time
intrude upon the mines in suit. Upon the whole case we are of
opinion that no sufficient ground is shown for reversing the
decree, and it is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

