YORDI v. NOLTE.
Syllabus.

215 U. S.

mum rate for the transportation of rough green fir lumber
from points in the Willamette Valley, Oregon, to San Francisco. The case came on for argument before the three Circuit Judges upon the demurrer of the commission to the
amended bill of complaint, to which was attached the opinion and order of the commission.
The Circuit Judges certified the whole case, and it comes
here without opinion, decision or assignment of errors.
Upon the grounds stated in No. 339, Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, ante,
p. 216, the certificate is dismissed and the case remanded to
the Circuit Court with directions to proceed therein in conformity with law.
Ordered accordingly.

YORDI v. NOLTE,. UNITED STATES MARSHAL.
APPEAL

FROM THE

DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 382.

Submitted October 22, 1909.-Decided December 6, 1909.

In foreign extradition proceedings the complaint is sufficient to authorize the commissioner to act if it so clearly and explicitly states
a treaty crime that the accused knows exactly what the charge is;
nor need the record and depositions from the demanding country
be actually fastened to the complaint.
In this case held that depositions in the possession of the officer of
the demanding country making the complaint, which showed
actual grounds for the prosecution and of which the commissioner
had knowledge, from their use in a former proceeding, were admissible on the hearing before the commissioner and were also
admissible for the purpose of vesting jurisdiction in him to issue
the warrant.
166 Fed. Rep. 921, affirmed.

OCTOBER1 TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

215 U. S.

being detained in custody by the United
States marshal of the Western District of Texas, obtained
from the District Court for that district a writ of habeas
corpus to secure his release. He was charged in the republic
of Mexico with the crime of "fraud and forgery of documents," and a warrant for his arrest was duly issued by the
criminal judge of the city of Guadalajara. He avoided arrest
in Mexico and fled to El Paso, Texas, where he was detained
in prison, under an order of the United States commissioner,
awaiting the issue by the proper authorities of an order for
his extradition.
At the hearing on the habeas corpus it was stipulated that
the crimes in the complaint made before the United States
commissioner were extraditable offenses under the existing
treaty between the United States and Mexico; that at the
time of the hearing before the commissioner the complaint
in the case made by A. V. Lomeli, consul of Mexico, was
solely upon information and belief; that he had no actual
or personal knowledge of the commission of any offense, but
at the time of making the complaint the said Mexican consul
had before him the record and depositions of the witnesses
of the republic of Mexico in the proceedings before the criminal judge of Guadalajara.
There were three complaints made against Yordi. The
first, made by the assistant United States attorney, was dismissed. The second and third were made by the Mexican
consul.
Upon the hearing under the first complaint the record and
evidence contained in the proceedings in Mexico were introduced in evidence before the commissioner, as they were
also on the hearing on the second complaint. The commissioner found that there was probable cause to believe Yordi
guilty of the offense of uttering a forged instrument in the
State of Jalisco, United States of Mexico, on or about the
twenty-sixth day of May, 1908, and that there Was also
probable cause to believe Yordi had committed the offense
PABLO YORDI,

YORDI v. NOLTE
215 U. S.

Opinion of the -Court.

of obtaining money by means of false device in the Mexican
state mentioned. The commissioner therefore ordered Yordi
to be held for extradition to the republic of Mexico on the
charges alleged in the third and fourth counts of the complaint, and that he be committed to the county jail of El
Paso County, Texas, to await the action of the proper authorities in the city of Washington, upon demand for his
extradition to the republic of Mexico.
The case was heard before Maxey, District Judge, who
discharged the writ of habeas corpus, and required the marshal
to hold the petitioner in custody until a warrant of extradition was duly issued. From this final order this appeal was
taken. Judge Maxey's opinion is reported in 166 Fed. Rep.
921, Ex parte Yordi.
Mr. Waters Davis for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Russell for appellee.
JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. CHIEF

The contention of appellant's counsel is that, although the
Mexican consul had possession of the record from Mexico and
the depositions of the witnesses therein contained, which
embodied the proceedings had before the judge at Guadalajara, Mexico, including the testimony of witnesses, which
appeared to the judge amply sufficient to justify an order
fer the apprehension of the accused, nevertheless* there was
still necessary, in order for the commissioner to take jurisdiction to hear the application that either the record from
Mexico should be attached to the complaint or that the complaint should disclose upon its face the sources of the consul's
information. This record from Mexico was not only before
the Mexican consul when he made the complaint against
Yordi, now under consideration, but the commissioner was

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

thoroughly familiar with it, as it had been introduced in
evidence before him upon the hearing of the first complaint.
Judge Maxey was of opinion that as depositions from a
foreign country were admissible in evidence upon the hearing before the commissioner, they were also to be admitted
for the purpose of vesting jurisdiction in the commissioner
to issue the warrant, and as in this case the depositions were
in themselves sufficient to satisfy the commissioner that the
prosecution against the accused was based upon real grounds
and not upon mere suspicion of guilt, it was not indispensable
to the jurisdiction of the commissioner that the record and
depositions from Mexico should be actually fastened to the
complaint when they were in the custody and keeping of
the consul, and the commissioner was already in possession
of the information which they contained. We concur in these
views.
The general doctrine in respect of extradition complaints
is well stated by Judge Coxe in Ex parte Sternaman, 77 Fed.
Rep. 595, 597, as follows:
"The complaint should set forth clearly and briefly the
offense charged. It need not be drawn with the formal precision of an indictment. If it be sufficiently explicit to inform the accused person of the precise nature of the charge
against him it is sufficient. The extreme technicality with
which these proceedings were formerly conducted has given
place to a more liberal practice, the object being to reach a
correct decision upon the main question-is there reasonable cause to believe that a crime has been committed? The
complaint may, in some instances, be upon information and
belief. The exigencies may be such that the criminal may
escape punishment unless he is promptly apprehended by
the representatives of the country whose law he has violated.
From the very nature of the case it may often happen that
such representative can have no personal knowledge of the
crime. If the offense be one of the treaty crimes, and if it
be stated clearly and explicitly so that the accused knows

YORDI v. NOLTE.
215 U. S:

Opinion of the Court.

exactly what the charge is, the complaint is sufficient to
authorize the commissioner to act. The foregoing propositions are, it is thought, sustained by the following authorities: In re Farez, 7 Blatchf. 345, Fed. Cas. No. 4,645; In re
Roth, 15 Fed. Rep. 506; In re Henrich, 5 Blatchf. 414, Fed.
Cas. No. 6,369; Ex parte Van Hoven, 4 Dill. 415, Fed. Cas.
No. 16,859; In re Breen, 73 Fed. Rep. 458; Ex parte Lane, 6
Fed. Rep. 34; In re Herres, 33 Fed. Rep. 165; Castro v. De Uriarte, 16 Fed. Rep. 93; In re Macdonnell, 11 Blatchf. 79, Fed.
Cas. No. 8,771."
It was argued that this court had held otherwise, particularly in Rice v. Ames, 180 U. S. 371, where Mr. Justice Brown,
delivering the opinion, declared that several counts of the
complaint were obviously insufficient, "since the charges
were made solely upon information and belief, and no attempt was made even to set forth the sources of information,
or the grounds of affiant's belief." But Mr. Justice Brown
further said (p. 375):
"We do not wish, however, to be understood as holding
that, in extradition proceedings, the complaint must be
sworn to by persons having actual knowledge of the offense
charged. This would defeat the whole object of the treaty,
as we are bound to assume that no foreign government possesses greater power than our own to order its citizens to go
to another country to institute legal proceedings. This is
obviously impossible. The ordinary course is to send an
officer or agent of the Government for that purpose, and
Rev. Stat., ยง 5271 makes special provisions 'that in every
case of complaint and of a hearing upon the return of the
warrant of arrest, any depositions, warrants, or other papers
offered in evidence, shall be admitted and received for the
purpose of such hearing if they shall be properly and legally
authenticated so as to entitle them to be received as evidence
of the criminality of the person so apprehended, by the
tribunals of the foreign country from which the accused
party shall have escaped, and copies of any such depositions,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

warrants or other papers, shall, if authenticated according
to the law of such foreign country, be in like manner received
as evidence,' of which authentication the certificate of the
diplomatic or consular officer of the United States shall be
sufficient. This obviates the necessity which might otherwise exist of confronting the accused with the witnesses
against him. Now, it would obviously be inconsistent to
hold that depositions, which are admissible upon the hearing, should not also be admitted for the purpose of vesting
jurisdiction in the commissioner to issue the warrant. Indeed, the words of the statute, 'in every case of complaint,'
seem to contemplate this very use of them. If the officer
of the foreign government has no personal knowledge of the
facts, he may with entire propriety make the complaint upon
information and belief, stating the sources of his information
and the grounds of his belief, and annexing to the complaint
a properly certified copy of any indictment or equivalent
proceeding, which may have been found in the foreign country, or a copy of the depositions of witnesses having actual
knowledge of the facts, taken under the treaty and act of
Congress. This will afford ample authority to the commissioner for issuing the warrant."
The same learned judge said in Grin v. Shine, 187 U. S.
181, 193:
"All that is required by ยง 5270 is that a complaint shall
be made under oath. It may be made by any person acting
under the authority of the foreign government having knowledge of the facts, or in the absence of such person, by the
official representative of a foreign government based upon
depositions in his possession."
We think the evidence produced at the hearing justified
the detention of the accused and corrected any irregularity
in the complaint. As this court said in Nashimura Ekiu v.
United States, 142 U. S.651, 662:
"A writ of habeas corpus is not like an action to recover
damages for an unlawful arrest or commitment, but its ob-

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
215 U. S.

Syllabus.

ject is to ascertain whether the prisofier can lawfully be detained in custody; and if sufficient ground for his detention
by the Government is shown, he is not to be discharged for
defects in the original arrest or commitment. Ex parte Bollman & Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75, 114, 125; Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509, 519; United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S.
621, 624; Kelly v. Thomas, 15 Gray, 192; The King v. Marks, 3
East, 157; Shuttleworth's Case, 9 Q. B. 651."
The District Judge was right, and his final order discharging the writ of habeas corpus is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CORBETT.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT

No. 236.

OF WISCONSIN.

Argued October 14, 1909.-Decided December 6, 1909.

Whether the person deceived by false entries is the person intended
by the statute, and whether the averments as to the deceit are
sufficient to sustain the indictment, are questions which involve
the construction of the statute on which an indictment for making
false entries in violation of ยง 5209, Rev. Stat., is based, and this
court has jurisdiction to review under the Criminal Appeals Act
of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.
The construction of a statute in a particular, in regard to which no
question was raised, will not prevent the determination as an
original question of how the statute should be construed in that
particular when controverted in a subsequent case.
The rule of strict construction of penal statutes does not require a
narrow technical meaning to be given to words in disregard of their
context and so as to frustrate the obvious legislative intent.
Notwithstanding the rule of strict construction the offense of deceiving an agent by doing a specified act may include deception of the
officer appointing the agent where the statute is clearly aimed at
the deception; and under ยง 5209, Rev. Stat., the making of false

