0AKES v. MASE.
Opinion of the Court.

OAKES v. MASE.
ERROR TO THE GIAOUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
WO.182. Submitted January 28, 189.-DeSided February 15,1897.

It is seted law in th)s court that the relation of fellow-servants exists
betweeh an engineer operating a locomotive on one train and the con-ductor on another train on the same road.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr C. TV Punn for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error, who was plaintiff in the trialcourt,.
sued to recover damages caused by an injury, resulting in the
death of her intestate, whilst serving as an engineer on an
engine of the defendant company in -the State of Montana..
After the cause was put at issue a jury was waived by a
written stipulation, and. It was submitted to the court for
judgment on an agreed statement of facts. .The facts stated
established that the accident was caused by a switch negligently left open by the conductor of another train on thesame road. The trial court, considering that the 'engineer
on one train was not a fellow-servant of the conductor on
another train of the same road, gave judgment for the sum
of the damage, which was fixed in the statement of facts.
On error to the trial court the Circuit Court of Appeals.
for the Eighth Circuit, although holding that the ielation
between the -engineer on one train and the conductor on
another was that of a fellow-servant, yet affirmed the judgment on the ground that, by the statute law of Mbutana, the
common law rule as to the relation of master and servant was
modified, hence the liability existed. The statute referred to-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

is found in the Compiled Statutes of the State of Montana
of 1887, and reads as follows
"SECTION 697. That in every case the liability of the corporation to a servant or employ6, acting under the orders
of his superior, shall be the same. in case of injury sustained
by default or wrongful act of his superior, or to an employ6
not appointed or controlled by him, as if such servant or
.employe were a passenger."
Pending this writ of error prosecuted to the judgment of
affirmance rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the
validity of the statute of Montana upon which that court
based its decree was drawn iu question before the Supreme
Court of the State of Montana, where it was held that the
-statute was void under the constitution of the State because it
applied only to domestic corporations, and therefore operated
a discrimination against such corporations. CrZ88well v -Montana Central Railway Co., 44 Pac. Rep. 525. As this ruling
of the court of last resort of the State of Montana, interpreting the constitution and laws of that State, is binding here,
the sole ground upon which the Circuit Court of Appeals
rested its judgment is destroyed and the, only question remaining is, did the relation of fellow-servant exist between an
,engineer operating a locomotive on one train and the con-ductor on another train of the same road? That such relation
did exist is no longer an open question in this court. Northern
Pacz* Railroadv. Hambly, 154: U. . 34:9, Northern Pasx.
Railroad v. Charlews, 162 'U. S. 359, Northern Paoc
Rail-road v. Petermon, 162 U S. 346, -Central Railroad Company
-v. Jfeegan, 160 U. S. 259.
-- t follows, necessarily, that the judgment must be
Reversed,. and ordered that judgment be entered sn favor of
defendant.
Mm. JusTia

HARLAw

dissented.

