OCTOBER TERMf, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

ing that where

an officer is suspended from duty he is
not entitled to emoluments or allowances. Urnted Slate
v. Phsterer,94 U. S. 219.
We have felt constrained to, at least briefly, consider the
several propositions urged upon us with so much zeal and
ability on behalf of the appellant, though we might well
,have contented ourselves with a reference to the able and
elaborate opinion of the Court of Claims delivered by Justice
Nott. 28 C. C1. 173.
As we have reached the conclusion that the court-martial
in question was duly convened and organized, and that the
questions decided were within its lawful scope of action, it
would be out of place for us to express any opinion on the
propriety of the action of that court in its proceedings and
sentence. If, indeed, as has been strenuously urged, the
appellant v as harshly dealt with, and a sentence of undue
severity was finally imposed, the remedy must be found elsewhere than in the courts of law
The decree of the Court of Claims .is
Affirmed.
DE VAUGHN v. HUTCHINSON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No.114.

Argued October80, 1896.--:Dbdded March 1,1802'.

This court looks to the law of the State in which land is situated for the
rules which'govern its descent, alienation and transfer, and for the effect
and construction of wills and other conveyances; and in the District of
Columbia those rules are the rules whieh governed in Maryland at the
time when the District was separated fro it.
Under a will devising real estate in. the District of Columbia to M. A. M.
during her natural life, and after her death to be equally divided among
the heirs of her body begotten, share and share alike, and to their heirs
and aasgns -forever, M. A. M. takes a life estate only, and her children
takb an estate in fee.

SAMUEL De Vaughn, a resident of the District of Columbia,
died on the 5th day of July, 1867, leaving a last will and

DE VAUGHN v. HUTCHINSON.
Statement of the Case.

testament dated April 20, 1861. This will was admitted to
probate September 1, 1867, and was, as to those of its provisions which are involved in the present litigation, as follows
"I give and bequeath unto my sister, Susan Brayfeld, all
my personal property of whatever description.
"Item. I give and devise unto my sister Susan Brayfield
the whole square four hundred and eighty-three aiid improvements, also lots twenty, twenty-one and part of lot twentytwo ia square three hundred and seventy-eight, situated in
the city of Washington, during her natural life, and at her
death to her daughters Mary Rebecca Brayfield, Catharine
Sophia Harrison and Martha Ann Mitchell, to be divided in
the following manner, that is to say Martha Ann shall have
one half of lot tventy, as subdivided, being seventy-three feet
deep, having on the same two houses. To Catharine Sophia,
the other half (being the east half) of said lot twenty, having
also on the same two houses, and Mary Rebecca shall have
the corner store situated on lot twenfty-one. Catharme Sdphia
shall have the two houses next south of said corner store on
said lot twenty-one, and Martha Ann shall have the next two
houses south' of the two to Catharine Sophia, and adjoining.
the same on said lot twenty-one, and Mary Rebecca shall have
the whole of that part of lot twenty-two, as subdivided from
lot twenty and improvements, during their natural lives, and
after their death to their heirs begotten of their bodies, and to
theii heirs and assigns forever.
"I also desire that square four hundred and eighty-three
shall be subdivided at the death of my sister Susan Brayfield,
and distributed as follows Mary Rebecca Brayfield shall have
the whole front on K street, ninety feet deep to a ten-foot
alley, which comprises lots one and two, with all improvements
on the same. Martha Ann Mitchell shall have ninety feet on
Sixth street, running that breadth through the square to Fifth
street, and Catharine Sophia Harrison shall have the remainder north portion of said square 'four hundre4 and eightythree, during their natural livesi and at their death to be
equally divided among the heirs of their bodiesbegotten, share
and share alike, and to their heirs and assigns forever.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"Item. I give and devise to Mary Rebecca Brayfield the
east part of lot nineteen, in square three hundred, and seventyeight, and all improvements on said lot, front and rear, during
her natural life, and after her death to her heirs and assigns
forever.
"Item. I give and devise to Catharine Sophia Harrison
the east part of lot seventeen, in square three hundred and
seventy-eight; including all improvements, and also that part
as subdivided in the rear in said square, during her natural
life, and after her death to the heirs of her body begotten,
and to their heirs and assigns forever.
"Item. I give and devise to Martha Ann Mitchell, daughter
of Susan Brayfield, the west part of lot eighteen in square
three hundred and seventy-eight, and all Improvements, including that part as subdivided in the rear on said square,
and to her heirs and assigns forever.
"I give and bequeath to my mother fluring her natural life,
out of the rents of 'lots No. twenty, twenty-one and part of
twenty-two, in square three hundred and seventy-eight, and
also the whole of square four hundred and eighty-three, devised to my sister Susan Brayfield, the sum of twenty-five
dollars per month, or, if properly provided for by my said
sister, then only five dollars per month for her own use as
she may think proper.
"Item. I give and devise to my brother John De Vaughu,
in square four hundred and eight, lot D and parts of lots five in
square four hundred and five, and lot two in square four hundred and eighty-seven, and all improvements, also lot eleven in
square five hundred and seventeen, lots four and five rn square
four andftve in square seven hundred and eighty-five, and to
his heirs and assigns forever. All of which property is situated
in the city of Washington, District of Columbia.
"Item. I give and devise to my brother William De Vaughn,
of the city of Alexandria, State of Virginia, lot three in square
one thousand and ninety-five, lot one in square six hundred
and seventy-seven, lot four. in square forty-four, lot two in
square one hundred and twenty-nie. ALo lots B, 0, D, F
and G in square forty-three, all lying and being in the city

DE VAUGHN v. HUTCHINSON.

'569

Statement of the Case.

of Washington and District of Columbia, also the house and lot
on Henry street in the city of Alexandria, State of Virginia,
and to his heirs and assigns forever."
Martha Ann Mitchell, one of the devisees named in the
will, died in the year 1866, before the death of the testator,
Samuel De Vaughn, leaving as her only children and heirs at
law Benjamin D. Mitchell, Richard R. Mitchell and Sarah W
Hutohinson. Mrs. Susan Brayfield, the tenant for life, died
in December, 1891.
In May, 1892, James H. De Vaughn, Emily De Vaughn and
Rebecca J Kirk, as heirs at law of Samuel De Vaughn, brought,
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, a bill in
equity against William H. De Vaughn and others, also heirs
at law of Samuel De Vaughn. The purpose of the bill was
to have a declaration that by reason of the decease of Martha
Ann Mitchell during the lifetime of the testator the devise to
her lapsed and became void, and that thereupon, upon the
death of the testator and of Susan Brayfield, the real estate
described in said devises became vested in the heirs at law of
the said testator as if the said testator had died intestate as
to said real estate and, upon such declaration, that the said
real estate should be sold and the proceeds of such sale should
be distributed among. the parties lawfully entitled thereto as
heirs at law of the said Samuel De Vaughn.
To this bill appeared Benjamin D. V Mitchell and others,
the children of the said Martha Ann Mitchell, who were
living at the death of the said testator, and who filed a
demurrer to said bill. Upon argument in the Supreme. Court
of the District of Columbia, the demurrer was sustained, and,
the complainants electing to stand on their said bill, a final
decree was entered, dismissing the bill and awarding an
account of rents and profits.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the general term,
but the cause was thereafter transferred to and heard in the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, and oil April 2,
1894, the decree of the Suprbme Court was affirmed. From
the decree of the Court of Appeals an appeal was duly prayed
and allowed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

21r H. 0

Claug7iton for appellants.

Mr Chapzn Brown

was on his brief.
2&' Jeremsah -. Wilson for appellees.
ling, Jr., was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS,

,r

A. A. Hoch-

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is a principle firmly established that to the law of the
State in which the land is situated we must look for the
rules which govern its descent, alienation and transfer, and
for the effect and construction of wills and other conveyUnated States v Cro.zby, 7 Cranch, 115, Clark v
ances.
Graham, 6 Wheat. 577, il'cGoon, v. Scales, 9 Wall. 23,
Brzne v. Insurance Co., 96 U S. 627.
Accordingly, in the present case, we are relieved from a
consideration of the innumerable cases in which the courts
in England and in the several States of this Union have
dealt with the origin and application of the rule in Sheley's case. We have only to do with that famous rule as
expounded and applied by the courts of Maryland while
the land in question -formed part of the territory of that
State, and to further inquire whether, since the cession of
the lands forming the District of Columbia, there has been
any change in the law by legislation of Congress.
We learn from the reported cases that the rule, as established in the jurisprudence of England before the American
Revolution, was introduced into Maryland as part of the common law, and has been constantly recognized and enforced by
the courts of that State. Home v Lyeth, 4 Har. & Johns.
431, Ware v. 1ickardson, 3 Maryland, 505, Shreve v. Shreve,
43 Maryland, 382, Dzckson v. Satterfield, 53 Maryland, 317
Hlalstead v. Hall, 60 Maryland, 209.
Maryland
But we also learn from those cases and o .cases that might be cited, that though the rule is recog
nized as one of property, yet if there are explanatory and
qualifying expressions, from which it appears that the im-

DE VAUGHN v. HUTCHINSON.
Opimon of the Court.

port of the technical language is. contrary to the clear and
plain intent of the testator, the former must yield and the
latter will prevail.
Thus in the case of Shreve v Shre. e, 43 Maryland, 389, where
there was a devise to named children of the testator, for and
during their natural lives, and on the death of said children, or
either of them, to his or her issue lawfully begotten, and their
heirs or assigns forever, it was held that the word issue used
in the clause cited was a word of purchase, and in the opinion
it was said "Again, there are words of limitation superadded
to the gift to the issue, it is to them and thei heirs forever.
Now in the well-known case of Luddington v Hime, 1 Ld.
Iaym. 203, the devise was in ve-1,y nearly the same terms,
vIz., to A for life without impeachment of waste, and in case
he should leaye any -ssue male, then to such issue male and hqs
heirs forever, with a limitation over in deiault of such issue, and
the, court held the testator intended the word zssue should be
desgnatw
zopersonce, and not a word of limitation, ' because he
added afrther limitatiwn, to the -issue, viz., and to the heirs of
such issue forever' The principle deduced from this case is
thus stated in Cruise's Digest, vol. 6, (3d Am. ed.) page 259
' Where an estate is devised to a person for life, with remainder
to his issue, with words of limitation added, the word "issue"
will in that case be construed to be a word of purchase."'
The court, in Shreve v Shreve, 43 Maryland, 382, 397, took
notice of the fact that the case of Luddington v Hime has
been doubted, particularly by Powell in his learned work on
Devises, but the Maryland court adds
"But these views (of Powell) do not appear to have been
adopted at least by the most recent English decisions, for in
Golde?' v. Cropy, 5 Jurist, N. S. 562, where a testator devised
property to his daughter for life, and after her death to the
issue of her body lawfully begotten, to hold to them and their
heirs forever as tenants in common, and in default of such
issue then over, it was held, the daughter took but a life
estate. That case was decided by Sir J Romilly, M. R.,
and his opinion is thus briefly and emphatically expressed 'I
have always considered that where an estate is given to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the ancestor, and there is a direction that it is afterwards to
go to the issue of his body, and the mode in which the issue
are to take is specified, with words added giving them the absolute interest, there the ancestor takes an estate for life and
not an estate tail, although there is a devise over in the event
of the ancestor not having any issue. No one can doubt that
the word ,sue is here used as equivalent to children. I am
of opinion the daughter takes an estate for life, and that her
issue take as purchasers an estate in fee simple as tenants in
coin non.'

"So in the still more recent case of Bradly v. Cortwright,
L. R. 9 C. P 511, it was held that. where an estate is given
for life and the remainder to the issue is accompanied by
-words of distribution and by words which would convey an
-estate in fee or in tail to the issue, the estate of the first taker
is limited to an estate for life, and that, whether the estate is
given in fee to the issue by the usual technical words, heirs- of
the body, or by implication.
"It may be stated by Mr. Powell, that subsequent decisions
in England have in effect overruled 1Izuddington v 12ine, and
that at the present time the will before us would receive a
different construction in the English courts, but we have been
referred to no decision in this country, nor are we aware of
any, in which that case has been overruled or its authority
questioned. It is, with others, cited by Chancellor Kent, as
authority for the position that where the testator superadds
words of explanation, or fresh words of limitation, and a new
inheritance is grafted upon the heirs to whom he gives the
estate, the case will be withdrawn from the operation of the
rule. 4 Kent's Com. 221. It meets an approving reference
in the very able opinion of Yeates, J., in Findlay v. Riddle,
3 Binney, 156, where there was a devise to it for life, and if
lie died leaving lawful issue, to his heirs as tenants.in common
and their respective heirs and assigns, and the court held that
A took only an estate for life with a contingent remainder to
his heirs.
"But what is more important to the decision of this case is
the fact that the doctrine of Luddington v M'Tme, and other

DE VAUGHN v. HUTCHINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

similar cases, has been repeatedly recognized and approved by
the courts of this State. Thus in forne v Lyeti, 4 H. & J
435, a case which Chancellor Kent cites as containuig a learned
and accurate exposition of the rule under all its modifications ana exceptions, we find an exceppion to its operation
thus stated 'So where the persons to take cannot take as
heirs by the description by reason of a distributive direction
incompatible with a course of descent, as where gavelkind
lands were devised to A and the heirs of her body lawfully
to be begotten, as well males and females, and to their hen's
and a8signsforever, to be equally divided between them, share(
and share alike as tenants in common and not as joint tenants, in this case it was held that the words heirs of the body
did not operate as words of limitation because they were corrected or explained by the words which followed, and were
irreconcilable with the notion of descent, and also because
there were words of fee engrafted -n the words of limttation,
which showed that the estates given to the children and not
the; estate of A were to be the groundwork of succession of
heirs, or in other words that the children of it were to be the
termniz, for the succession to take its course from.'
"Again, in Lyee v. Dzggs, 6 H. & J 373, we find approval
of Backhouse v Wlells (another case that Mr. Powell insists
has been overruled in England), in reference to which the
court say 'The devise was to oae for life, and after his
decease to the issue male of his body, and to the heirs male
of the bodies of such issue, and the first taker was held to
have only an estate for life, the word 'issue not being ex viv
termznz. a word of limitation, and the words of limitation
grafted upon it, as in this case, showing that it was used as a
word of purchase and as descriptive of tne person who was to.
take the estate tail.'
"In Chelton v. Henderson, 9 Gill, 432, the testator devised
land to his son for life, and if he should have lawful issue
of his body, then such issue, after the son's death, to have the
land in fee tail, and if the son died without such issue, then
over, and it was held that the son took but a life estate. In
the opinion prepared by Judge Magruder in that case, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

is reported in a note to Simpers v impiers, 15 Maryland, 191,
he says 'In the case now to be decided there are words
superadded to the word issue quite sufficient to give them the
inheritance, and the law is, that where an estate is devised to
a person for life, with remainder to his issue, with words of
limitation superadded, the word issue will, in that case, be
construed to be a word of purchase, which is the doctrine of
Luddingtonr v. Hime, cited from Cruise's Digest.'
"After this repeated and recent recognition by our predecessors of this rule of construction derived from Luddington
nme, and other like cases in the earlier English reports,
v
we are constrained to hold that it applies to and governs that
part of that clause of this will, which we have thus far considered, even though we may be of opinion a different construction would be given to it by the courts of England. Having
thus determined the word -issue is here used as a word of purchase, it is clear it must bear the same construction when used
in the immediately following sentence, 'and if any of said
children shall die without issue lawfully begotten, I give,
devise and bequeath his or her portion to the surviving child
or children and their issue and to the heirs of said issue forever.' In other words, the portion given to each child for life,
goes in case-he dies without leaving children in the same way
as the original share, that is, to the surviving children for life,
and upon their death to their issue in fee."
We have extracted such large portions of the opinion in
this case of Shkreve v Shreve because it plainly shows that the
will before us in the present case would have been construed
by the Supreme Court of the State of Maryland as creating a
life estate only in Martha Ann :Mitchell and an estate in fee
in the heirs of her body begotten. It is true that the words
in Shreve'v. Shreve were 'ssue lawfully begotten, but the case
of Hvrne v Eyeth (4 11. & J 435) is approved, where the
words "the heirs of her body lawfully to be begotten," were
similarly construed.
In Clark v Smith, 49 Maryland, 106, 117, the court, by
Alvey, J., stated the rule as follows
"It is a well-settled rule of construction, that techmcal

DE VAUGHN v. HUTCHINSOIN.
Opinion of the Court.

words of limitation used in a devise, such as ' heirs' generally,
or ' heirs of the body,' shall be allowed their legal effect,
unless, from subsequent inconsistent words it is made perfectly
plain that the testator meant otherwise. Or, to use the language of Lord Eldon, in Wi-ight v Jesson, 2 Bligh, 1, the
words 'heirs of the body' will indeed yield to a particular
intent that the estate shall be only for life, and that may be
from the effect of superadded words, or any expression showing the particular intent of the testator, but they must be
clearly intelligible and unequivocal."
Though these decisions were made since the lands in question in this case became part of the District of Columbia, yet
their reasoning is based upon the history of the law in Maryland ever since that State became independent, and we are
therefore warranted in the conclusion that the law as laid
down in the cited cases was the law when the State of Maryland ceded to the United States the territory now embraced
in the city of Washington and District of Columbia.
It is not claimed that there has been any legislation by the
Congress of the United States which has modified or changed
the law in this particular as it was when the lands in question
were subject to the law of Maryland.
Nor do we find that there has been any attempt by the
courts of the District to lay down a different rule. What
is the law -of those courts we learn from the opinion of the
Court of Appeals filed in this case, reported in De Vaughn
v. De Taughn, 3 D. 0. App. 50, where the doctrine was thus
stated
"It is certainly a well-settled principle in the law of real
property, indeed as well settled as the rule in Shelley's ease
itself, that where an estate is expressly.devised to a person for
life, with remainder to the 7wers of lIre body, and there are
words of explanation annexed to such word liewrs, from whence
it may be collected that the testator meant to qualify the meaning of the word hers, and not to use it in a technical sense,
but as descriptive of the person or persons to whom he intended
to give his estate, after the death of the first devisee, the word
hevrs will, in such case, operate as word of purchase."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

As this opinion was delivered by a judge who was but recently the chief justice of the Court-of Appeals of Maryland,
it may not be out of place to quote what he says respecting
the law of that State
"In the courts of Maryland, where the law of real property
is supposed to be the same as that which prevails in this District, except as it may have been changed by positive legislation since the cession by that State, the same principle of
construction has been fully recognized and applied in numerous cases. This will clearly appear upon examination of the
cases of Borne v Lyeth, 4 H. & J 435, (helton v. Renderson,
9 Gill, 432, Shreve v. Shreve, 43 Maryland, 382, Fallon v Harman, 44 Maryland, 263, and Glark v Smith, 49 Miryland, 117."
The case of Danel v. WTiartenby, 17 Wall. 639, was cited
by the court below, and is discussed in the briefs of the
respective counsel. The syllabus of the case is as follows
"A testator gave his estate, both real and personal, to his
son IR.T., 'during his natural life, and after his death to his
issue, by him lawfully begotten of his body, to such issue, their
heirs and assigns forever.' In case R. T. should die without
lawful issue, then, in that case, he devised the estate to his
own widow and two sisters 'during the natural life of each
of them, and to thesurvivor of them,' and after the death of
all of them to J W., his heirs and assigns forever, with some
provisions in case of the death of J W during the life of the
widow and sisters. Eeld, that the rule in Shelley's case did
not apply, and that the estate in R. T., the first taken, was
not a fee-tail, but was an estate Tor life, _with remainder in fee
to the issue of his body, contingent upon the birth of such
issue, and in default of such issue remainder for life to his
widow and two sisters, with remainder over in fee, after their
death, to J W"
This case came up on a writ of error to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Delaware, and it is
noticeable that the reasoning of this court did not proceed
upon the law as expounded by the courts of that State, but
rather upon a general view of the English and American
cases. Still, as the judgment of the Circuit Court was

DE VAUGHN v,. HUTCHINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

affirmed, we may well suppose that the conclusion reached
in this court was in conformity with the law as applied in the
State of Delaware.
The rule extracted from the cases was thus stated by Mr.
Justice Swayne
"In considering it [the rule in Shelley'8 ca8eJ with reference
to the present case a few cardinal principles, as well settled as
the rule itself, must be kept in view In construing wills,
where the question of its application arises, the intention of
the testator must be fully carried out, so far as it can be done
consistently with the rules of law, but no further. The meaning of this is that if the testator has used technical language,
which brings the case within the rule, a declaration, however
positive, that the rule shall not apply, or that the estate of the
ancestor shall not continue beyond the primary express limitation, or that his heirs shall take by purchase and not by descent, will be unavailing to exclude the rule and cannot affect
the result. But if there are explanatory and qualifying expressions, from which it appears that the import of the technical language is contrary to the clear and plain intent of the
testator, the former must yield and the latter will prevail."
And, after examining the language used, the conclusion was
thus expressed
"We entertain no doubt that the testator intended to give
a life estate only to Richard, and a fee simple to his issue, and
that they should be the spriughead of a new and independent
stream of descents. We find nothing in the law of the case
which prevents our giving effect to that intent."
We agree with the court below that the reasoning of the
case of Daniel v. Whartcnby, 17 Wall. 639, if applicable to
the present case, would sustain the construction put upon the
will of Samuel De Vaughn by the Supreme Court of the District.
But even if that case be regarded as declaratory only of the
law of Delaware, its principles were followed and applied in
the subsequent case of Green v Green, 23 Wall. 486, involving the construction of a conveyance of lands situated in the
District of Columbia, and where the cases of Dansel v WarVo... CLXV-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

tenby, 17 Maryland, 639, and Ware v. Richardson, 3 Maryland,
505, were both approved.
We, therefore, think it clear that, under the law as declared
in the courts of Maryland and of the District of Columbia,
Martha Ann Mitchell took a life estate only, and that her
children took an estate in fee.
In the view that we have taken of the case we are not
called upon to reinforce the reasoning of the cases cited, but
we shall add a single observation, in application of Chancellor Kent's statement of an exception to the rule. 4 Kent's
Com. (6th ed.) 221. The word "heirs," in order to be a word
of limitation, must include all the persons in all generations
But
belonging to the class designated by the law as "heirs."
the devise here was to Martha Ann for life, and at her decease
to her heirs begotten of her body and to.thezr heirs and assigns - a restricted class of heirs - and this limitation shows
that it was the intention of the testator that Martha Ann's
children should become the root of a new succession, and take
as purchasers and not as heirs.
The decree of the court below is
Afflrned.

ALLGEYER v. LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISILWA.
No. 446. ,tubmitted January 6, 169T. -Decided

March i, 1897.

The provision in act No. 66 of the Loui ana laws of 1894 that any person,
who in any manner whatever does an act in
firm or corporation

that State to effect, for himself or for another, insurance on property
then in that State, in any marine insbrance company which has not coinplied in all respects with the laws of the State, shall be subject to a flie,
etc., when applied to a contract of insurance made in the State of New
York, with an insurance company of that State, where the premiums
were paid, and where.the losses were to be paid, is a violation of the
Constitution of the United States.
Iooperv. Californca, 155 U. S.648, distinguished from this case; and it is
further held that, by the decision in this case it is not intended to

