WALKER v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

593

Syllabus.

carry out the terms of a contract validly entered into outside
and beyond the jurisdiction of the State.
In such a case as the facts here present the policy of the
State in forbidding insurance companies which had not corn-plied with the laws of the State from doing business within
its limits cannot be so carried out as to prevent the citizen
from writing such a letter of notification as was written by
the plaintiffs in error in the State of Louisiana, when it is
written pursuant to a valid contract made outside the State
and with reference to a company which is not doing business
within its limits.
For these reasons we think the statute in question, No. 66,
of the Laws of Louisiana of 1894r, was a violation of the
Federal Constitution, and afforded no justification for the
judgment awarded by that court against the plaintiffs in
error. That judgment must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of
Loutszana for further proceedings,not snconswstent with
thias opnwn.

WALKER v. NEW MEXICO AND SOUTHERN
PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
ERROR' TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW

MEXICO.
No. 171.Argued January 26,1897.-Decded March 1i189.

The act of April 4, 1874, c. 80, legislatiug for all the Territories, secures to
their inhabitants all the rights of trial by jury, as they existed at the
common law.
It is within the power of a legislature of a Territory to provide that, on a trial
of A common law action, the court may, in'addition to the general verdict,
require specific answers to special interrogatories, and, when a conflict is
found between the two, render such judgment as the answers to the
special questions compel.
The doctrine of the civil law and that of the common law, touching the
respective rights and duties of proprietors of upper and lower land as to

the flow of surface-water are conflicting; and'it is the duty of this court,

voI. cLxv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opimon of the Court.
in cases involving such rights and duties, to follow the decisions of the
local state courts, although it may involve apparently contradictory
decisions.
A territorial legislature has all the legislative power of a state legislature,
except as limited by the Constitution, and by act of Congress; and, the
legislature of New Mexico, having adopted the common law as the rule
of practice and decision, this court is bound by it.

ON Novemler 3, 1886, A. C. Walker commenced this action
in the District Court of the Second Judicial District of the
Territory of New Mexico in -and for the county of Socorro,
tagainst the railroad company defendant, to recover damages
resulting from an overflow of his lands, caused, as charged,
by a wrongful obstruction of a natural watercourse. Subsequently, an amended declaration was filed, and after the death
of A. C. Walker the action was revived in the name of his
administratrix, the present plaintiff in error. After some preliminary proceedings, a trial wa had in December, 1892, on
which trial the jury returned a general verdict, finding the
defendant guilty, and assessing the plaintiff's damages at
$9212.50. At the same time the jury returned, in response to
certain questions submitted by the court, special findings of
fact. The trial court, overruling all other motions, entered a
judgment in favor of the defendant, on the ground that the
special findings of fact were inconsistent with and controlled
the general verdict, and that upon such findings of fact the
defendant was entitled to judgment. The case was thereafter taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory, by which
court, on August 26, 1893, the judgment was affirmed, 34 Pac.
Rep. 43, and thereupon the plaintiff sued-out this writ of error.
MXr Neill B. -Fieldfor plaintiff in error. Mr Jame8 G
Fith was on his brief.
-Mr Robert Dunlap for defendant in error.
Fenna was on his brief.

Mr

. D.

Mn. JusTicE BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.
The testimony was not preserved, and the case is submitted
to -us upon the pleadings, the verdict, the special findings of

WALKER v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

595

Opinion of the Court.

fact aud the judgment, and on the record as thus presented
plaintiff in error rests her claim of reversal upon three propositions First, that the act of the territorial legislature, authorizing special findings of fact and providing for -judgment on
the special findings, if inconsistent with the general verdict
(Laws of New Mex. 1889, c. 45, page 97), is in contravention
of the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, which reads
"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shiall be
preserved, and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the United States, than. according to
the rules of the common law"
Second, that there is no such conflict between the general
verdict and the special findings as authorized a judgment contrary to the general verdict, and, third, that if there be any
conflict between the special findings and the general verdict,
the special findings are so inconsistent with each other as to
neutralize and destroy themselves.
First, with regard to the constitutional question, the specific
objection is thus stated in the brief
"It is not contended, although the English authorities would
appear to warrant the contention, that at the common law the
judge might not require the jury to answer special questions,
or interrogate the jury as to the grounds upon which their
general verdict was found, but it is most earnestly contended
that the extent' of the power of the judge, if in his opinion
the special findings or answers of the jury to interrogatories
were inconsistent with the general verdict, was to set aside
the general verdict and award a vemnre de novo, while under
this statute authority is attempted to be conferred upon the
judge to render final judgment upon the special findings."
We deem it unnecessary to consider the contention of defendant in error that the territorial courts are not courts
of the United States,. and that the Seventli Amendment is not
operative in the Territories; for by the act of April 7, 1874,
c. 80, 18 Stat. 27, Congress, legislating for all the Territories,
declared- that no party "shall be deprived of the right of trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

by jury in cases cognizable at common law", and while this
may not in terms extend all the provisions of the Seventh
Amendment to the Territories, it does secure all the rights
of trial by jury as they existed at common law
The question is whether this act of the territorial legislature in substance impairs the right of trial by jury The
Seventh Amendment, indeed, does not attempt to regulate
matters of pleading or practice, or to determine in what way
issues shall be framed by which questions of fact are to be
submitted to a jury Its aim is not to preserve mere matters
of form and procedure but substance of right. This requires
that questions of fact in common law actions shall be settled
by a jury, and that the court shall not assume directly or
indirectly to take from the jury or to itself such prerogative.
So long as this substance of right is preserved the procedure
by which this result shall be reached is wholly within the
discretion of the legislature, and the courts may not set aside
any legislative provision in this respect because the form of
action - the mere manner in which questions are submitted
- is different from that which obtained at the common law
Now a general verdict embodies both the law and the facts.
The jury, -taking the law as given by the court, apply that
law to the facts as they find them to be and express their
conclusions in the verdict. The power of the court to grant
a new trial if in its judgment the jury have nismnterpreted
the instructions as to the rules of law or misapplied them
is unquestioned, as also when it appears that there was no,
real evidence in support of any essential fact. These things
obtained at the common law, they do not trespass upon the
prerogative of the jury to determine all questions of fact, and
no one to-day doubts that such is the legitimate 'duty and
function of the court, notwithstanding the terms of the constitutional guarantee of right of trial by jury Beyond this,
it was not infrequent to ask from the jury a special rather
than a general verdict, that is, instead of a verdict for or
against the plaintiff or defendant embodying in a single declaration the whole conclusion of the trial, one which found
specially upon the various facts inr issue, leaving to the court

WALKER v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

59T

Opinion of the Court.

the subsequent duty of determining upon such facts the relief
which the law awarded to the respective parties.
It was also a common practice when no special verdict was
demanded and when only a general verdict was returned to
interrogate the jury upon special matters of fact. Whether
or no a jury was compelled to answer such interrogations, or
whether, if it refused or failed to answer, -the general verdict
would stand or not, may be questioned. Xayor &o. v. Clark,
3 Ad. & Ell. 506. But the right to propound such interrogatories was undoubted and often recognized. Walker v. Bailey,
65 Maine, 354, Spurr v Shelburne, 131 Mass. 429. In the
latter case the court said (page 430) "It is within the discretion of the presiding justice to put inqmries to the jury as
to the grounds upon which they found their verdict, and the
answers of the foreman, assented to by his fellows, may be
-made a part of the record, and will have the effect of special
Andings of the facts stated by him. And no exception lies to
the exercise of this discretion. Dorr v. Peno,12 Pick. 521,
SPoorv. S.pooner, 12 Met. 281, Matr v Bassett, 117 Mass. 356,
Lawler v. Barle, 5 Allen, 22." So that the putting of special
interrogatories to a jury and asking for specific responses
thereto in addition to a general verdict is not a thing unknown
to the common law, and has been recognized independently
of any statute: Beyond this we cannot shut our eyes to the
fact that in many States in the Union, in whose constitutions
is found in the most emphatic language an assertion of the
inviolability of trial by jury, are statutes similar to the one
-enacted by the territorial legislature of New Mexico, that
those statutes have been uniformly recognized as valid, and
that a large amount of the litigation in the courts is carried
through in obedience to the provisions of such statutes. It
would certainly startle the profession to be told that such
statutes contravene a constitutional requirement of the inviolability of jury trials.
Indeed, the very argumen u oi counsel for plaintiff in error
is an admission that up-to a certain extent those statutes are
undoubtedly valid. That argument is practically that when
the specific findings are returned and found to be conflicting

OCTOBER TERA:f, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

with the general verdict the court is authorized to grant a new
trial, but can do no more. But why should the power of the
court be thus limited 2 If the facts as specially found compel a judgment in one way, why should not the court be
permitted to apply the law to the facts as thus found? It
certainly does so when a special verdict is returned. When
a general verdict is returned and the court determines that
the jury have either misinterpreted or misapplied the law the
only remedy is the award of a new trial, because the constitutional provision forbids it to find the facts. But when the
facts are found and it is obvious from the inconsistency
between the facts as found and the general verdict that, in
the latter, the jury have misinterpreted or misapplied the law,
what constitutional mandate requires that all should be set
aside and a new inquiry made of another jury? Of what
significance is a question as to a specific fact2 Of what
avail are special interrogatories and special findings thereon
if all that is to result therefrom is a new trial, which the
court might grant if it were of opinion that the general verdict contained a wrong interpretation or application of the
rules of law I Indeed, the very thought and value of special
interrogatories is to avoid the necessity of. setting aside a verdict and a new trial to end the controversy so far as the
trial court is concerned upon that single response from the
jury
We are clearly of opinion that this territorial statute does
not infringe any constitutional provision, and that it is within
the power of the legislature of a Territory to provide that on
a trial of a common law action the court may, in addition to
the general verdict, require specific answers to special interrogatories, and, when a conflict is found between the two,
render such judgment as the answers to the special questions.
compel.
For a full understanding of the second question it is necessary to notice the pleadings. The -original declaration after stating that the Rio Grande River runs in its regular
channel about half a' mile east of the plaintiff's premises, and
.that the waters from rainfalls pass and flow in their natural

WALKER v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

599

Opinion of the Court.

fall from the surrounding and adjacent country over the plaintiff's and other lands in the vicinity and empty into the river,
and that by that means the surface water, up to the time of
the grievances complained of, had been carried off without
injury to the plaintiff, or his property- charged that on
:May 1, 1885, the defendant, in and by the construction of its
roadbed, did dam and close up all of the natural and usual.
outlets and places through which the surface-water had been
accustomed to make its escape, thereby causing such surfacewater theretofore flowing to the river as aforesaid to be
dammed up and set back upon the premises of the plaintiff
and other property owners, that on September 7, 1886, there
was a heavy rainfall and the surface-water, unable by reason
of the obstruction to reach the river, was set back on the
premises of the plaantiff, making a lake or pond of waters
three to four feet in depth, and doing great injury to his
property A demurrer to this declaration having been sustained, an amended declaration was filed, which, omitting all
reference to rainfalls and surface-water, charged that the
defendant obstructed the natural and. artificial watercourses
by which the waters from the north and west of the plaintiff's
property, and from the Socorro and Magdalena Mhountains,
in their natural flow and fall passed over the lands of the
plaintiff and other lands and emptied into the Rio Grande.
A demurrer to this declaration having been overruled the
plaintiff was directed to file a bill of particulars showing the
places and courses of the alleged natural and artificial watercourses, and did so, describing three or four beds or channels
through which in a natural fall, as he averred, the waters
passed from the Socorro and Magdalena Mountains into the
Rio Grande.
Now, the contention of the defendant in error is that it is
apparent, from the answers given to the special questions, that
there were no natural watercourses obstructed by defendant's
roadbed, and that the water which did the damage was simply
surface-water. *The second, third, fourth and fifth are as
follows
"Q. 2. Was there a cloudburst in the Magdalena or Socorrq

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opimon of the Court.

I

Mountains on September 8, 1886, and if so, was the water
therefrom the water which ran over plaintiff's land 2- A. Yes.
"Q. 3. Was the water which came down the arroyos from
the Magdalena and Socorro.fountaius on September 8, 1886,
surface-water 2 - A. Yes.
"Q. 4. Was it customary for water to collect and stand on
plaintiff's land, and land in the immediate vicinity thereof, in
the times of heavy rains or floods? - A. No.
"Q. 5. How often upon an average in any one year did the
water come down the arroyos leading toward the valley in the
vicinity of Socorro from the M[agdalena and Socorro Mountains prior to September 8, 1886 2- A. According to the raint
which fell."
This is very clear. There was a cloudburst in the mountains, and it was the water from that which did the damage.
It was simply surface-water. And the arroyos through which
the water flowed after leaving the mountains were not running streams, natural watercourses, but simply passageways
for the rain which fell. Counsel for plaintiff in error, not
questioning that the injury done to the property of their client
was by surface-water- the large fall which came from the
cloudburst in the Socorro or Maagdalena Mountains on Sbptember 8, 1886-insist that it does not appear that such
cloudbursts were unusual, and also that there had been created
through the lapse of years distinctive channels by which the
waters from the mountains passed down to the river and that
the railroad embankment operated to obstruct such channels,
that although these channels were not the beds of constantly
flowing streams they were wrought by natural processes and
through the flowing of water, not continuous but at frequent
intervals, until they had become natural outlets for the often
accumulating waters in the Socorro and Magdalena Mountains.
In view of this contention it is well to consider other findings
so far as they disclose the character of these waterways.
The sixth, eighth, ninth, fourteenth, fifteenth, twenty-second,
twenty-third and twenty-fifth questions and answers may be
referred to
"Q. 6. How far is the mouth of the main arroyo whrca

WALKER v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

601

Opinion of the Court.

runs through the western part of the city of Socorro in a
northerly direction from the main line of the railroad? -A.
Three quarters of a mile, more or less.
"Q. 8. Does the railroad of the defendant cross any arroyo
leading from the Magdalena or Socorro Mountains at any
place north of the Magdalena branch of the New Mexican
Railroad Company at its junction with the main line one and
one half miles ?- A. Yes.
"Q. 9. If you state in answer to the last question that
there was such an arroyo, state where it is, its length, breadth
and the height of its banks. -A.
West of the city of Socorro
.and east of the Catholic graveyard, its banks are about two
feet, its width about sixty feet, and about a mile in length,
more or less.
"Q. 14. How far from the main line of the railroad, in a
westerly direction, are the mouths of the arroyos testified to
by the witnesses 2 - A. Three quarters mile to main arroyo,
and one quarter of a mile to lower arroyo.
" Q. 15. What is the character of the land lying between
the mouths of the arroyos and the main line of the railroad,
is it level or sloping, and for what purposes was it used in
18862-A. It is level now and in 1886 it was an arroyo, and
there is no ditch now excepting the company drain.
"Q. 22. How far is it from the mouths of the arroyos
testified to by the witnesses to the Magdalena. and Socorro
Mountains? -A.
To the Socorro Mountains four miles, and
to the Magdalena Mountains eighteen miles.
"Q. 23. How far is it from plaintiff's property to the
Socorro or Magdalena Mountains - A. More or less, the
same distance as in the foregoing answer.
"Q. 25. Which was constructed first, the railroad company
embankment or the houses of plaintiff which were damaged
by the water 2 - A. Railroad."
It is obvious not only that it was mere surface-water whose
flow was obstructed, not only that no natural watercourses
wer& filled up,'but also that the channels which were ob-structed were not such ravines, gorges and outlets as in a
mountainous district must be left open to prevent the forming

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.,

of lakes and reservoirs therein, but simply the ordinary ditches
and passageways which surface-water will cut in a generalli
level distict in its effort to reach some flowing stream. It
also appears from the answer to the twenty-fifth question
that the railroad embankment was constructed before the
buildings of the plaintiff. It will be borne in mind that the
mountains from which this surface-water flowed were from
4 to 18 miles distant, and from the foot of those mountains
to the Rio Grande River, naturally, the flowing water had
dug channels and ditches through such portions of the soil as
afforded the least obstruction to its passage, and- such channels and ditches were all that the railroad embankment in
any way obstructed.
Does a lower land owner by erecting embankments or
otherwise preventing the flow of surface-water on to his
premises render himself liable to an upper laud owner for
damages caused by the stopping of such flow? In this
respect the civil and common law are different, and the rules
of the two laws have beem recognized in different States of
the Union-

some accepting the doctrine of the civil law,

that the lower premises are subse'vient to the higher, and
that the latter have a qualified easement in respect to the
former, an easement which gives the right to discharge all
surface-water upon them. The doctrine of the common law on
the other hand is the reverse, that the lower land owner owes
no duty to the upper land owner, that each may appropriate all
the surface-water that falls upon his own premises, and that
the one is under no obligation to receive from the other the
flow of any surface-water, but may in the ordinary prosecution of his business and in the improvement of his premises by
embankments or otherwise prevent any portion of the surface-water coming from such upper. premises. In AtcAS8on,
Topekz & Santa .F9Railroad v Hammer, 22 Kansas, 763,
it was held that " the simple-fact that the owner of one tract
-of land raises an embankment upon it which prevents the
surface-water falling and running upon the land of an.adjouiing owner from running off said land, and causes it to accumulate ttiereou to its -damage, gives -to the latter no cause of

WALKER v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

603

Opinion of the Court.

action against the former, nor is the rule changed by the fact
that the former is a railroad corporation, and its embankment raised for the purpose of a railroad track, nor by the
fact that a culvert could have been made under said embankment sufficient to have afforded an outlet for all such surfacewater."
In Gib8 v Tilliams, 25 Kansas, 214, 216, it was said
"Now the ordinary rule concerning surface-water is settled
and familiar; the lower estate owes no duty to the higher,
and the owner of each may use or abandon surface-water as
he pleases."
In JEan8as City &¢Evorza Railroad v. Riley, 33 ]Kansas,
374, 376, 377, it was said "The common law, as modified by
constitutional and statutory law, judicial decisions, and the
condition and wants of the peolle, is in force in this State
in aid of the general statutes. Therefore, the doctrine of the
common law, with respect to the obstruction and flow of mere
surface-water, prevails.as a general rule. Under this rule surface-water is within the control of -the owner of any land
upon which it falls, or over which it flows, he may use all
that comes upon his own, or decline to receive any that falls
on his neighbor's land.
The doctrine of the common
law with respect to the obstruction and flow of mere surfacewater is not only in force in England, but in Connecticut,
Indiana, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New Hampshire, New York, Vermont and Wisconsin.
The rule
of the civil law seems to be in force in Pennsylvania, Iowa,
Illinois, California, Louisiana, and is referred to with approval
in Ohio."
In Boyt v. Hudson, 27 Wisconsin, 656, 659, the difference
between the civil and the common law was thus stated in a
carefully prepared opinion by Chief Justice Dixon "The
doctrine of the civil law is, that the owner of the upper or
dominant estate has a natural easement or servitude in.the
lower or servient one, to discharge all waters falling or accumulating upon his land, which is higher, upon or over the
land of the servient owner, as in a state of nature, and that
such natural flow or passage of the water cannot be inter-

.60-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

fupted or prevented by the servient owner to the detriment
or injury of the estate of the dominant or any other propretor.
The doctrine of the common law is, that
there exists no such natural easement or servitude in favor
-of the owner of the superior or higher ground or fields as
to mere surface-water, or such as falls or accumulates by
rain or the melting of snow, and that the proprietor of
the inferior or lower tenement or estate may, if he choose,
lawfully obstruct or hinder the natural flow of such water
thereon, and in so doing may turn the same back upon or off
on to or over the lands of other proprietors, without liability
for injuries ensuing from such obstruction or diversion."
It would be useless to cite the many authorities from the
different States in which on the one side or the other these
-doctrines of the civil and the common law are affirmed. The
divergency between the two lines of authorities is marked,
springing from the difference in the foundation principle upon
which the two doctrines rest, the one affirming the absolute control by the owner of his property, the other affirming a servitude, by reason of location, of the one premises to the other.
Washburn, in his treatise on Easements and Servitudes (3d
ed. side page 353 and following), treats at length on these two
lines of authorities. So also in Angell on Watercourses (Tth
ed. § 108 and following) is the matter discussed.
If a case came to this court from one of the States im which
the doctrine of the civil law obtains, it would become our
.duty, having respect to this which is a matter of local law, to
follow the decisions of that State. And in like manner we
should follow the adverse ruling in a case coming from one of
the States in which the common law rule is recognized. New
Mexico is a Territory, but mit the legislature has all legislative power except as limited by the Constitution of the United
States and the organic act and the laws of Congress appertaining thereto. There it was enacted in 1876, Laws of New
Iex. 1876, p. 31, c. 2, § 2, that "in all the .courts in this Territory the common law as recogmized in the United States of
America shall be the rule of practice and decision." Brown, ng v. Browning, 9 Pac. Rep. 677, 682. The legislature of

WALKPR v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

60&

Opinion of the Court.

New Mexico having thus adopted the common law as the
rule of practice and decision, and there being no special statutory provisions in respect to this matter, it is not to be wondered at that the Supreme Court of the Territory in its opinion
in the present case disposed of this question in this single sentence "If the act of the territorial legislature of 1889 is constitutional, then we can find no error in the action of the court
in setting aside the general verdict and entering judgment
Obviously the only question
upon the special findings."
deemed of any moment by that court was the question in
respect to the matter of special findings.
It may be proper to notice that the exception suggested by
Chief Justice Beasley in Bowlsby v .peer, 31 N. J Law, 351,
353, in these words "How far it may be necessary to modify
this general proposition in cases in which, in a hilly region,from the natural formation of the surface of the ground, large
quantities of water, in times of excessive rains or from the
melting of heavy snows, are forced to seek a dhannel through
gorges or narrow valleys, will probably require consideration
when the facts of the case shall present the question," and
noticed afterwards in Hoyt v. Hudson, supra, and Palmer v.
Waddell, 22 Kansas, 352, has no application to the case before
us, for, as appears from the findings, the mountainous district
from which these waters flowed was from four to eighteen
miles distant from the place of the embankment and the
damage. We must, therefore, overrule the second contention
made by counsel for plaintiff in error.
The tnird requires little notice. It does not seem as though
there were any particular inconsistency between the various
special findings. The only one that deserves any notice is that
which is suggested by the first question and the answer
thereto, as follows
"Q. 1. At the time of the injury complained of did any of
the water flow or run over the plaintiff's land, except the
water which fell from the clouds as rain 2- A. It did run."
It is a little difficult to understand exactly what is meant
by this. It may be that the ijury-meant that the water came
from the cloudburst as distinguished from an ordinary rain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

fall, or it may be that their purpose was simply to affirm that
this water coming down the arroyos did run over the land of
the plaintiff. Considering the uncertainty as to the import of
this question and answer, and in view of the clear and positive
answers to other direct questions, and also in view of the
averments in the original declaration, we think it would be
going too far to hold that this is to be taken as a finding that
there was a natural watercourse whose waters, increased by
the rainfall and cloudburst, overflowed their banks and injured
the plaintiff's property These are all the questions in the
.ease, and, finding no error in the record, the judgment is

-Affirmed.

FAULY v. STATE LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 201. Argued January 29, 189. -Decided

March 1, 1897.

A creditor who receives from his debtor a transfer of shares in a national
bank as security for his debt, and who surrenders the certificates to the
bank, and takes out new ones in his own name, in which he is described
as pledgee, and holds them afterwards in good faith as such pledgee and
as collateral security for the payment of his debt, is not a shareholder,
subject to the personal liability imposed upon shareholders by Rev.
Stat. § 5151.
The previous cases relating to the liability of such shareholders examined
and held to establish.
(1) That the real owner of the shares of the capital stock of a national
banking association may, in every case, be treated as a shareholder
within the meaning of section 5151,
(2) That if the owner transfers his shares to another person as collateral security for a debt due to the latter from such owner, and if,
by the direction or with the knowledge of the pledgee, the shares
are placed on the books of the ass.ociation in such way as to imply
that the pledgee is the real owner, then the pledgee may be treated
as a shareholder within the meaning of section, 5151 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and therefore liable upon the basis
prescribed by that section for the contracts, debts and engagements of the association;

