ROBERTSON

. BALDWIN.

Statement of the Case.

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OALIFORNIA.
Ao.
834. Argued December 15, 189.-Decided Januay 25,1897.

Section 4598 of the Revised Statutes Is not unconstitutional by reason of
its authorizing justices of the peace to issue warrants to apprehend
deserting seamen, and deliver them up to the master of their vessel.
The judicial power of the United States-is defined by the Constitution, and
does not prevent Congress from authorizing state officers to take
affidavits, to arrest and commit for trial offenders against the laws of the
United States, to naturalize aliens, and to perform such other duties as
may be regarded as incidental to the judicial power, rather than a part
of it.
Section 4598 and 4599, in so far as they require seamen to carry out the
contracts contained in their shipping articles, are not in conflict with the
Thirteenth Amendment forbidding slavery andinvoluntary servitude; and
it cannot be open to doubt that the provision against Involuntaryservitude
was never intended to apply to such contracts.
The contract of a sailor has always been treated as an exceptional one,
and involving to a certain extent the surrender of his personal liberty
during the life of the contract.

THis was an appeal from a judgment of the District Court

for the Northern District of California, rendered August 5,
1895, dismissing a writ of 9tabeae corpus issued upon the petition of Robert Robertson, P H. Olsen, John Bradley and
Morris Hansen.
The petition set forth, in substance, that the petitioners
were unlawfully restrained of their liberty by Barry Baldwin,
marshal for the Northern District of California, in the county
jail of Alameda County, by virtue of an order of commitment
made by a United States commissioner, committing them for
trial upon a charge of disobedience of the lawful orders of the
master of the American barkantine Arago, .that such com-

I The docket title of this case is "Robert Robertson, P. H. Olsen, John
Bradley and Morris Hansen v. The United States and Barry Baldwin, individually and as marshal of the United States in and for the Northern District
of California."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

mitment was made without reasonable or probable cause, in
this That at the time of the commission of the alleged
offence, petitioners were held on board the Arago against
their will and by force, having been theretofore placed on
board said vessel by the marshal for the District of Oregon,
under the provisions of Rev Stat. § 4596, subdivision 1, and
§§ 4598, 4599, the master claiming the right to hold petitioners by virtue of these acts, that § 4598 and 4599 are
unconstitutional and in violation of Section 1 of Article III of,
and of the Fifth Amendment to, the Constitution, that § 4598
was also repealed by Congress on June 7, 1872, 17 Stat. 262,
and that the first subdivision of § 4596 is in violation of the
Thirteenth Amendment,. in that it compels involuntary servitude.
The record was somewhat meagre, but it sufficiently appeared. that the petitioners had shipped on board the Arago
at San Francisco for a voyage to Knappton in the State of
Washington, thence to Valparaiso , and thence to such other
'foreign ports as the master might direct, and return to a port
of discharge in the United States, that they had each signed
shipping articles to perform: the duties of seamen during the
coarse of the voyage, but, becoming dissatisfied with their
employment, they left the vessel at Astoria, in the State of
Oregon, and were subsequently arrested under the provisions
of Rev Stat. §§ 4596 to 4599, taken before a justice of the
peace, and by him committed to jail until the Arago was
ready for sea (some sixteen days), when they were'taken from
the jail by the marshal and placed on board the Arago
against their will, that they refused to "turn to" in obedience to the orders of the master, were arrested at San Francisco, charged with refusing to work in violation of Rev. Stat.
§ 4596, were subsequently examined before a commissioner of
the Circuit Court, and by him held to answer such charge before
the District Court for the Northern District of California.
Shortly thereafter they sued out this writ of habeas corpus,
which, upon a hearing before the District Court, was dismissed, and an order made remanding the prisoners to the
custody of the marshal.

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

Whereupon petitioners appealed to this court.
.M. Jackson, t. Ralston for appellants. .Mr James G
-Maguireand Mr'H. IF Hutton were with him on the brief.
.lL, Solicitor General for appellees.
AIR. JUSTICE

BROWN delivered the opinion

df the court.

Upon what ground the court below dismissed the writ,
and remanded the petitioners, does not appear, but the record
raises two questions of some importance. First, as to the
-constitutionality of Rev. Stitt. §§ 4598 and\4599, in so far as
they confer jurisdiction upon justices of the peace to apprehend deserting seamen, and return them to their vessel,
Second, as to the conflict of the same sections and also
§ 4596 with the Thirteenth Amendhnent to the Constitution,
abolishing slavery and involuntary servitude.
Section 4598, which was taken from § 7 of the act of July
.20, 1790, c. 29, 1 Stat. 131, 134,.reads as follows:
"SEFc. 4598. If any seaman who shall have signed a contract to perform a voyage shall, at any port or place, desert,
.orshall absent himself from such vessel, without leave of the
master, or officer commanding in the absence of the master,
it shall be lawful for any. justice of the peace within the
United States, upon the complaint of the master, to issue his
warrant to apprehend such deserter, and bring him before
such justice, and if it then appears that lie has signed a
-contract within the intent and meaning of this title, and
that the voyage agreed for is -not finished, or altered, or the
contract otherwise dissolved, and that such seaman has deserted the vessel, or absented himself without leave, the justice shall commit him to the house-of correction or common
jail of the city, town or place, to remain there until the vessel
shall be ready to proceed on her voyage, olr till the master
shall require his discharge, and then to be delivered to the
master, he paying all the cost of such commitment, and deducting the same out of the wages due to such seaman."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Sec. 4599, which was taken from § 53 of the Shipping
Commissioners' Act of June 7, 1872, c. 322, 17 Stat. 262, 274,
authorizes the apprehension of deserting seamen, with or
without the assistance of the local public officers or constables, and without a warrant, and their conveyance before
any court of justice or magistrate of tfie State to be dealt
with according to law
Sec. 4596, which is also taken from the same act, provides
punishment by imprisonment for desertion, refusal to join the
vessel, or absence without leave.
1. The first proposition, that Congress has no authority
under the Constitution to vest judicial power in the courts
or judicial officers of the several States, originated in an
observation of Mr. Justice Story in .Martnv Hunter's .Lessee,
I Wheat. 304, 330, to the effect that "Congress cannot vest
any portion of the judicial power of the United States, except
in courts ordained and established by itself." This was repeated in Houston v. -oore, 5 Wheat. 1, 27, and the same
general doctrine has received the approval of the courts of
several of the States. Unted States v Lathrop, 17 Johns. 4,
Ely v Peck, 7 Connecticut, 239, Unzted States v Campbell,
.6Hall's Law Jour. 113 [Ohio Coin. Pleas]. These were all
actions for penalties, however, wherein the courts held to the
familiar doctrine that the courts of one sovereignty will not
enforce the penal laws of another. Huntsngton v .Attrill, 146
U S.657, 672. In Commonwealth v Feely, 1 Va.. Cases, 321,
it was held by the General CourD of Virginia in 1813 that the
state courts could not take jurisdiction of an indictment for a
crime committed against an act of Congress.
In Ex parte -Knowles, 5 California, 300, it was also held
that Congress had no power-to confer jurisdiction upon. the
courts of a State to naturalize aliens, although, if such power
be recognized by the legislature of a State, it may be exercised by the courts of such State of competent jurisdiction.
In Stafe v Rutter, 12 Niles' Register, 115, 231, it was- held
in 1817 by Judges Bland and Hanson of Maryland that Congress had no power to authorize justices of the peace to issue
warrants for the apprehension of offenders against the laws of

ROBERUSON v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States. A directly contrary view, however; was
taken by Judge Cheves of South Carolina in Exparte Rhodes,
12 Niles' Reg. 264.
The general principle announced by these cases is terived
from the third article of the Constitution, the first 'section of
which declares that "the judicial power of the United States
shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior
courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and
establish," the judges of which courts "shall hold their offices
during good behavior," etc., and by the second section, "the
judicial power shall extend tor all cases, in law and equity,
arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States,
and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority, to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers
and consuls, to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, to controversies to which the United States shall be a
party, to controversies between two or more States; between
a State and citizens of another Ste,
between citizens of different Stes, between citizens of the same State claiming
lands under grants of different States, and between a State or
the citizens thereof, and foreign States, citizens or subjects."
The better opinion is that the second section was intended
as a constitutional definition of the judicial power, Ohsholm
v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 475, which the Constitution intended
to confine to courts created by Congress ,. in other words, that
such power extends only to the trial and determination of
"cases " in courts of record, and that Congress is still at
liberty to authorize the judicial officers of the several States
to exercise such power as is ordinarily given to officers of
courts not of record, such, for instance, as the power to take
affidavits, to arrest and commit for trial offenders against the
laws of the United States, to naturalize aliens, and to perform
such other duties as may be regarded as incidental to the judicial power rather than a part of the judicial power itself.
This was the view taken by the Supreme Court of Alabama
in Exa parte Gist, 26 Alabama, 156, wherein the authority of
justices of the peace and other such officers to arrest and commit for a violation of the criminal law of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Yvas hed to be no part of the judicial power within the third
article of the Constitution. And in the case of Prigg v
Pennsylvanta, 16 Pet. 539, it was said that, as to the authority
conferred on state magistrates to arrest fugitive slaves and
deliver them to their owners, under the act of February 12,
1793, while a difference of opinion existed, and might still
exist upon this point in different states, whether state magistrates were bound to act under it, no doubt was entertained by
this court -that state magistrates might, if they chose, exercise
the authority, unless prohibited by state legislation. See also
.Moore v Illinois, 14 How 13, In. re Katne, 14 How 103.
We think the power of justices of the peace to arrest desertiug seamen and deliver them on board their vessel is not within
the definition of the "judicial power" as defined by the Constitution, and may be lawfully conferred upon state officers.
That the authority is a most convenient one to entrust to such
officers cannot be denied, as seamen frequently leave their
vessels in small places, where there are no Federal judicial
oicers, and where a justice of *the peace may usually be
found, with authority to issue warrants under the state laws.
2. The question whether sections 4598 and 4599 conflict
with the Thirteenth Amendment, forbidding slavery and involuntary servitude, depends upon the construction to be
given to the term "involuntary servitude." Does the epithet
"involuntary" attach to the word "servitude" continuously,
and make illegal any service which becom8s involuntary
at any time during its existence, or does it attach only at
the inception of the servitude, and characterize it as unlawful because unlawfully entered into2 If the former be the
true construction, then no one, not even a soldier, sailor or
apprentice, can surrender his liberty, even for a day, and the
soldier may desert his regiment upon the eve of battle, or the
sailor abandon his ship at any intermediate port or landing,
or even in a storm at sea, provided only he can find means of
escaping to another vessel. If the latter,, then an individual
may, for a valuable consideration, contract for the surrender
of his personal liberty for a definite time and for a recognized
purpose, and subordinate his going and coming to the will of

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

another during the continuance of the contract, -not that
all such contracts would be lawful, but that a servitude which
was knowingly and willingly entered into could not be termed
involuntary Thus, if one should agree, for a yearly W*age, to
serve another in a particular capacity during his life, and
never to leave his estate without his consent, the contract
might not be enforceable for the want of a legal remedy, or
might be void upon grounds of public policy, but the servitude
could not be properly termed involtntary Such agreements
for a limited personal servitude at one time were very common in England, and by statute of June 17. 1823, 4 Geo. IV,
c. 34., § 3, it was enacted that if any servant in husbandry, or
any artificer, calico printer, handicraftsman, miner, collier,
keelman, pitinan, glassman, potter, laborer or other person,
should contract to serve another for a definite time, and
should desert such service during the term of the contract, he
was made liable to a criminal punishment. The breach of a
contract for personal service has not, however, been recognized
in this country as involving a liability to criminal punishment,
except in the cases of soldiers, sailors and possibly some others,
nor would public opinion tolerate a statute to that effect.
But we are also of opinion that, even if the contract of a
seaman could be considered within the letter of the Thirteenth
Amendment, it is not, within its spirit, a case of involuntary
servitude. The law is perfectlv well settled that the first ten
amendments to the Constitution, commonly known as the
Bill of Rights, were not mtended to lay down any novel principles of government, but timplv to embody certain guaranties
and immunities which we nad inherited from our English ancestors, and which had from time immemorial been subject to
certain well-recognized exceptions arising from the necessities
of the case. In incorporating these principles into the fundamental law there was nointention of disregarding the exceptions, which continued to be recognized as if they had been
formally expressed. Thus, the freedom of speech and of the
press (art. 1) does not permit the publication of libels, blasphemous or indecent articles, or other publications injurious to
public morals or private reputation, the right of the people

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to keep and bear arms (art. 2) is not infringed by laws prohibiting the carrying of concealed weapons, the provision
that no person shall be twice put in jeopardy (art. 5) does not
prevent a second trial, if upon the first trial the jury failed to
agree, or if the verdict was set aside upon the defendant's
motion, Urited States v. Ball, 163 U. S. 662, 672, nor does
the provision of the same article that no one shall be a witness
against himself impair his obligation to testify, if a prosecution against him be barred by the lapse of time, a pardon or by
statutory enactment. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, and
cases cited. lor does the provision that an accused person
shall be.confronted with the witnesses against him prevent
the admission of dying declarations, or the depositions of
witnesses who have died since the former trial.
The prohibition of slavery, in the Thirteenth Amendment,
is well known to have been adopted with reference to a state
of affairs which -had existed in certain States of the Union
since the foundation of the government, while the addition of
the words "involuntary servitude" were said in the Slaughterhouse cases, 16 Wall 36, to have been intended to cover the
system of Mexican peonage and the Chinese coolie trade, the
practical operat6n' of which might have been a revival of
the institution of slavery under a different and less offensive
name. It is clear, however, that the amendment was not
intended to introduce any njovel doctrine with respect to certain descriptions of service which have always been treated
-as exceptional, such as military and naval enlistments, or to
disturb the right of prents and guardians to the custody of
their minor children'or wards. The amendment, however,
makes no distinction between a public and a private service.
To say that persons engaged in a public service are not within
the amendment is to admit that there are exceptions to its
general language, and the further question is at once presented, where shall the line be drawn 2 We know of no better
answer to make than to say that services which have from time
immemorial been treated as exceptional shall not be regarded
as within its purview.
From the earliest historical period the contract of the sailor

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

has been treated as an exceptional one, and involving, to a
certain extent, the surrender of his personal liberty during the
life of the contract. Indeed, the business of navigation could
scarcely be carried on without some guaranty, beyond the
ordinary civil remedies upon contract, that the sailor will not
desert the ship at a critical moment, or leave her at some place
where seamen are imposgible to be obtained-as Mblloy
forcibly expresses it, "to rot in her neglected brine." Such
desertion might involve a long delay of the vessel while the
master is seeking another crew, an abandonment of the voyage,
and, in some cases, the safety of the ship itself. Hence, the
laws of nearly all maritime nations have made provision for
securing the personal attendance of the crew on board, and
for their criminal punishment for desertion, or absence without
leave during the life of the shipping articles.
Even by the maritime law of the ancient Rhodians, which is
supposed to antedate the birth of Christ by about 900 years,
according to Pardessus, (Lois Maritimes, vol. 1, page 250,) if
the master or the sailors absented themselves by night, and
the vessel were lost or damaged, they were bound to respond
in the amount of the loss.
In the compilation of maritime laws, known as the Consulate
of the Sea, it was also provided that a sailor should not go
ashore without permission, upon the penalty of being obliged
to pay any damage occasioned by his absence, and, in default
of his being able to respond, of being thrust in prison until
he had paid all such damage. Chapters 121, 124, 2 Pardessus,
146, 147, 148.
A like provision is found in the Rules of Oleron, promulgated
in the reign of Henry Ill, by which, Art. V, the seamen were
forbidden to leave the ship without the master's consent. "If
they do and by that means she happens to be lost or damnified,
they shall be answerable for the damage." 1 Pet. Ad'my, xi.
A similar prohibition is found in article seventeen of the laws
of Wisbuy 1 Pet. Ad. lxxiii.
The laws of the towns belonging to the Hanseatic League,
first enacted and promulgated in 1597, were still more explicit
and severe. No seaman might go ashore without the consent

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the master or other officer, and if he remained longer than
the time allowed, was condemned to pay a fine or suffer an
imprisonment (Arts. 22 and 23), and by article forty if a
seaman went ashore without leave, and the ship happened to
receive any damage, "he shall be kept in prison upon bread
-and water for one year," and if any seaman died or perished
for the want of the assistance of the absent-seaman, the latter
was subject to corporal punishment, and, by article fortythree, "if an officer or seaman quits a ship and conceals himself, if afterwards he is apprehended, he shall be delivered up
to justice to be punished, he shall be stigmatized in the face
with the first letter of the name of the town to which he belongs." 1 Pet. Ad. cii.
By the Marine Ordinance of Louis XIV, which was iz1
existence at the time the. Constitution was adopted (Title
Third, Art. III), "if a seaman leaves a master without a
-discharge in writing before the voyage is begun, he may be
,taken up and imprisoned wherever lie can be found, and com,pelled to restore what he has received, and serve out the
time for which he had engaged himself for nothing, and
if he leaves the ship after the voyage is begun, he may be
punished. corporally" Art. V "After the ship is laded, the
seamen shall not go ashore without leave from the master,
under pain of five livres for the first fault, and may be
punished corporally if they commit a second."
The present commercial code of France, howerer, make,no express provision upon the subject, but by the general
mercantile law of Germany, Art. 532, "the master can cause
any seaman, who, after having been engaged, neglects to
enter upon or continue to do his duties, to be forciblv compelled to perform the same."
By the Dutch code, Art. 402, "the master, or his representative, can call in the public force against those who refuse
to come on board, who absent themselves from the ship without leave, and refuse to perform to the end of the service for
which the' were engaged."
Nearly all of the ancment commercial codes either make
provision for payment of damages by seamen who absent

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

themselves from their ships without leave, or for their imprisonment, or forcible conveyance on board. Some of the.
modern commercial codes of Europe and South America-make
similar provisions. (Argentine Code, Art. 1154.) Others, includifig the French and Spanish codes, are silent upon the
subject.
Turning now to the country from which we have inherited
most immediately our maritime laws and customs, we find
that Malynes, the earliest English writer upon the Law Merchant, who wrote in 1622, says in his Lex .Mercatoruz (vol. I,
chap. 23), that "mariners in a strange port, should not leave
the ship without the. master's license, qr fastening her with
In a
four ropes, or else the loss falls upon them.
strange country, the one half of the company, at least, ought
to remain on shipboard, and the rest-who go on land should
keep sobriety and abstain from suspected places, or else should
be punished in body and purse; like as he who absents himself when the ship is ready to sail. Yea, if he give out himself worthier than he is in his calling, he shall lose his hire,
half to the admiral, and the other half to the master."
Molloy, one of the most satisfactory of early English writers
upon the subject, states that if seamen depart from a ship
without leave or license of the master, and any disaster happens, they must answer, quoting Art. V of the Rules of
Oleron in support of his proposition.
There appears to have been no legislation directly upon the
subject until 1729, when the act of 2 Geo. II, c. 36, was enacted
"for the better regulation and government of seamen in the
merchants' service." This act not only provided for the forfeiture of wages in case of desertion, but for the apprehension
of seamen deserting or absenting themselves, upon warrants
to be issued by justices of the peace, and, in case of their
refusal, to proceed upon the voyage, for their committal to
the house of correction at hard labor. Indeed, this seems
to have furnished a model upon which the act of Congress
of July 20, 1790 (1 Stat. 131), for the government and regulation of seamen in the merchants' service, was constructed.
The provisions of thi act were substantially repeated by the

OCTOBER TERMA,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

act of 1791 (31 Geo. III, c. 39), and were subsequently added
to and amended by acts of -5 & 6 Win. IV, c. 19, and 7 & 8
Victoria, c. 112.
The modern law of England is full and explicit upon the
duties and responsibilities of seamen. By the Merchants' Shipping Act of 1854, 17 & 1"8 Victoria, c. 104, section 243, a
seaman guilty of desertion might be summarily punished by
imprisonment, by forfeiture of his clothes and effects, and all
or any part of his wages. Similar punishment was meted out
to him for neglecting or refusing to join his ship, or to proceed
to sea, or for absence without leave at any time. By section
246, "whenever, either at the commencement or during the
progress of any voyage, any seaman or apprentice neglectsi or
refu~es to join, or deserts from or refuses to proceed to sea in
any ship in which he is duly engaged to serve," the master
was authorized to call upon the police officers or constables to
apprehend him without warrant and take him before a magistrate who, by article 247, was authorized to order him to be
conveyed on board for the purpose of proceeding on the
voyage.
The provision for imprisonment for desertion seems to have
been repealed by the Merchants' Seamen (Payment of Wages
and Rating) Act of 1880, 43 & 44 Vict. c. 16, but the tenth
section of that act retained the provision authorizing the master to call upon the police officers or constables to convey
deserting seamen on board their vessels.
This act, however, appears to have been found too lenient,
since, in 1894, the whole subject was reconsidered and covered
in the new Merchants'* Shipping Act, 57 & 58 Viet. c. 60, of
748 sections, section 221 of which provides not only for the
forfeiture of wages in case of desertion, but for imprisonment
with or without hard labor, except in cases arising in the
United Kingdom. The provision for the arrest of the deserting seaman, and his conveyance on board the ship, is, however, retained both within and without the kingdom. §§ 222,
223. 'This is believed to be the latest legislation on the subject in England.
The earliest American legislation, which we have been able

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

to find, is an act of the Colonial General Court of Massachusetts, passed about 1668, wherein it was enacted that any
mariner who departs and leaves a voyage upon which he has
entered, shall forfeit all his wages, and shall be further punished by imprisonment or otherwise, as the case may be circumstanced, and if he shall have received any considerable
part of his wages, and shall run away, he shall be pursued as
a disobedient runaway servant. Mass. Col. Laws, (ed. 1889)
251,256.
The provision of Rev Stat. § 4598, under which these proceedings were taken, was first enacted by Congress in 1790.
1 Stat. 131, § 7. This act provided for the apprehension of
deserters and their delivery on board the vessel, but apparently
made no provision for imprisonment as a punishment for desertion, but by the Shipping Commissioners' Act of 1872, c. 322,
17 Stat. 243, 273, § 51, now incorporated into the Revised Statutes as section 4596. the court is authorized to add to forfeiture
of wages for desertion imprisonment for a period of not more
than three months, and for absence without leave imprisonment
for not more than one month. In this act and the amendments
thereto very careful provisions are made for the protection of
seamen againstthe frauds and cruelty of masters, the devices
of boarding-house keepers, and, as far as possible, against the
consequences of their own ignorance and improvidence. At
the same time discipline is more stringently enforced by additional punishments for desertion, absence without leave, disobedience, insubordination and barratry Indeed, seamen are
treated by Congress, as well as by the Parliament of Great
Britain, as deficient in that full and intelligent responsibility
for their acts which is accredited to ordinary adults, and as
needing the protection of the law in the same sense which
minors and wards are entitled to the protection of their
parents and guardians "quemadmodum pater snflios, magmster in dicsnpulos, dornuw 2.n8ervos vel familiares." The
ancient characterization of seamen as " wards of admiralty"
is even more accurate now than it was formerly
In the face of this legislation upon the subject of desertion
and absence without leave, which was in force in this country

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan,

.

for more than sixty years before the Thirteenth Amendment
was adopted, and similar legislation abroadfrom time immemorial, it cannot be open to doubt that the provision against
involuntary servitude was never intended to apply to their
contracts.
The judgment of the court below is. therefore,
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN dissenting.
The appellants shipped on the American barkantine Arago,
having previously signed articles whereby they undertook to
perform the duties of seamen during a voyage of that vessel
from San Francesco (quoting from the record) "to .Knappton,
State of Washington, and thence to Valparaiso, and thence to
such other foreign ports as the master may direct, and return
to a port of discharge in the United States." The vessel was
engaged in a purely private business.
As stated in the opinion of the court, the appellants left
the vessel at Astoria, Oregon, without the consent of the master, having become dissatisfied with their employment. The
grounds of such dissatisfaction are not stated.
Upon the application of the master, a justice of the peace
at Astoria, Oregon, proceeding under sections 4596 to *594 of
the Revisec Statutes of the United States, issuea a warrant
for the arrest of the appellants. They were seized. -omewtiat
as runaway slaves were in the days of slavery, and committed
to jail without bail, "until the Arago was ready for sea."
After remaining in jail some sixteen days, they were taken
by the marshal and placed on board the Arago. against their
will. While on board they refused to "turn to" or to work
in obedience to the orders of the master. Upon the arrival
of the barkantine at San Francisco they were arrested for
having refused to work on The vessel, and committed for trial
upon that charge.
If the placing of the appehanms on board tbe Arakg zt
Astoria against their will was illegal, then their refusal te
work while thus forcibly held. on the vessel could not be a
criminal offence, and their detention and subsequent, arrest

ROBEIATSON v. BAILWIN.
Dissenting Opinion

Hrlan, -

for refising to work while the vessel was going from Astoria

to San Francisco were without authority of law. The question tbherefore is, whether the appellantQ, having left the vessel
at Astn'*a, no matter for what cause, could lawfully be requir, against their will to return to it, and to render per.
',onal services for ,,e master.
The government justifies the proceedings taken against the
appell.ents at Astoria by sections 459u, 4598 and 4599 of the
fkevised Statutes of the United States.
Bv ,ection 4596 it is provided
"Ssc-. 4596. Whenever any seaman who has been .lawfully
.3gagfd, or any apprentice to the sea service, commits any
of thu following offences, he shall be punisbable as follows
First. For desertion, by lmprisonment for not more than
three months, and by forfeiture of all or any part of the
Lloth, or effects he leaves on board, and of all or any part
of t h - w'ges or emoluments which he has then earned. Seeona. For neglecting and refusing, without reasonable cause,
to ioin his vessel, or to proceed to sea in his vessel, or for
absence without leave at any time within twenty-four hours
of th: vessel sailing from any port, either at the commencement or during the progress of any voyage, or for absence at
ai tine without leave, and without, sufficient reason, from
his vessel, or from his duty, not aimounting to -iesertion, or
n.,,. treated as such by the master, by imprisonment for not
mfse than ore month, and also, at vae discretion of the court,
by forfeiture of his wages, of not -nore than t vo days' pay,
and, ior every twenty-four hours o-I absance, either a sum not
4xceuding six days' pay, or any expenses which have been
'properly incurred in hiring a substitute. Third. For quitting
the vessel without leave after her arr'val at her port of delivery, and before 3he is places in zecurity, by forfeiture out
of h-3 wag, s of not more than one n.rotai's pay Foarth. For
wilfal disohedienc) to any iawful cc-rmani. by mlmrisonment
,or iit wofe than rwo moliths, and also, at the discretion of
the c,art, by forfeiture out of his wages of aot more than
.'ir days pay Y'ifth. For continued wilful disobedienea to
'..wful commands, or continued wilful neglect oi duty, by im1uL. CLXV-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opmion: Harlan, J.

prisonment for not more than six months, and also, at the
dise'etion of the court, by forfeiture, for every twenty-four
hours' continuance of such disobedience or neglect, of either
a sum not more than twelve days' pay, or sufficient to defray
any -expenses which have been properly incurred in hiring
a substitute. Sixth. For assaulting any master or mate, by
imprisonment for not more than two years. Seventh. For
combining with any others of the crew to disobey lawful
commands, or to neglect duty, or to impede navigation of the
vessel, or the progress of the voyage, by imprisonment for not
more than twelve months.
These provisions are brought forward from the act of June
7, 1872, c. 322, § 51. 17 Stat. 273.
Section 4598 provides
"SEC. 4598. If any seaman who shall have signed a contract to perform a voyage shall, at any port or place, desert,
or shall absent himself from such vessel, without leave of the
master, or officer commanding in the absence of the master,
it shall be lawful for any justice of the peace within the
United States, upon the complaint of -bhe master, to issue his
warrant to apprehend suah deserter, and bring him before
such justice, and if it then appears that he has signed a
contract within the intent and meaning of this title, and that
the voyage agreed for is not finished, or altered, or the contract otherwise dissolved, and that such seaman has deserted
the vessel, or~absented himself~without leave, the justice shall
commit him to the l4ouse of correction or common jail of the
city, town or place, to remain there until the vessel shall be
ready to proceed on her voyage, or till the master shall
require his discharge, and then to be delivered to the master, he paying all the cost of such commitment, and deducting the same out of the wages due to such seaman."
This section is the same as sectiof 7 of the act of July 20,
1790, c. 29. 1 Stat. 134.
By section 4599 - which is substantially the same as section 53 of the above act of June 7, 1872 -it is provided
"SEC. 4599. Whenever, either at the commencement of or
during any voyage, any seaman or apprentice neglects or re-

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

fuses to join, or deserts from or refuses to proceed to sea in,
any vessel in which he is duly engaged to serve, or is found
otherwise absenting himself therefrom without leave, the master or any mate, or the owner or consignee, or shipping commissioner, may, in any place in the Ufiited States, with or
without the assistance of the local public officers or constables,
who are hereby directed to give their assistance if required,
and also at any place out of the United States, if and so far
as the laws in force at such place will permit, apprehend him
without first procuring a warrant, and may thereupon, in
any case,. and shall in case he so requires and it is practicable,
convey him before any court of justice or magistrate of any
State, city, town or county, .within the United States, authorized to take cognizance of offences of like degree and kind, to
be dealt with according to the provisions of law governing
such cases ,.and may, for the purpose of conveying him before
such court or magistrate, detain him in custody for a period
not exceeding twenty-four hours, or may, if he does not so
require, or if there is no such court at or near the place, at
once convey him on board. If such apprehension appears to
the court or magistrate before whom the case is brought to
have been made on improper or on insufficient grounds, the
master, mate, consignee or shipping commissioner who mtakes
the same, or causes the same to be made, shall be liable to
a penalty of not more than one hundred dollars, but such
penalty, if inflicted, shall be a bar to any action for false
imprisonment."
The decision just made proceeds upon the broad ground that
one who voluntarily engages to serve.upon a private vessel in
the capacity of a seaman for a given term, but who, without
the consent of the master, leaves the vessel when in port before the stipulated term is ended and refuses to return to it,
may be.arrested and held in custody until the vessel is ready to
proceed on its voyage, and then delivered against his will, and
if need be by actual force, on the vessel to the master.
The Thirteenth Amendment of the Constitution 6f the
United States declares that "neither slavery nor involuntary
servitude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof the p-rty-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United
States, or any place subjecL to their jurisdiction."
Slavery exists wherever the law .recognizes a right of property in a human beiig but slavery cannot exist in any form
within the United States. The Thirteenth- Amendment uprooted slavery as it once existed in this country, and destroyed
all of its badges and incidents. It established freedom for
all. "Bv its own unaided force and effect it abolished slavery
and established freedom." The amendment, this court has
also said, "1isnot a mere prohibition of state laws establishing
or upholding silavery or involuntary gervitude, but an absolute
declaratin that slavery or involuntary servitude shall not
exist- in any part of the United States." Civil Right' cases,
109 U. S. 3 20.
As to' involuntary servitude, it may exist in the United
States,. but it. can only exist lawfully as a punishment for
ciqme of which the party shall have been duly convicted.
Such i- the plain reading of the Oonstitution. A condition of
enforced service, even for a limited period, in the private
business of another, is acondition of involuntary servitude.
If it be said that governmentmay make itea criminal offence,
punishable by fine or imprisonment or- beth, for any one to
violate his p~ivate contract voluntaiily made, or to refuse
without sufficient reason to perform it- a proposition which
cannot, i think, be sustained at this day, in this land of freedom - it would by no -means follow that government could,
by force applied in advance of diue conviction of some crime.
compel a freeman to render personal services in respect of the
private business of another. The'placing of a person, by force,
on a vessel about to sail, is putting him in a condition of
involuntary servitude, if the purpose ig to compel him, against
his will to give his personal services in the private business in
which that vessel is engaged. The personal liberty of mdivaduals, it has been well said, "consists in tne power of locomotion, of changing situation, or moving one's person to
whatsoever place one's own inclination may direct, without
imprisonment or restraint, unless by due sourse of law" 1
BL. c. 1, p. 134.

ROBERTSON v
Dissenting Opinion:

U

IUWN..

amian, .

Can the decision of the court be sustained under the clause
of the Constitution granting power to Congress tc- regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the sever! I States 2
That power cannot be exerted except with due regard to other
provisions of the Constitution, particularly those embodying
the fundamental guarantees of life, liberty and property
While Congress may enact regulations for the conduct of
commerce with foreign nations and among the States, and
may, perhaps, prescribe punishment for the violation of such
regulations, it may not, in so doing, ignore other clauses of the
Constitution. For instance, a regulation of commerce cannot
be sustained which, in disregard of the express injunctions of
the Constitution, imposes a cruel and unusual punmihment for
its violation, or compels a person to testify in a criminal case
against himself, or authorizes him to be put twice m jeopardy
of life or limb, or denies to the accused the pivilege of being
confronted with the witnesses against him, or of being informed of the nature and cause of the accusation against him.
And it is equally clear that no regulation of commerce established by Congress can stand if its necessary operation be
either to establish slavery, or to create a condition of involuntary servitude forbidden by the Constitution.
It is said that the statute in question is sanctioned by long
usage among the nations of the earth, as well as by the above
act of July 20, 1790.
In considering the antiquity of regulations that restrain the
personal freedom of seamen, the court refers to the laws of
the ancient Rhodians, which are supposed to have antedated
the Christian era. But those laws, whatever they may have
been, were enacted at a time when no account was taken of man
as man, when human life and human liberty were regarded
as of little value, and when the powers of government were
employed to gratify the ambition and the pleasures of despotic rulers rather than promote the welfare of the people.
Attention has been called by the court to the laws enacted
by.the towns of the Hanseatic League four hundred years ago,
by one of which a seaman who went ashore without leave
could, in certain contingencies, be kep, in prison "upon bread

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

and water for one year," and by another of which an officer
or seaman who quit his ship and concealed himself could be
apprehended and "stigmatized in the face with the first lette.
of the name of the town to which he belongs." Why the reference to these enactments of ancient times, enforced by or
under governments possessing arbitrary power inconsistent
with a state.of freedom 2 Does any one suppose that a regulation of commerce authorizing seamen who quit their ship, withoutleave,to be inpivsoned "upon bread and water for one year,"
or which required them to be "stigmatized in the face" with
the letter of the town or State to which they belonged, would
now receive the sanction of any court in the United States?
Reference has also been made to an act of the Colonial
General Court of Massachusetts, passed in 1668, declaring that
a seaman who left his vessel before its voyage was ended
might be "pursued as a runaway servant." But, the act
referred to was passed when slavery was tolerated in Massachusetts with the assent of the government of Great Britain.
It antedated the famous Declaration of Rights, promulgated
in 1780, in which Massachusetts declared, among other things,
that "all men. are born free and equal, and have certain
natural, essential and unalienable rights, among which may
be reckoned the right of enjoying and defending their lives
and liberties, that of acquiring, possessing and protecting
property, in fine, that of seeking and obtaining- their safety
and happiness."
The effect of that Declaration was well illustrated in Parsons v. Trask, 7 Gray, 473,478. That case involved the validity of a contract made in a foreign country in 1840 by an
adult inhabitant, thereof with a citizen of the United States,
"to serve him, his executors and assigns" for the term of five
years, "during all of which term the said servant her said
master, his executors, or assigns, faithfully shall serve, and
that honestly and obediently in all things, as a good and
dutiful servant ought to do." It was sought to enforce this
contract in Massachusetts. After carefully examining the provisions of the contract, the court said "As to the nature, then,
of the service to be performed, the place where and the person

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

to whom it is to be rendered, and the compensation to be paid,
the contract is uncertain and indefinite, indefinite and uncertain, not from any infirmity in the language of the parties,
but in its substance and intent. It is, in substance and effect,
a contract for servitude, with no limitation but that of time,
leaving the master to determine what the service should be,
and the place where and the person to whom it should be
rendered. Such a contract, it is scarcely necessary to say,
is against the policy of our institutions and laws. If such a
sale of service could be lawfully made for five years, it might,
from the same reasons, for ten, and so for the term of one's
life. The door would thus be opened for a species of servitude
inconsistent with the first and fundamental article of our
Declaration of Rights,.which, prop'zo vtgore, not only abolished every vestige of slavery then existing in the Commonwealth, but rendered every form of it thereafter legally
impossible. That article has always been regarded not simply
as the declaration of an abstract principle, but as having the
Observing
active force and conclusive authority of law"
that one who voluntarily subjected himself to the laws of the
State must find in them the rule of restraint as well as the
rule of action, the court proceeded "Under this contract
the plaintiff had no claim for the labor of the servant for the
term of five years, or for any term whatever. She was under
no legal obligation to remain in his service. There was no
time during which her service was due to the plaintiff, and
during which she was kept from such service by the acts of
the defendants."
It may be here remarked that the shipping articles signed
by the appellants left the term of their service uncertain, and
placed no restriction whatever upon the route of the vessel
after it left Valparaiso, except that it should ultimately return
to some port in the United States. Under the contract of service, it was at the volition of the master to entail service upon
these appellants for an indefinite period. So far as the record
discloses, it was an accident that the vessel came back to San
Francisco when it did. By the shipping articles, the ap.pellants
could not quit the -essel until it returned to a port of the

,OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion

Harlan, J

United States, and such return, depended absolutely upon the
will of the master. He had only to land at foreign ports, and
keep the vessel away from the United States, in order to prevent the appellants from leaving his service.
Nor, I submit; is any light thrown upon the present question
by the history of legislation in Great Britain about seamen.
The powers of the British Parliament furnish no test for the
powers that may be exercised by the Congress of the United
States. Referring to the difficulties confronting the convention of 1187 which framed the present Constitution of the
United States, and to the profound differences between the
instrument framed by it and what is called the British Constitution, Mr. Bryce, an English writer of high authority, says in
his admirable work on the American Commonwealth "The
British Parliament had always been, was then, and remains
now, a sovereign and constituent assembly It can make and
unmake any and every law, change the form of government
or the succession to the crown, interfere with the course of
justice, extinguish the most sacred private rights of the citizen.
Between it and the people at large there is no legal distinction, because the whole plenitude of the people's rights and
powers resides in it, just as if the whole nation were present
within the chamber where it sits. -In point of legal theory it is
the nation, being the historical successor of the Folk Moot of
our Teutonic forefathers. Both practically and legally, it is
to-day the only and the sufficient depository of the authority
of the nation, and is, therefore, within the sphere of law, irresponsible-and omnipotent." Vol. 1, p. 32. No such powers
have been given to or can be exercised by any legislative
body. organized under the American system. Absolute, arbitrary power exists nowhe're in this free land. The authority
for the exercise of prower by the Congress of .the United States
must be found in the Constitution. Whatever it does in excess of the powers granted to it, or in violation of the injunctions of the supreme law of the land, is a nullity, and may be
so treated by"every person. It would seem, therefore, evident
that no aid in the present discussion can be derived from the
legislation.of Great Britain touching the rights, duties and

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

responsibilities of seamen employed on British vessels. If the
Parliament of Great Britain, Her Britannic Majesty assenting,
should establish slavery or involuntary servitude in England,
the courts there would not question its authority to do so,
and would have no alternative except to sustain legislation of
that character. A very short act of Parliament would suffice
to destroy all the guarantees of life, liberty and property now
enjoyed by Englishmen. "What," Mr. Bryce says, "are called
in England constitutional statutes, such as Magna Charta, the
Bill of Rights, the Act of Settlement, the Acts of Union with
Scotland and Ireland, are merely ordinary laws, which could
be repealed by Parliament at any moment m exactly the
same way as it can repeal a highway act or lower the duty on
tobacco." Parliament, he further says, "can abolish when it
pleases any institution of the country, the Crown, the House
of Lords, the Established Church, the House" of Commons,
Parliament itself." Vol. 1, pp. 237, 238. In this country, the
will of the people as expressed in the fundamental law must
be the will of courts and legislatures. No court is bound to
enforce, nor is any one legally bound to obey, an act of, Congress inconsistent with the Constitution. If the Thirteenth
Amendment forbids such legislation in reference to seamen as
is now under consideration, that is an end of the matter, and
it is of no consequence whatever that government in other
countries may by the application of force, or by the infliction
of fines and imprisonment, compel seamen to continue in the
personal service of those whom they may have agreed to serve
in private business.
Is the existing statnte to be sustained because its essential
provisions were embodied in the act of 1790? I think not,
and for the reason, if there were no other, that the Thirteenth
Amendment imposes restrictions upon the powers of Congress
that did not exist when that act was passed. The supreme
law of the land now declares that involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime of which the party shall have
been duly convicted, shall not exist anywhere within the
United, States.
The only exceptions to the general principles I have referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

to, so far as they relate to private business, arise out of statutes respecting apprentices of tender years. But statutes relating to that class rest largely upon the idea that a minor is
incapable of having an absolute will of his own before Teaching majority The infant apprentice, having no will in the
matter, is to be cared for and protected in such way as, in the
judgment of the State, will best subserve the interests both of
himself and of thepublic. An apprentice serving his master
pursuant to terms permitted by the law cannot, in any proper
sense, be said to be in a condition of involuntary servitude.
Upon arriving at his majority, the infant apprentice may repudiate the contract of apprenticeship, if it extends beyond
that period. 2 Parsons on Contr. 50. The word "involuntary" refers, primarily, to persons entitled, in virtue of their
age, to act upon their independent judgment when disposing
of their time and labor. Will any one say that a person, who
has reached his majority, and who had voluntarily agreed, for
a valuable consideration, to serve another as an apprentice for
an- indefinite period, or even for a given number of years, can
be compelled, against his will, to r.emain in the service of the
master 2

It is said that the grounds upon which the legislation in
-question rests are the same as those existing in the cases of
soldiers and sailors. Not so. The Army and Navy of the
United States are engaged in the performance of public, not
private,.duties. Service in the army or navy of one's country
according to the terms of enlistment never implies slavery or
involuntary servitude, even where the soldier or sailor is required against his will to respect the ternis upon which he
voluntarily engaged to serve the public. Involuntary service
rendered for the public, pursuant as well to the requirements
of a statute as to a previous voluntary engagement, is not, in
any legal sense, either slavery or involuntary servitude.
The further suggestion is made that seamen have always been
.treated by.legislation in this country and in England as if they
needed the protection of the law in the same sense that minors
and wards need the protection of parents and guardians, and
hence have been often described as "wards of admiralty"

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Dissenting Opinion

Harlan, J.

Some writers say that seaihen are in need of the protection of
the courts, "because peculiarly exposed to the wiles of sharpers
and unable to take care of themselves." 2 Parsons Shipp. &
Adm. 32. Mr. Justice Story in Harden v Gordon, 2 Mason,
541, 555, said that "every court should watch with jealousy
an encroachment upon the rights of seamen, because they are
unprotected and need counsel, because they are thoughtless
and require indulgence, because they are credulous and complying, and are easily overreached." Mr. Justice Thompson,
in the B g Cadmus v ,Matthews,2 Paine, 229, 240, said "In
considering the obligation of seamen, arising out of their contract in their shipping articles, according to the formula in
common use, due weight ought to be given to the character
and situation of this class of men. Generally ignorant and
improvident, and probably very often signing the shipping
articles without knowing what they contain, it is the duty of
a court to watch over and protect their rights, and apply very
liberal and equitable considerations to the enforcement of their
contracts."
In view of these principles, I am unable to understand how
the necessity for the protection of seamen against those who
take advantage of them can be made the basis of legislation
compelling them, against their will, and by force, to render
personal service for others engaged in private business. Their
supposed helpless condition is thus made the excuse for imposing upon them burdens, that could not be imposed upon other
classes without depriving them of rights that inhere in personal freedom. The Constitution furnishes no authority for
any such distinction between classes of persons in this country
If prior to the adoption of the Thirteenth Amendment the
arrest of a seaman and his forcible return under any circumstances to the vessel on which he had engaged to serve could
have been authorized by an act of Congress, such deprivation
of the liberty of a freeman cannot be justified under the Constitution as it now is. To give any other construction to the
Constitution is to say that it is not made for all, and that all
men in this land are not free and equal before the law, but
that one class may be so far subjected to involuntary servitude

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

as to be compelled by force to render personal services in a
purely private business with which the public has no concern
whatever.
The court holds that within the meaning of the Constitution the word "involuftary" does not attach to the word
"servitude" continuously and make illegal a service which
was voluntary at the outset, but became involuntary before
the agreed term of service was ended, consequently, "an
individual may, for a valuable consideration, contract for the
surrender of his personal liberty for a definite time and for a
recognized purpose, and subordinate his going and coming to
the will of another during the continuance of the contract,
not that all such contracts would be lawful, but that a servitude which was knowingly and willingly entered into could
not be termed involuntary Thus," the court proceeds, "if one
should agree, for a yearly wage, to serve another in a particular capacity during his life, and never to leave his estate without his consent, the contract might be void upon grounds of
public policy, but the servitude could not be properly termed
involuntary Such agreements for a limited personal servitude at one time were very common-in England, and by statute of June 17, 1823, 4 Geo. IV, c. 34, it was enacted that if
any servant in husbandry, or any artificer, calico piinter, handicraftsman, miner, collier, keelman, pitman, glassman, potter,
laborer or other person, should contract to serve another for a
definite time, and should desert such service during the term
of the contract, he was made liable to a criminal punishment.
The breach of a contract for a personal service has not, how.ever, been-recognized in this country as involving a liability
to criminal punishment, except in the cases of soldiers, sailors
and apprentices, and possibly some others, nor would public
opinion tolerate a statute to that effect."
It seems to me that these observations rest upon an erroneous view of the constitutional inhibition upon involuntary
servitude.
Of the meaning and scope of the constitutional interdict
upon slavery, no one can entertain doubt. *A -contract by
which one person agrees to become the slave of 9nother

ROBER TSONI v. BALDWIN
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

would not be respected in any court, nor could it become the
foundation of any claim, or right, even if it were entered into
without constraint being used upon the person who assumed
to surrender his liberty and to become the property of another.
But involuntary servitude, no matter when it arises, if it be
not the result of punishment for crime of which the party has
been duly convicted, is as much forbidden by the Constitution
as is slavery If that condition exists at the time the authority of the law is invoked to protect one against being forcibly
compelled to render personal services for another, the court
cannot refuse to act because the party seeking relief had voluntarily agreed to render such services during a given period.
The voluntary contracts of individuals for personil services in
private business cannot justify the existence anywhere or at
any time in this country of a condition of involuntary servitude not imposed as a punishment for crim , any more than
contracts creating the relation of master and slave can justify
the existence and recognition of a state of slavery anywhere,
or with respect to any persons, within the jurisdiction of the
United States. The condition of one who contracts to render
personal services in connection with the private business of
another becomes a condition of involuntary servitudefrom the
moment he z8 compelled agamnat hts will to continue in such
service. He may be liable in damages for the non-performance of his agreement, but to require him, against his will,
to continue in the personal service of his master is to place
him and keep him in a condition of involuntary servitude. It
will not do to say that by "immemorial usage" seamen could
be held in a condition of involuntary servitude, without having been convicted of crime. The people of the United States,
by air amendment of their fundamental law, have solemnly
decreed that "except as a punishment for crime, whereof the
party shall have been duly convicted," involuntary servitude
shall not exist in any form in this country The adding another exception by interpretation simply, and without amending the Constitution, is, I submit, judicial legislation.
It is a
very serious matter when a judicial tribunal, by the construction of an act of Congress, defeats the expressed will of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

legislative branch of the government. It is a still more seri.
ous riatter when the clear reading of a constitutioml provision relating to the libertyfof man is departed from in deference
to what is called usage which has existed, for the most part,
under monarchical and despotic governments.
In considering this case it is our duty to look at the consequences of any decision that may be rendered. We cannot
avoid this duty by saying that it will be time enough to consider supposed cases when they arise. When such supposed
cases do arise, those who seek judicial support for extraordinary remedies that encroach upon the liberty of freemen will
of course refer to the principles announced ill previous adjudications, and demand their application to the particular case in
hand.
It is, therefore, entirely appropriate to inquire as to the
necessary results of the sanction given by this court to the
statute here in question. If Congress, under its power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the
several States, can. authorize the arrest of a seaman who engaged to serve upon a private vessel, and compel him by force
to return to the'vessel and remain during the term for which
he engaged, a similar rule may be prescribed as to employ~s
upon railroads and steamboats engaged in commerce among
the States.

Even if it were conceded

-

a concession to be

made only for argument's sake- that it could be made a
criminal offence, punishable by fine or imprisonment or both,
for such employes to quit their employment before the expiration of the term for which they agreed 'to serve, it would not
follow that they could be compelled, against their will and in
actvance of trial and conviction, to continue in such service.
But the decision to-day logically leads to the conclusion that
such a power exists in Congress. Again, as the legislatures
of the States have dll legislative power not prohibited to them,
while Congress can only exercise certain enumerated powers
for accomplishing specified oojects, why may not the States,
under the principles this day announced, compel all employAs
of railroadis engaged in domestic comme'ce, ,vnd-all domestic
servants, and all employes in private establishments, within

ROBERTSON v. BALDWIN.
Dissenting Opinion. Harlan, J.

their respective limits, to remuin with their employers during
the terms for which they were severally engaged, under the
penalty of being arrested by some sheriff or constable, and
forcibly returned to the service of their employers The
mere statement of these matters is sufficient to indicate the
scope of the decision this day rendered.
The Thirteenth Amendment, although tolerating involuntary servitude only when imposed as a punishment for crime
of which the party shall have been duly convicted, has been
construed, by the decision just rendered, as if it contained an
additional clause expressly excepting from its operation seamen who engage to serve on private vessels. Under this view
of the Constitution, we may now look for advertisements, not
for runaway servants as in the days-of slavery, but for runaway seamen. In former days, overseers could stand with
whip in hand over slaves, and force them to perform personal
service for their masters. While, with the assent of all, that
condition of things has ceased to exist, we can but beTreminded
of the past when it is adjudged to be consistent with the law
of the land for freemen who happen to be seamen to be held
in custody that they may be forced to.go aboard private vessels and render personal services against their will.
In my judgment the holding of any person in custody,
whether in jail or by an officer of the law, against his will,
for the purpose of compelling him to render personal service
to another in a private business, places the person so held in
custody in a condition of involuntary servitude forbidden by
the Constitution of the United States, consequently, that the
statute as it now is, and under which the appellants were
arrested at Astoria and placed against their will on the barkantine Arago, is null and void, and their refusal to work on such
vessel after being forcibly returned to it could not be made a
public offence authorizing their subsequent arrest at San Francisco.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.
AIR. JUSTIOE GRAY was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of this case.

