OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

We_-thigb the court erred in the above charge, and the
judgment must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the cause remanded with nistruction= to grant
a new trzal.
MR. JusTICE HitLAw

dissented.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

.

JOHNSON.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. SHECKELS.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 617, 618. Submitted January 4, 18..-]Decided February 15, 1897.

The act of February 13, 1895, c. 87,-28 Stat. 664, providing that in the ad]udication of the claims against the District of Columbia therein.referred
to, the Court of Claims should allow the rates established and paid by
the board of public works, simply conferred~a gratuity upon the persons
covered by its provsioils, which became "1due and payable" only from
the time when the act which gave it was passed.
The claim of the District of Colubia to offset against any recovery here,
the amount of the interest from June 1, 1874, on its counterclaim found
due in its favor against the claimants, cannot be admitted.

THE-case is stated in the opinion.

Mr Asaz8tant Attorney General-Dodge and Mr Spectal
As88stant Attorney How4lrd for appellants.
.Mr J

T Johnson for Johnson, appellee.

Mr IF L. Cole for Sheckels, appellee.
MR.

JUSTiCE

PECxHAm delivered the opinionof the court.

These are appeals from the Court. of Claims which gave
judgments in favor of the appellees in actions commenced by
them in December, 1880, pursuant to the provisions of the act

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

of June 16, 1880, c. 2413, 21 Stat. 284, entitled "An act to provide for the settlement of all outstanding claims against the
District of Columbia, and conferring jurisdiction on the Court
of Claims to hear the same, and for other purposes." 31 0.
Cl. 395.
The actions relate to work done under various contracts
with the authorities of the District of Columbia between 1871
and 1876. These contracts were a few among a very large
number of others, entered into with the authorities of the
District of Columbia by many different persons, and relating
to improvements then in contemplation and partly in course
of completion in the city of Washington. Those in question
here were originallv made with one Peter M Namara, in or
about the year 1872, for work in the nature of grading, sewering and filling various streets in that city The contracts
were in writing andt stated the specific prices which were
agreed upon for the various items of work to be performed
under the contract.
At the time when these contracts were entered into, an act
of Congress, approved February 21, 1871, c. 62, 16 Stat. 419,
forbade the municipal authorities to contract except in writing, and forbade the allowance of extra compensation for
work done under a written contract. Notwithstanding this
legislative prohibitmon the board of public works then existing,
without authority and in plain violation of the terms of the act,
raised the prices agreed to be paid under the contracts with
McNamara to what are called "board rates" (that is, rates
allowed by the board of public works), the effect of whlmh
was to enormously increase the cost of the work done under
them. In this way the work upon the improvements went on
until in 1874, when Congress, by an act approved June 20, of
that year, c. 337, 18 Stat. 116, abolished the District govefnment and substituted another in its stead. The sixth section
of the act constituted the First and Second Comptrollers of
the Treasury of the United States a board of audit for the
settlement of all unfunded or floating debts of the District of
Columbia and of the board of public works as specified, in such
section, and the section further provided that the board of

Z32

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opmon of the Court.

audit should-issue to each claimant a certificate signed by the
board and countersigned by the comptroller of the District,
stating the amount found to be due to each and on what
account.

The seventh section of the act provided.that the sinking fund
-commissioners of the District should cause bonds of the Dis-

trict of Columbia to be prepared, bearing date August 1, 1874,
and -payable 50 years thereafter, with interest at the rate of
-S--%5T per

cent per annum, payable semi-annually, which bonds

the sihking fund commissioners were authorized to exchange
at par for like sums for any class of indebtedness named in the
preceding sixth section, including certificates of the auditing
board provided in the act. The section contained the following statement "And the faith of the United States is hereby
pledged that the United States will by proper proportional
appropriations, as contemplated in this act, and by causing to
be levied upon the property within said District such taxes as
will do so, provide-the revenues necessary to pay the interest
-on said bonds as the same may become due and payable, and
-create a sinking fund for the payment of the principal thereof
-at maturity"
By general resolution, approved March 14, 1876, 19 Stat.
-211, Congress abolished the board of audit, and forbade the
further issue of bonds.
By another act, approved June 11, 1878, c. 180, 20 Stat. 102,.
101, 105, a permanent government was established for the
District, of Colimbia, and- in it the commissioners were re-quired to annually make assessments for all expenses of the
Distfict, which, upon.being submitted to the Secretary of the
Treasury and approved by him, were to be laid before Congress;
and it .was then -provided that "to the extent to which Congress shall approve of said assessments, Congress shall appropriate the amount of 50 per centum thereof, and the remaining
50 per -centum of such approved assessments shall be levied and
assessed upon the taxable property and privileges in said District otler than the prdperty of the United States and of the
District of Columbia.' "I this manner Congress assumed the
payment of a portion of the bondsand expenses of the District.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Under the authority of these statutes, the bonds of the
District of Columbia, carrying interest at the rate of 3-1%%- per
cent were issued and used to a certain extent in the payment.
of thelndebtedness of the District incurred as above mentioned.
In 1880 there still remained outstanding many certificates
which had been delivered by the board of audit under the
sixth section of the act of 1874, and many accounts against
the District were also outstanding and unprovided for.
On the 16th o June, 1880, Congress passed "An act to provide
for the settlement of all outstanding claims against the District of Columbia, and conferring jurisdiction on the Court of
Claims to hear the same, and for other purposes." c. 243, 21
Stat. 284.
That act conferred jurisdiction on the Court of
Claius in regard to all such claims against the- District of
Columbia as then existed, arising out of contracts made by
the late board of public works and extensions thereof, and to
other claims mentioned in the section ,.and the act conferred
upon the court the same power and provided that it should
proceed in the same manner and should be governed by the
same rules in respect to the mode of hearing, determination and
adjudication of claims as in those against the United States.
The second section provided that the claims should be
prosecuted by the contractor, his personal representative or his
assignee, in the same manner and subject to the same rules,.
so far as applicable, as claims against the United States are
prosecuted therein. Judgments were to be entered, and for
the payment thereof the sixth section provided as follows
"The Secretary of the Treasury is -hereby authorized to
demand of the sinking fund commissioner of the District of
Columbia so many of the three sixty-five bonds authorized by
act of Congress approved June twentieth, eighteen hundred
and seventy-four, and acts amendatory thereof, as may be
necessary for the payment of the judgments, and said sinking
fund commissioner is hereby directed to issue and deliver to
the Secretary of the Treasury the amount of three sixty-five
bonds required to satisfy the judgments, which bonds shall be
received by said claimant at par in payment of such judgments,
and shall bear date August first, eighteen hundred and seventy-

'334

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

four, and mature at thesame time as other bonds of this issue
Provdd, That before the delivery of such bonds as are
issued in payment of judgments rendered as aforesaid on the
-clams aforesaid the coupons shall be detached therefrom from
the date of said bonds to the day upon which such claims
were due and payable, and the gross amount of such bonds
;heretofore and hereafter issued shall not exceed in the aggregate
fifteen millions of dollars Provided, The bonds issued by
.authority of.this act shall be of no more binding force as to
their payment on the Government of the United States than
the three sixty-five bonds-issued under authority of the act of
.June twentieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-four."
The mode of payment thus provided for was changed subse•quently by a provision in the act approved March 3, 1881, c.
134), 21 Stat. 458, 466, as follows
"The Treasurer of the United States, as ex offlczo sinking
fund commissioner, is hereby authorized, whenever in his opinion it will be more advantageous for the Distnct of Columbia
to do so, to sell the bonds authorized to be issued under the
provisions of the sixth section of the act of the Congress of
the Unitid States, entitled 'An act to provide for the settlement of all-outstaiding claims against the District of Columbia, and conferring jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to hear
the same, and for other purposes,' approved June sixteenth,
-eighteen hundred and eighty, for the satisfaction of the judgments which-may be rendered by said Court of Claims under
the provisions of said act, and pay the said judgments from
the proceeds of said sales, instead of delivering to.said judgment claimants the said bonds as provided for in said act."
A large number of actions were brought against the District
under these statutes, and among them the two actions in question. They were brought by the executrix of McNamara and
by the assignee of a portion of his claim against the District
for the purpose of recoveribg payment of the balance alleged.
.td be due under the various contracts which McNamara had
.secured from the municipal authorities. They were consolidated into one action on motion of the Attorney General, and
proceeded to trial-before a. referee. The referee found upon

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. JOHNSON.

'335,
3

Opinion of the CourL

the trial a certain amount due the claimants by reason of the
work done under the contracts mentioned in the actions. He
also found that there was due from the McNamara estate to
the defendant, the District of Columbia, over and above the
sum due from the District of Columbia to such estate, the
amount of $6694.41, being the excess which had been paid
to McNamara at "board rates" for work done under his contracts, and which sum was over and above the amount which
was due him at the rates provided for in his contracts, and the
referee further found that such amount was due to the defendant as a counterclaim June 1, 1874, with interest from that
date. I The report of the referee having been filed was excepted
to by claimants, but the defendant took no exception to the
report, and there the matter rested until after the passage of
the act of February 13, 1895, c. 87, 28 Stat. 664.
Prior to the Passape of that act many of those contractors
in whose favor " boara rates" had been allowed. instead of the
prices which were contained in the contracts executed by them
had brought suits against the District of Columbia of a nature
similar to the two suits-now here, and had based their claims
as to the balance due them with reference to the board ratesallowed for wori- under the contracts instead .of the prices
named in such contracts. These claims had been held to be
illegal, and the District of Columbia had successfullydefended
tie actions and had succeeded in obtaining judgments allowing counterclaims in its favor for the difference between the
prices as named in the contracts and those which, had been
paid by.the board. The Court of Claims had decided many
,asts to that ehect, among which are those, of Roc)e, 18
. 1l. 217, Barnara, &i C. 01. 257, Bwaneo, 22 C.CL 366, and
E .lill, 22 C. 01. 160, and 29 C. Cl. 370. This court had held
the same proposition in Bar'nardv. Dzstrset of CoZmbza, 12,
J. G. 409. me grouind upon which the recovery on the
c)nterclaim had been allowed was the illegality of altering
6"o prices naiuA in tue contracts and of paying any greater
smras lor tWe wcr: contracted to be done than was provided
for in the writen -onb..,-.cts and payments beyond .those sums
wave 1-i11 ;.
_,re held ' ha

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Prior to the passage of the act ot 1895, therefore, it is
undisputed there was no claim, legal or equitable, which the
parties could successfully maintain against the District of
Columbia for the recovery at board rates for work done under
written contracts with the municipal authorities, but such
work could.only be legally paid for at the prices named in the
various contracts for such work.
Under the statute of 1880, it had been customary for the
Court of Claims in deciding questions arising in this class of
cases to state the day upon which the claims awarded by it
had become duo and payable, so that under the sixth section
of-the act of 1880, if payment were to be made in the 3-Abonds, the coupons thereon might be detached from the date
of the bonds to the date upon v4iich the claims were by.the
judgment of the court found to have been due and payable.
If instead of paying judgments by the delivery of the bonds
as provided form the act of 1880, the Treasurer of the United
States proceeded under the act of March 3, 1881, to sell the
bonds,'he might do so, and with the proceeds pay the judgments rendered by the Court of Claims.
.Matters were in this condition when the act of February
13, 1895, was passed, which provided as follows, 28 Stat. 664
"That in the adjudication of claims brought under the
provisions of the act entitled 'An act to provide for the settleitient of all outstanding claims against the District of Columbia, and conferring jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to hear
the same, and for other purposes,'.approved the sixteenth of
June, eighteen hundred and eighty (Twenty-first Statutes at
Large, page two hundred and eighty-four), the Court of Claims
shall allow the rates established and paid by the board of
.public works, and whenever said rates have not been allowed,
the claimant or his personal representative shall be entitled,
on motion made within sikty days after the passage of this
act, to a new trial of such cause."
Under this act these claimants again presented their cases
to the Court of Claims (no judgment having been entered
tupon the previous finding of the referee that the estate was
[indebted to the District), and thereupon the court granted

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment to the administrator of McNamara and to the executrix of his assignee, respectively, by allowing the claimants
compensation for work done under the contracts at the rates
established and paid by the board of public works (instead of
the contract prices), and the court held as a conclusion of law
that those sums which were thus allowed by virtue-of the act
of 1895 were, according to its true intent and meaning, due
and payable, one portion to the administrator of McNamara,
February 1, 1872, and another portion February 1, 1876, and
still another portion to the executrices of Theodore Sheckels,
assignee, April 1, 1878. The effect of the finding is to alow
interest on these sums secured under the provisions of the act
of 1895, for about twenty years.
The claim of the appellant is that the amount allowed by
the Court of Claims did not, as a matter of law, become due
or payable until after the passage of the act of February 13,
1895, and the granting of a judgment by virtue of that act.
The appellant further insists that, although the effect of the
act was to extinguish its counterclaim so far as the principal
sum was concerned, yet, as the referee found that principal
sum was due the defendant, with interest from June 1, 1874,
the claim for interest itself was not so extinguished, and that
such interest should have been allowed as a counterclaim
against the claim made by the estate of the contractor against
the appellant.
In the opinion of the Court of Claims delivered in these
cases it is conceded, and, indeed, there is no dispute in regard
to it, that the finding of the referee was correct at the time
he made it, as to the amount of the counterclaim legally existing in favor of the defendant and. against the claimants, and
the only ground upon which that finding can be attacked is
based upon the act of February 13, 1895. The question, therefore, is as to the effect of that act. Did this enactment so far
change existing facts and law as not only to permit a recovery
of the board rates instead of the contract rates, but did it also
make that sum "due and payable" 20 years before its passage 2
Under the holdings of the Court of Claims and of this court,,
itis perfectly apparent that the result of the passage of the act
vo- cLXxv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of 1895 was simply to bestow a pure gratuity to the amount of
ithe difference between the contract price and the board rates
upon those persons included within its provisions. There is
no element of a legal or an equitable claim within the proper
meaning and signification of those words on the part of any of
those who will profit by the act of 1895, against the municipal
authorities of the District. That act bestowed a pure and
simple gift.
Those who are to profit by it are those who had entered
into a fair and legal written contract with the District authorities to do certain work at prices named in the contract and at
a time when a law of Congress prohibited the granting of any
extra compensation for contract work, and when it provided
that all contracts should be in writing, signed by the parties
making the same, and a copy thereof filed in the office of the
secretary of the District. Viewed in the light of a gratuity,
a gift, wholly without consideration, the statute itself must
receive- a strict construction, not such a construction as will
prevent the fair meaning thereof from taking effect, but such
as shall not be enlarged by inferences or implications..not
plainly to be drawn from the language of the act.
The United States has pledged its-faith for the payment of
claims arising out of -these transactions when properly proved.
Unless, therefore, the claim for interest against the government is clear and beyond question, it'must be denied. Interest
is not to be collected from the government in the absence of
language specially providing for its payment. United State8 v.
Sherman, 98 U. S. 565, United States v. Verdier, 164 U. S. 213.
We are unable to see how it can be correctly stated that the
claims m question became "due and payable" at the time of
the completion of the work under these contracts more than
twenty years ago, when it is conceded that but for the passage
of the act of 1895 there was no legal or valid tlaim whatever,
and that the right to any recovery depends upon the language
used in that act. The statute of 1895 simply, as we have said,
conferred a gratuity upon the persons covered by its provisions,
and the reasonable construction of such an act is to say that
the gratuity thus given becomes "due and payable" only

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

from the fime when the act which gave it was passed. To
make the amount of the gratuity thus given "due and payable" twenty years before the passage of the act giving it,
so as thereby to allow interest from that time upon the
amount of such gratuity, requires the clearest and most certain
expression of legislative will to that effect. We do not find
any such expression in the act here under consideration.
Although it permits the Court of Claims to allow the rates
used and paid by the board of public works, yet as that allowance is a mere gift, the further burden of twenty years' interest on it should not be added to the gift without the use of
the very plainest language.
For these reasons Dwe think the Court of Claims erred in
holding that any portion of the moneys which might be due
the claimants, and which arose by virtue of the act of 1895,
became due and payable at any time before the passage of
that act.
The claim of the appellant to offset against any recovery
here, the amount of the interest from June 1, 1874, on its
counterclaim found due in its favor against the claimants, in
the report of the referee, we think cannot be admitted. The
effect of the passage of the act of 1895 is in substance the
same as if the counterclaim, which is the principal sum, had
been paid, and when that is the case the interest becomes
thereby extinguished. Paci.#o Railroadv Unmited States, 158
U. S. 118.
These views lead us to the concltision that the judgments
of the Court of Claims must be
Reversed, and the cases remanded to that court for further
.proceedingsnot sneonststent with this opinwon.

