OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

tenby, 17 Maryland, 639, and Ware v. Richardson, 3 Maryland,
505, were both approved.
We, therefore, think it clear that, under the law as declared
in the courts of Maryland and of the District of Columbia,
Martha Ann Mitchell took a life estate only, and that her
children took an estate in fee.
In the view that we have taken of the case we are not
called upon to reinforce the reasoning of the cases cited, but
we shall add a single observation, in application of Chancellor Kent's statement of an exception to the rule. 4 Kent's
Com. (6th ed.) 221. The word "heirs," in order to be a word
of limitation, must include all the persons in all generations
But
belonging to the class designated by the law as "heirs."
the devise here was to Martha Ann for life, and at her decease
to her heirs begotten of her body and to.thezr heirs and assigns - a restricted class of heirs - and this limitation shows
that it was the intention of the testator that Martha Ann's
children should become the root of a new succession, and take
as purchasers and not as heirs.
The decree of the court below is
Afflrned.

ALLGEYER v. LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISILWA.
No. 446. ,tubmitted January 6, 169T. -Decided

March i, 1897.

The provision in act No. 66 of the Loui ana laws of 1894 that any person,
who in any manner whatever does an act in
firm or corporation

that State to effect, for himself or for another, insurance on property
then in that State, in any marine insbrance company which has not coinplied in all respects with the laws of the State, shall be subject to a flie,
etc., when applied to a contract of insurance made in the State of New
York, with an insurance company of that State, where the premiums
were paid, and where.the losses were to be paid, is a violation of the
Constitution of the United States.
Iooperv. Californca, 155 U. S.648, distinguished from this case; and it is
further held that, by the decision in this case it is not intended to

ALLGEYER

v. LOUISIANA.

Statement of the Case.
throw any doubt upon, or in the lcast to shake the authority of that
case.
When or how far the police power of the State may be legitimately exercised with regard to such subjects must be left for determination in
each case as it arises.

THE legislature of Louisiana, in the year 1894, passed an act
known as act No. 66 of the acts of that year. It is entitled
"An act to prevent persons, corporations or firms from dealing with marine insurance companies that have not complied
with law
The act reads as follows "Be it enacted by the General
Ax.q'embly of the State of -Louiszana,That any person, firm or
corporation who shall fill up, sign or issue in this State any
certificate of insurance under an open marine policy, or who
in any manner whatever does any act in this State to effect,
for himself or for another, insurance on property, then in this
State, in any marine insurance company which has not complied in all respects with the laws of this State, shall be subject to 4 fine of one thousand dollars, for each offence, which
shall be sued for in any competent court by the attorney
general for the use and benefit of the charityhospitals in New
Orleans and Shreveport."
By reason of the provisions of this act, the State of Louisiana on the 21st of December, 1894, filed its petition in one
of the courts of first instance for the parish of Orleans, and
alleged, in substance, that'the defendants, E. Allgeyer & Co.,
had violated the statute by mailing in New Orleans a letter
of advice .or certificate of marine insurance on the 27th of
October, 1894, to the Atlantic Mlutual Insurance Company of
New York,. advising that company of the shipment of 100
bales of cotton to foreign ports in accordance with the terms
of an open marine policy, etc. The State sought to recover
for three violations of the act the sum of three thousand
dollars.
The defendants filed an answer, in which, among other
things, they averred-that the above-named act was unconstitutional in that it deprived them of their property without
due process of law, and denied them the equal protection of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

the laws in violation of the constitution of the State of Louisiana and also of the Constitution of the United States. They
also set up that the business concerning which defendants
were sought to be made liable, and the contracts made in
reference to such business, were beyond the jurisdiction of the
State of Louisiana, and that the defendants were not amenable to any penalties imposed by its laws, that the contracts
of insurafice made by defendants were made with an insurance
company in the State of New York, where the premiums were
paid, and where the losses thereunder, if any, were also to be
paid, that the contracts were New York contracts, and that
under the Constitution of the United States the defendants
had the right to do and perform any act or acts within the
State of Louisiana which might be necessary and proper for
the execution of those contracts, and that in so far as the act
iNo. 66 of the general assembly of the State of Louisiana of
the year 1894 might be construed to prevent or interfere with
the execution of such contracts, the same was unconstitutional
and in violation of the constitution of both the State of Louisiana and the United States.
The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts, as
follows The Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company is a corporation, created by the laws of the State of New York and
domiciled and carrying on business in that State, and the
defendants made a contract with that company for an open
policy of marine insurance for $200,000, on account of themselves, and to cover cotton in bales purchased and shipped by
them on which drafts might be. drawn for the purchaser, upon
"Whom It Might Concern." By the terms of the policy,
among other things it was stated "Shipments applicable to
this policy, to be reported to this company by mail or telegrapa the day purchased, warranted not to cover cotton in
charge of carriers on shore or during inland transportation.
No risk is to be insured by this policy until a letter signed- by
,and addressed to the president of this company, detailing the name of the vessel, particulars of the shipment,
with description of the property and amount to be insured, is
, which must be. done
deposited in the post office at

ALLGEYER v. LOUISIANA.
Statement of the Case.

while the property is in good safety, and in. all cases prior to
a duplicate of such
the departure of the risk from-,
letter to be sent by the following mail. A new and separate policy to be issued for each risk, the premium on which.
is to be paid in cash upon the delivery of such policy in New
York to E. Allgeyer & Company"
The Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company is engaged in the
business of marine insurance, and has appointed no agent in
the State of Louisiana, and has not complied with the conditions required by the laws of that State for the doing of business within the same by insurance companies incorporated
and domiciled out of the State.
On the 23d of .October, 1894, the defendants mailed to that
company a communication, stating insurance was wanted by
defendants for account of same (the open policy), loss, if any,
payable at Paris, in French currency, etc., for $3400 on 100
bales of cotton, which, at the tune of the communication, were
within the State of Louisiana. The premiums to be paid
under the contract of insurance and the loss or losses under
the same were payable in the city of New York, the premiums being remitted by the defendants from New Orleans
by exchange.
Defendants are exporters of cotton from the port of New
Orleans .to ports in Great Britain and on the continent of
Europe, they sell cotton in New Orleans to purchasers at
said ports. For the price of every sale of cotton made by
them they, in accordance with the general custom of business,
draw a hill of exchange against the purchaser, attaching to
the sane the bill of lading for the cotton and ar order on the
Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company for a new and separate
policy of insurance, spoken of in the open policy, and the form
of the said order is as follows
- from E. Allgeyer
on
"Attached to draft No. & Co., New Orleans, 189, to Atlantic Mutual Ins. Co., New
York.
"Marks and numbers,
or order special policy for
"Please deliver to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

$

-

on

-

bales cotton per

-

from New Orleans

to
"Respectfully,
(Signed)

"E. ALLG=

& Co.,

"Per
This bill of exchange, with the bill of lading attached, is
sometimes negotiated with banks in the city of New York,
sometimes it is not negotiated at all, but forwarded direct for
collection from the purchaser of the cotton. The bill of exchange, with bill of lading and order for insurance attached,
in either case is sent from New Orleans first to New York,
where, after its negotiation or before being for-warded from
thence for collection, the order for insurance is presented to
the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company Upon this showing
the insurance company in New York issues and delivers to the
holder of the exchange and bill of lading when the former has
been negotiated, or to the agent of defendant when the exchange has not been negotiated, a new and a separate policy
of insurance for the cotton, in accordance with the contract
made with the defendants and evidenced by the policy above
mentioned and described. This new and separate policy, when
received, is attached to .the bill of exchange. The exchange
cannot be negotiated in New York unless it is accompanied
by both the bill of lading and order for insurance, and unless
the new and separate policy issued by the company is attached
to it the purchaser of the cotton is under no obligation to pay
the bill drawn on him for the price of the cotton. The new
and separate policy delivered to the holder of the exchange
and bill of lading in New York, or to defendants' agent there,
as the case may be, is for the benefit of the holder of the
latter; or of defendants, accordivg as the exchange has been
negotiated or not. The holder of the exchange becomes the
owner of the cotton covered by the bill of lading attached
and is the owner of the policy of insurance covering the same,
in the event of a loss within the terms of the policy
The business thus described is conducted as above by the
general custom and agreement of all parties concerned.

ALLGEYER v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of tjhe Court.

The court of first instance before which the trial was had
ordered that plaintiff's demand be rejected and that judgment
in favor of the defendants be given. An appeal was taken
from that judgment to the Supreme Court of the State, which,
after argument before it and due consideration, reversed the
judgment of the court below and gave judgment in favor of
the plaintiff for $1000, as for one violation of the statute, being
the only one which was proved. State v Allgeyer, 48 La.
Ann. 104. The plaintiffs in error ask a review in this court
ot the judgment entered against them by directions of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana.
Mr Branch K. Miller for plaintiffs in erior.
.Mr f. J Cunnsnghan, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, and Mr E. Howard McCaleb, for defendant in
error.
MR. JusTIcE PECKHAM, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
There is no doubt of the power of the State to prohibit foreign insurance companies from doing business within its limits.
The State can impose such conditions as it pleases upon the
doing of any business by those companies within its borders,
and unless the conditions be complied with the prohibition
may be absolute. The cases upon this subject are cited in the
opinion of the court in -Hooperv. Califorma, 155 U. S. 648.
A conditional prohibition in regard to foreign insurance
companies doing business within the State of Louisiana is to
be found in article 236 of the constitution of that State, which
reads as follows "No foreign corporation shall do any business in this State without having one or more known places
of business, and an authorized agent or agents in the State,
upon whom process may be served."
It is not claimed in this suit that the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company has violated this provision of the constitution
by doing business within the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Sate of Lourazana v William8, 46-La. Ann. 922, the
-Supreme Court of that State held that an open policy of marine
insurance, similar in all respects to the one herein described,
and made by a foreign insurance company, not doing business
within the State and having no agent therein, must be considered as made at the domicil of the company issmng the
open policy, and that where in such case the insurance company had no agent in Louisiana it could not be considered as
doing an insurance business within the State.
The learned counsel for the State als3 admits in his brief
the fact that the contract (z.e. the open policy) was entered
into at New York City
In the course of the opinion delivered in this case by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana that court said
"The open jolicy in this case is conceded to be a New
York contract, hence the special insurance effected on the
cotton complained of here was a New York contract.
"The question presented is the simple proposition whether
under the act a party while in the State can insure property
in Louisiana in a foreign insurance company, which has not
complied with the laws of the State, under an open policy the special contract of insurance -and the open policy being
contracts made and entered into beyond the limits of the
State.
*

*

*

-*

-*

"We are not dealing with the contract. If it be legal in
New York, it is valid elsewhere. We are concerned only
with the fact of its having been entered into by a citizen of
Louisiana while within her limits affecting property within
hen territorial limits. It is the act of the party, and not the
contract, which we are to consider. The defendants who
made the contract did so while they were in the State,
and it had reference to property located within the State.
Such a contract is in violation of the laws of the State, and
the defendants who made.it were within the jurisdiction of
the State, and must be necessarily subject to its penalties,
unless there is some inhibition in the Federal or state constitution, or that it violates one of those inalienable rights relat-

ALLGEYER v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to persons and property that are inherent, although not
-expressed, in the organic law It does not forbid the carrying on by the insurance company of its legalized business
within the State. It is a means of preventing its doing so
without subscribing to certain conditions which are recognized as legitimate and proper. It does not destroy the
constitutional right of the citizens-of New York to do business within the State of Louisiana or of the citizens of
Louisiana from insuring property It says to the citizens
-of New York engaged in insurance business that they must,
like its own citizens, pay a license and have an authorized
.agent in the State as prerequisite to their doing said business
within its State, and says to its own citizens You shall not
make a contract while in the State with any foreign insurance
.company which has not complied with the laws. You shall
not in this manner contravene the public policy of the State
in aiding and assisting in the violation of the laws of the
State. The sovereignty of the State would be a mockery if
it had not the power to compel its citizens to respect its laws.
"The defendants while in the State undoubtedly insured
their property located in the State in a foreign insurance
company under an open policy The instant the letter or
communication was mailed or telegraphed the property was
insured. The act of insurance was done within the State and
the offence denounced by the statute was complete.
"There is in the statute an apparent interference with the
liberty of defendants in restricting their rights to place insurance on property of their own whenever and in what company they desired, but in exercising this liberty they would
interfere with the policy of the State that forbids insurance
companies which have not complied with the laws of the
State from doing business within its limits. Individual liberty of action must give way to the greater right of the collective people in the assertion of well-defined policir, designed
and intended for the generml welfare."
The general contract contained in the open policy, as well

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
.Opimon of the Court.

as the special inurance upon each shipment of goods of
which notice is given to the insurance company, being contracts made in-New York and valid there, ihe State of
Louisiana claims notwithstanding such facts that the defend,. ants have violated the act of 1894, by doing an act in that
State to effect for themselves insurance on their property
then in that State in , marine insurance company which had,
not complied in all respects with the laws of that State, and
that such violation consisted in the act of mailing a letter or
sending a telegram to the insurance company in New York
describing the cotton upon which the defendants desired ther
insurance under the open marine policy to attach. It is
claimed on the part of the State that its legislature had the
power to .provide that such an, act should be illegal and to.
subject the offender to the penalties provided in the statute.
It is said by the Supreme Court that the validity of such a
statute has been decided in principle in this court in the case'
of Hooper v California,155 U. S.-648
We think the distinction between that case and the one at
bar is plain and material. The State of California.made it a
misdemeanor for a person in that State to procure insurance
for a resident of the State from an insurance company not incorporated under its laws, and which had not filed a bond required by those laws relative to insurance. Hooper was a
resident of San Francisco and was the agent of the firm of
Johnson & Higgms, who were insurance brokers residing-and
having their principal place of business in the city of 'New
York, but having also a place of business in the city and
county of. San Francisco, of which the defendant had charge
as their employe and agent. In response to a request from a
Mr.Mott, a resident of the State of California, the defendant
Hooper procured through his principals, Johnson & Higgins,
an insurance upon the steamer Alliance, belonging to said
Mott, in the China Mutual Insurance Company, which was a
company not then and there incorporated under the laws of
California, and not havingi'self or by its agent filed the bond
required by thpse laws relating to insurance. The policy was
delivered by the defendant Hooper to Mott, the, insured, at

ALLGEYER v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

San Francisco, who thereupon paid Hooper, as agent of Johnson & Higgins, the premium for the insurance. The case
states that "' all the verbal acts of Mott, the insured, and also of
the defendant and all his acts as 4gent in procuring said insurance, were done in the city and county of San Francisco."
The court held that the whole transaction amounted to procuring insurance within the State of California by Hooper,
residing there and for a resident in the State, from an insurance company not incorporated under its laws and which had
not filed the bond required by the laws of the State relative to
insurance, that Hooper, the defendant, acted as the agent of
his principals in New York City, who were average adjusters
and brokers there, and who had a place of business in San
Francisco, and that Hooper, as such broker, having applied
for the insurance to his principals in New York City, received
the policy from them for delivery in San Francisco, and the
premium was there paid.
Upon the question as to the place where the contract was
made, Mr. Justice White, speaking for the court said "It
is claimed, however, that, irrespective of this [comierce]
clause, the conviction here was illegal, first, because the statute
is by its terms invalid, in that it undertakes to forbid the procurement, of a contract outside of the State, and, scondly,
because the evidence shows that the contract was in fact
entered into without the territory of California. The language of the statute is not fairly open to this construction.
It punishes I every person who in this State procures or agrees
to procure for a resident of this State any insurance,' etc.
The words ' who in this State' cannot be read out of the law
in order to nullify it under the Constitution."
In the case before us the contract was made beyond the
territory of the State of Louisiana, and the only thing that
the facts show was done within that State was the mailing of
a letter of notification, as above mentioned, which was done
after the principal contract had been made.
The distinction between a contract made within and that
made without the State is again referred to by Mr. Justice
White in the same case as follows "It is said that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

right of a citizen to contract for insurance for himself is
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, and that, therefore, -he cannot be deprived by the State of the capacity
to so contract through an agent. The Fourteenth Amendment, however, does not guarantee the citizen the right to
make withn hi State, either directly or indirectly, a contract, the making whereof 8 constitutionally forbidden by
the'State. The propositon that, because a cztizen might
:make such a contractfor hzmse~f beyond the confines of his
-State,therefore he might authorize an agent to vwlate in his
behalf the laws of his State, within her own limits, snvolves
a clear,non sequitur, and ignores the vital distinction between
acts done within and acts done beyond a State'syumsdiction."
We do not intend to throw any doubt upon or in the least
to shake the authority of the Hoover case, but the facts of
that case and the principle therein decided are totally different from the case before us. In this case the only act
-which it is claimed was a violation of the statute in question consisted in sending the letter through the mail notifying the company of the property to be covered by the
policy already delivered. We have then a contract which
it is conceded was made outside and beyond the limits of
the jurisdiction of the State of Louisiana, being made and
to be performed within the State of New York, where the
premiums were to be paid and losses, if any, adjusted. The
letter 6f notification did not constitute a contract made or
-entered into within the State of Louisiana. It was but the
performance of an act rendered necessary by the provisions
,of the contract already made between the parties outside of
the State. It was a mere notification that the contract
already in existence would attach to that particular property In any event, the contract was made in New York,
-outside of the jurisdiction of Louisiana, even though the
policy was not to attach to the particular property until
the notification was sent.
It is natural that the state court should have remarked
that there is in this "statute an apparent interference with
the liberty of defendants in restricting their rights to place

ALLGEYER v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

insurance on property of their own whenever and in what
company they desired." Such interference is not only apparent, but it is real, and we do not think that it is justified
for the purpose of upholding what the State says is its policy
with regard to foreign insurance compames which had not
complied with the laws of the State for doing business within
its limits. In this case the company did no business within
the State, and the contracts-\were not therein made.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana says that the act of writing within that State, the letter of notification, was an act
therein done to effect an insurance on property then in the
State, in a marine insurance comapany which had not complied
with its laws, and such act was, therefore, prohibited by the
statute. As so construed we think the statute is a violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution,
in that it deprives the defendants of their -liberty without
due process of law The statute which forbids .such act does
not become due process of law, because it is inconsistent with
the provisions of the Constitution of the Union. The liberty
mentioned in that amendment means not only the right of the
citizen to be free from the mere physical restraint of his person, as by incarceration, but the term is deemed to embrace
the right of the citizen to be free in the enjoyment of all his
faculties, to be free to use them in all lawful ways, to live
and work where he will, to earn his livelihood by any lawful
calling, to pursue any livelihood or avocation, and for that
purpose to enter into all contracts which may be proper,.necessary and essential to his carrying out to a successful conclusion the purposes above mentioned.
It was said by Mr. Justice Bradley, in Butchers' Unwm
Company v Crescent City Oompany, Ill U. S.746, 762, in the
course of his concurring opinion in that case, that "The right
to follow any of the common occupations of life is an inalienable right. It was formulated as such under the phrase 'pursuit of happiness' in the Declaration of Independence, which
commenced with the fundamental proposition that 'all men
are created equal- that they are endowed by their Creator
with certain, inarienable rights, that among these are life,

OCTOBER TERlM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court:

liberty and the pursuit of happiness.' This right is a large
ingredient in the civil liberty of the citizen." Again, on page
764, the learned justice said "I hold that the liberty of pursuit - the right to follow any of the ordinary callings of life
-is one of the privileges of a citizen of the United States."
And again, on page 765 "But if it does not abridge the
privileges and immunities of a citizen of the United States to
prohibit him from pursuing his chosen calling, and giving to
,others the exclusive right of pursuing it, it certainly does deprive him (to a certain extent) of his liberty, for it takes from
him the freedom of adopting and following the pursuit which
he prefers, which, as already intimated, is a material part of
the liberty of the citizen." It is true that these remarks were
made in regard to questions of monopoly, but they well
describe the rights which are covered by the word "liberty"
,as contained in. the Fourteenth Amendment.
Again, in Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 684, Mr.
Justice Harlan, in stating the opinion of the court, said "The
main proposition advanced by the defendant is that his enjoyment,upon terms of equality with all others in similar circum-stances of the privilege of pursuing an ordinary calling or
trade, and of acquiring, holding and selling property, is an
-essential part of his rights of liberty and property, as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. The court assents to
this general proposition as embodying a sound principle of
-constitutional law" It was there held, however, that the
legislation under consideration in that case did not violate any
of the constitutional rights of the plaintiff in error.
The foregoing extracts have been made for the purpose of
showing what general definitions have been given in regard
to the meaning of the word "liberty" as used in the amendment, but we do not intend to hold that in no such case
-can the State exercise its police power. When and how
far such power may be legitimately exercised with regard to
these subjects must be left for determination to each case as
it arises.

Has not a citizen of a State, under the provisions of the
Federal Constitution above mentioned, a right to contract out-

ALLGEYER v. LOUISIARL
Opinion of the Court.

side of the State for insurance on his property - a right of
which state legislation cannot deprive him? We are not
alluding to acts done within the State by an insurance company or its agents doing business therein, which are in violation of the state statutes. Such acts come within the principle
of the Ilooper case (supra), and would be controlled by it.
When we speak of the liberty to contract for insurance or to
do an act to effectuate such a contract already existing, we
refer to and have in mind the facts of this case, where the
contract was made outside the State, and as such was a valid
and proper contract. The act.done within the limits of the
State under the circumstances of this case and for the purpose
therein mentioned, we hold a proper act, one which the defendants were at liberty to perform and- which the .state legislature had no right to prevent, at least with reference to the
Federal Constitution. To deprive the citizen of such a right
as herein described without due process of law is illegal. Such
a statute as this in question is not due procesq of liw, because
it prohibits an act which under the Federal Constitution the
defendants had a right to perform. This does not interfere in
any way with the acknowledged right of the State to enact
such legislation in the legitimate exercise of its police or other
powers as to it may seem proper. In the exercise of such.
right, however, care must be taken not to infringe upon those
other rights of the citizen which are protected by the Federal
Constitution.
In the privilege of pursuing an ordinary calling or trade'
and of acquiring, holding and. selling property must be embraced the right to make alr'proper contracts in relation
thereto, and although it may be conceded that this- right to
contract in relation to persons or property or to do business
within the jurisdiction of the State may be regulated and
sometimes prohibited when the contracts or business conflict
with the policy of the State as contained in its statutes, yet
the power does not and cannot extend tb prohibiting a citizen
from making contracts of the nature involved in this case outside of the limits and jurisdiction of the State, and which are
also to be performed outside.of such jurisdiction, nor can the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

State legally prohibit its citizens from doing such an act as
writing this letter of notification, even though the property
which is the subject of the insurance may at the time when
such insurance attaches be within the limits of the State.
The mere fact that a citizen may be within th limits of a
particular State does not prevent his making a contract outside its limits while he himself remains within it.
0lliken
v Pratt,125 Mass. 374, Tilden v. Blasr, 21 Wall. 241. The
contract in this case was thus made. It was a valid.contract,
made outside of the State, to be performed outside of the
State, although the subject was property temporarily within
the State. As the contract was valid in the place where
made and where it was to be performed, the party to the
contract upon whom is devolved the right or duty to send
the notification in order that the insurance provided for by
the contract may attach to the property specified in the
shipment. mentioned in the notice, must have the liberty to
do that act and to give that notification within the limits of
the State, any prohibition of the state statute to the.contrary
notwithstanding. The giving of the notice is a mere collateral matter, it is not the contract itself, but is an act performed pursuant to a valid contract which the State had no
right or jurisdiction to prevent its citizens from making
outside the- limits of the State.
The Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company of New York has
done no business of insurance within the State of Louisiana
and has not subjected itself to any provisions of the statute
in questioi. It had the right to enter into a contract in New
York with citizens of Louisiana for the purpose of insuring
the property of its citizens, even if that property were in the
State of Louisiana, and correlatively the citizens of Louisiana
had the right without the State of -entering into contract with
an insurance company for the same purpose. Any act of the
state legislature which should prevent the entering into such
a contract, or the mailing within the State of Louisiana of
such a notification as is mentioned in this case, is an improper
and illegal interference with -the conduct of the.-itizen, although residing in Louisiana, in his right to contract and- to

WALKER v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

593

Syllabus.

carry out the terms of a contract validly entered into outside
and beyond the jurisdiction of the State.
In such a case as the facts here present the policy of the
State in forbidding insurance companies which had not corn-plied with the laws of the State from doing business within
its limits cannot be so carried out as to prevent the citizen
from writing such a letter of notification as was written by
the plaintiffs in error in the State of Louisiana, when it is
written pursuant to a valid contract made outside the State
and with reference to a company which is not doing business
within its limits.
For these reasons we think the statute in question, No. 66,
of the Laws of Louisiana of 1894r, was a violation of the
Federal Constitution, and afforded no justification for the
judgment awarded by that court against the plaintiffs in
error. That judgment must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of
Loutszana for further proceedings,not snconswstent with
thias opnwn.

WALKER v. NEW MEXICO AND SOUTHERN
PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
ERROR' TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW

MEXICO.
No. 171.Argued January 26,1897.-Decded March 1i189.

The act of April 4, 1874, c. 80, legislatiug for all the Territories, secures to
their inhabitants all the rights of trial by jury, as they existed at the
common law.
It is within the power of a legislature of a Territory to provide that, on a trial
of A common law action, the court may, in'addition to the general verdict,
require specific answers to special interrogatories, and, when a conflict is
found between the two, render such judgment as the answers to the
special questions compel.
The doctrine of the civil law and that of the common law, touching the
respective rights and duties of proprietors of upper and lower land as to

the flow of surface-water are conflicting; and'it is the duty of this court,

voI. cLxv-38

