LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN RAILWAY v. OHIO. 365
Opinion of the Court.

LAKE

SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN
WAY COMPANY v. OHIO.

RAIL-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO;
No. 156. Argued January 15,1897.-Decided February 15,1897.

The provisions in §§ 4, 5 and 7 of the act of September 19, 1890, c. 907,
conferring upon the Secretary of War authority concerning bridges over
navigable water-ways, do not deprive the States of authority to brdge
such streams, but simply create an additional and cumulative remedy to
prevent such structures, although lawfully authorized, from interfering
with commerce.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mir George C. Greene for plaintiff in error.
Mr T

. Burton for defendant im error.

MR. JUSTI E WHTE delivered the opinion of the court,.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio
to which this writ of error was prosecuted affirmed a judgment of the trial court rendered in proceedings by quo warranto ordering the defendant below, an Ohio corporation, to
absolutely remove a bridge or to modify its structure by-creating an adequate draw-span therein, the bridge being one by it
erected and maintained over The Ashtabula River, a short distance above the point where that stream empties into Lake
Erie. The legal conclusions of the lower court were rested.
upon certain specific findings of fact, viz., that the bridge
without a draw had been erected and was maintained without
the consent of the State by an abuse, by the corporation, of
the franchise held by it from the State., and that it was a
public nuisance impeding the Davigation of the river, which
was wholly within the State of Ohio. Both the pleadings
and the errors here assigned deny the jurisdiction of the State
of Ohio or its courts to control the subject-matter of the con-

7'366

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

troversy, on the theory that the determination of whether the
-defendant possessed the right to erect the bridge and to continue it, although constructed without authority, is a Federal
and not a state question. This contention is predicated on
_§§ 4, 5 and 7 of the act of Congress of September 19, 1890,
c. 907, 26 Stat 426, 453.
The contention is that the statute in question manifests the
.purpose of Congress to deprive the several States of all authority to control and regulate any and every structure over all
'navigable streams, although they be wholly situated within
Atheir territory That full power resides in the States as to
-the erection of bridges-and other works in navigable streams
wholly within their jurisdictibn, in the absence of the exercise
by Congress of authoripy to the contrary, is conclusively de"termined. Irllson vB1lackbrd Creek Co., 2 Pet. 245, Withers
v. Buakley, O'How 81, Cardwell v American Brtdge Co.,
113 U. S. 205, iiltamette Bridge Co. v Batch, 125 U. S. 1,
.Shavely v. Bowlby, 152 U S. 1, 33, and authorities there cited.
Indeed, the argument at bar does not assail the rule settlqd
by th foregoing cases, but asserts that as the power which it
,recognizes as existing in the States is predicated solely upon
theailure of Congress to exert its paramount-authority, therefore the rule no longer obtains, since the act of 1890,relied on,
-substantially amounts to an express assumption by Congress
of entire control over all and every navigable stream, whether
-or not situated wholly within a State.
The correctness of this proposition is the sole question for
consideration. The fourth section of the- act relied on provides..
"That whenever the Secretary of War shall have good
-reason to believe -that any railroad or other bridge now
constructed, or which may hereafter be constructed over any
of the navigable water-ways of the United States is an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of such waters on
.account of insufficient height, width of span, or otherwise, or
where there is difficulty in passing the draw-opening or- the
draw-spau of such bridge by rafts, steamboats or other water
craft, it shall be the duty of the said Secretary, first giving

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN RAILWAY v. OHIO.

367

Opinion of the Court.

the parties reasonable opportunity to be heard, to give notice
to the persons or corporations owning or controlling such
bridge so to alter the same as to render navigation through
or under it reasonably free, easy and unobstructed, and in
giving such notice he shall specify the changes required to be
made, and shall prescribe in each case a reasonable -time in
which to make them. If at the end of such time the alteration has not been made, the Secretary of War shall forthwith
notify the United States District Attorney for the district in
which such bridge is situated, to the end that the criminal proceedings mentioned in the succeeding section may be taken."
The fifth section makes it a misdemeanor to wilfully refuse
to comply with the lawful orders of the Secretary of War in
the premises, and for the prosecution of the offender by proceedings instituted by the proper district -attorney. The
portion of the seventh section, which relates to the question in
hand, is as follows
"And it shall not be lawful hereafter to commence the construction of any bridge, bridge-draw, bridge piers and abutments, causeway or other works over or in any port, road,
roadstead, haven, harbor, navigable river or navigable waters
of the United States, under any act of the legislative assembly
of any State, until the location and plan of such- bridge or
other works have been submitted to and approved by the
Secretary of War, or to excavate or fill, or in any manner to
alter or modify the course, location, condition or capacity of
the channel of said .navigable water of the United States,
unless approved and authorized by the Secretary of WarProided, That this section shall not apply to any bridge,
bridge-draw, bridge piers and abutments, the construction of
which has been heretofore duly authorized by law, or be so
construed as to authorize the construction of any bridge, draw
bridge, bridge piers and abutments, or other works, under an
act of the legislature of any State, over or in any stream, port,
roadstead, haven or harbor, or other navigable water notwholly within the limits of such State."
On the face of this statute, it is obvious that it does not
support the claim based upon it. Conceding, without decid-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ing that the words" water-ways of the United States," therein
used, apply to all navigable waters, even though they be
wholly situated within a State, and passing, also, without
deciding, the contention, that Congress can lawfully delegate
to the Secretary of War all its power to authorize structures
of every kind over all navigable waters, nothing in the statute
gives rise even to the implication that it was intended to confer such power on the Secretary of War. The mere delegation to the Secretary of the right to determine whether a
structure authorized by law has been so built as to impede
commerce, and to direct, when reasonably necessary, its"modification so as to remove such impediment, does not confer
upon that officer power to give original authority to build
bridges, nor does it presuppose that Congress conceived that
it was lolging in the Secretary power to that end. When the
distinction between an authorized structure so erected as to
impede commerce, and an unauthorized work of the same
character is borne in mind, the fallacy of the contention relied
on becomes apparent. The mere delegation of power to direct
a change in lawful structures so as to cause them not to interfere with commerce cannot be construed as conferring on the
officer named the right to determine when and where a bridge
may be built. If the interpretation claimed were to be given
to the act, its necessary effect would be that Congress, in
creating an additional means to control bridges erected by
authority of law, had, by impication, confirmed and made
valid every bridge built without sanction of law
The language of the seventh section makes clearer the
error of the interpretation relied on. The provision that it
shall not be lawful to thereafter erect any bridge "in any
navigable river or navigable waters of the United States,
under any act of the legislative assembly of any State, until
have been subthe location and plan of such bridge
mitted to and approved by the Secretary of War,"'contemplated that the function of the Secretary should extend only
to the form of future structures, since the act would not have
provided for the future erection of bridges under state -authority if its very purpose was to deny for the future all

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN 'RAILWAY v. OHIO.

369

Opinion of the Court.
power in the States on the subject. The qualification affixed
to the proviso which accompames this section throws light
on the entire statute and points obviously to -the purposeintended to be accomplished by its enactment. The qualifying language is that the section shall -not apply to any
bridge "heretofore duly authorized by law, or be so construed as to authorize the construction of any bridge, draw
bridge, bridge piers and abutments, or other works, under
an act of the legislature of any State, over or in any stream,
port, roadstead, haven or harbor, or other navigable water,
not wholly within the limis of such State." The construction claimed for the statute is that its purpose was to deprive
the Stites of all power as to every stream, even those wholly
within their borders, whilst the very words of the statute,
saying that its terms should not be construed as conferring
on the States power to give authority to build bridges on
streams not wholly within their limits, by a negative pregnant with an affirmative, demonstrate that the object of the
act was not to deprive the several States of the authority
to consent to the erection of bridges over navigable waters
wholly within their territory To hold that the' act manifested an intention on the part of Congress to strip the
several States of all authority over every navigable stream
wholly within the State would require the obliteration of
these qualifying words, and would'therefore be the creation
of a new statute by judicial construction. It follows, therefore, that, even conceding arguendo that the words "navigable
waters" as used in the act were intended to apply to streams
wholly within a State, its obvious purpose was not to deprive
the States of authority to grant power to bridge such streams,
or to render lawful all bridges previously built without authority, but simply to create an additional and cumulative
remedy to prevent such structires, although lawfully authored
A
ized, from interfering with commerce.
MR. JUSTIoC. BREWR concurred in the result.
VOL. CLXV-24

