ROBINSON v. CALDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

ROBINSON v. CALDWELL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF IDAHO.
Wo. 162. Submitted January 19, 189T. -Decided

February 1, 1897.

The 3udiciary act of 1891 does not give the defeated party in a Circuit
Court the right to have his case finally determined on the meritsboth in
this court and In the Circuit Court of Appeals.

Tie case is stated in the opinion.
.

Assistant Attorney General -Dzckm8onfor appellant.

Mr Charles A. -Maxwell, Mr George S. Chase and .Mr
Jaxme8 T Reid for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

.ARLAN
delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought on the 20th day of October, 1893, by
Caldwell against Robinson in the District Court of the Second
Judicial District of the State of Idaho;
It appears from the complaint that the plaintiff claimed to
be the owner of a certain: tract of land in Idaho, containing
six hundred and forty acres, and that the validity ol his title
depended partly, if not altogether, upon the construction of
a treaty made between the government of the United States
and the Nez Perce Indians on the 11th day of June, 1855.
12 Stat. 957. It also appears that there was drawn in question in the Circuit Court the constitutionality of the act of
Congress of March 3, 1873, c. 324, 17 Stat. 627.
A temporary injunction was issued in the cause, enjoining
the defendant and his servants, counsel and agents, and all
others acting in his behalf, from interfering or intermeddling
with the plaintiff in the control and peaceable possession of
the lands and premises described in the complaint.
Upon a petition subsequently filed in the state court by the
defendant, the cause was removed into the Circuit Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States for the District of Idaho, Northern Division.
By stipulation of the parties the case was transferred to the
Central Division of that court.
The case was heard in the Circuit Court of the United States
upon a motion to dissolve the injunction, and also, pursuant to
a stipulation of the parties, upon the merits. A final decree
was rendered adjudging the plaintiff to be the true and lawful
owner of an undivided one half interest in the land described
in the complaint, and that his title be quieted against the
claims, demands and pretensions of the defendant, whom the
decree perpetually estopped from setting up any claim to said
land or to any part thereof, as described in the decree. 59 Fed.
Rep. 653. From this decree the defendant asked and was
allowed an appeal to this court. The citation on this appeal
was served July 21, 1894.
It is conceded that the appellant also prosecuted an appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals,, which determined the case
February 4, 1895, in fhvor of the plaintiff - the opinion of that
court being delivered by Judge Gilbert. 29 U. S. App. 468.
The opinion of Judge Beatty in the Circuit Court and of
Judge Gilbert in the Circuit Court of Appeals both show that
the respective courts considered all the questions in the case
requiring a c.onstruction of the treaty of 1855, and involving
the validity of the act of March 3, 1873..
The case was not brought to this court from the Circuit
Court of Appeals upon certioran, but is here upon appeal
directly from the final decree in the Circuit Court of ther
United. States.
Upon the present appeal a question is raisea oy we appellant as to the jurisdiction of the -Circuit Court. of the United
States, the.. contention. being that the plaintiff could not
have brought an original suit in the Circuit Court of the
United State.s, and, therefore, that the case was not removable from the state court. Tennessea v Unson &f Planter8'
,8rk,
152 U. S. 454, Chappell v. Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102.
But no such .question Has been certified to this.court, nor does
it appear to have been raised-either in th Circuit Court or in
the Circuit Court of Appeals..

ROBINSO

v. CAILDWELL.

Opinion of the Court.

In .McL28A v. Ro, 141 U S. 661, 668, the court said that
after a final judgment.in the Circuit Court, "the party against
whom it is rendered must elect whether he will take his writ
of error or appeal to the Supreme Court upon the question of
jurisdiction alone, or to the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the
whole case, if the latter, then the Circuit Court of Appeals
may, if it deem proper, certify the question of jurisdiction to
this court."
In United States v Jahn, 155 U. S. 109, 114, it was said
"(1) If the jurisdiction of the Circuit CoUrt is in issue and
decided in favor of the defendant, as that disposes of the
case, the plaintiff should have the question certified and take
his appeal or writ of error directly to-this court, (2) If the
question of jurisdiction is in issue, and the jurisdiction sustained, and then judgment or decree is rendered m favor of
the defendant on the merits, the plaintiff, who has maintained
.the jurisdiction, must appeal t6 the Circuit Court of Appeals,
where, if the question of jurisdiction arises, the Qircuit Court
,of Appeals may certify it, (3) If the question of jurisdiction is in issue, and the jurisdiction sustained, and judgment
on the merits is rendered ih favor of the plaintiff, then the
defendant can elect either to have the question certified and
come directly to this court, or to carry the whole case to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and the question of jurisdiction can
be certified by that court, (4) If in the case last supposed the
plaintiff has ground of complaint in respect of the judgment
he has recovered, he may also carry the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals on the merits, and this he may do by way
of cross appeal or writ of error if the defendant has taken the
case there, or independently, if the defendant'has carried the
case to this court on the question of jurisdiction alone, and in
this instance the Circuit Court of Appeals will suspend a decision upon tjie merits until the question of jurisdiction has been
determined, (5) The same observations are applicable where
a plaintiff objects to the jurisdiction, and is, or both parties
are, dissatisfied with the judgment on the merits."
In Chappell v. United States, 160 U.. S. 499, 509, in which
the constitutionality of an act of Congress was drawn in ques-

362,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, the court said "No question of jurisdiction having been,
separately certified or specified, and the writ of error having
been allowed without restriction, this court, under the other
clause of the statute, above cited, [ยง 5,] has appellate jurisdiction of this case as one in which the constitutionality of a
law of the United States was drawn in question, and, having
acqurred jurisdiction under this clause, has the power to dispose, not merely of the constitutional question, but of the
entire case,, including all questions, whether of, the jur.isdiction or of merits."
As tle construction of a treaty made under'the authority
of the United States and the constitutionality of an act of
Congress were drawn in question in thb Circuit Court, thig
court could have taken cognizance of the case upon the appeal
from the Circuit Court, and determined those questions, and
having thus acquired jurisdiction of the cause, it could have
determined any question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court appearing upon the record, whether certified or not.
26 Stat. 826, c. 517, ยง 5. But the defendant elected to prosecute also an. appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that
couft considered *and determined the whole case uppn its
merits.
It was not the purpose of the judiciary act of 1891 to give
a party who was defeated in a Circuit Court of the United
States the-right to have 'th case finally determined upon its
merits both in this court and in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
As no question of jurisdiction was certified by the 'Circuit
Court, and as-,the defendant chose not to await -the action of
jhfs court upon the appeal to it from the Circuit Court, but in'Voked the jurisdiction:of the Circuit Court of Appeals upon th"
whole case, lhe must be hel6 to have waived his right to any
decison here upon his direct appeal from the Circuit Court.
We are of .opinion that the .present appeal must be dis/mis~ed. After the final decree upon the merits in the Cir-cuit Court -of Appeals, this -court, .under the circumstances
stated, could properly take cognizance of the case, in respect
of any questio4 involved in it, only upon cwrtiorart.
Appea-diamzw8ed.

