UNITED STATES v. SA.NTA F2.
Opinion of the Court.

lien thereon presents no question as to the jurisdiction of a
court of equity over the estate of a decedent.
It follows from the foregoing that the court below erred

in refusing to recognize the claim of the complainants and to
enforce in their favor a lien on the Memphis bonds in the

hands of Mrs. Brown, and for the errors in these particulars
the decree must be

Reversed, and the case remanded to the trzaZ courtfor further
.proceedings not snconsistent wi.th thts optnton.

UNITED STATES v. SANTA FE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.

No. 208. Argued January 7, 8, 1696.-Decided March ], 189T.
The Spanish law did not, proprio wgore, confer upon every Spanish villa or
town, a grant of four square leagues of land, to be measured from the
centre of the plaza of such town.
Although, under that law, all towns were not, on their organization, entitled by operation of law, to four square leagues, yet, at a time subsequent to the organization of Santa F6, Spanish officials adopted the
theory that the normal quantity which might be designated as the limits
of new pueblos, to be thereafter created, was four square leagues.
The rightg of Santa F6 depend upon Spanish law as it existed prior to the
adoption of that theory.
An inchoate claipi, which could not have been asserted as an absolute right
against the government of either Spain or Mexico, and which was subject
to the uncontrolled discretion of Congress, is clearly not within the purview of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, creating the Court of Private
Land Claims; but the duty of protecting such imperfect rights of property rests upon the political department of the government.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
-Hr Asaostant Attorney General Dckznmson, and 3.
G Reynolds for appellants.

Matthew

X7' T B. Catron and Air William BI. Pope for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opimon of the Court.

This case comes on appeal taken by the United States from
a decree of the Court of Private Land Claims confirming to
the lot holders in privity with the city of Santa F6 the lots
held by them in severalty in that city, and confirming to the
city itself in trust for the use of its inhabitants a tract of four
square leagues claimed by the city, except mines of gold, silver
and quicksilver, and property appropriated, used, occupied,
possessed or-owned by the United States.
It is conceded or shown that prior to 1680 there existed a
Spanish town known as La Villa de Santa F&, which was the
seat of government-of the Spanish province of New Mexico,
and that there was also prior to that date the official mechanism required by the Spanish law to direct the affairs of a
Spanisa villa or town. The origin of the town or villa is
obscure, but the record indicates that as early as 1543 the
settlement was-made by deserters from the Spanish military
force under Coronado, who refused to accompany their commander on his return to Mexico, and settled at Santa F6. In
1680 the Spaniards were driven out by an Indian insurrection
and Santa F6 was destroyed, the Spaniards retreating to Paso
del Norte, where they remained until 1692, when Diego de
Vargas reconquered the country In 1693 de -vargas regstablished Santa F6. From that time to the American occupation
- although the record does not fix the precise character of
the municipal government- there is no doubt that there was
a settlement on the site of the old villa of Santa F6, and that
it was also the capital of the province. In 1851 Santa F6 was
incorporated and.its boundaries defined by act of the territorial
legislature of New Mexico. La-vs of New Mexico, 1851-52,
Kearney's Code, 112. The municipal charter granted in 1851
was shortly thereafter repealed, and the probate jiidge of the
county became, by operation of law, the custodian of the
records of the corporation and was a trustee to wind up its
affairs. Laws of New Mexico, 1851-52, Kearney's Code; 272.
No municipal body existed from this time until the year 1891,
when Santa F6 was again organized pursuant to the laws of
New Mexico.
Under the eighth section of the act approved July 22, 1854,

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F]@.
Opinion of the Court.

c. 103, 10 Stat. 308, the probate judge of the county of Santa
F6 presented to the surveyor general df New Mexico a claim
on behalf of the city for four square leagues of land. Thisclaim was substantially based upon the averment that as the
city of Santa F6 was in existence during the whole period of
Spanish .sovereignty over New Mexico, it was certain that
' under the Spanish laws, usages and customs the inhabitants
thereof were, as a community, entitled to receive, and your
petitioners believe and claim did in fact receive, a grant
from the crown for at least four square leagues of land and
commons which they now claim." As the legal authority fdir
this asserted right of the city, reference was made to specified
provisions of the law of Spain, and the. prayer- of the petition
was "that said land be surveyed, and that; a patent therefor
be issued by the United States, to the probate judge for the
time being of said county of Santa F6,in trust for the use and
benefit of the landholders and inhabitants. within said tract,
and for the City of *SantaF6 until the same be by.law incorporated under charter, and thereby become the rightful custo-dian of the patent for said tract of land." The surveyor
general reported to Congress for confirmation the claim thus
made (H. of R1t. Ex. Doe. 239, 43d Congress, 1st session), and
the recommendation not having been acted upon, this suit was
commenced, by the city of Santa F6, under the provisions of
the act of March 3, 1891, creating the Court of Private Land
Claims. 26 Stat. 854, c. 539.
The petition originally filed on behalf of the-city, after setting out the existence of the Spanish villa, known as La Villa
de Santa F6, substantially averred that the municipality of
Santa F6 occupied the situs of the Spanish villa and possessed
jurisdiction over the same territory, and, therefore, wasin law,
the successor to all the rights enjoyed by the Spanish villa., It
alleged that, prior to the Indian insurrection in 1680, the villa
-bad receled a pueblo grant of four square leagues of land,
the central point of which was in the centre of the plaza of
the city of Santa F6, that the grant was made by the King
of Spain, that juridical possession was given thereunder, and
that such facts were evidenced by a valid .testmonzo, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the archives and records of the villa were destroyed in the
Indian insurrection of 1680, and, th6refore, the title could not
be produced. The fact was also averred that the claim had
been submitted to the surveyor general, and had been by him
recommended favorably to Congress. The prayer was for a
confirmation of the grant to the city "in trust for the use
and benefit of" the inhabitants thereof, and of such grantees
and assignees of parts of the said lands as have derived, or may
hereafter acquire by due assignments, allotments and titles in
The defendant demurred
severalty to said parts respectively"
on the ground that the petition stated no cause of action, and
also because it failed to disclose the fact that there .were many
adverse claimants, under Spanish grants, to the land sued for,
and that such claimants were necessary parties defendant.
Appearances were thereafter filed by seventeen persons,
alleging that they were the holders of Spanish titles to land
within the area claimed, and that their interests were, therefore, adverse to those of the city Thereupon an amended
petition was filed by the city, which in its caption mentions
as defendants not only the original defendant, the United
States, but the seventeen persons who had made appearance
as having adverse interests. This amended petition substantially reiterated the averments of the original petition as to the
foun'dation and existence of the villa of Santa F6, but omitted
the allegations on the subject of an express grant to La Villa
de Santa F6, the delivery of juridical possession thereunder
and the issuance of a testhmon-w. The allegation on these
subjects was that prior to the insurrection in 1680, "La Villa
de Santa F6 was entitled to, and had under the laws of the
kingdom of Spain in force in that territory at-that time, a
municipal or pueblo grant, conceding to and vesting in said
Spanish town or villa a certain tract of land containing four
square Spanish leagues." The positive averment in the original petition as to the destruction during, the insurrection of
1680 of the evidence showing the existeflce of an express grant
was replaced by a qualified averment thAt "all the muniments
of title of such municipal grant, if any suck exnsted, were
utterly destroyed by the hostile Indians engaged in such
insurrection."

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F9.
Opinion of the Court.

The amended petition also averred that within the boundaries of the grant claimed there "are now-living about seven
thousand people, and about fifteen hundred heads of families,
nearly all of whom own, occupy and have improved lands
which they claim to hold under the said grant to the Villa de
Santa F6, and there is erected thereon buildings and improvements in public and private ownership, claiming under said
grant to the value of several millions of dollars, and that none
of said claimants and occupants are in any sense adverse claimants to your petitioner. And your petitioner further shows
that there are claimed to be certain private land grants to individuals named as defendants in this proceeding, of tracts of
land within the -exterior line of said four square leagues granted
to your petitioner as aforesaid. But your petitioner avers that
if any such exist each and all of them are junior in date, subordinate and subject to the said municipal grant to your petitioner's predecessor as a town and villa, and whether the said
private land grants are claimed adversely to your petitioner
or not, your petitioner is.not advised, but it states that all of
said private land grants have been filed before this court for
adjudication afid have already been set for hearing in this
court for the same date as this case, and that all of said claimants have subjected themselves ti this court, with their alleged
private land grants for its determination and decision, when
the matter of their interests as against those of your petitioner can be fully and finally determined."
The answer of the United States denied the alleged facts as
to the foundation and organization of La Villa de Santa F6,
denied that the plaintiff, a municipal corporation, existing under the laws of New Mexico, was the successor or entitled to
assert the rights, if any, of the Spanish villa, it also denied
that the Spanish villa had received title to or was by operation
of the Spanish law entitled to claim the four square leagues
of land, averred that title to a large portion of the land embraced within the four square leagues was claimed under
Spanish grants by others than the plaintiff, the validity of
which claims was not, however, admitted, and that other portions of the four square- leagues were in control, occupancy

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and possession of the United States for a military post, known as
Fort Marcy, for a building known as the "Federal building,"
and foi3 an establishment known as the Indian Industrial School,
and that another portion was in possession of the territorial
executi-ve officers under the authority of the United States.
The persons holding conflicting grants, who were made defendants, also filed answers specially denying the making of
the Spanish grant to La Villa de Santa F6, or the right of that
villa to a grant of four- square leagues by operation of the
Spanish law It was moreover specially denied that the heads
of families, residents or other persons who occupy or own
house lots or lands in the city of Santa F6, claim to hold the
same under the alleged grant of the villa of Santa F6, whether
express or implied, and specially denied that the holders of lots
in the city of Santa F6 were not adverse to the claim asserted
by the city to the four square leagues. It was moreover
alleged the various grants, eighteen in number, alleged to have
been made by the Spanish authorities to the respective parties,
averred their conflict with the asserted rights of the city, and
prayed that as such claims-had been filed and had been previously presented to the court, they be considered and approved,
and that the claim of the city be rejected. The issues made
up by these pleadings were tried. In the opening of the trial
the counsel for the plaintiff made the following statement
"After consfiltation with most of the counsel-for the city,
the disposition seems to be to respect the claims of the United
States, either under its original disposition or under its purchases from private individuals. There is no disposition to
deny the right of the United States to those properties which
it has occupied since the change of sovereignty, we are willing to concede that to~the United States attorney"
"I desire to make a statement to the court as to what our evidence is to be, and as to how we are claiming we are entitled
to the grant under which we claim to -represent here. Our
claim is analogous tor the claim made in the .city of San Francisco case, and is analogous to the claim which is known as
'the Brownsville, Texas, claim.. If the court please, we claim
our grant on, not so much as to the existence of papers. of title,

UITTED STATES v. SANTA F2.
Opinion of the Court.

or documentary evidence, but through operation of law, as
was claimed and held in the case of the town of Albuquerque,
which this court has already decided, and as was held in San
Francisco and town of Brownsville, Texas. The case of the
city of San Francisco was decided by the Supreme Court of
the United States after the city of San Francisco produced
evidence sufficient to show that it was a corporation under the
Mexican and Spanish governments, that as such corporation
it possessed an ayuntamiento and other city officials which
belonged to it, and on this evidence the court presumed and
said it was entitled to four square leagues. It was so held in
the town of Brownsville, and wis so decided by this honorable court in the town of Albuquerque against the United
States, case No. 8.
"In our case we expect to show that we had an existence
in the year 1680, and that -as far bacik, at least, as 1704, we
had a corporate existence, and that as having such corporate
existence, and having duly constituted officials, an ayuntamiento and alcalde of that corporation, that this court will
presume that we are entitled to four square leagues bf land,
to be measured from the centre of the plaza of this town.
"In regard to these adverse claims presented here, I do not
just now desire to call the attention of the court to what we
think is the law fixing their rights. I will, however, say that
we will combat the idea that the governors of this territory
had any power to make grants within the exterior boundaries
of the Santa F grant, whether they have been made I do
not pretend to admit, and we will combat the idea that they
were made through lawful authority by the persons granting
them."
The proof established the settlement and organization of
the city of Santa F6 in accordance with the facts already
stated. The various grants referred to in the answer of
the several defendants were offered in evidence and testimony adduced tending to show that. they covered territory
embraced within the claim to the four leagues, and were,
therefore, adverse to the claims of the city
There was no evidence whatever 'introduced showing that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

La Villa de Santa F6, in any of its forms of organization
under the Spanish government, or that the city of Santa
F6 itself, had ever possessed the four square leagues to
which it asserted title, or that any lotholder in the city
claimed to own. or hold by virtue of any title derived under
the supposed right of the city Indeed, there was an entire
absence of any proof showing that any right by possession
or otherwise within the area claimed was held under or by
virtue of the implied grant of four square leagues, upon which
the city relied. On the contrary, there was proof that in 1715
the city of Santa F6 petitioned for a grant of a tract of swamp
land situated within the boundaries of the four square leagues,
to which it now asserts title by operation of law, and that this
prayer was granted.
The judgment of the court, which allowed the claim of the
city, with the reservations and conditions stated in the opening of this opinion, rejected the claims of the defendants who
appeared and asserted the various adverse Spanish grants, so
far at least as they were in conflict with the claim of the city
to which we have referred. As, however, the "United States
has alone appealed from the decree in favor of the city, we
are conceriied on this appeal only with the issues which arise
between the United States and the city of Santa F6.
The fundamental qu.estion in the 6ase is, did the Spanish
law, proprzo v gore, confer upon every Spanish villa or town
a-grant of four square leagues of land to be measured from
the centre of the plaza of such town. The claim that the law
of -Spain conferred such right is based on certain provisions of
that law applicable to the possessions of that government on
this continent, and which are to be found in a compilation
promulgated an 1680i and known as the "'Recopilacion de las
Indias."
The compilation itself is thus described by Schmidt fin his
treatise on the Civil Laws of Spain and Mexico, who says
(p.91-)"The" method adopted in this code is the same as that pursued in the Nueva Recopiladion of the Laws of Spain. It is
divided into nine books, comprising two hundred and eighteen

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F2.
Opinion of the Court.

titles, which contain six thousand four hundred and fortyseven different legal enactments, all of which, derived from
the orders, decrees and regulations of different sovereigns, and
often temporary in their character, are dignified with the- title
of laws. Hence, there is found united in this compilation
many laws on the same subject, in which the preceding law
is only repeated, others in which it is modified, and still others
in which it is abrogated, either in whole or in part. The
veneration of the compilers for laws which once had received
the royal sanction seems to have been so great, that they did
not consider themselves at liberty to omit them. This mode
of proceeding has swelled this code to its present dimensions,
when, if a more rational method had been adopted, it could
readily have been compressed into one third of the space it
actually occupies."
The reliance of the city of Santa F6 is -first, on the -text
of, the Spanish law, second, on the contention that if there
be ambiguity in the text, the right of the city tb the four
square leagues results from a construction given to the Spanish
law in proceedings with reference to the claim of the city of.
San Francisco to a grant of land and from acts of Congress in
relation to such claim, and, third, upon the contention that
the interpretation of the Spanish law upon which the city
bases its right is sanctioned by previous adjudications of this
court. We will examine these propositions in the order
stated.
First. The Span k law relied upon.
The only provisions of the Recopilacion, to which we are
referred as sustaining the claim of the city, are laws 6, 1 and
10, of title 5, book 4, which are found in 2 White, New Recopilacion, pp. 44 and 45. They read as follows
Law 6. "If the situation 6T the land be adapted to the
founding of any town to be peopled by Spaniards, with a
council of. ordinary alcaldes and regidores, and, if there be
persons who will contract for their settlement, the agreement
shall be made upon the following conditions That, within the
prescribed time, it shall comprise at least thirty heads of families, each of whom to possess a house, ten breeding cows, four

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion -of the Court.

steers, or two steers and two young bullocks, a breeding mare,
a breeding sow, twenty breeding ewes from Castile, and six
hens and a cock, he shall, moreover, appoint a priest to administer the sacraments, who the first time shall be of his choice,
and, afterwards, according to our roy.al patronage he shall
provide the church with ornaments and articles necessary for
Divine worship, and he shall give bond to perform the same
within said period of time, and if he fail in fulfilling his
agreement, he will lose all that he may have built, worked
or repaired, which shall be applied to our royal patrimony,
and incur the forfeiture of one thousand ounces of gold to our
chamber [camera], and if he should fulfil his obligations,
there shall be granted to him four square leagues of territory,
either in a square or lengthwise, according to the quality of
the land, in such a manner, that, when located and surveyed,
the four leagues shall be in a quadrangle, and so that the
boundaries of said territory be at least five leagues distant
from any city, town or village, inhabited by Spaniards, and
previously settled, and that it cause no prejudice to any Indian
tribe, nor to any private individual."
Law 7. "If any one should propose to contract for a settlement, in the prescribed form, to consist of more or less than
thirty heads of families, provided it be not below ten, he shall
receive a grant of a proportionate quantity of land, and upon
the same conditions."
Law 10. "Whenever particular individuals shall unite for
the purpose of forming new settlements, and among them
there shall be a sufficient number of married men for that
purpose, -license may be granted to them, provided there be
not less than ten married men, together with an extent of
territory proportioned to what is stipulated, and we empower
them to elect, annually from among themselves, ordinary
alcaldes and oficers of the council."
Law 6 as we have quoted it from -White's work varies from
the translation of Reynolds in his work on Mexican Law,
the latter version, instead of saying that the land "shall be
granted," being, that it "may be given." No importance,
however, is to be attached to this difference, since it isevi-

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F9.
Opmion of the Court.

dent from either translation of the law, as a whole, that it
was optional and not obligatory.on the representative of the
King to enter into the contracts which the law authorized to
be made. It is apparent also from the text of these laws that
they provided solely for the allotment of lands for the purpose
of a settlement to be made under contract, and on the performance of certain conditions, in other words, that these
laws delegated authority to contract for certain specific quantities of land to accomplish the particular results which the
laws contemplated. The effect of law 7 was to forbid contracts for the establishment of towns unless the settlement
was to -be made by ten persons, and to vary the amount of
land to be granted according as the -number of heads of families might exceed ten and be less than thirty, which latter is
treated by law 6 as being normally required for a contract
settlement. Looking at the text of the' laws, it is difficult
to, understand upon what theory the claim is advanced that
every Spanish town, whether settled under contract or not,
was entitled to four square leagues. It cannot be denied that
this quantity of land was not the right of every town settled
under contract, since the amount varied with the-number of
heads of families with whom the contract was made and who
were to constitute the settlement.
The argument however is pressed that law 10 embraces all
towns not settled under contract, since it says "whenever particular individuals shall unite for the purpose of forming new
settlements." From this expression is deduced the proposition
that as the provisions for contract related to settlements of
towns made by a particular contractor, therefore they were
inapplicable to settlements made by individuals united for
that purpose, in which latter case it is claimed the right to
the land arose, not by virtue of a contract, but by operation
of law Granting for argument's sake the correctness of the
contention, it fails to justify the claim of the city, because law
10 does not specify the quantity of land to be enjoyed by a
settlement made by individuals uniting for the purpose of
settling a new town, but simply says that they shall have
an extent of territory "proportioned to what is stipulated."

OCTOBER TER-[, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

This reference to what is stipulated must either be to the requirements of laws 6 and 7, or to some other regulation on
the subject. If it relates to laws 6 and 7, then it would
necessarily subject individuals uniting to form a settlement
to the terms of laws 6 and 7, and therefore render it necessary
that the right to land should arise from contract. Indeed, the
argument in favor of the claim of the city logically leads to
the inconsisteirt position that laws 6 and 7 are read into law
10 for the purpose of the quantity of land to be granted, and
are read out of that law in so far as the prerequisite necessity
of a contract is concerned.
But reference to the ordinances of Philip II (promulgated
more than one hundred years prior to the Recopilacion), in
which law 10 was found, makes its meaning perfectly clear,
and demonstrates that the construction now sought to be
given law 10 has no other foundation than the confusion in
compiling the Recopilacion, of which we have made mention
i'iting the language contained"in the treatise of Schmidt on
the subject. Thus, in the ordinance of Philip, law 6 of title 5,
booi 4 of- the iRecopilacion was numbered .as ordinances 88
and 89. Following" those ordinances -down to 99 inclusive
are various provisions regulating contract settlements. Then
comes -ordinance 100,. which- is now law 7 above referred to.
The next ordinance (101.)-is identical with law 10. Ordinances
102 and 103 (now law 20, boolk 4, title 7, law 9, book 4, title 5,
and law 21, book 4, title 7, of the Recopilacion) read as follows
Law 20, -book 4, title 7..
"A contract having been made under the authority of a
colony, a governor, an alcalde mayor, a mayor, a- town or
village, the council and those who made the same in the
Indies shall not be satisfied with having accepted and made
the contract, but shall continue to control it and direct how
it shall be carried into effect, and shall keep a. record of all
that is being done."
Law 9, book 4, title 5
"In contracts for new settlements made by the government, or whoever shall be thereto authorized in the Indies,
with cities, adelantado, superior alcalde or corrigidor, tho

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F.
Opinion of the Court.

person entering into the agreement shall do so likewise with
each individual who may enlist to join the settlement, and
he will bind himself to grant building lots in the new settlement, together with pastures and lands for cultivation in a
number of peomas and caballerias proportionate to the quantity of land which each settler shall obligate himself to improve, provided it shall not exceed, nor shall he grant more to
each than five peomas or three caballerias, according to the
express distinction, difference and measurement prescribed in
the laws of the title concerning the distribution of lands,
lots and waters."
Law 21, book 4, title 7
"We direct that the governor and the magistrate of the
town newly settled, ex officw, or on petition of a party, shall
require the fulfilment of the contract with due diligence and
care by all of those who may be bound to make new settlements, and the council and the corporation attorneys shall
appear by petition against such settlers as have not fulfilled
their contracts within the term agreed upon, in order fhat
they be compelled, with all rigor of law, to carry out that
which was stipulated, and that the judges shall proceed
against those who may be absent, and that they be arrested
and brought to the settlements, and that requisition be made
for those who may be in other jurisdictions, and all judges
shall grant them under penalty of our displeasure."
This retrospect at once demonstrates that the rights acquired under law 10 depended upon contract and could only
arise therefrom, since .that law was but one provision of a
system providing for grants under contract alone. To illustrate, reviewing the provisions in the order in which they
stood before their confused compilation in the Recopilacion,
ordinances 88 and 89 (law 6) and ordinance 100 (law 7) provided for contracts with an individual for founding a town,

for the quantity of land to be contracted for, and prescribed'
regulations for the new settlement. Ordinance 101 (law-10)
provided, for individuals uniting for the purpose of a settlement. Ordinance 102, (law 20, book 4, title 7) also in this
latter case treated a contract with such united individuals or

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

colony as a necessary prerequisite, and the subsequent provisions
ordain rules for the government of these settlements and the
enforcement of the obligations arismg under the contracts.
Various provisions in the Recopilacion moreover clearly
.establish that the power to make contracts for settlements,
whether with one contracting person or with a community
of individuals, was not unrestrained, and was subject to
exception.
Thus law 6, bWook 4, title 7, provided as follows (2 White,
New R~cop. p: 46)

"No tract of land for new settlements shall be granted or
taken by agreement in any seaport, nor in any part which
might, at any time, be. prejudicial to our royal crown or to
the republic, our will being that they be 'fserved to us."
The same law is thus translated in the appendix to the
brief for the government
"Land. and term for a new settlement shall not be granted
or taken under contract in seaports, nor at any place where at
any time damage may result to our royal crown or the community, becaus3 it is our will that they be reserved for us."
Tl~e object of these provisions was clearly not only to prevent contraots as to seaport settlements, but also such contracts as to places where it might be prejudicial to make
grants of land, although there might be general authority to
that end.
It may well also be implied from the'provisions in the Recopilacion that the right of a town to hold land for public purposes was required to be evidenced by a grant from the viceroy
or governor, and that such grant when made required confirmat~on by the crown. Thus, law 1, title 13, book 4, of th#
Recopilacion (2 White, New Recop. p. 55), is as follows..
"The viceroys and governors, being thereto authorized,
-shall lay. out for each town or village which shall be newly
founded and peopled, the lands and lots whiqh they may want,
,ind the same shall .be granted to them as reservations [propios] without prejudice to third persons. They shall transmit
to us information of what they shall havd laid out, that we
may order the same to be confirmed."

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F2.
Opinion of the Court-

Whilst it may be that the necessity for confirmation was
dispensed with at some date, much later than the establishment of Santa F6, there is no question that this provision was
in force at the time when it is claimed that the settlement
came into existence as a Spanish town.
The theory, then, of the vesting by operation of law in
every Spanish town at the time of its organization, of a title,
to four square leagues of land, finds no-support in the text of
the Spanish laws, and is repugnant to their general tenor, as
it is in direct conflfct with mandatory provisions of that law
exacting a grant and its confirmation. Of course, the existence of power to make contracts for settlements in particular
cases cannot be held to have deprived the proper authorities
of the right to make grants.m .other cases where.a general
power to that effect was possessed. There are various texts
of the Recopilacion showing not only that the Spanish crown
itself by its supreme authority contemplated the making of
gifts of land to individuals, but also that such gifts were expected to be made for the purpdse of the settlement of towns
where there was originally no contract therefor, either with
colonies or with a particular contractor. To avoid prolixity
as far as possible, we do not quote the text of the laws on this
subject, contenting ourselves with establishing the existence of
the power by-showing some instances where it was undoubtedly exercised. The petition for and grant made to Santa
F6 itself of the tract of swamp land, to which we have called
attention, is one of such instances' We find in the record the
petition of one Juan Lucero de Godoy, dated El Paso, January 15, 1693, addressed to the governor and captain general,
and reciting, in substance, that, prior to the insurrection of
1680, he had taken up his residence in Santa F6 and received
a grant of land, and praying for a regrant of the land, part of
which was situated within the area of four square leagues to
which the city now asserts title. There is also a recognition
of the exercise of this power referred to in Chouteau v Eckhiart,
2 Hlow. 344, where it appears that the village of St. Charles
applied for an enlargenent of its commons, and that the
Spanish governor replied that the intendant of the province
VOL. mLxv-41

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

must make such grant, but that he would provisionally allow
the. town to occupy the land prayed for. So, in Lewi8 v. San
Antonio, 7 Texas, 288, it was shown that there had been an
express grant, and that the boundaries had been duly marked
and laid out covering six square leagues. But the concession
that there was a power in the Spanish crown or its authorized
officers to make gTants of land, when considered by them to
be proper, would not justify a holding that the authorities
must have deemed it imperative to make a grant of a definite
quantity to every town when established, no matter under
what circumstances it was founded. To .so conclude would
amount to saying that it was the -duty of the 'United States
after the cession by Mexico, of the territory covered by the
treaty, to presume, because the Spanish officials had the power
to make grants, that they had actually exercised it in favor
of every town and every individual within the territory ceded.
If we were to make sopreposterous an assumption the task
would yet remain of determining how much land it would be
presupposed had been given because the power to.give existed
in each case, a duty impossible of performance.
If, however, it -were conceded, in plain violation of the
letter of the Spanish law, that every town was entitled to
a grant of land by operation of law, the ,quantity to which
the town would be entitled would remain wholly undefined
and undetermined, and would have, if allowed-by inference,
to be created by an arbitrary exercise of judicial power.
Plainly, from the provisions of the Recopilacion, the quantity, varied with the condition of the respective settlements,
and to imply a grant of land to the extent of four square
leagues in every case would be to suppose that every settlement was alike, whilst the law itself contemplated that they
would be different and subject to different allowances. This
consequence is shown by-a statement in the treatise of Hall on
IAexican Law, where it is said, see. 117T, p. 51
"Limits of Pueblos.- There never existed any general law
fixing four square leagues as the extent of pueblos or towns.
That extent of land was assigned to pueblos founded by
contractors for Spaniards, by law 6, title 5, book 4, of the

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F12.
Opinion of the Court.

laws of the Indies. Those formed by the government, independent of contractors, were only limited by the discretion of the
governors of the provinces, and viceroys, subject to approval
or disapproval of the King. There are numerous pueblos in
Mexico which have less and many that have more than four
square leagues."
And in section 118, the same author declares that the jurists of Mexico are unacquainted with any such provision of
Spanish jurisprudence as that four square leagues should be
the superfice of pueblos.
These facts as to the condition of things in Mexico are in
accord with the claims to land made against the United'States
under the law of Spain by villages and towns in Florida and
Missouri, to which we shall hereafter take occasion to refer
more particularly.
As the right which the city asserts is devoid of every element
of proof tending to show a possession coupled with claim of
title, but rests upon the mere assumption of a right asserted
to have arisen by operation of law hundreds of years ago,
of course there is no room for the application of a presumption of an actual grant, within the doctrine declared in United
States v. Chaves, 159 U. S.452. Even did the case present a
claim of express grant, proof of the existence of -which rested
on presumptions arising from acts of possession, etc., there are
many circumstances attending the history of Santa F& and
the nature of its establishment, which we have heretofore
recited, which would strongly tend to rebut the presumption.
The town was, it would seem, originally a colony of deserters
from the Spanish army.which was located in the midst of the
native Indians, it became afterwards the capital seat of the
province and a fortified town, and was presumably, in its permanent creation, the outcome and development of the success of the Spanish arms, rather than of the exercise of the
power to induce settlements by contracts with individuals or
otherwise. It is impossible, on the theory of the petitioner.,
to explain the petition ,presented by the city to the Spanish governor, in 1715, fbr a concession of a tract of swamp
land situated within the four square leagues now claimed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

for if the right to the entire four square leagues .then existed
'it, was complete.. At the time of this petition, if the claim
here advanced had any foundation or was deemed by any
one to exist, such fact would of course have been then known
and have rendered -the petition for the grant of the swamp
wholly unnecessary
We now proceed to examine the next proposition advanced
to support the claim of the city of Santa F3, which is as
follows
Second. Wfhatever, as an original question, may be the correct interpretationof the Spanish law, the right of every town
to four square leagues of land under that law is no longer a
subyect of controversy, but 2s concluded in favor of such rzght
by the report of the board of land commissioners, whwhpassed
upon, the clatm of San FrancZsco, by the deCsio2n of the Cir
cuit Court of the United States on the same subject, by the per
suasive force of certain decszons of the Sipreme Court of
Cal-ifornza, referring to the title of San Franczsco, andfnally
by the action of Congress on the subject.
The history of the San Francisco claim, however, does not
. ustif
y the contention thus urged. The pueblo of San Fran3
cisco, in fth. first piaco, was not a Spanish but a Mexican
town, and its claimed rights were asserted to have been
obtAined from the supreme government of Mexico. Thus,
as stated in the report of. the board of land commissioners, the
petition alleged (Dwinelle, Colonial History of San Francisco,
App. p. 121) "that in pursuance of the laws, usages and custonys of the government of Mexico, and-an act of the departmenta, legislature of California of the ninth of November,
1833, (1834) and proceedings in pursuance thereof, the pueblo
of San Francisco was duly created and constituted a munici.pal corporation, with a municipal government, and with all
le rights, properties and privileges of pueblos under the then
existing laws, during the-said year 1833, (1834), and that
there was then and there, by the supreme government of
Mexico, in the manner by law prescribed, ceded and granted to
the said pueblo for town lands and for common lands, all and
singular the premises described -in their said petition."

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F.
Opinion of'the Court.

It may be conceded arguendo that there was in force at the
time the pueblo of San Francisco was established laws of the
government of Mexico and regulations based thereon expandIng the law of Spain so as to entitle a newly established
pueblo to have measured off and assigned to it by officers of
the government four square leagues of land, without in any
way implying that such right existed under early Spanish
laws. The necessity for action, by Congress in the case of
San Francisco was produced by various causes, such as grants
made by the officials of. the pueblo while San Francisco was
part of the territory of Mexico, and grants which purported
to have been made after the occupation of the town by the
forces of~the United States by persons claiming to be the lawful successors of such Mexican officials. For these reasons,
there was great confusion and uncertainty in the titles to land
in the city By the act of March 3, 1851, c. 41, 9 Stat. 631,
Congress created a board of land commissioners to determine
claims to land in California asserted "by virtue of any ' right'
or ' title' derived- from the Spanish or Mexican government."
Section 14 of that act permitted the claims of lotholders in a
city tp be presented in the name of such city, and authorized.th]e
pre8umption of a grant to a city which wa8 sh-own ta.Aave been
in exis'tence on a date named. The section is found in full In
the margin.'
1 SEC. 14. And be it further enacted, That the provisions of this act shall
not extqnd to any town lot, farm lot or pasture lot, held under a grant
from any corporation or town to which lands may have been granted for
the establishment of a town by the Spanish or Mexican government, or tle
lawful authorities thereof, nor to any city, or town, or village lot, winch
city, town or village existed on the seventh day of July, eighteen hundred
and forty-six; but the claim for the same shall be presented by the corporate authorities of the said town, or where the land on which the said city,
town or village was originally granted to an individual, the claim shall be
presented by or in the name of such individual, and the fact of the existence
of the said city, town or village on the said seventh July, eighteen hundred
and forty-six, being duly proved, shall be prima facte evidence of a grant to
such corporation, or to the individual under whom the said lotholders claim,
and where any city, town or villaze shall be in existence at the time of passing this act, the claim for the land embraced within the limits of the same
may be made by the corporate authority of the said city, town or village.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896
Opinion of the 'Court.

The city of San Francisco was incorporated in 1850, with
municipal, boundaries of less extent than four square leagues.
It, however, presented to the board a claim for confirmation
of title to a four square league tract. In December, 1854, the
claim of the city was confirmed by the board to only a ,cer
tam portion of the four square leagues claimed. The opinion
of the majority of the commissioners is contained in the appendix to Dwinelle's THstory, pp. 12f-147. The opinion makes
clear the fact that the decree of confirmation was based upon
the following conclusions, to wit
"1st. That a pueblo or town- was established under the
authority of the Mexican government in California, on the
site of the present city of San Francisco, and embracing the
greater portion of the present corporate limits of said city
"2d. That the town so established continued and was
in existence as a municipal corporation on the 7th day of
July, 1846.
"3d. That at or about the time of its establishment, certain lands were assigned and laid off in accordance with the
laws, usages and customs of the Mexican nation, for the use of
the town and its inhabitants, and the boundaries of said lands
determined- and fixed by the proper- officers appointed for that
purpose by the territorial government.
"4th. That the boundaries so established are those described in the communication from Governor Figueroa, to
If. G. Vallejo, dated November 4, 1834, a copy of which is
filed in the case, marked Ex. No. 18,.to the deposition of said
Yallejo." (Dwmelle, App. 14:7.)
After the foregoing finding of facts, the board summed up
the law in the following language "
"These conclusions bring the case, in our opinion, clearly
vithin the operation of The presumption raised in favor of a
grant to the town by the fourteenth section of the act of the
3d of March, 1851, and entitle the petitioner to a confirmation
of the land contained within the boundaries described in the
ciocument above mentioned."
Whilst the ultimate finding of the board was thus rested
-upon tlhe authority to presume a grant conferred by Congress

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F9.
Opinion of the Court.

and upon the Mexican law and regulations and conduct of
Spanish and Mexican officials, which were limited to particular localities, and which have no application to the Spanish
law as it'appears in the Recopilacion, its opinion yet contained
a copious historical review ot the- Spanish and Mtxican law
on the subject of grants to towns. From the fact that both
the early Spanish law and'the Mexican law were considered,
and growing out of some forms of expression contained in the
opinion, it has sometimes been said, with inaccuracy, that the
opinion sanctioned the proposition that every Spanish town,
considering the Spanish law to which reference has been made,
was entitled to a grant of four square leagues.
The want of foundation for this often reiterated misconception of the finding of the board of commissioners will be at
once shown by a brief consideration of the instructions and
documents, apart from the text of the Recopilacion itself, upon
which the board acted. They were five in number, as follows
(1.) Instruction ,- etc., of Don Antonio Bucareli Urusu,
dated Mexico, August 17, 1773. (Dwinelle, App. p. 2, 1
Rockwell, 444.)
(2.) Regulations of Don Felipe de Neve, approved by the
King, October, 24, 1781. (Dwinelle, App. p. 3, 1 Rockt
well, 445.)
(3.) Instructions made for the establishment of tie new
town of Pitic, dated Chihuahua, November 14, 1789. (Dwinelle, App. p. 11.)
(4.) Decree of Don Pedro de Nerva, dated Chihuahua,
March (October) 22, 1791. (Dwinelle, App. 17, 1 Rockwell,
451), and
(5.) Opinion of the assessor or legal adviser of that comandacia, dated in 1785.
Document No. 1 makes no reference to a designation or
granting of lands for the use of pueblos.
No. 2 -to wit, Regulations of 1781 for the government of
the Province of California -referred to the existence of the
new establishments of the presidios and the respective ports
of San Diego, Monterey and San Francisco, and the founding
and building of the pueblo of San Jose, and prescribes certan

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1896.
Opinion of thq Court.

regulations for carrying into effect the expected establishment
of proposed new settlements. These regdlations rested undoubtedly on the laws of the Indies,-but make material additions and .modifications thereto. Section 4 provides that
conformably to the provisions of the laws of the kingdoin
competent common lands shall be "designated" for the pueblos, but there is no statement as to the law governing the
quantity of land to be marked out. The regulations, however,
were specially approved by the King of Spain.
No. 3 - the Plan of Pitic - commences with the following
statement
"Instructions approved by His Majesty, and made for
the establishing of the new town of Pitic, in the Province of
Sonora, ordered to be adopted by the other new projected
settlements (Poblaciones) and by those that may be established
in the district of this General ' Comandancia.'"
The second section of the instruction reads as follows
"2d. In conformity with the decree of the law 6th, title 5th,
of the same book 4th, relative to the towns of Spaniards that
may be founded by agreement or contract, and first in relation to
those which for want of contractors shall be erected by private
settlers (Pobladores) who may establish themselves and agree
to found them, .there may be granted to the town in question
four leagues of bounds or territory in a square or in length,
(que se fundaren y concordaren enformarlas se podra conceder
a la de que se exara quatro leguas determino o territorio en
quadr& o prolongado,) as shall be adapted to the better location of the land that shall be selected or marked out so that
its true.boundaries shall be known, wherein there can be no
inconvenience, and, inasmiuch as it is distant more than five
leagues from any other town, city or village of Spaniards,
there shall not result injury to any private -individual, nor to
any 'pueblo' of Indians, on account of that (the village) ' de
los Seris' remaining within the demarcation as part or suburb
of the new settlement, subject to its jurisdictioin, and with the
advantage of enjoying as neighbors the same benefits public
and common that the settlers may have, and of which at
present those same natives are wanting,-owing to their indo-

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F.
Opinion of the Court.

lence, their default of application, and of intelligence, reserving to them the faculty of choosing their IAlcaldes and
Regidores,' with the jurisdiction, economy and other circumstances prescribed by the laws 15 and 16, title 5,
book 6."
It is obvious from the most casual examination of this section that it not only does not support the theory that under
the Recopilacion the right to four square leagues was granted
to each and every settlement, but, on the contrary, that its
plain purpose was simply to grant the discretionary power to
allot four square leagues to settlements not under contract
and to exempt such grants from many requirements of the
Recopilacion, such as that as to the number of residents and
the conditions to be performed on the part of the founder of
the settlement. In other words, this decree, which was approved by the King of Spain, was substantially an act of new
and supplementary legislation, adding to the provisions of the
Recopilacion, and conferring rights not covered by its text.
The fact of the making of this decree conveying the authority
to give four square leagues in cases where there was no contract, demonstrates of course that the power thus given was
not deemed theretofore to have existed by the specific terms
of laws specially applicable to town settlements. For how
can it be supposed that a solemn order would have been required from the King to sanction the doing of that which the
law already expressly permitted. It is to be observed, also, that
-the delegation of power to make a grant of four square leagues
in cases of non-contract does not import the significance that
by operation of law such a grant was made in every case.
The language is, there "may be" granted to the town in
question, not that there "shall be" granted in every case,
or that the govern'or "shall be" obliged to do so.
No. 4- the Decree of Pedro de *Nerva, under date of
October 22, 1791 -refers to an opinion of an official styled
the assessor of the comandancia general. The portion of
the decree having pertinency here reads as follows
"And considering the extent of four common leagues measured from the centre of the presidio square, viz., two leagues

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in every direction, to be sufficient for the new pueblos to be
formed under the protection of said presidios, (que van formandose a su abrigo) I have likewise determined, in order to
avoid doubts and disputes in the future, that said captains restrict themselves henceforward to the quantity of house-lots
and lands within the four leagues already mentioned, without
exceeding in any manner said limits3 leaving free and open
the exclusive jurisdiction belonging to the intendentes of the
royal hacienda, respecting the sale, composition and distribution of the remainder of the land in the respective districts."
The language of this dec'ee, instead of confirming the
theory that every town was entitled to four square leagues
under the law of Spain, on the contrary, would seem to indicate that De Nerva considered that the extent of the boundaries of the new pueblos should be subject to his uncontrolled'
discretion. Indeed, in Welck v. Sullivan, 8 California, 165,
this decree. was interpreted as largely extending the limits
-of pueblos beyond four square leagues.
No. 5.- the opinion of one Galindo Nevara - is printed on
pages 10 and 11 of the appenaix to Dwinelle's work, and is
treated as the opinion cited in De Nerva's decree of October
22, 1791. It was addressed to the honorable commandant
general, and is dated October 27, 1785. It considers the question of the right to make requested allotments of lands for
cattle ranches, and in the course of the document the writer
observes that such allotments should not be made within the
boundaries assigned to pueblos, which, in conformity to law 6,
title 5, lib. c. 4, of the Recopilacion,, must be four leagues of
land in a square or oblong body according to the nature of
the ground. This cannot be the opinion to which De Nerva
referred in 1791, for the one to which he alludes related to
the authority which was possessed over the distribution of
lands of a presidio. Nor can this mere opinion, if authentic,
be considered as conclusive, or even as persuasively determining the meaning of law 6, since it cannot be reconciled with
the subsequent decree of 1791, declaring that, "in order to
avoid doubts and disputes in futurej" it was necessary to specify the precise quantity of land to constitute the limits of the

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F.
Opinion of the Court.

pueblos to be subsequently established. The inference to be
deduced from all these documents supports the theory that
under the Spanish laws, as found in the Recopilacion, all
towns were not entitled by operation of law to four square
leagues, but that at a late date the Spanish officials had
adopted the theory that four square leagues was the nor
mal quantity which might be designated-as the limits of new
pueblos to be thereafter created.
Whether from these amendments or supplements to the
Spanish law it was correctly held that a fixed quantity of land
passed to every new pueblo by effect of law, is not relevant to
the matter now under consideration, as the rights of Santa F6,
if any, arose long prior to the period to which these documents
relate, and depend upon the Spanish law and that law exclusively It would seem, however, from the statement of Hall,
already quoted, supra, that the implication that every new
Mexican town was entitled to four square leagues was a misconception. This review has been made in order, at the outset, to remove the erroneous conception which has been so
often reiterated, as to. the right of towns, by mere operation
of law, under the Spanish law, to four square leagues. It is
really unnecessary, however, to analyze the opinion of the
board of land commissioners for the purpose of showing that
no recognition of a right, by operation of law, to four square
leagues was contained in it, for the reason that it is obvious
that the decision of the board confirming only a portion of
the claim of the city of San Francisco was a rejection of the
four square league theory, That San Francisco so interpreted
the decree is manifested by the fact that it was not accepted
by that city as final, but an appeal was taken to the District
Court, to which court also the United States appealed. Moreover, the action of Congress in confirming in 1864, under certain conditions, a limited right in favor of San Franci~co, and
its final action, in 166, in confirming the right of that city to
four square leagues, with many important reservations,, and
upon conditions wholly incompatible, with the existence, in.
that city, of a primordial right to four square leagues, amounted
to a refusal by Congress to recognize the theory that every

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

town was entitled to four square leagues. On the contrary,
those acts were tantamount to an assertion by Congress of its
undoubted right to control the disposition of the land so far.
as it deemed best to do so. Acts July 1, 1864, c. 19-, sec. 5, 13
Stat. 332, 333, and March 8, 1866, c. 13, 14 Stat. 4.
In passing, we also observe that the same reasons which
cause it to be unnecessary to examine, in detail, the opinion
of the board of land commissioners, also renders it unessential
to analyze and determine the persuasive effect of the cases
subsequently decided by the Supreme Court of California, cited
in argument by the city, viz., Welch v Sullivan, 8 California,
165,168,. Hart v Burnett, 15 Califorma. 530. The issue which
-those cases presented was the nature of the title of San Francisco, on the conceded premise that it possessed a title of some
kind. This question was solved by a full reference to the
Spanish and Mexican law, much in the same manner as the
board of land commissioners bad previously done.
An appeal was taken from the decision of the board of land
commissioners to the District Court of the United States.
We quote, as to subsequent steps in the controversy, from
the opinion in San .FJranciscov. LeRoy, 138 U. S. 656, 666
"In April, 1851, the charter of San Francisco was repealed
and a new charter adopted. Pending the appeal of the pueblo
claim in the United States District Court, the Van Ness ordinance, above mentioned, was passed by the common council
of the city, by which the city relinquished and granted all
its right and claim to land within its corporate limits as defined by its charter of 1851, with certain exceptions, to parties in the actual possession thereof by themselves or tenants
on or before the first of January, 1855, provided such possession was continued up to the time of the introduction of the
ordinance into the common council, which was in June, 1855,
or, if interrupted by an intruder or trespasser, had been or
might be recovered by legal process, and it declared that for
the purposes contemplated by the ordinance persons should
be deemed possessors who helod titles to land within those
limits by irtue o.f a grant made by any ayuntamiento, town
council, alcalde or justice of the peace of the former pueblo

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F2.
Opinion of the Court.

before the 7th of July, 1846, or by virtue of a grant subsequently made by the authorities, within certain limits of the
city previs to its incorporation by the State, provided the
grant, or a material portion of it, had been recorded in a
proper book of records in the control of the recorder of the
county previous to April 3, 1851. The city, among other
things, reserved from the grant all the lots which it then
occupied or had set apart for public squares, streets and sites
for school houses, city hall and other buildings belonging to
the corporation, but what lots or parcels were thus occupied
or set apart does not appear.
"Subsequently, in March, 1848. the legislature of the State
ratified and -confirmed this ordinance (Stat. of Cal. of 185S,
c. 66, p. 52), and by the fifth section of the act of Congress
to expedite the settlement of titles to lands in the State of
California, the right and title of the United States to the
lands claimed within the corporate limits of the charter of
1851 were relinquished and granted to .the city and its successors for the uses and purposes specified in that ordinance.
13 Stat. 333, c. 194,  5."
But that the relinquishment thus referred to was not considered by Congress as equivalent to a recognition of an absolute title in the city of San Francisco, but was deemed to be
an act of grace and grant on the part of Congress, is shown
by the fact that the fifth section contained, in addition to the
relinquishment referred to in the foregoing quotation, the
following provision "There being excepted from this relinquishment and grant all sites or other parcels of lands
which have been, or now are, occupied by the United States
for military, naval or other public uses, or such other sites
or parcels as may hereafter be designated by the President
of the United States, within one year after the rendition to
the General Land Office by the surveyor general, of an approved pJat of the exterior limits of San Francisco, as recognized in this section, in connection with the lines of the public
surveys." It was also further provided "That the relinquishment and grant by this act shall in no manner interfere .with
or prejudice any'bona fide claims of others whether asserted

OCTOBER TERM,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

adversely under rights derived from Spain, Mexico or the

laws of the United States, nor preclude a judicial examination and adjustment thereof."
This act of Congress transferred the appeal which had been
taken to the District Court from the decision of the board of
land commissioners from that court to the Circuit Court of
the United States. The latter court. in its opinion rendered
on-the hearing of the appeal, San .Franciscov. United States,
4 Sawyer, 553, 561, 573, accepted as admitted "the existence
of an organized pueblo at the present site of the city of San
Francisco upon the acquisition of the country by the United
States on the 7th of Suly, 1846, the possession by that pueblo
of proprietary rights in certain lands and the succession to
such proprietary rights by the city of San Francisco." It was
also assumed to be conceded (pp. 561-574:) "That the lands
appertaining to the pueblo were subject, until by grant from
the proper authorities they were vested in private proprietorship, to appropriation to public uses. by the former government and, since the acquisition of this country, by the United
States." The Circuit Court, contrary to the holding of the
board, found that the limits of the pueblo had never been
measured or marked off, and considered the question as to
the extent of lands in which a pueblo acquired an interest
under Mexican laws, and determined it to be four square
leagues. But although the opinion referred to the Spanish
law, the conclusion as to the right of San Francisco was
based upon Mexican laws, customs and usages, and the reasoning of the opinion was in accord with that of the board of
land commissioners, to which we have already referred. The
clain of the city was confirmed "in trust, for the benefit of
the lotholders under grants from the pueblo, town or city of
San Francisco, or other competent authority, and as to any
residue in trust for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of
There was excepted, however, from the confirmathe city"
tion such parcels of land within the four square leagues, ",as
have been heretofore reserved or dedicated to public uses
by the United States, and also such parcels of land as have
been by grants from lawful autnority vested in private pro-

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F.
Opinion of the Court.

prietorship, and have been finally confirmed to parties claiming under said grants, by the tribunals of the United States,
or shall hereaftet be finally confirmed to parties claiming
thereunder by said tribunals, in proceedings now pending
therein for that purpose." San _Francisco v. Uinted States,
supra, 577.

That this decision was in conflict with the claim of the city
*that under the Mexican law it was entitled, as a matter of
right, to four square leagues, is shown by the finding of the
court) that whatever was *the right in the city it was so inchoate that up to the time .of confirmation by the United
States all the ungranted land within the area claimed was
subject to such dedication for public purposes as the United
States saw fit to make. That is, that the whole ungranted
land covered by the claim was substantially public domain at
the entire disposition of the United States for public purposes.
That this decision was not in accord with the asserted claims
of the city of San Francisco, is also again shown by the fact
that appeals were taken therefrom to this court by both the
city and the United States. Pending these appeals, Congress
passed an act to quiet titles to the land within the city limits,
which was approved March 8, 1866, c. 13, 14 Stat. 1. At that
time the limits of the city were coterminous with those of the
county, and embraced the whole of the four leagues to which
the city asserted rights. The act of 1S64, it must be remembered, merely released the right and title of the United States
to the lands within the then corpcrate limits of the city of
San Francisco, as defined in the charter of April 15, 1851,
which was much less than the four square leagues.
By the act of 1860 the United States relinquished and
granted to the city all the land embraced in the decree of the
Circuit Court subject to the reservations and exceptions designated in that decree, and upon the following further conditions and trusts, viz.
"That all the said land, not heretofore granted to said city,
shall be disposed, of and conveyed by said city to parties ii
the bonafide actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants, on the passage of this act, in such quantities and upon

OCTOBER TERV!, 1896.
Opinion of the 'Court.

such terms and conditions" as the legislature of the State of
California may prescribe, except such parcels thereof as may
be reserved and set aside by ordinance of said city for public
uses."
The act moreover provided that such -relinquishment and
grant should not interfere with or prejudice any valid adverse
right or claim, if such exist, to said land or any part thereof,
whether derived from Spain, Mexico or the United States, or
preclude a judicial examination thereof.
It will thus be seen that the-act of 1866 again asserted the
power of Congress over the entire subject by. materially modifying the decree of the Circuit Court of the United. States,
inasmuch as it placed restrictions on the power of disposition
of the lands, and practically imposed a trust, not only upon
the city of San Francisco, but upon the legislatmre of the State
of California. In consequence of the passage of this act, the
appeals of both the city and the United States which were
pending in this court were withdrawn. Townsend v Greeley,
5 Wall. 326, San Francsco v..LeRoy, 138 U. S. 656, 667.
Subsequent to the passage of the act of Congress, an act
was passed by the legislature of California known as the "San
Francisco Outside Land Bill," but it was vetoed by the governor of California, because in his opinion it was in conflict
with the act of Congress of March 8, 1866. (Dwinelle, App.
p. 352.)
We are now brought to consider the last proposition advanced by the city, which isThird. That .the nterpretaton of the Spantsh law upon
whwhlb the city bases its ri ght, -s sanctioned byprevzous adjudications of ths court.

The decisions relied upon are Townsend v Greeley, 5 Wall.
326, Grisarv 2JiDowell,6 Wall, 363, Brownsville v. Cavazos
100 U. S. 138, and San franczsco v LeRoy, 138 U S. 656.
An examination, however, of these cases will show that
they cannot be held to sustain the proposition.
Townsend v Greeley came to this court on error to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California, affirming a .judgment in favor of Greeley, who had acquired a title to land

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F]L
Opinion of the Court.

within the limits confirmed to San Francisco by the board of
land commissioners, under an ordinance of the city The defendant claimed title under a sale on execution upon a judgment recovered against the city The rights of both parties,
therefore, depended upon the existence of a title in the city,
and the only question at issue between them was which had
derived the paramount right from the city, the defendant
disputing the possession which plaintiff claimed had been in
his grantors. Under this state of the record it was, of course,
absolutely impossible for the question to arise whether or not
there was title in the city to the land in dispute, or the extent
of land which the title of the city, whatever it was, covered.
The sole question presented in this court was whether the
lower court had committed error in rejecting certain proffered
evidence, and the determination of this question involved the
ascertainment of whether the title which was in the city was
of such a character as could be seized and sold under execution. In deciding this question the opinion, whilst referring
to the facts out of which the controversy arose, contains the
statement (p. 336) that "the laws and ordinances of Spare
for the settlement and government of her colonies on this
continent provided for the assignment to pueblos or towns,
when once established and officially recognized, for their use
and the use of their inhabitants, of four square leagues of
land." But this language was not material to the question
before the court, and was not, therefore, a decision settling
the matter.
The decision in Grzsar v .McDowell, supra, was, in fact, a
denial of any right in San Francisco by operation of law,
Spanish or Mexican, to four square leagues of land. The
case irvolved a controversy between one holding a title under
San Francisco and an officer of the United States in possession
of a military reservation within the four square leagues. The
court simply decided that, conceding some right or interest or
claim in the city to land, it was subject to appropriation by
the government for public uses. In a general reference to the
claims of the city, there are dicta to the effect that by the laws
of Spain a pueblo acquired some right in fotlr square leagues
VOL. CLXV-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of land, but the decision did not necessarily determine .that
question, as it was not before the court.
In Brownsville v. Cavazos, s'upra, the question at issue was
the titld'to land of Brownsville derived under Mexican laws.
The action was ejectment by the city of Brownsville as the
successor in the United States of the Mexican town of Matamoras, claiming title to a tract of land, to obtain title to
which the city of Matamoras had instituted proceedings in
expropriation or condemnation. The decision was that the
city of Matamoras had never acquired. title to the land because compensation had not been made, and that Brownsville
consequently possessed no title. It is obvious that in the determination of that question the rights of pueblos, under Spanish laws, were not involved. It follows, therefore, that the
reiteration, in the course of the opinion in that case, of the
dicta found in the previous cases on the subject of the rights
of pueblos under Spanish law-cannot be treated as authoritative on that question.
In San Franc.sco v. LeRoy, supra, the object of the bill
filed .was to quiet the title of complainant as against the
city of San Francisco to certain lands within the city limits.
There was no controversy as to the extent of land in which-a
Spanish pueblo acquired some right by its establishment, nor
was the question considered by the court. In reciting the history of the litigation over the San Francisco claim to four
square leagues, the learned justice who delivered the opinion
of the court did not directly refer to the rights acquired under
Spanish laws, but contented himself with an allusion to the'
rights which a Mexican pueblo acquired in lands by operation of Mexican laws.
In passing from this brief review of the decisions of this
court relied on by the city of Santa F6, we note the reference
to the case of Lewzs v San Antonw, 7 Texas, 288. In that
case the court found that there had been an express grant of
six square leagues to the predecessor of the town of San Antonio, and refuted the attempt to destroy the express grant on
the ground that as, by operation of law, towns were entitled to
four leagues, the express grant of six was void, by saying that

UNITED STATES v. SANTA FA.
Opinion of the Court.

no law had been referred to supporting such an assertion. The
implication from this adjudication refutes rather than supports
the claim here contended for.
But, in concluding the consideration of the foregoing contentions advanced by the city of Santa F6, and which are
.shown by the review which we have made to be without
merit, we will now demonstrate that the right to recover
the land here claimed, is without foundation on other and
-distinct grounds.
It cannot be doubted that under the law-of Spain it was
inecessary that the proper authorities should particularly desigmnate the land to be acquired by towns or pueblos, before a
vested right.or title to -the use thereof could arise. Thus,
'by law 7, book 4, title 7, of the Recopilacion which regulated'
the mode of distribution of a tract granted by agreement to a
founder of a settlement, it was provided as follows (2 White,
New Recop. p. 46)
"The tract of territory granted by agreement to the founder
of a settlement shall be distributed in the following manner
They shall, in the first place, lay out what shall- be necessary
for the site of the town and sufficient liberties, [exidos,] and
abundant pasture for the cattle to be owned by the inhabitants, and as much besides for that which shall belong to the
town [propios]. The balance of the tract shall then be divided
'into four parts; one to be selected by the person obligated
to form the settlement, and the remaining three parts to be
-divided in equal portions among the settlers."
Law 11 of the same book and title, provides also (2 White,
Neew Recop. p. 46)
"The lots shall be distributed among the settlers by lot,
beginning with those adjoining the main square, and the remainder shall be reserved to us, to give, as rewards, to new
settlers, or otherwise, accordingto our will, and we command
that a plan of the settlement be always made out."
And law 12 of the same book and title declares (2 White,
New Recop. p. 47)
"We command that no houses be erected within the distance of three hundred paces from the walls or breastworks of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the town, this being necessary for the good of our service and
for the safety .and defence of the- towns, as provided with
regard to castles and fortresses."
And it is well to notice at this point that Santa F6 was a
fortified town ;-it possessed a castle, and not only the land
upon which it was erected but a considerable extent of land'
surrounding it was in any view a part of the public domain,
and passed as such to the United States. .Mitchel v. UJnited
lates, 15 Pet. 52, 89, 91.
The Spanish Understanding of the prerequisite designation
is well illustrated by the following passages from Elizondo's
Practica Universal Forense.
At vol. 3, p. 109, he says
"The Kings, the fountains of jurisdictions, are the owners
of all the terminos situated intheir kingdoms, and 'as such can
donate them, divide or restrict themor give any new form to
the enjoyment thereof, and hence it is that the pueblos cannot alienate their terminos and pastos without precedent
royal license and authority"
And at vol. 5, p. 226-, he says
"There is nothing whatever designated by law as belonging
to towns, other than that which by royal privilege, custom
or contract between man and man, is granted to them, so that
although there be assigned to the towns at the time of their
constitution a terriorw and perlinenczas, which may be com-

mon to all the residents, without each one having the right to
use them separately, it is a prerogative reserved to the princes
to divide the term.nos of the provinces and towns, assigning to
these the use and enjoyment, but the domain remaining in the
sovereigns themselves."
Considering this subject, this court, speaking through Mr.
Justice Field in Grwar v McDowell, 6 Wall. 363, 373, said
"These laws provided for the assignment to the pueblos,
for their-use and the use of their inhabitants, of land not exceediilg, in extent four square leagues. Such assignment was
to be made by the public authorities of the government upon
the original establishment of the pueblo, or afterwards upon
the petition of its officers or inhabitants, and the land was to

UNITED STATES v. SANTA FIE
Opinion of the Court.

be measured off in a square or prolonged form, according to
the nature and condition of the country All lands within
the general limits stated, which had previously become private
property or were required for public purposes, were reserved
and excepted from the assignment.
"Until the lands were thus definitely assigned and measured off, the right or claim of the pueblo was an imperfect
,one. It was a right which the government might refuse to
recognize at all, or might recognize in a qualified form, it
might be burdened with conditions and it might be restricted
to less limjts than the four square leagues, which was the
usual quantity assigned."
Moreover, the general theory of the Spanish law on the
subject indicates that, even after a formal designation, the
control of the outlying lands, to which a town might have
been considered entitled, was in the King, as the source and
fountain of title, and could be disposed of at will by him or
by his duly aufhomzed representative, as long as such lands
were not affected by individual and private rights. This is
shown by the quotation from Elizondo, already made. The
provisions of law 14, title 12, book 4-, of the Recopilacion (2
White, New Recop. p. 52), which is reproduced in the margin,
illustrates the absolute control thus exercised by the King of
Spain over the subject.'
I Law 14, title 12, book 4 of .ecopilacon.
 Whereas we have fully inherited the dominion of the Indies; and,
whereas the waste lands and soil which were not granted by the kings, nor
predecessors, or by ourselves, in our name, belong to our patrimony and
royal crown, it is expedient that all the land which is held without just and
true titles be restored, as belonging to us, in order that we may retain, be.Thre all things all the lanids which may appear to us and to our viceroys, audiences and governors, to be necessary for public squares, liberties, [exidos,]
reservations, [propbos] pastures and commons, to be granted to the villages
,andcouncils already settled, with due regardas well to their present "condition
as to thezr future state, and to the increase they may receive, and after distributing among the Indians whatever they may justly want to cultivate, sow
and raise cattle, confirming to them what they now hold, and granting what
they may want besides- all the remaining land may be reserved to us, clear
of any incumbrance, for the purpose of being given as rewards, or disposed
of according to our pleasure: For all tins, we order and command the vice-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The existence of this power of control and disposition as
to municipal lands in the supreme Spanisli authority finds a
further and cogent exemplification in the decree of the Cortes
of January 4, 1813, referred to by Hall in his Mexican Law,
p. 45. A like power, it is to be inferred, is now asserted to
be lodged in-and has actually been exercksed by the general
government of Mexico. The constitution of Mexico of February 5, 1857, which went into effect September 16 of the
same year, prohibited the acquisition or administration of real
property by civil or ecclesiastical corporations without any
other exception than the buildings intended immediately or
directly for the service or purpose of the institutions, and
hence arose the necessity for the abolition of municipal commons (exidos) in order to comply with this constitutional provision. In discussing the subject, Orozco, a MHexican writer, in
his "Legislation and Jurisprudence on Public Lands" (vol. 2,
p. 110'), after pointing out the distinction between pueblo
sites (iundo) and the ejidos or commons of a pueblo, says
"The murndipal commons, (ejidos,) as has been seen, were
excluded by the laws abolishing mortmain, but, in view of
the aforesaid constitut*, nal precept, it was logical to infer that
the municipal commons (ejidos) passed to the control of the
Federal treasury, as successor by subrogation of the property
of corporations, and with so much the more reason since,
recalling the origin of the municipal commons (ejidos) as soon
as their existence became impossible, nothing is more natural
and consequential than that those lands should revert to the
dominion of him who granted them for the common use of
the residents of the settlements."
After reciting the fact that in order to "reconcile respect
for the supreme law with the-interest of these pueblos," the
roys, presidents and pretorial audiences, whenever they shall think fit, to
appoint a sufficient time for the owners of lands to exhibit before them
and the ministers of their audiences, whom they shall appoint for that purpose, the titles to lands, estates, huts and caballerias, who, after confirming
the possession of such as hold the same by virtue of good and legal titles,
or by a just prescription, shall restore to us the remainder, to be disposed of
according to our pleasure."

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F9 .
Opinion of the Court.

general law, after fixing the limits of the pueblos and dedicatirg to public uses the cemeteries and other public places
therein, directed that the remainder of the land should be
distributed among the fathers or heads of families, the author
adds
"In this way it has been carried into effect, titles signed by
the president of the republic in favor of those residents of the
pueblos being issued gratis by the department of-public works,
all of which proves that the Federal government and not 'the
common councils, nor any other authority is that which, as
-competent in the matter, graciously grants the disposable
part of the ancient municipal commons (ejidos)."
It was doubtless a consideration of this state of the Spanish
law and the unquestioned power lodged in the King of Spain
to exercise unlimited authority over the lands assigned to a
town and undisposed of and not the subject of private grant
(to all of which rights the United States succeeded as successor of the King of Spain and the government of, Mexico),
which caused Congress, in enacting the laws of 1864 and. 1866,
to carve out of the claim of San Francisco such land for public
purposes as it saw fit, to authorize further reservations to be
made within a period of one year, and to subject the lands
relinquished to specific trusts imposed not, alone upon the
municipality of San Francisco, but also upon the general
assembly of California. The power thus asserted. by the act
was not new, but conformed to and accorded with the practioe of the governinent from the beginning. Thus, 'in 1812,
Congress, by an act approved June 13 of that year, c. 99, 2
Stat. 748, for the settlement of claims to land in the Territory
of Missouri (where rights under the laws of Spain existed),
provided, by section 1, for the survey of the boundaries of
towns and for the confirmation to individuals of such lots
therein covered by actual possession, and for the confirmation
of such commons to the towns as had been actually possessed
and used by the town. So far as all the other commons, not
so actually possessed, were concerned, and the lots within the
town not possessed and claimed by individuals, 4he absolute
right to dispose of the same was asserted by Congress, and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

portion thereof was dedicated by that body to public uses.
The first section is reproduced in the margin, 1 and the second section, accomplishing the results just indicated, reads as
follows "SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That all town or

village lots, out lots or common field lots, included in such
surveys, which are not rightfully owned -or claimed by any
private individuals, or held as commons belonging to such
town" or villages, or that the President of the United States
may not think proper to reserve tor military purposes, shall
be, and the same are hereby reserved for the support of
schools in the respective towns and villages aforesaid Provided, that the whole. quantity of land contained in the lots
reserved for the support of schools in any one town or village,
shall not exceed one-twentieth part of the whole lands included in the general survey of such town or village."
1 Section 1 of Act of June 1,

1812 (2 Stat. 748).

"That, the rights, titles and claims, to town or village lots, but lots,
common field lots and commons, in, adjoining and belonging tp the several
towns or villages of Portage des Sioux, St. Charles, St. Louis, St. Ferdinand,
Yillago a Robert, -Carondelet, St. Genevieve, New Madrid, New Bourbon,
Little Prairie and Arkansas, in the Territory of Missouri, which lots have
been inhabited, cultivated or possessed, prior to, the twentieth day of December, one'thousand eight hundred and three, shall be and the same are
hereby confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective towns or villages
aforesaid, according to their several right or rights- in common thereto:
Provided, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect the
rights of any-persons claiming the same lands, or any part thereof, whose
claims have been confirmed -by the board of commissioners for adjustln&
and settling claims tb land in the said territory. And it shall be the duty
of the prificipal deputy surveyor for the said territory as soon as may.be,
to survey, or "cause to be surveyed"and marked (where the same has not.already been done, according to law) the out -boundary lines. of the said
several towns/ or villages so as to include the out lots, common field lots
and commods, thereto respectively belonging. Arid he.sliall make out plats
of the surveys, which he shall transmit to the surveyor general, who shall
forward copies-of the.said pats to the.Commissioner of the General Land
Office, and to the recorder of land titles; the expenses of surveying the said
out boundary lines shall be paid by the United States out of the moneys approprlated for surveying the public lands: oProvlded that the whole expense
shall not exceed three dollars for-every mile that shall be actually surveyed
and marked."

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F9.
Opinion of the Court.

The same course was adopted by Congress in the act of
February 8, 1827, c. 9, 4 Stat. 202, providing for the settlement and- confirmation of claims to lands in the former Spanish domain of East Florida. The third section of that act,
confirming to the city of St. Augustine certain lands, is as
follows
"SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That the commons in
the city of St. Augustine be, and the same are hereby,. confirmed to the corporation of said city, to the same extent that
they were used, claimed and enjoyed under the Spanish goverment. And the parochial church and burying ground in
possession of the Roman Catholic congregation are confirmed
to them, and the old Episcopal Church lot is, hereby, relinquished and confirmed to the Incorporated Episcopal Church
of St. Augustine Provided always, That the grants in thi
section specified shall-forever inure t&the purposes for which
they are confirmed, and shall not be alienated without. the
consent of Congress."
So, also, it may well be supposed that it was upon this
aspect of the imperfect nature of right in land claimed by
towns in territory formerly owned 'by Spain and Mexico, -and
the long established construction of such rights evidenced by
the foregoing acts of Congress, which caused this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Field, m Grzsar v. 1fHcDowell, 8 pra,
to, say, p. 373
"Even after the assignment the interest acquired by the
pueblo was far from being an indefeasible estate such as is
known to our laws. The purposes to be accomplished by the
creation of pueblos did not require their possession of the
fee. The interest
amounted to little more than. a
restricted and qualified right to alienate portions of the lhnd
to its inhabitants for building or cultivation, and to use the
remainder for commons, for pasture lands or as a source of
revenue, or for other public purposes. And this limited right
of disposition and use was in all particulars subject to the control of the government of the country "
hlow completely this language applies to the case here presented is demonstrated when it is considered that there is no

OOTOBER TERM 1896.
Opinion of.the Court.

proof of a single act of ownership by the city, either in its own
right or by anybody else, claiming to hold under it, and that
it is asserted in the brief of the counsel for the government.
and not denied that practically every foot of the. area of four
square leagues now claimed by the city is covered by grants
made by the governors of the province of New Mexico to
.others. Whether these grants be valid or not of course is
not before us for consideration.
An inchoate claim, which could not have been asserted as
an absolute right against the government of either Spain or
Mexico, and which was subject to t1ie-uncontrolled discretion
of Congress, is clearly not within the purview of the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 539, creating the Court of Private Land
Claims, 26 Stat. 854, and, therefore, is beyond the reach of
judicial cognizance.
The duty of protecting' imperfect rights of property under
treaties such as those by which territory was ceded by Mexico
to the United States in 1848 and 1853, in existence at the time
of such cessions, rests upon the pslitical and not the judicial
department of the government. Le8 Bos v. Bramell, 4 Row.
449, 461, Asnsa v. United Statee, 161 U. S. 208, 222. To the
extent only that Congress has vested them with authority to
determine and protect suQlh rights, can courts exercise jurisdiction. Where, therefore, a tribunal of limited jurisdiction
iscreated by Congress to determine such rights of property,
a-party seeking relief must present for adjudication a case
clearly within the act, or-relief cannot be given. United
Statee v Clarke, 8 Pet. 436, 444.
Section 13 of the act provides that all the proceedings and
rights theretofore referred to in the act shall be conducted
and decided subject to certain provisions therein enumerated
and to the other provisions of the act. Among the provisions
contained in section 13 is the following
"First. No claim shall be allowed that shall not appear to
be upon a 'title lawfully and regularly derived from the government of Spain or Mexico, or from any of the states of the
republic of M exico having lawful authority to make grants of
land, and one that if not then complete and perfect at the date

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F9.
Opinion of the Court,

of the acquisition of the territory by the United States, the
claimant would have had a lawful right to make perfect had
the territory not been -acquired by the United States, and
that the United States are bound, upon the principles of public
law or by the provisions of the treaty of cession, to respect
and permit to become complete and perfect if the same was
not at said date already complete and perfect."
By section 7 of the act the court was also required, in reaching a conclusion as to the validity of the claim, to be guided
by the laws of nations, the stipulations of -the treaties concluded between the United States and the Republic of Mexico
of February 2, 1848, and December 30, 1853.
Although section 6 of the act also. authorized the adjudication by the Court of Private Land Claims, of all claims which
the United States "are bound to recognize and confirm by the
treaties of cession of said country by Mexico to the United
States, which at the date of the passage of this act have not
been confirmed by act of Congress or otherwise finally decided
upon by lawful authority, and which are not already complete
and perfect," the meaning of the words "complete and perfect"
is to be derived by considering the context and not by segregating them from the previous part of the sentence exacting
that the claim must be one which the United States was bound
to recognize and confirm by virtue of the treaty These words
are moreover controlled by the mandatory requirements of section 13.
Indeed, the controlling nature of the provwsions of section 13
of the act of 1891 was considered and settled by this court -in
.Atn8 v. United States, 161 U. S. 208, 223, where, speaking
by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, it was said
"Under the act of March 3, 1891, it must appear, in order
to the confirmation of a grant by the Court of Private Land
Claims, not only that the title was lawfully and regularly derived, but that, if the grant were hot complete and perfect,
the claimant could by rtght, and not by grace, have demanded
that it should be made perfect by the former government, had
the territory not been acquired by the United States."
Although the act of 1891, in section 11, authorized a town.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

presenting a claim for a grant to represent the claims of lotholders to lots within the town, this provision does not override the general requirements of the statute as to the nature
of the claim to title which the court is authorized to confirm.
The difference between the act of 1891 and the California act
of 1851, hitherto referred to, accentuates the intention of Congress to confine time authority conferred by the later act to
narrower limits than those fixed by the act of 1851. The act
of 1851 authorized the adjudication of claims to land by
or "title" derived from the Spanish
virtue of any "griht"
government, and conferred the power in express language on
the board and court to presume a grant snfavor of a town.
The act of 1891 not only entirely omits authority to invoke
.this presumption, but, as we have seen, excludes by express
terms any claim, the completion of which depended upon the
mere grace or favor of the government of Spain or Mexico,
and of the United States as the successor to the rights of
these governments.
Nor do certain expressions contained in the opinion in San
Francsco v LeRoy, 138 U S. 656, and Kntght v. Unsted
States Land Assoczatwn, 142 U. S. 161, when properly understood, conflict with the foregoing conclusions. Those cases
dealt with the rights of San Francisco after they were recognized by Congress, and to the extent only of that recognition.
The language referred to, therefore, simply amounted to saying that as Congress had to a certain extent recognized the
-claim of San Francisco, to the limit of this recognition, and
no further, the rights of that city would be treated as relating
,back -and originating from the nature of the claim presented,
.and which in part through the grace of Congress had been
allowed. In the case at bar we are not concerned with con.sdermng or determining to what period of time or source of
right the claim would relate if it were found to be within the
reach of the provisions of the act of 1891.
The petition is framed upon. the theory merely of a right
to four square leagues, vested in the city by operation of law,
and as the record contains no proof whatever as to the possessory claims of lotholders in the city of Santa F, or as to the

UNITED STATES v. SANTA F.

717

Opinion of the Court.

actual possession enjoyed by that city of public places, thesa
latter rights, if any, as well as the asserted title of the city to
the swamp tract to which reference has been made in the
course of this opinion are not to be controlled by the rejection now made of the pretensions of the city to a title to the
four square leagues tract asserted to have been acquired by
operation of Spanish laws.
Tite decree below ss 'eversed, and the cause remandedwzth
tnstruotiUns to di8m-ss the pettwn.
MR. JusTIrn BiwiwnE concurs in the result.

