OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Both the furnishing of the St. Mary's by the Secretary of the
Navy to the-State of New York for a ship to maintain a nautical school upon, and the detail of the claimant as executive
officer of the vessel while she was used for that purpose, were
pursuant to the powers expressly conferred upon the President
of the United States and the Secretary of the Navy by the
act of Congress, entitled "An act to encourage the establishment of public marine schools." Act of June 20, 18,74, c. 339,
18 Stat. 121.
The duties of executive officer of the St. Mary's having been
perfoymed by the claimant as a lieutenant in the Navy of the
United States, at sea, under the orders of the Department of
the Navy, and in a vessel employed by the United States by
authority of law, he was entitled, during the whole period of
his service, whether the vessel was attached to a wharf, or was
sailing on a cruise, to the rate of pay which the statute allowed
to him "when at sea," notvithstanding that during the same
period he also received pay from the State of New York for
the performance of the distinct, but quite consistent, duties of
instructor in its nautical school upon this vessel, the performance of which, indeed, by naval officers, was manifestly contemplated and intended by the act of Congress, and by the
orders of the Secretary of the Navy
Judgment affirmed.

M . JUSTICE FIELD and Mr. JUSTICE BnEWER took no part
in the consideration and decision of this case.

JONES v. BRIM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 621.

Submitted January 11, 1897. -Decided

February 1, ISM9.

Section 2087 of the Compiled Laws of Utah, which provides that "Any
person who drives a herd of horses, mules, asses, cattle, sheep, goats
or swine over a public highway, where such highway is constructed on a
hillside, shall be liable for all damage done by such animals in destroying
the banks or rolling rocks into or upon such highway," Is not in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States.

JONES v. BRIM.
Opinion of the Court.

THis -action was originally instituted in June, 1893, before a
justice of the peace in the then Territory of Utab,.to recover
the sum of ten dollars for damages alleged to have resulted
from destroying the banks on the side of and from rolling
rocks into and upon a public highway situated on a hillside,
caused by a band of sheep owned by the defendant while
being driven upon such highway
The Supreme Court of the Territory on review of the judgment of a District Court in favor of the defendant, held that
the statute upon which the cause of action was founded was
valid, adjudged that the petition stated a cause of action, and
remanded the cause to the District Court. 11 Utah, 200.
Subsequently, the Supreme Court of the State affirmed a
judgment of the District Court, which had been entered for
the amount claimed. 41 Pac. Rep. 282. The defendant sued
out this writ of error.
.Mr .Frankli S. Rhcards and Hr Joseph T Rick-ards for
plaintiff in error.
.1r Parley L. Williams for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The sole question presented for our consideration is wnether
section 2087 of the Compiled Laws of Utah (vol. 1, p. 743) is
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States. The
section reads as follows
"SEC. 2087 Any person who drives a herd of horses,
mules, asses, cattle, sheep, goats or swine over a public highway, where such highwav is constructed on a hillside, shall be
liable for all damage (lone by such animals in destroying the
banks or rolling rocks into or upon such highway"
Plaintiff in error claims that the law in question deprives
the class of persons mentioned in it of their property without
due process of law, and denies to them the equal protection
of the laws, and that, consequently, its provisions contravene
that portion of the first section of the Fourteenth A mendment

OCTOBER TERT,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

to the Constitution of the United States, which provides that
"No State shall deprive any person of life, liberty or property, without due process of law, nor deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." The
denial of the equal protection of the laws is asserted to consist in an unjust and illegal discrimination against persons
who "drive herds of horses, mules, asses, cattle, sheep, goats
or swine over a public highway, where such highway is constructed on a hillside," by making them liable for damage
done by them in using the highway, while all other persons
are permitted to use it without liability
We. premise that the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution referred to was undoubtedly intended to
prohibit an arbitrary deprivation of life or liberty, or arbitrary spoliation of property Barbwer v. Connoly, 113 U. S.
27. But it does not limit, nor was it designed to limit, the
subjects upon which the police power of a State may be
lawfully exerted. Mllinneapolis Railway Co. v. Beckwzth, 129
U S.26, 29. Embraced within the police powers of a State
is the establishment, maintenance and control of public highways. NArew Orleans Gas Co. v. Lousiana -Light Co., 115
U S. 650, 661. The legislation in question would clearly
seem, therefore, to come within the narrowest definition of
the police power, and be properly classed as a reasonable
regulation incident to the right to establish and maintain
such highways. The statute is analogous in principle to the
one considered in the case of St. outs cf& San Franeseo
Railway Co. v .Mathews, 165 U S. 1, decided at this term,
wherein it was held that a law of Missouri was valid which
made every railroad corporation owning or operating a railroad an the State absolutely responsible in damages for the
property of any person injured or destroyed by fire communicated by its locomotive engines. That decision was based
upon the right of a State, in -the exercise of its police power,
to classify occupations with relation to their peculiar liability
to cause injury to property, from the dangerous nature of the
implements emplored in the business. The legislation here
in question undoubtedly proceeds upon this theory The stat-

JONES v. BRIM.
Opinion of the Court.

ute was manifestly not designed to impose a liability upon
the owners of herds for damage occasioned by the mere
passage of a drove of animals over a hillside road. If these
herds were kept in the road, the banks would not bo caved
or rocks rolled into the travelled way The damage contemplated must, therefore, be occasioned by animals going outside the beaten roadway In effect, the legislature declared
that the passage of droves or herds of animals over a- hillside
highway was so likely, if great precautions were not observed,
to result in damage to the road, that where this damage followed such driving, there ought to be no controversy over the
existence or non-existence of negligence, but that there should
be an absolute legal presumption to that effect resulting from
the fact of having driven the herd. The confusion of thought
involved in the reasong of the plaintiff in error not only
results from failing to consider that the statute simply creates
a conclusive presumption of negligence from a particular state
of facts, but also is caused by treating the law as one imposing a liability on the owners of herds when liability does not
also exist as to others. It is reasonable to infer that the lawmaker contemplated that if only a few animals were driven
over a road and damage resulted from their being allowed to
leave the road and go upon the sides, so as to cause injury,
there would be no practical difficulty in establishing the
want of due care on the part of those in charge of the aniL
mals driven, and, therefore, there was no necessity in such
case of creating a conclusive presumption of negligence, whilst,
on the other hand, the driving of a herd might require such
a degree of care and leave room to so much question as to
whether due care had been taken that where damage resulted
the anclusive presumption of neglect should be entailed.
It was obviously the province of the state legislature to
provide the nature and extent of the legal presumption to
be deduced from a given state of facts, and the creation
by law of such presumptions is after all but an illustration
of the power to classify When the statute is properly understood, therefore, the argument of the plaintiff m error amounts
to an assertion that the whole subject of the probative force

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

to arise by operation of law, from any specified state of facts,
is, in every sense, by the effect of the Fourteenth Amendment, removed from the jurisdiction of the local authorities.
The statute being general in its application, embracing all
persons under substantially like circumstances, and not being
an arbitrary exercise of power, does not deny to the defendant
the equal protection of the laws. Lowe v Hansas, 163 U. S.
81, 88, 1Dunean v. .Mis.oum, 152 U S. 377. So, also, as the
statute clearly specifies the condition under which the presumption of neglect arises and provides for the ascertainment
of liability by judicial proceedings, there isno foundation for
the assertion that the enforcement of such ascertained liability
constitutes a taking of property without due process of law
Judgment afinmed.

ADDINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO

TuE CIRCUIT COURT OF
EASTEIRN

THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

ISTrRICTl OF TEXAS.

No. 519. Submitted December 15,1S96. -Decided

Februarv i, M59T.

The refusal of the trial court to grant a new trial cannot be assigned for
error in this court.
In the trial of a person for murder the court in substance instructed the
jury that while manslaughter was the intentional taking of human life,
the distingnishing trait between it and murder was the absence of malice;
that manslaughter sprang frot a gross provocation, which rendered the
party temporarily incapable of the cool reflection wich would otheryise
make the act murder, and that while the law did not wholly excuse the
offence in such case, it reduced it from murder to manslaughter. Held,
that this,.being for the benefit of the accused, was not error of which
he could complain.
An instruction in such case that if the circumstances were such as to produce upon'the minid of the accused, as a reasonably prudent man, the
impression that lie tould save his own life or protect himself from serious bodily harm only by taking the life of his assaaint, lie was justified by
the law ii resorting to such means, unless lie went to wyhere .thu deceased
was for the purpose of provoking a difficulty ii order that he might slay
his adversary, is not error.

