OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

others, and preparing to take advantage of them. What is
gained at law by a person of this description equity will not
take from him; but it does not follow that equity will aid his
views.'"

Without, therefore, determining whether the selection and
certification of these lands was absolutely void or simplv voidable at the election of the Government, or valid and beyond
any right of challenge on the part of the Governmenft or an"
one else, we are of the opinion that equity will not hell) the
plaintiff in his suit, and the decree of the Court of Appeals is
.Ajjirnied.

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
APPEAL FROM TIMi

COURT OF APPEALS O0 'lHE

DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 78.

Argued January 5, 6, 1,,9s. -

Decided February 15, 1897.

An infant may affirm a contract or settlement made for her benefit, like the

one here in controversy, and may sue upon it as if she were originally a
party to it.
In a suit by children to establish their rights as creditors of the estate of
their deceasedmother other creditors .are not necessary parties, as the
executors or administrators represent them and guard their interests.
The bill in this case, fled by direction of the orphans' court to obtain the
advice of a court of chancery upon the rights of the respective parties,
discloses on its face a good cause of action in equity.
That cause of action is not barred by the Maryland statute of limitations,
still in force in the District of Columbia.
Where a parent, being a debtor to his child, makes an advancement to the
child, it is presumed to be a satisfaction pro tanto of the debt.
In a suit between devisees under a will, statements made by the deceased
to counsel respecting theexecution of the will, or other similar document,
are not privileged.
The objection that the complainants were incompetent to testify as to thei r
mother's statements, and- as to transactions in which she took part is
entitled to.some weight and is not free-from doubt; but such testimony
is not indispensable'to the maintenance of the complainants' bill.
The general bequest to her daughters in the mother's will was not an extinguishment of her debt to them.
No interest should be allowed prior to the mother's death.

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
Statement of the Case.

Tis was a bill in equity filed in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia.by Mary E. Patten, Josephine A.
Patten, Edith Patten and, Helen Patten, against their sister,
Augusta P Glover, wife of John M. Glover, in aid of the
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court as an orphans' court, to
construe the will of their mother, Anastasia Patten, and to
charge the estate with certain claims of the complainants
prior to a general distribution of the assets.
The facts of the case are substantially as follows Complainants and defendant Augusta P Glover are the five daughters
of Edmund Patten, late of the State of Nevada, deceased,
and of Anastasia Patten, who, after her husband's death, took
up her residence in Washington and died September 11.
1888, leaving a will executed in San Francisco December 23,
1879.
Edmund Patten, her husband, died November 16, 1872, intestate, his widow becoming his adnuistratrix, and also the
guardian of each of his children, all of whom were then, and
for some years continued to be, minors under the age of
twenty-one years. By the law of Nevada, Mrs. Patten became entitled, upon her husband's death, to one half his estate,
the other half descending to his children. As administratrix
and guardian, she took possessibn of the entire estate, and
retained the same down to the time of her death. She made
no accounting either as administratrix or guardian, nor did
she keep any regular accounts or preserve her vouchers.
In September, 1885, apparently because of a desire on the
part of the sureties on her bond, or some of them, to have her
accounts settled, Mrs. Patten undertook to adjust her indebtedness to her children. She called in the services of Curtis J
Hillyer, a friend of her husband and herself, and the result
was the preparation of the following document intended to
take the place of a formal account and vouchers
"Whereas our mother, Anastasia Patten, as guardian for us,
received in the years 1873-'4-5, certain amounts of money,
being our portion by inheritance of the estate of our deceased
father; and whereas no special separate investments of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

money so received- have been made by our said guardian, but
tne same has been by her kept and safely invested in connee
tion with moneys belonging to her in her own right derived
from the said estate, and whereas our said guardian has up
to the present- date had entire charge of pur maintenance and
education, and has during the past thirteen "ears incurred
large amount, of family expenses for our benefit, of which
expenses no account has been kept by her, and whereas we
and our said guardian are now desirous of settling the accoun.
between us in a just and equitable manner without attempting
to secure technical accuracy in such settlement, and whereas
our said mother and guardian has submitted to us for inspec
tion all accounts and papers in her possession touching rn
relating to the receipts and disbursements entering into such
accounting, and we have personally general knowledge concerning the family expenses during said period, and whereas
from such examination and knowledge we believe that by a
payment to each of us by our said guardian of the sum of
$101,600 an equitable settlement will be made and full justice
done to each of fis
"Now. therefore, each of us for herself agrees to accept the
said sum of $101,600 in full and complete settlement of nil
accounts, claims and demands between us and each of us and
our said mother and guardian, and in full satisfaction of all
laims and demands of whatever character arising out of or connected with the administration of said estate or the said relation of guardian and ward, and each of us for herself authorizes
and requests that upon presentation of this agreement and a
receipt for the above amount the court having jurisdiction
thereof will, without further investigation of accounts so far
as they concern either of us, pass the final aceounts of -Vir
mother as administratrix and guardian, and by proper decre.
discharge those liable as bondsmen for her Pcuon in either
capacity"
"(Signed)
IM:&Y ELLEN PATEN.
KATHERINE-AUGUSTA PArEN.

JOSEPHINE ANTOINEnr!E PATTEN.
EDITH PArrT

."

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
Statement of the Case.

This paper was signed by all the complainants except Helen
and by the defendant Augusta. Helen being then a minor
did not sign it, but subsequently adopted and accepted the
adjustment and settlement evidenced by the paper.
This pape, was never presented by Mrs. Patten to the
proper court, and it, was in her possession when she died.
She, did not at that time pay to her children, or any of them,
the sum therein mentioned in settlement of her indebtedness
to them, but subsequently and in February, 1887, when her
daughter Augusta was on the point of marrying her husband,
ohn M. Glover, she assigned and transferred to her United
States government bonds of the par value of $80,000 and the
actual value of $102,800, with the benefit of the interest accruing thereon since the preceding 1st day of January Then
Augusta maried and left her mother's home.
.Mrs. Patten did not at that tune pay or give her other
daughters anythine on account of her indebtedness to them
In the following autumn, however, namely, on October 15,
1897, she made for them and in their names an investment
of th sum of %,4,000,being at the rate of $11,250 for each,
which the complainants claimed to have been a payment on
account of her indebtedness to thtm. Itwas undisputed that
the interest on this investment, from the time it was made
until Mrs. Patten's death and thereafter, was always deposited
in bank to the credit of the appellees and for their account.
Within a year after this transaction, namely, on September
11. 1688, Mrs. Patten died, without having done anything
further towards settling her accounts as administratrix or
guardian or paying her indebtedness to the appellees. It
was found that she had left a will bearing date December
22, 1879, some seven years after her husband's death, and
nearly six veam before the preparation and execution of the
lapur in September, 1885.
By the terms'of this will, Mrs. Patten devised and bequeathed
t he ,hole of her estate, subject to '$45,000 in legacies. to her
tivc

daughter, ,)nd named as her executrices such of them as

wight have attine?, the age of majority at the time of her
..
ath and who should not be otherwise incapacitated to

OCTOBER TERN, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

undertake the trust. By virtue of the latter provision all of
the daughters were appointed and qualified in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, as executrices, but as the
will was executed in the presence of two witnesses only, it
was invalid to pass real estate situate in the District of Columbia, and as the greater part of Mrs. Patten's estate at the time
of her death consisted of such real estate, it descended to her
daughters, as though she had died intestate,
The daughters having all qualified as executrices, and hay
ing entered upon the discharge of their duties, the appellees,
claumngto be creditors of the estate of which they were also
executrices, -presented to the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia a petition, wherein after reciting the indebtedness
of Mrs. Patten to all of her daughters, including Mrs. Glover,
by reason of her guardianship, alleged that in September,
1885, the amount of her indebtedness was adjusted, settled
and deiermiued by mutual agreement (except as to Helen),
evidenced by the paper writing of that month hereinbefore set
forth, that Helen, being fully advised in the premises, adopted
and accepted the said agreement and settlement, that by virtue of the premises Mrs. Patten became and was indebted to
each of the petitioners and to Mrs. Glover, as of that date, in
the sum of $101,600, that on February 1-7, 1887, as of January 1, 1887, Mrs. Patten paid on account of her indebtedness
to Mrs. Glover $102,800, by transferring to her bonds of the
United States, that afterwards Mrs. Patten paid each of the
petitioners on account the sum of $11,250, and that by virtue
of the premises the estate of Mrs. Patten stood indebted
accordingly, but, as the petitioners were advised that they
mght not retain for their claims, unless passed by the court,
they accordingly in their petition prayed the court to pass
upon and authorize the payment of the same.
To this petition Mrs. Glover, the remaining executrix, appeared and filed an answer, admitting the inheritanco by her
and the complainants of the estate aforesaid from their father,
and set forth in substance that the said testatrix did become
guardian of the complainants and said defendant, as alleged,
and did receive their said estate aforesaid as such guardian,

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
Statement of the Case.

but that said testatrix never formally settled her accounts as
such guardian, she not having been called upon so todo, that
the document above set forth was drawn and signed in order
to enable said testatrix formally to close her accounts as guardian aforesaid, but that the amounts agreed by the terms of said
paper to be acce)ted by the complainants and said defendant
were never paid, nor was any evidence of indebtedness given
to them or an'of them, and that, notwithstanding said paper,
the accounts of said testatrix as guardian as aforesaid remained
open at the time of her death, alid the said estate of the complainants and the said defendant was dealt with by said testatrix after the execution of said paper in the same manner as
before the same was so drawn and signed, that therefore, by
reason of the circumstances, a trust existed on the part of the
saul testatrix towards-the complainants and the- said defendant in respect of their said estate, and that the relation of said
testatrix to the complainants and the said defendant was recognized and treated by her to the day of -her death as that of
trustee and cestuzs qUe trutent and not of debtor and creditors.
Defendant further set forth and contended- that, by her last
will and testament, the said testatrix devised, subject to certain bequests of comparatively trifling amount, all her estate,
real and personal, as well the estate.of the said defendant and
the complainants held in trust for them as her ow-n estate,
that such devise operated the extinguishment, discharge and
payment of any claim upon the part of the complainants in
the premises that their claims ceased to be provable as debts,
against the estate of sail testatrix, that such. alleged. extingushment, dischrge and paynent are not affected by the fact
that the said defendant and the complainants took title to the
real estate-of said testatrix by descent instead of by devise, in
consequence of the insufficient execution of the will, and.that
the several mdebtednesses alleged by these complainants were
never recogized or acted upon by said testatrix and no part
payments were made by her on account thereof.
Upon consideration of the petition and answer, the court
made an order that further action upon the petition be suspended •until said other matters whereof this court has not

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opiton of the Court.

jurisdiction sliall be first tried and determined in the appropriate tribunal in such manner as counsel may advise."
Thereupon, on January 8, 1890, complainants filed their
original bill in this cause, to which Augusta P Glover interposed a demurrer and answer, and also filed a cross bill in
which her husband joined. This was followed by a variety
of answers, motions, demurrers and amendments unnecessary
to be set forth in detail, as the material facts already sufliciently appear. Srnbsequently a considerable amount of oral
and documentary evidence was taken and returned, and the
cause having been transferred to the Court of Appeals of the
District in pursuance of the act of Congress approved February 9, 1893, that court on November 8,1893, entered a decree
that the complainants were entitled to the relief prayed for, and
that the cause be remanded to the Supreme Court with directions to enter a decree in conformity with the opinion of the
court. 1 App. Cas. D. C.466. From this decree Augusta and
her husband appealed to this court.
Mr Charles J Bonaparte for appellants.
M1r Hewry E. Dams for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The object of this bill is to determine certain questions in
aid of another branch of the same court, sitting as an orphans'
court, and already in possession of a petition by the complainants to establish an indebtedness against the estate of their
mother, action upon which petition was suspended by that
branch of th.court, awAiting the determination of these questions.
The theory of the complainants is that the amount of Mrs.
Patten's indebtedness to her daughters was adjusted and settled
by mutual agreement of the parties, evidenced by the instrument of September, 1885, at the sum of $102,600 each. that
txWendant, Augusta P Glover, received her share upon her
marriage, by a transfer of $80,000 of the United States bonds,

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

worth $102,800, and that the complainants received a credit
in October, 1887, of $11,250 each.
The theory of the appellants is that the relation of the
testatrix to her children was that of trustee, and not of debtor.
and that the will, by reason of its provisions, operated- the
extinguishment, discharge and payment of the complainants'
claims, and that said claims ceased to be provable as debts
against the estate.
Several assignments of error are filed, which will be disposed
of in their order.
1. That Helen was improperly joined in the bill as complainant, because she was not a party to the instrument of
September, 1885. Being a minor, she did not sign the instrument, and would not have been bound by it if she had done
so, but if there were any indebtedness to the children, it arose
from the fact that the mother was guardian of all of them,
that the law made no discrimination between them, and such
indebtedness was due as much-to Helen as to the others.
While the instrument makes no mention of the children by
name, it was evidently intendeQ as much for her benefit as
that of the other sisters, and upon her arriving at her majority,
she had her election either to disaffirin it. or to adopt it as an
adjustment of the amount due to herself. She chose the latter
alternative, and in her petition to the orphans' court, of May
10, 1S89, for the allowance of her claim, avers "That the
)Petitioner,Helen Patten, bemin fully advised in the premises,
now adopts and accepts said agreement and the settlement
aforaid as thougrh she had duly participated in the same at
the tini, of tlip inaking thereof." An infant may affirm a
vontract or ,ittlement thus made for her benefit, and may sue
upon it as if she wre originally a party to it.. Irrespective,
however, of any promise which the law might imply from the
procuriiont by Mrs. Patten of the execution of this instrument bv her daughters, if there were any indebtedness arising
from her relation as guardian to her children, it existed infavor of Ilelen as much as the others, and as evidence of the
amount of such indebtedness this document is as potent in her
behalf as in that of her sisters.
vol.. cLxv-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

2. The second assignment, that there is a non-joinder of
necessary parties defendant, is based upon the theory that
there are three legatees interested in the estate to the amount
of $45,000, that there is no averment that these legatees have
been paid, or can be paid in full, out of the personal estate
if the claims of the complainants and those of other creditors
are satisfied. There is nothing in this objection. The complainants do not sue as executrices, but expressly aver that
they bring the suit "in their own right" as creditors of their
mother's estate, and for the purpose 6f establishing their debt.
To such a suit other creditors are not necessary parties. The
case of Dandrdge v IMashzngtoa s Executors, 2 Pet. 370, 377,
is directly in point. This was a suit brought by the plaintiff
fartha Washington
against the executors of the will of AMrs.
to obtain payment of legacies bequeathed to him in her last
will. In reply to an objection that the residuary legatees
under the will should have been made parties, Mr. Ohief
Justice Marshall observed -"They have undoubtedly an interest in reducing the sun to be allowed out of it to the complainant, but they have the same interest in reducing every
demand on the estate. Whatever remains sinks into the
residuum, -and that residuum is diminished as well by the
claims of creditors and specific legatees as by this. In all
such cases the executors represent the residuary legatees and
guard their interests. It is a part of that duty which requires
them to protect the. interests of the estate. In such suits the
residuary legatees are never made parties. To require it
would be an intolerable burden on those who have claims on
an estate in the hands of executors." If this be the law with
respect to residuary legatees, who are necessarily and directly
interested in defeating every other claim against the estate,
with much greater force is the rule applicable to specific
legatees, who are in much less danger of being affected by
the allowance of other claims. That such legatees need not
be joined is as clearly settled as that other libellants need not
be joined as respondents in a suit in admiralty to establish
a claim against a vessel, although they may be admitted to
defend. Wise" v Blachly, t Johns. Oh. 437, 1'ritchare' v

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

Hicks, 1 Paige, 270, West v Randall, 2 Mason, 181, Daniel's

Oh. Prac. c. 5, § 2.
3. That there is no equity in the bill. Defendants' position
in this connection is, that the case made is an indebtedness
created by the instrument of September, 1885, to which Helen
was not a party, that there was no agreement by Mrs. Patten
to pay the sum named, or any sum whatever, and that the
paper constituted a mere offer on the part of each of her
children to receive a specified sum ii satisfaction of her claim
against her as guardian, that this paper, therefore, is no contract, and contains no promise on the part of the mother, that
the only right which the complainants have to come into
equity arose from the fact that, being executrices, they cannot
sue themselves, and, therefore, cannot recover by action at
law the debt due them by their testatrix, that,, if the bill
failed to show that they could have sued at law during their
mother's lifetime, or could now sue her executrices, were they
some one else than -themselves; they have no better standing
in equity than at law
This, however, is a somewhat inaccurate statement of the
complainants' case. The averment of the amended bill is
(paragraph 6) that in her lifetime the said testatrix was indebted to the complainants and the defendant Augusta PGlover, by rerson of the fact that they had mnhorited from
their father an estate which was received and retained by
the testatrix as their guardian, and that in "September, 1885,
the amount of indebtedness of said testatrix in the premises,
on account of the estate aforesaid, was adjusted, settled and
determined by mutual agreement of the said testatrix on the
one part, and on the other the complainants and the said defendant, except the complainant Helen Patten," who was a
minor. The amended bill further avers (paragraph 12) that
"it then was and for a long time theretofore had beeni the
duty in law of said testatrix, guardian as aforesaid, to deliver
to them and each of them their said estate as aforesaid, the
same consisting in contemplation of law exclusively of money;
that thereby the said testatrix, -as guardian aforesaid, was and
had theretofore become in law the debtor of the complainants,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
I

and-the said defendant and each of them without regard to
said paper so drawn and signed as aforesaid, and the said
paper was only in law an adjustment, accounting and settlemeilt between the said testatrix, guardian as aforesaid, on the
one part, and the complatinants and. said defendant, on the
other, having for its object and purpose the ascertainment of
the amount of indebtedness of the said testatix to the coinplainants and the said defendant and each of them."
As, under the laws of Nevada, the children were entitled
to one half their father's estate, and as the mother received
the entire estate and dealt with it as if she were the sole
proprietor, although she was in fact guardian and trustee for
her children as to their share, it requires no argument to show
that she held a moiety in trust for them, was bound to account to them whenever an account was demanded, and was
bound to pay to each of them one fifth of such moiety Regaularly this accounting should have been made to the court in
Nevada, which granted the letters of administration, but as
there was no one interested in the estate except herself and
her children, she adopted the easier course of settling with
them directly, and procured from them their assent to the
instrument of September, 1885. While Helen was not a party
to this instrument, by reason of non-age, as she stood in the
same position to the estate as her sisters, and was equally a
creditor of her mother, there is no reason why the instrument
may not be used as an acknowledgment of her mother's indebtedness to her, as well as to the others The fact that the
sisters became executrices of their mother's will did not cancel
such indebtedness, but rendered it impo.'?ible to bring an ac
tion at law, inasmuch as thev would be plaintiffs in their own
right and defendants as executrices. They (lid, however, petition the orphans' court for the allowance of their claims, naking their sister, the only person interested adversely to them,
a party to the proceeding. That court, instead of passing on
the matter directly, thought it a proper subject for the advice
ot a court of chancery, and directed this bill to be filed. We
are of opinion that upon its face it discloses a good cause of
action.

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

4. That the cause of action is barred by the statute of liniitat ions. It has always been held, by the Supreme Court of
Maryland that the act of 1715, which is still in force in this
Iistrict, Sheyherd v Thomp on, 122 U S. 231, 234,.does not
apply to a claim by an executor against his estate, inasmuch
a the executor cannot sue himself at law State v Rezgart,
I Gill, 1, Brown v Stewart, 4 Md. Ch.368, pencer v Spencer
I Md. Ch. 456, Smnznes v Young's Adnr., 10 Maryland, 242.
Irrespectively of this, however, it appears that in October,
1887, Afrs. Patten loaned $45,000 to one John E. Beall, and
took a note payable to the order of the four complainants,
which was subsequently paid to them. The testimony of the
complainants as to this transaction is objected to upon the
ground that by Rev Stat. § 858, "in actions by or agairst
executors, administrators or guardians, in which judgment may
be rendered for or against them, neither party shall be allowed
to testify against the other as to any transaction with or settlenient by the testator, intestate or ward, unless called to testify
thereto by the opposite party, or required to testify thereto
by the court." Conceding the statute to be applicable to this
case, it does not apply to the testimony of Beall himself, who
swore to making a loan of this amount from Mrs. Patten, and
giving a note payable to the order of the four complainants, Mrs.
Patten stating "that the money was advanced to them out of
the fund belonging to them out of their 'father's estate, and
that she wished them to have the income of that amount of
money", tliat "she wished the interest notes made payable
at intervals of three months, so that they might have the
income, and she used the words 'pin money', and further
declared that she never had made them any allowance, and
she wished them to have for themselves, every three months,
the interest of this money to spend for themselves." She also
said "that $45,000 was being distributed in this manner to
the four girls as a part of what was coming to them from
their father's estate, and she said that she had made advances
to Mrs. Glover." The note was subsequently paid to the four
daughters. The testimony of another witness is to the effect
that Mrs. Patten told him "that; it was some money she

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

wanted to give those four girls for pin money to give them a
and, further, that she had
sense of independence,
already provided for the other daughter - the married daughter - quite .liberally, and she thought that she ought to give
these girls something."
This testimony is not only uncontradicted, but accords with
the probabilities of the case. It is scarcely reasonable to suppose that Mrs. Patten, who was indebted to her daughters in
the sum of over $400,000 should have advanced them the
large sum of $45,000 purely as a gift, and with no intention
of being credited with it upon her debt, particularly in view
of her statement to the witness Beall, that she made advances
to Mrs. Glover. We think this must be regarded as payment
upon the account of her indebtedness, and that it removed the
bar of the statute 'of limitations.
In aid of this construction there is the presumption that
where a parent, being a debtor to his child, makes an advancemerit to such child, it is presumed to be a satisfactionpro tanto
of the debt. I Pomeroy's Eq. Jurs. § 540, Plunkhtt v Lewis,
3 Ilare, 316.
, That the communications made by Mrs. Patten to the
witness HIillyer were privileged, from the fact she consulted
him as her legal adviser. There is some.doubt as to whether
she did consult hi m 'that capacity, or simply as a friend,
who had for a good many years been the attorney of her husband. It is clear that, while she visited him frequentlyconcerning the s-etlement of her account as administratrix and
guardian, she paid him nothing, and he made no charge
against her But whatever view be tiken of the facts, we
are of opinion that, in a suit between devisees under a will.
statements made by the deceased to counsel respecting the
execution of the will, or other sinmilai, document, are not privileged. While such communications might be privileged, if
offered by third persons to establish claims against an estate,
they are not within the reason-of the rule requiring their exelusion, when the contest is between-the heirs or next of kin.
That reason is thus- stated by Lord Brougham in Greenouegh
v Gaskell, 1 Mylne & Keen, 98, 103 "But it is out of regard

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

to the interests of justice, which cannot be upholden, anl to
the administration of justice, which cannot go on without the
aid of men skilled in jurisprudence, in the practice of the courts,
and in those matters affecting rights and obligations which
form the subject of all judicial proceedings. If the privilege
did not exist at all, every one would be thrown upon his own
legal resources, deprived of all professional assistance, a man
would not venture to consult any skilful person, or would only
dare to tell his counsellor half his case."
In Russell v Jackson, 9 Hare, 387. 392, the contest was
between the heirs-at-law and a devisee. The heirs claimed
that the devise was upon a trust, unexpressed, because illegal.
It was held that a solicitor, by whom the will was drawn.
should be allowed to testify what wis said by the testator
contemporaneously upon the subject. Vice-Chancellor Turner.
in delivering the opinion of the court, observed
"In the
cases of testamentary dispositions, the very foundation on
which the rule proceeds seems to be wanting, and in the
absence, therefore, of any illegal purpose entertained by the
testator, there does not appear to be any ground for applying
it.
That the privilege does not in all cases terminate
with the death of the party, I entertain no doubt. That it
belongs equally to parties claiming under the client as against
larties claiming adversely to him, I entertain as little doubt,
but it does not, I think, therefore follow that it belongs to the
executor as against the next of kin, and in such a case as the
present. In the one case the question is, whether the prol)ertv
belongs to the client or his estate, and the rule may well
apply for the protection of the clients interests. In the
other case the queston is, to which of two parties claiming
unler the client the l)ropertv in equity belongs, and it would
seem to be a mere arbitrary rule to hold that it belongs to
one of them rather than to the other "
An epitome of this case is given in the opinion of Mr.
Justice Swayne in Blackburn v L5razqfords, 3 Wall. 175, 193,
in which case, on a question of marriage and legitimacy, an
attorney who drew the will for the alleged husband, in which
the children of the connection set up as wedlock were described

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

as the natural children of the testator, miight testify as to what
was said by the testator about the character of the children
and hIs relations to their mother, in interviews between hontself and the testator preceding and connected with the preparation of the will.
As was said in that case, page 194, " the client may waive
the protection of the rule. The waiver may be expressed or
implied. We think it as effectual here by implication as the
most explicit language could have made it. It coul have
been no clearer if the client had expressly enjoined it upon
the attorney to give tins testimony whenever the truth of his
testamentary declaration should be challenged by any of
those to whom it related. A different result would involve
a perversion of the rule, inconsistent with its objects and in
direct conflict with the reason upon which it is founded."
See also Hunt v Blackbu~rn, 128 U S.464, 470.
The same rule has been applied in several cases in the state
courts Layman's IFill, 40 Minnesota, 371, Scott v. IIarris,
113 Illinois, 447, Graham v O'Pillon, 4 Missouri, 338,
Wharton on Evidence, § 591, Goddard v Gardner,28 Connecticut, 172, Weeks on Attorneys, § 165.
6. The objection that the complainants were incompetent
to testify as to their mother's statements, and as to the transactions in which she took part, is entitled to some weight, and
is not free from doubt. There is much reason, however, for
saying that, as the object of this testimony was not to prove
complainants' claim against the estate, but to show that their
sister Augusta had had a similar claim, and had been paid, and
the testimony related to conversations between MIrs. Patten
and her daughter Augusta, the statute did not apply- in other
words, that it was not a transaction with or a statement by
the testator within the meaning of the statute. 21onongahela
Aatwnal Bank v. Jacobus, 109 U. S. 275, Wharton on
Evidence, § 468.
We do not, however, consider this testimony indispensable
to the maintenance of complainants' bill. Discarding it for
the present from our consideration of the case, there is no
doubt that Mrs. Patten became the guardian and trustee for

GLOVE R v. PATTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

h'er children to the extent of one half her husband's estate,
that she rendered no account of her stewardship, that, at the
suggestion of the witness Hillyer, she procured the document
of September, 1885, to be drawn up and signed by her daughters, that by this instrument each of the daughters, except
Helen, agreed to accept the sum of ,101,600 in full and complete settlement of their accounts, claims and demands between
each of them and their mother, arising out of or connected
with the administration of their father's estate, and requested
that, upon the presentation of this agreement and a receipt
for that amount, the court having jurisdiction would, without
further investigation, pass the final accounts of their mother
as adninistratrix and guardian, and discharge her bondsmen.
There is no doubt, too, that in the month of February, 1887,
Mrs. Patten called af the oank of Riggs ntnd Co. and inquired
of a member of the firm what r.-ount of bonds, with the
ireinium added, would mae up a suni somewhat over $100,000,
btating that "her purpose was t,,
traisfer these bonds to one
of her daughters about to be Lnarried', that he furnished her
thu necessary figures, "somtrew here im the neighborhood of
$79,000, which made up about che amount she w.shed to use,'
anl that he gave her a memora inm of thex that Mrs.
Patten told him afterwartds thaft sht 1t these bonds under
her daughter's plate, and that stie w-nt off -and forgot them.
The testunonv of the compl.mants. which for thzs purpose iz
,'nrnpetent and uncontralbctcd,
ti..t Mrs. (lover asked
the witness Josephine on -n v,c., r,,
when she had returned
home, where she had be-n that -1w replied that she had
been to the Treasur,, wnvrc her nothlc went to transfer her
bonds to her name to th. amount. of $'.,000, to which mrs
'41over said, "that is not enough." .Iosephmne rpphd "It i,
too much, if I had not been there you would have gotten but
,-,79,000" that she saw the bonds in the po-ssession of her
sister, Mrs. (rlover who return,d them to her iother with a
request that she should keep tnmem for her, and that they
were subsequently sent to her at St. Lous by registered mail,
that Mrs. Glover repeatedly said to her sisters that "when

she was married she would ask for her raoney, that she had

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

a right to it, and she would ask for it," and that she repeatedly
admitted afterwards having received her share of her father's
estate. This admission is sworn to by each one of the coniplainants, and is entirely uncontradicted.
The court below was of opinion that, upon this state of
facts, the complainants were entitled to the relief prayed, and
in this opinion we concur. We can come to no other conclusion
than that, upon the undisputed facts of the case, there was an
indebtedness by Mrs. Patten to her daughters, that su'ch indebtedness was liquidated by the agreement of September,
1885, and that the defendant Mrs. Glover received an amount
in bonds which, at their market value, was somewhat greater
than $100,000. As this payment was made to her upon the
eve of her marriage, .and as the- amount was evidently coiputed as near as could be to the amount of the indebtedness,
as stated in the agreement of September, 1885, the presumption is that it was intended as an advance and as a satisfaction
of the debt. 1 Pomeroy's Eq. Juris. § 540, Plunkett v Lewzs,
3 Hare, 316.
7. The claim that the general bequest to her daughters,
contained in Mrs. Patten's will. was, an extinguishment of
her debt to them, is equally unfounded. The appellants rely,
in this connection, upon the general proposition that, where a
debtor bequeathes to his creditor a legacy equal to or greater
than the amount of his debt, it shall be presumed, in the absence of a contrary intent inferable from the will, that the
legacy was intended to be in satisfaction of the debt. Had
Mrs. Patten, subsequent to the execution of the agreement of
September, 1885, made special bequests to her daughters, or
either of them, of amounts equal to or greater than the amount
of her indebtedness to them, the rule might, perhaps, be invoked as an answer to their claim, but the rule is in fact
nothing more than a p:esumption, and may be rebutted by
slight evidence that such was not the intention of the testator.
Spencer v. Spencer, 4 Md. Ch. 456, Gilliam v. Brown, 43 MNississippi, 641, Williams v. Crary, 4 Wend. 443', S. C. 5 Cow
368, Eaton v Benton, 2 Hill, 576, Reynold8 v 1?obznson, 82
N. Y 103, IIemler v Sliamp, 44. N. J Eq. 167, Horner's Ex-

GLOVER ?,'. PATTE

.

Opinion of the Court.

ecutorm v .McGaughy, 62 Penn. St. 189, Crtouch v Davis'
Executors, 23 Gratt. 62. These cases hold that the mere fact
that the debt was unliquidated is enough to rebut the presumption.
It requires no argument to demonstrate that the rule has
no application to a case where the bequest is a general one
- all of the property of the testator "to be divided between
them share and share alike" - and the will is made six years
before the indebtedness is liquidated. That Mrs. Patten evidently did not consider her debt to her daughter Augusta
extinguished by the will is evident from the fact that she
paid the amount at the time of the marriage of her daughter,
and there is no reason to suppose that she intended to treat
her differently from her other daughters. Evidently the
whole theory of a debt being extinguished by a bequest presupposes a bequest subsequent to the indebtedness, and while
the indebtedness may have been said to have arisen in tins
case upon the receipt of the children's moietv of their father's
estate, it was.never treated by any of the parties in the light
of an indebtedness, until the amount had been liquidated by
the arrangement of September, 1885.
The effect of rejecting the claim of the complainants would
be to prefer Mrs. Glover to her sisters to the extent of
$102,800, when there is absolutely nothing in the will of the
mother, in the arrangement of September, 1885, or in the facts
or circumstances of the case, to indicate that this was ever
contemplated by Mrs. Patten, or by the daughters themselves.
The instincts of a mother would naturally lead her to put her
daughters upon an exact equality, and the case is manifestly
one for the application of the legal maxim that "equality
isequity" That it ever entered her mind that one of her
daughters should be preferred to the others in the very large
sum of $102,800 is extremely inprobable.
8.Whether the fact that Mrs. Glover had been paid her
share of the .indebtedness was strictly pertinent to the issue
or not, it was alleged in the bill and in the amended bill,
was first demurred to, and then denied in the additional answer. The fact had some tendency to prove that the indebt-

OCTOB.ER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

edness, which was incurred and liqmdated in favor of all the
sisters under the same cn'cumstances. was a genuine one, was
recognized both by the testatrix and Mrs. Glover as such, and
that the bill was not an attempt on the part of the complainants to obtain a preference over their sister.
Itwould have been more satisfactory if the defendant had
offered herself as a witness, and given her version of the
transaction, or at least had put forward some testimony
tending to show a different theory, buit as she preferred to
rest her case upon the testinony of the complainants, and as
the facts proved are susceptible of but one construction, we
can only assent to the conclusion of the court below
The fact that iMrs. Patten did not pay, or agree to pay,
her daughters interest upon the amount of her indebtedness
as liquidated, is urged as a reason for holding that she co"tinned to regard herself as trustee for her children in respert
to their share of their father's estate. and never eoi etmphztt-d
'L.;,
that an indebtedness to them ban been recogniized.
however, seems inconsistent with the instrument of Se;tniber, 1885, which was evidently prepared for a purpose ',iia
was wholly unnecessary, if her relation tc her daualite) w,-re
solely that of a trustee for their benefit. If it v'er' for !he
purpose of fixing her liability for which the sureties upon 1er
bond were tc be responsible, it woula scarcely be ,oi,sstcln' t,
hold that, so far as coiieerned her relations with bee,. d i&.
ters, it was not intended to create a liability P e'tj.,=i creaed'
.r eLo_a liability or it did not. If it did, it was a liabilitv
dren. If it did not, the instrument was uselesq.
It is true that no interest, as such, was paid ui pmr-i .ed.
but as an offset to that the daughters were nrvei c;iarr, 4
with their expense of maintenance, although me.st ot thv-i
were of age. What the result would have been, If an acCont
had been regularly opened and interest credited to C,sh dal.,'liter and a charge i ade against each for her mairtinance, we
can only conjecture, but in the loose way in which bu.iness
is usually done between members of the same family ,,n
household, it is not singular that no such account was kept.
If Mrs. Glover had not received'her share, it would make but

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

413

Syllabus.

little practical difference whether the agreement of September,
1885, were treated as an operative instrument, or merely one

for the purpose of satisfying the sureties on the admimstratrix's
bond. As the effect of the latter construction would be to prefer Mrs. Glover to this amount over her sisters, the court will
construe it as the parties themselves have construed it. It is
apparent from what has been said that -no interest should be
allowed prior to the death of Mrs. Patten.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
.Affirmed.

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. MINGUS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 100. Argued December 15, 16, 19.- Decided February 15,189T.
Congress did not intend by the statutes under which the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company received its grants of public land, to vest the lands absolutely in the company, without a right to the Government to reacquire
them on failure of the company to comply with the conditions of the
grant; and no express provision for a forfeiture was necessary in order
to fix the rights of the Government, and to authorize reentry in case of
breach of condition.
The act of April 20, 1871, c. 33, 17 Stat. 19, did not alter, amend or repeal the
act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, in these respects, except so far
as It permitted a foreclosure of any mortgage which might be put on the
lands by the company to operate upon lands opposite and appurtenant to
the then completed part of the road, and so far as it gave assurance that
no forfeiture would be insisted upon for conditions then broken.
When the United States grant public lands upon condition subsequent, they
have the same right to refnter upon breach of the condition which a pnvate grantor would have under the same circumstances, which right is to
be exercised by legislation.
Lands in the Indian Territory belonging to the Indians did not pass under
the grant to the.railroad company; and the United States were not required by the statutes to extinguish the Indian title for the benefit of the
railroad company, nor could they be reasonably expected to do so.
As to Indian grants made subsequent to the grant to the railroad company,

