OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
ORIGINAL.
No. 6. Original Report filed December 14, 1896. -Decree

entered January 18, 189T.

The report of the commissioners appointed February 3, 1896, 160 U. S. 688,
to find and re-mark the boundary line between the States of Missourl and
Iowa, is confirmed; and it is ordered that that boundary line be as delineated and set forth in said report.;

Atr 1R. F Walker, Attorney General of the.'State of Missouri, for that State.
Mr Milton Req,,Attorney General of the State of Iowa,
for that State
M.R. GCt

, JlS'T

FL1R
io. announced the decree of the

court.
This cause coming on-tplie'heard on the application of the
State of Missouri,,the State"of Iowa consenting thereto, for
decree on the report-' of ames Harding, Peter A. Dey and
Dwight 0. Morgan, commissioners appointed-by decretal order
herein on February 3, 1896, to find- .Lre-mark with -proper
and durable monuments such portions of the proper boundary
line between the States of Missouri and Iowa, as run, marked
and-located by Hendershott and Minor, commissioners of this
court, under the orders and decrees of.-this court of February
13, 1849, and January 3, 1851, as have become obliterated,
especially between the fiftieth and fifty-fifth mile posts on the
same, and it appearing that a difference of opinion has arisen
in respect of certain allowances to be included in the expenses
incurred in re-marking said boundary line, it is ordered by
the court that Commissioner Morgan be allowed his.-per diem
for -forty-six days' services, and that the accoupt of expenses
attached to said report be completed by the addition of that
per diem in favor of said commissionel, and that aid report
as so completed. in that particular be- and the same is hereby
in.all things confirmed, as follows'

ISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

"To the honorable the Supreme Court of the .United States:
"The undersigned, commissioners, appointed by the decree
of your honorable court dated' February 3, 1896, to find and
re-mark with proper and durable monuments such portions of
thQ boundary line between the States of Missouri and Iowa,
run, marked and located by Hendershott and Minor in accordance with decree of your honorable court dated Jan. 3, 1851,
as have become obliterated, especially between the fiftieth
and fifty-fifth mile posts on said line, etc., respectfully submit
the following report
"On the 27th day of February last the commissioners met
in the city of Chicago and fully discussed matters pertinent
to the proper performance of the duties imposed upon them.
Construing the decree as applying to all portions of the boundary line in question, the commissioners decided to advertise
in newspapers published in counties in Missouri and Iowa adjacent to the boundary for information regarding such parts
of said line as were in dispute or had become obliterated.
This was done and considerable information elicited, but as
the officials of one of the States interested declined to authorize the work necessary in retracing the line, excepting where
directed in the decree, nothing was done beyond the finding
and re-marking 'with proper and durable monuments' such
portions of the line as was necessary for its proper relocation
between the 40th and 60th mile points, as shown hereinafter.
"After careful consideration it was decided to apply to
Gen'l W W Diffield, superintendent U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, fora detail from.his corps of assistants to perform all field-work necessary in carrying out the instructions
of the court. It was decided that the employment of expert
officers of the Geodetic Survey corps for the services required
would result more satisfactorily to the States concerned than
would the selection of any private parties, as.the high professional attainments of these officers and their freedom from
any possible .bias regarding the boundary line to .be established were ample guarantees for the entire reliability and
impartiality of any work done by them.
"Correspondence was accordingly had with Gen'l Duffield,

.OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

who consented to detail two of his assistants, and also to supply'ihem with a complete- outfit of' all instruments and appliancek4ecessary in the prosecution of the pDoposed work.
Thsfoffer was at once accepted. A. meeting was afterwardsSt. ouis arch 11th, ult., when it was decided to meet
had -in
at Lineville, Iowa, a point immediately upon the boulidary
line between Missouri and Iowa, for the purpose of personal
investigation as to the proper point or points at which tQ commence operations. Two of zhe commissioners accordingly met
at -Lneville on March 18th, nlt., and spent three days in the
examination of, the boundary line and of points on said line
claimed to have been established by Hendershott and Minor
in 1850. The first step taken was to decide regarding the
proper points between which our work of relocation of that
part of the line designated in the decree of your honorable
court, namely, from the 50th to the -55th. mile points on the
Hendershott and Minor line, should be commenced. It appeared-to us that the cast-iron monuments placed by Hendershott and Minor at intervals of ten miles would naturally be
more reliable than any traditional -points, and the first investigations were made as regarding the 40th, 50th and 60th mile
points, these being originally marked by Hendershott and
Minor with iron monuments as stated. After careful examination and much inquiry the, commissioners were satisfied
that.the monuments markingAthe 40th and 60th mile points
were in their original positions. As regarded the monument
at the 50th mile point, whilst no positive evidence could be
had as to its removal from its original position, the rumors
and. statements were suih as to render its reliability a matter
of doubt, and it wasd therefore, determined to use the monuments at the 40th and 60th mile points as fixed points-between
which to -relocate the boundary line.
"It was subsequently arranged for the commissioners to
meet at Davis City, Iowa,.-:apoint on the Chicago, Burlington
& Qmuncy railroad adjacent to the .40th mile point, where it
was propose. to commence work. Gen'l Duffield was accordingly notified, and on Wednesday, April 8th, ult., the commissioners reached Davis City and met Messrs. W C. Hodgkins

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

(in charge of work) and A. L. Baldwin, of the U. S. Geodetic
Survey corps, detailed as per arrangements made with Gen'l
Dufileld. These gentlemen brought with them a very complete outfit -of instruments of the best description 'used in
geodetic work, including all necessary equipment for astronomical observations as well as field-work. We proceeded to
the 40th mile point on the afternoon of April 8th, ult., and
arranged for the commencement of work the following day
On April 9th, ult., a party for field-work having been organized and the necessary teams and wagons hired, the entire
party proceeded to Pleasanton, Iowa, a point situated immediately on the boundary line just -east of .the 45th mile point.
Pleasanton and Lineville subsequently became the bases of
operation, our parties changing from oifn of these points to
the other as the necessities of the work required..
"Work was commenced at the 40th mile pont, as arranged.
It soon became quite evident that the-adtual boundary line as
indicated by points shown.and satisfactorily identified differed
from the line as would be established by the field-notes of the"
Hendershott and Minor survey In order that the relative
positions of the actual mile points between the 40th and 60th
mile points could be properly determined, and also their true
relation to the theoretical- points as found in accordance with
the courses and distances shown in :Hendershotts report, it
was deemed necessary to establish a chord or base line twenty
miles in length between the 40th and 60th iron monuments
to which all points actually found and definitely located or
shown and claimed as being upon the boundary line coinld be
referred and from which all points finally determined could
be accurately located. For the details of the actual field-work
and its results we respeetfully refer to the accompanying
report of Mr. W C. Hodgkins, in charge of party (Appendix
A). It is proper here to state that the field-work, done as it
was in accordance with the precise methods of the U. S.
Geodetic Surveys, was necessarily very slow and tedious, but
its accuracy, in our opinion, cannot be questioned. The measurement of the twenty-mile base, line involved a very great
amount of labor, whilst the computations necessary in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

exact reductioil of the measurements were also very laborious.
Complete-topographical notes were also taken for the entire
work, but the commissioners have deemed it unnecessary to
have maps prepared, as their preparation would involve a considerable expense without any corresponding benefit. The
very unfavorable weather during a great portion of May and
a part of June interfered seriously with the prosecution of the
field-work, causing a delay of from two to three weeks.
"Careful examination was made in every instance for the
precise location of the original Hendershott and Minor mile
points, but out of twenty-one of these points included in the
survey only nine, including three iron monuments, could be
satisfactorily identified. The 42d, 43d, 44th, 49th, 54th and
58th mile points were identified and located by evidence entirely satisfactory to the commissioners. As regards the 50th
mile point -(iron monument), concerning the reliability of
which doubt had existed, the commissioners are satisfied that
it is very little, if at all, out of its original position - its relation to the 49th mile point (which was clearly identified- as
Hendershott's original point) as determined by the base line
confirming our judgment. After the work of relocation had
eommenced and preliminary work on the twenty-mile base
well advanced, statements were made to the commissioners
to the effect that the iron monument at the 60th mile point
had at one time been moved from its original position. This
being a matter of importance-the monument in question
being considered as a fixed point in establishing the base line
an inquiry was had regarding it and a considerable amount
of testimony heard. This testimony was very conflicting, but
after its careful consideration and the prolongation of the
base line some four miles eastward of the 60th mile point the
commissioners were satisfied that the monument was occupying its original position.
"The location of the 52d mile point was more difficult and
involved a much more. extended investigation than for any
point established by the commissioners. It was claimed and
strongly urged that the original 52d mile point as established
hr U=endershott and Minor was at a point witnessed by two

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

trees - an elm and an oak - which trees, as well as a point
established from them in accordance with Hendersbott and
Minor field-notes, were shown. The field-notes regarding this.
point and also the 53d mile point are as follows
(Chains.)

"'80.00

Set 52d mile post.
Bearings, elm 18 inches -diameter, N. 87 °* E. 10f
links, burr oak 12 inches diameter, S. 22 W.
28 links.'
(Continuing )
"' N. 880 47 E.1
(Chains.)

0.30
5.00
15.00
30.00
57.50
80.00

A pond 250 links wide;- direction of its length,
N. &S.
Prairie.
Timber.
Field (Stokes') fence, nearly N. & S.
Left field.
Set 53d mile post. Bearings, black oak 8" diameter, S.530 E. 15 links, black oak 6" diameter,
N. 53' E. 64 links.'

"The trees shown and claimed as being the original witness trees for Hendershott and Minor's 52d mile point agree
very well with the field-notes as regards their distance from
the 51st mile point, and also as to their relative positions to
each other. The distances and bearings of these trees from
the point shown and claimed as the original Hendershott mile
point also agree with the field-notes closely Beyond these
coincidences, however, there is, in our judgment, nothing
whatsoever to warrant a conclusion that they were ever
marked as witness trees by lHendershott and Minor. In their
report (10th Howard, pages 15 and 16) they state IIn timber
the number of the mile is marked on the witness trees with
the letter- appropriate to each State, there being one tree
marked on each side of the line whenever possible. The foot
of each witness tree is marked with the letters "B L." ' The
oak .tree shown and claimed to be a witness tree for the 52d

OCTOBER TERW, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

mile point had a large 'blaze' on its trunk about five feet from
the ground. Nothing whatever could be ascertained by the
commissioners to in any manner indicate what, if any, marking
had been inscribed on the blaze, nor coul4 any information be
had concerning such marking. At the foot of this tree, facing
N. 450 E., is to be seen a blaze on which is plainly discernible

the letters 'B X.' The blaze on the trunk of the tree faced
directly east, whilst the point to which it is claimed to refer
is but 220 east of north from the tree. It is the universal
custom of surveyors in marking witness trees, so far as the
experiende of the commissioners goes, to make such marks so
as to face as nearly as possible the point witnessed. The
'B X' mark faces certainly 25 ° east, and the blaze on trunk
of tree 68' east of the point claimed to be witnessed. :Measurements of the IX' mark at base of tree are as follows, in
tenths of one foot

.7S

"The mark inclining to the left extends above the letter 'B'
and is quite close to the upper curved line. The mark inclining to the right runs closely to the lower part of the ' B.' It
would have been quite as practicable to have cut a letter IL'
as an ' X' on the blaze found at foot of this tree, and the com-nissioners were not6-prepared to accept this letter ' X' as an
' L' without stronger corroborative evidence than they could
obtain. This tree, if marked by IHendershott and IMinor,
must have been .so marked forty-six years ago. A sectioll
of the tree at a point eight feet above the .ground, the tree
being very uniform in size, from three feet above the ground
for eight to nine feet above, was cut and sent to Prof. McBride,
botanical expert at the University of Iowa, for his opinion (as
expert) as to its age, &c.
"In a letter from him to Commissioner Dey, May 19th,
1896, he states,

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

"' I .judge that the tree when felled was 70 years old. Its
history runs about as follows 59 years ago it received an
injury (blaze 2) of which a scar persists. The tree at the time
was about 11 years (11-16) old, and not to exceed, bark included, 3J inches thick. I say about 11 years, for it takes
some years not recorded on the section for a tree to attain
six feet in height. 25 years later the tree had added about
2J inches to its radius. The next 17 years a little more than
one inch to the ;radius, making the diameter of the wood
(bark not counted) about 8J to 81 inches. Since this another
inch of wood has been added to the radius. Calling this 17
years, (it is more rather than less, as the annual increment
is constantly smaller,) we have the .total since the scar, 59
years.'
"This oak tree, as shown by Prof. McBrAde, at a point
where section examined by him was cut, was 8J to 81 inches
in diameter when 53 to 58 years old. Being 70 to 75 years
old, it would have been 24 to 29 years old in 1850, and its
diameter where blaze was found could not have exceeded 5
inches. As the blaze shows a face of fully eight inches, it
is evident it .could not have been cut on a tree with a diameter of only five inches. The diameter of this tree at base,
where 'B XI mark was found, is now 15, inches. Applying
the proportionate growth of tree as shown by Prof. M6Bride,
and its diameter at base could not have exceeded 8.5 inches
46 years ago, and its size was not sufficient to have received
the blaze now shown.
"Regarding the elm tree, also claimed to be a witness tree
for the original Hendershott 52d mile point. This tree also
has a large blaze about four feet from the ground. Nothing
whatever was shown to prove that it ever had any mark upon
it (prior to the time of a private survey made in 1893) other
than the characters 'S 28.' The letter ' S,' if it ever existed,
is now totally obliterated. The fignre '2' is still plainly discernibfe, and a..part of the upper portion of a figure '8' to the
right of the '2' can also be traced. Nothing was shown to
Prove that it was ever marked at its base with the letters
'B L," -z it-should have been were it.
a Hendershott witness

OCTOBER TERAI, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

tree. Diligent search had evidently been made at some time
.for this mark, as is plainly evidenced by the chopping at its
base, and -had the proper marks ever been found it is quite
-certain the fact would have been in evidence before the commissioners.
"The Hendershott notes shbw that at 30 links eastward of
the 52d mile point the bank of a pond was reached, and that
the pond itself was 250 links in width, maling a distance of
:280 links from the 52d mile point to the east bank of pond.
The bank of this pond directly east of the 52d mile point,
,,laimed to be witnessed by the 'elm and oak,' has evidently
moved eastward to some extent since 1850, as shown by pres-ent conditions. Measurements made by the commissioners
show that 280 links eastward from the point claimed as the
Hendershott 52d mile point reach a point 59 links east of the
-present bank of the pond. Thirty chains east of their 52d
'mile point, as seen by their notes, the Hendershott line crossed
the I-Stokes ' field fence. The line of this fence isstill plainly
-visible. A line straght from the 52d mile point, claimed to
,be witnessed by theNelmn and oak,' to- the 54th mile point
-will pass at least 70 feet south of the ' Stokes' fence line, as
noted by Hendershott. For .more than thirty years, and
-after the establishing of the boundary line by llendershott
;and Minor, it is claimed a road was maintained and worked as
.aMissouri road between th6 52d and 54th mile points, and
that until within the past five years this fact was never questioned. It isclaimed that the line recognized by parties living
-on both sides of the boundary as -being the Hendershott line
.since his survey and util within the past few years is now
plainly shown for a very considerable distance between the
.52d and 63d mila points by the line of :what is known as the
-1 Fugate

I fence line.

It is claimed- this fence was put up by

-one Fugate, the owner of land in and a resident of Iowa (and
who was also a's'urveyor), and who, living as he did close to
-the line and present when the Hendershott survey was made,
-probably knew where the true line was and placed his fence
,on that line. This line very closely agrees with a line running
-directlv from Sullivan's 52d mile point to the 54tth mile point,

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

the last named having been satisfactorily identified and located
by the commissioners It is claimed to be improbable that
Fugate placed his fence north of the proper line.
"The commissioners most carefully considered all the conditions relating to the point claimed to be the Hendershott
52d mile point and witnessed by the 'elm and oak,' but the
more the matter was weighed the stronger became their conelusion that the trees mentioned could not have been the witness trees as claimed. Coincidences of position constitute
their claim. It is proper here to state that within a short
distance to the north of the 52d mile point as established by
the commissioners are the stamps of an elm and burr oak
which agree as well as do the other elm and oak s to distance
from the 51st mile point, better as to topographical conditions, and are vary similar as to the relative position required
by the field-notes for the witnesses to the 52d mile point.
The commissioners have no idea that these stumps referred to
were those of Hend~rshottVs witness trees, but make this statement to show that coincidences such as shown by the 'elm
and oak' are not impossible. To have crossed the 'Stokes'
fence, in a distance of 30 chains, starting from the supposititious -52d mile point claimed to be witnetsed by the elm and
oak, an angle of at least 2° to the left would have 'been necessary, and also another angle to the right equally great in
order to ran directly to the 54th mile point. Hendershott's
notes make no mention of any such angles. The angle recorded as having been made at the '52d mile point was 29' to
the north, the. course having been changed, according to the
Rendershott notes, from N.089 0 16' E. to N. 880 471 E. We
are satisfied, from personal investigation and from -points
found and referred to our base line, that the;,original Sullivan
line can be readily traced from his 51st mile point to his 52d
mile point, and we believe it very probable that the IHendershott line between the 52d and 54th mile points is nearly
identical with the Sullivan line. Whilst we did not adopt the
Sullivan line between the points named, very good reasons
could have been given for doing so, The Hendershott notes
make no mention of Snllivan's line after leaving his 49th mile

OCTOBER TER.H, 1896.
Decree of the Cour.

point until his 54th mile point was reached. They make no
mention of finding Sullivan's 52d mile point or of any trees
on his line, but they say in their report (page 4, 10th Howard
Report) that they ' discovered abundant blazes and many witness trees which enabled us to find and re-mark the said (Sullivan) line as directed by the court.' Also on page 7,same
report, it is stated 'But in heavy bodies of timber no dificulty
was experienced in discovering evzdeices of the Presselocation
of the (Sullivan) line, not only by blazes, but by line and witness
trees.' (Italics are ours.) And on- the same page, 'The general topography of the country, and especially the crossing of
the streams, greatly facilitated us in following the line, and
in some instances, when confirmed by the old blazes, enabled
us to establish it with sufficient certainty' Commencing
some ten chains east of the 51st mile point, the country
through which the boundary line passes was and is heavily
timbered, and, as before stated, the Sullivan line in the timber
is at this time readily to be found. The inference that the
Hendershott line eastward from the 51st mile was nearly
identical with the Sullivan line is quite as strong as the contrary, notwithstanding no mention is made by Hendershott
of the Sullivan line after leaving a point 6.20 chains east of
the 49th mile point until reaching the 54th mile point.
"The Sullivan line, between the 51st and 52d mile points,
as shown by his field-notes, crossed the east fork of Grand
River (now called Weldon) three times. This line now, by
reason of changes in the bed of the stream, will cross the
Weldon five times. With the exception of the I elm and oak,'
there were no traditional or apparent evidences claimed as
indicating the original location of the Hendershott and Minor
52d mile point. A line run eastward- with the bearings given
by the Hendershott notes from their 51st mile point would
pass at least 40 feet south .of the point indicated by the ' elm
and oak.' A line run eastward, as per the Hendershott notes,
from the point claimed as the Hendershott and Minor 52d
mile point would pass at least 90 feet south of their 54th mile
point. The commissioners-carefully considered all the comparatively authentic traces of the Rendershott line, together

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

with the topographical conditions given in the notes of -the
survey Between the 53d and 54th mile points were found
evidences of the Hendershott line, which were satisfactory,
and the line established by us was run from the 54th mile,
point, which, as before stated, was identified, directly to thd
52d mile point and passing through the points found between
the 53d and 54:th mile points. The Hendershott notes show
a line direct from the 52d to the 54th mile point.
"The line, as finally established and marked by us, between
the.62d and 53d mile points is north of the boundary line as
claimed-for.Iowa and south of that line as claimed by Mis- ,'
sounri and, as it happens, very nearly equally dfides the narrow territory in dispute, although there was no intention to
compromise the difference. We are satisfied that the line, as
established by us between the 53l and 54th mile points, is
very nearly, if not identical witfi,.the original Hendershott
line and ia accordanpe with the marks df that survey The
same line was produced to the 52d mile point, notwithstanding
it passes considerably south of the plainly indicated Sullivan
line. The 52d mile point, as established and marked by us,
was placed as nearly as possible in accordance with the notes
of the Hendershott survey, evidenced by the width of the
pond and also its distance from the ' Stokes' fence line.
"The field-notes of the Hendershott and Minor survey show
as follows
"At 6.30 chains eastward from the Hendershott 42d mile
point Sullivan's 42d mile point was found and course changed
at that point from N. 880 53' E. to N. 89° 06' E.
"6.37 chains eastward of Hendershott's 43d mile point Sullivan's 43d mile point was found and course changed at that
point from N. 890 16' E. to N. 89° 47' E.
"7.00 chains eastward of Hendershott's 44th mile point
Sullivan's 44th mile point was found and course changed at
that point from N. 89° 47' E. to N. 890 9' E.
"6.20 chains eastward from Hendershott's 49th mile point
Sullivan's 49th mile point was found and course changed at
that point from N. 890 9' . to N. 890 16' E.
"4.07 chains eastward of Hendershott's 54th mile point
VOL. CLXV-9

OCTOBEE TERMY, 1896.

"

Decree of the Court.

Sullivan's 54th mile point was found and course changed at
that point from N. 89 16' E. to-N. 890 2' E.
" 2.53 chains eastward of ,Hendershott's 58th mile point
Sullivan's 58th mile point was found and course changed at
that point from N. 890 2' E. to N. 89° 27' E.
"In each instance it will be seen that the Hendershott
courses are changed at the Sullivan mile points. The decree
of your honorable court made January 3, 1851, declared that
the line should be direct between each Hendershott mile
point, and it is evident that the actual courses between the
points referred to above are not in accordance with the recorded courses. It was found by reference to our base line
in all cases where the field-notes show a straight line between
such points that when the distance recorded as a straight line
-was two or more miles the line is actually a curve. The
ordinates measured from the base line do not show any
regular rate of curvature, and the curves themselves swing
to the south and then to the north, the base line crossing the
boundary line three times m twenty miles. The greatest distance of base line from boundary line is at the 55th mile point,
which is about 24:7 feet north of base. The 46th mile point is
160 feet south and the 60th mile point 153 feet south of base.
"It is difficult to account for the discrepancies found between the recorded line as shown in Hendershott's. notes and
the line actually found. It is quite possible that the irregularities either grew out of the inaccuracy of the solar compass used
on the survey or an inaccurate use of the instrument itself.
"We were surprised at the facility with which the Sullivan
line could at the time of our survey be traced for considerable
distances along the twenty miles of line included in our operations. Of twenty-one mile points from the 40th to the 60th,
inclhsive, Sullivan had witness trees for fifteen. Some of
these witness trees can now be found, and also well defined
line trees mentioned by him. On Hendershott's line only
eight mile points out of the twenty-one referred to were
witnessed by trees. Had the care shown by Sullivan in
marking his line been exercised. by Hendershott and Minor
the line of the latter would have been much more fully

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Conrt.

and satisfactorily defined. The hurried manner in which
the work of the Hendershott survey was performed (151
miles of relocation, in addition to random lines, having been
accomplished in 30 days) may in some measure account for
the great lack of witness trees and other evidences necessary for an actual location of the boundary line of 1850. We
are inclined to the opinion that, so far as regards the twenty
miles mentioned, the Sullivan line can be as readily relocated
as can the Hendershott line.
"The decree of your honorable court requires that the line
relocated by us shall be marked with durable monuments.
Twenty-one mile points included in the line relocated, being
from the 40th to the 60th mile, inclusive, are now marked as
required. The 40th, 50th and 60th rmiles are marked with
the cast-iron monuments originally placed by Hendershott
and Miinor, in 1850. Mile points intermediate are marked
with stone monuments. These are of the best quality of
Missouri red granite, are twelve inches square, and fr'om 6'
2" to 6' 6" in length. The stones stand 2'- above ground (this
portion being hammer-dressed) and are well finished in every
particular. On the north side of each stone is plainly cuit the
word 'Iowa,' on the south side the word 'Missouri,' on the
east side the words 'State line,' and on the west the figures
denoting.the number of the mile point.
"The iron monuments were reset so as to show about 18
inches above ground. The granite monuments were set with
great care, their apices being exactly on the line. They were
well rammed when placed in ground and will need no witness
trees. Their weight averages 1050 pounds each, and we think
they can safely be pronounced both durable and permanent.
The amount paid for them includes all freight charges and
expenses of delivery and setting.
"Attached hereto (Appendix ' B ') is a statement of the
expenses consequent upon the relocation and marking that
portion of the boundary line between the 40th and 60th
mile points, which statement is respectfully submitted for
the action of your honorable body
"Attached hereto (Appendix ' 0 ') is a photograph of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
.Decree of the Court.

section of the oak tree examined and reported on by Prof.
McBride.
"JAMES

IHARDING,

"C omm'r for Mi8sours.
"PETER A, DY,
"C6omm'rfor Iowa.
"DwIGHT C. Mo GAN,
18, 1896."
"Chicago, IL., Sep.

" Of llinoie.

"ArmENix A.
"U. S. COAST ANID GEODETIC SURVEY,
'"SaINA, KANSAS, June 20th, 1896.

"Gen. James Harding, ihon. Peter A. Dfey, Dwight C. Morgan, Esq.5 commissioners- n the matter of the boundary line
between the States of Missouri and Iowa.
"DE.&A SiRs I have the honor to submit the following report upon the operations conducted under my direction for
the purpose of enabling you to locate and mark by 'durable
monuments,' as required by 'the decree of the Supreme Court
of the United States dated February 3rd, 1896, that-portion of
the boundary line between the States of Missouri and Iowa
which lies between the fortieth and sixtieth mile posts east of
the old north-west corner of Missouri, as marked in 1850 by
H. B. Hendershott and W G. Minor, commissioners.
"It appears unnecessary for me to make any mention in
this report of the antecedent circumstances leading up to this
survey, as you are well acquainted with them, and will, no
doubt, take occasion to allude to them in your own report to
the Supreme Court.
"I therefore pass at once to my own work.
"Your board having applied to General W W Duffield,
superintendent of the U.. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, for
the detail of an officer to make the necessary surveys, I was
selected for that duty, and Mr. A. L. Baldwin, also of the
C. & G. Survey, was assigned to the party as assistant observer.
"In compliance with the request of your board, received
through Mr. Morgan, we met you on April 8th, 1896, at Davis

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

City, Iowa. A preliminary inspection of the western portion of
the field of wonk was made on that day and the organization
of the party was completed by engaging laborers and teams.
"On the following day the whole party was transferred to
the village of Pleasanton, Iowa, that place being centrally
located for the western half of the work, as it is directly on
the boundary and just east of the forty-fifth mile post.
"A partial examination of the line, as identified by more or
less reliable traditions current in its neighborhood, made it
evident that its course in many places deviated widely from
the description given in the field-notes attached to the report
of the former commission. (Howard's Reports, Supreme Court
U. S., vol. X.)
"Not only do the bearings differ from those recorded in
that report, but portions of the line which are there called
straight were found to be curved or composed of broken lines.
"Under these conditions it seemed inexpedient to attempt
to reproduce upon the ground the courses and distances of the
former survey
"Such an attempt would undoubtedly have led to serious
confusion, and would have furnished little information of real
value, while the labor of making the necessary corrections
would have been excessive.

"In place of that undesirable plan I adopted, with your
approval, the method of measuring a base line straight across
the country for the twenty miles to be surveyed.
"All of the old points which were recovered and all new
points which it became necessary to locate upon the ground
were directly referred to the base line, which, from a mathematical point of view, is the axis of abscisse in a system of
rectangular coirdinates.
"It seems scarcely necessary to mention the advantages which
-this method affords in point of simplicity and accuracy of work,
but it may do no harm to allude very briefly to a few of them.
"Thus the relative positions and bearings of different portions of the boundary can be readily found with far greater
precision than would otherwise be easily practicable.
"Moreover, in this system of work each point of the boun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

dary is fixed independently of every other point, all being
directly referred to the base line. This characteristic permits
any desired local correction to be made at any point without
necessarily affecting points on either side, a feature which I
consider very essential in work of this character. The base
line was so selected as to liealong the general direction of
the boundary, which in fact crosses it three times, eleven of
the twenty-one monuments being north of the base and the
other ten south of it.
"This statement well illustrates both the irregularity of the
boundary and the fact that the base line is very close' to
the general direction of the line.
"Another important consideration in the selection of the
base line was to make it pass through the towns of Pleasanton
and Lineville without meeting obstructions and without damaging private prop6rty
"This was successfully accomplished, and in the whole course
of the line remarkably little tree-cutting was needful. The base
line.was ranged out with an eight-inch theodolite, the standards
of which were high enough to permit the telescope to transit.
The telescope was of excellent quality and was provided with
an eye-piece micrometer, by means of which slight deviations
from the straight line could be measured and corrected.
"As -the work of locating the base line advanced eastward
the party was moved to Lineville, Iowa, which town is situated
just north of the boundary line and between the fifty-sixth
and fifty-seventh mile posts, and thenceforward operations
were conducted from either Lineville -or Pleasanton, as was
found more convenient from time to time.
"As soon as the line was opened, and even before the final
adjustment of its eastern terminus, the linear measurement
was .begun by Mr. Baldwin, with the assistance of the commissioners, working westward from the east end of the base,
near, the sixty-mile monument.
"When about five and one-half miles had been so measured
I was ready to take personal charge of the measurement, and
began at the west end of the base, near the forty-mile monument, working thence eastward to a junction with the line
above mentioned.

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

"The system of measurement employed was that ordinarily
used in the Coast and Geodetic Survey for direct measures
not requiring the base apparatus. "
"A narrow steel tape, twenty-five metres in length between
end marks, was stretched under a tension of ten kilogrammes,
as indicated by a spring balance attached to one end of the
tape. The successive tape-lengths were marked on stakes
driven into the ground.
"As the tape necessarily follows very closely the inclination
of the ground, the horizontal distance will be less than the
measured distance, and the correction for slope must be computed for each tape-length, the difference of height between
the ends being determined by spirit-level. The very irregular
profile of this line made these differences of height-unusually
great, and correspondingly increased the amount of correction.
"A small correction for catenary is also necessary when the
tape swings clear of the ground, the 'sag' of the tape slightly
decreasing the distance between its ends. Further, as all metallic measures vary in length with changes of temperature, it
is necessary to apply a correction for such variations, the length
of the tape being known at the temperature of.zero, Centigrade.
"Temperatures were accordinglymoted at frequent intervals,
usually at every fourth tape.
"The direct measurement was completed on May 8th,
although the eastern part of the line had still to be levelled.
"The computations were at once taken in hand and the resulting distances were furnished you as rapidly as possible.
"These results, for present purposes and as compared with
ordinary measures, may be considered practically exact, and
they show that the chain used by the sul'veyors of 185a was
too long, probably from the combined effects of abrasion and
of high temperature.
"The distances between such of the old points as were recovered are nearly always too great. The ratio of excess is
not constant, as; indeed, would hardly-be expected, but shows
a tendency to increase in going from west to east.
"A marked exception to this rule of excess in distance is
found in the fifty-second mile. The eastern end of this mile

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

was not' recovered, but was found with reasonable certainty
from various considerations, while the reputed point at the
western end was recovered. The mile so determined is noticeably less than a statute mile. The western part of this mile
traverses a very steep, rough, and wooded country, while its
-eastern part crossed the Veldon River three times in 1850.
"These natural difficulties in the way of accurate measurement probably caused the shortage in this particular mile.
"In my own work I found it desirable to avoid the direct
measurement of this mile, which is even more unfavorable
'now than in 1850, the Weldon having changed its course
sufficiently to cross the base line five times at present.
"Forthis purpose a branch base about seven-eighthsof a mile
in length was measured on the fiat ground east of the Weldon,
and the distance across the brokensectionwasthenobtained with
great precision by triangulation. The distances across the Grand
River and Little River were also obtained by triangulation.
"Whenever in the course of the measurement we passed a
point which it was desirable to refer to the base line, the
point at which its rectangular ordinate met the base line was
noted and the length of the ordinate itself was measured.
The relative positions of these various points thus became
known, including not only such of the mile points as could
be identified, but also numerous objects commonly reputed
to mark the.boundary, as fences, trees, stones, etc.
"As far as possible in- connection with the measurement,
notes were made to provide material for a topographic sketch
of the strip of country traversed by the boundary
"As stated above, the measurement was completed on
May 8th. As rapidly as the reductions were computed the
places for the mile stones were marked on the ground from
the fortieth to the forty-ninth.
"The weather, which up to that time had been generally
favorable, now became very wet. The frequent and heavy
rams seriously interfered with the work, and rendered progress
across the country very slow, the roads being nearly- impassable and the fords quite so. On May 18th the exigencies
of the regular work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey com-

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

pelled the detachment of Mr. A. L. Baldwin, who had rendered
energetic and efficient assistance in the work.
"On the same day I moved from Pleasanton to Lineville to
resume work on the eastern part of the line. In the intervals
between rains I completed the levels, and, after computing
the distances, marked the places for the mile posts, a work in
regard to which- further details will be given below The
topographic notes were also completed.
"In order to furnish as much information as possible in
regard to this portion of the boundary line, observations for
the approximate determination of the latitude and longitude
and of the astronomical azimuth or bearing of the base line
were made at Pleasanton and at Lineville.
"Bad weather interfered with the observations at Pleasanton,
and at Lineville the lack of time and unfavorable local conditions somewhat affected the precision of the results, which
answer, however, the purpose desired. Latitude and azimuth
were obtained by observations on Polaris (a Ursm I[inoris) with
the theodolite. Time was obtained by sextant observations of
the sun, using a mercurial horizon and the method of equal altitudes. For longitude the local time was compared with the
railroad telegraphic time signals. It remains for me only to
state briefly the old points which were recovered and the conditions which, under your decisions, governed the location of
those points which were not identified by local marks.
"The fortieth, the fiftieth and the sixtieth mile points were
found marked by the iron monuments placed there by Commissioners Hendershott and Minor in 1850. There was some
dispute as to whether No. 60 was in its original position or
not, but the weight of evidence and the continuity of the
traditional line on either side of it indicated pretty conclusively that it bad never been disturbed.
"The remaining points were originally marked by stake,.
sometimes witnessed.
"No. 42, while not directly identified by marks, was satisfactorily recovered by means of a 'line tree' four chains IV
and by topographical notes at crossing of Grand giver, as
shown in original record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

"No. 44: was restored by measurement from the two witness
trees, the decaying stumps of both of which were f6und.
"No. 49 was also identified by the stumps of both witness
trees.
"No. 51 was marked by a 'mound and pit,' which have
been accepted for years as the true marks.
"No. 54 was marked by a stone, and was further identified
by one witness tree.
"No. 58 Ras recovered by traces of the stakes in addition
to the remains of the witness tree, and the point established
by J. 0. Sullivan in 1816 was also found a little further east,
and also the stump of an elni. tree, noted as a 'line tree Im
both Sullivan and Hendershott notes, being 4.10 chains W
of Hendershott's 58th mile point. The remaining points were
locate4 in -the following manner
"No. 41 was placed midway on line between 40 and 42.
"No. 43 was so placed as to preserve the relations with 42
and 44 required by the field-notes of 1850, and after being so
located was found to agree with the stump of the witness tree
on the Iowa side of the line.
" No. 45 was placed in the middle of the street bounding
Pleasanton on the south, Which middle line is shown as the
boundary on the official plat of the town on file at the countyseat, and at the proper distance along the line averaging to
the 49th mile.
"No. 46 was similarly located on the line passing from 45
through a stone pointed out by tradition as-marking the line.
"No. 47 was placed at the proper distance on a line drawn
straight from 49 westward through a witnessed section corner
between 47 and 48.
"No. 48,was placeil on the same line midway between 47
and 49.
"1No.52 wtis located at a point west of the. pond or lake in
the Weldon bottom agreeing with the tapographic description
given by the former commissioners and on a line agreeing as
closely as possible with all of the apparently authentic traces
of the line surveyed in 1850.
"No. 53 was placed a mile west of 54 on the straight line
between 52 and 54.

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

"No. 55 was placed a mile east of 54 on the extension of the
line drawn from 54 through a witnessed stone at the corner
common to Wayne and Decatur Counties, Iowa.
"Nos. 56 and 57 were placed at mile distances on the straigbit
line drawn from 55 through an iron pin at the southwest corner
of the streets surrounding the public square at Lineville, which
pin was universally accepted as a point marking the boundary
Unsuccessful search was also made for the remains of a wooden
post which formerly stood a little further east.
",No. 59 was placed midway between 58 and 60, in the
manner required by the field-notes of 1850.
"While this work was in progress many of the inhabitants
-along the line asked that additional points, intermediate
between the mile points, might be furnished them, and with
your approval this was done.
"In accordance with the decree of the Supreme Court dated
January 3rd, 1851, such points were always placed on the
straight line between the adjacent mile posts. The final observations were made on the afternoon of June 13th, and the
instruments were then packed, and on the 15th were shipped to
Washington.
"I left Lineville on June 15th, also; to resume my regular
duties in the Coast and Geodetic Survey
"In closing this report permit me to express my appreciation of the uniform courtesy and consideration shown my
assistant and myself by all the members of the commission,
and my hope that our earnest labors in this interesting work
have proved satisfactory in methods and results, and that they
may be instrumental in permanently settling this controversy
"The appended pages give in summarized form the results
of the observations and measurements, as well as the mathematical formuln employed.
"W C. HODGKINs,
":Respectfully submitted.
"Am8w8iant,

Coast & Geodetic Survey, Chief of Party."
"1APPENDIX A.

"The following table gives the bearings and distances between the successive mile posts of the M4issouri-Iowa boundary

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

from the fortieth to the sixtieth mile east of the initial point as
the said mileposts were relocatedand marked byJames Harding,
Peter A. Dey and Dwight C. Morgan, commissioners, in 1896.
"The distances are given to the nearest tenth of a metre
and to the nearest half foot, and the bearings or azimuths to
the nearest quarter minute.
"The azimuth is reckoned from the south point as zero in
the direction of west, north, and east successively
means due west,-270° due east, etc.

-s.e.,

900

"The convergence of the meridians is 441 seconds for each
mile. The bearings going west, or back azimuths, are therefore in each case three-fourths of a nnnute greater than the
eastern or direct azimuths.
"Mile.

40,to 41
41- to 42
42 to 43
43 to 44
44 to 45
45.to 46
46 to .47
47 to 48
48. to 49
49 to 50
50 to 51
51 to 52
52 to 53
53 to 54:
54 to 55
56 to 56
56 to 57
57 to 58
58 to 59
59 to 60

Azunuth.

2680 57V'
268 58J
269 20j
269" 58f
269- 52f
269 51
269 '11
268 55J
268. 56;
269 161
269 04
268 10J
268 17268 181
268 57J
269 33
269 331
270 48
270 36*
270 39

Back aziinuth.

88°
88
89
89
89
89
89
88
88
89
89
88
88
88
88
89
89
90
90.
90

58 Y
59*
211
591
53*
511
11
56J
57
171
05k
11
181
191
58k
331
34*
481
37J
39*

Distance.
.3fetres.

Peet.

1,610.1
1,610.1
1,610.1
1,603,8
1,616.7
1,610.2
1,610.1
1,610.1
1,612.7
1,608.3
1,613.3
1595.8
1,626,1
1,613.2
1,611.5
1,611.5
1,611.5
1,612.0
1,613.8
1,613.8

5,2824
5,282,1
5,2824
5,2611
5,304
5,283
5,2821
5,282*
5,291
5,276*
5,293
5,2351
5,335
5,2924
5,287
5,287
5,287
5,289
5,2941
5,2941

MISSOURI v

IOWA.

Decree of the Court.
"

()Jetst'runi Base Le.

M.

M.

"Mon't No. 40, 3.3= 11 ft. X. -Mon't No. 51, 23.7= 78 ft. S.
"4
" 52, 7.6= 25
"t
'" 41, 8.8= 29
N.
"1 " 53,36.2=119"
it 42, 14.3= 47
"
"

"

43, 9.8= 32
44, 12.1= 40

it
"

" 4, 31.0= 102 it
46,48.7=160"

S.
"

"
"

I

54, 64.8=212,
-55, 75.4=247

"

"

"

''

56, 69.5=228

" "

"

"

57, 63.7=209

"

'* 47, 47.3=155

" "48,
"'
".

"

"
"

58, 23.4= 77

38.3 =125X,..

49,29.4= 96,
50,29.6= 97

"
..

59, 11.3= 37

60,46.6=153

"

S.

(I

~ote un the Reduction atnd Re8ult8 of the Astronomwal Ob8ei'vathon at Lneville, iova.

"For latitude the observed-altitudes of Polaris were reduced
by the method and table given on page 531 of the American
Ephemeris, with the result
"Approximate latitude = 400 341.6.
Comparisons of local mean time,.obtained by sextant observations of the sun, with railroad time signals, gave the following result
"Approximate longitude (W of Greenwich) = 930 32'
For azimuth the observations of Polaris were reduced by
the formula
sim t
tan A
cos q) tan o - sin 0 cos t
in which the letters have the following significations
A =
t=
o=
=

of the star at the instant of observation.
the azimuth
"
the hour angle "
the declination
the latitude of the place.

"Resulting azimuth of base line = 89' 211 49" east of north.
"These results transferred to the monuments at each end of
this 20-mile section give the following

OCTOBER TERM; 1890.
Decree of the Court.

40-mile mon't
60-mile. mon't,

Lat.

Long.

Azimuth.

400 34/4
40 34.6

93 ° 51'
93 28

2690 14' 4911
89 29 40

the azimuth at each point being the bearing of the straight
line joining the two points."

11
Am-T76-ix

0.

(One-third natural size.)

Photographof a section of the oak tree at the PFifty-eeond
mile pooint, 8-1ppoeed to be witness tree sn the Iowa-Missour2i
boundary. 1 The dark line indicates the 8VZe of the 8tem Jfty
year's ago.

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
Decree of the Court.

"APrn-DIx-

B.

"Account of Ep
peres Inciuent to the IRelocation and Remarking the Boundary Zzne between the State8 offtiouri
and kowa from the 40th to the 60th -Mile Poin, under
Decree of the Supreme Court of the United States, February 5, 1896.
"Pay of engineers
W C. Hodgkins, (U. S. Geodetic Survey
Corps,) 74 days @5.00
.$370 00
A. L. Baldwin, (U. S. Geodetic Survey
Corps,) 41 days@ $5.00
205 00
Transportation from Washington, D.C. 77 75
cc
to Salina, Kansas.
41 14:
Freight on instruments returned to
Washington
8 2
702 21
Pay of one assistant (14 days @ $2.50) and
laborers.
Subsistence of parties in field ..
Hire of teams and drivers and feed for teams.
Paid for eighteen granite monuments in place.
ffiscellaneous expenses paid, (telegrams, township plats, signal materials, clerical work and
typewriting, repairs of instruments, storage,
&c., &c.).
Advertising, Missouri and Iowa
...
Commissioners
James Harding, comm. for Missouri, 78
days @ $10.00
780 00
James Harding, travelling, expenses
T161 85

190
421
342
922

50
75
25
00

171 6C
133 30

941 85

Peter A. Dey, comm. for Iowa, 60 days
@ $10.00
600 00
Peter A. Dey, travelling expenses.
189 47

789 47

Dwight C. Morgan, comm. 46 days @
$10.00
460 00
Dwight C. Morgan, travelling expenses 198 63

658 63

Total.

$527 , 56"

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

And it is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the boundary
line between said States of Missouri and Iowa in controversy
herein be, and it is hereby, .established and declared to be, as
delineated and set forth in said report. '
It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the compensation and expenses of the commissioners and the expenditures attendant upon the discharge of their duties be, and they
are hereby, allowed at the sum of five thousand two hundred
and seventy-three dollars and fifty-six cents ($5,273.56), in
accordance with their report as -confirmed as aforesaid, and
that said charges and expenses with the costs of this suit to
be taxed be equally divided between the parties hereto.
And it is further
Ordered, adjudged and decreed that the clerk of tAt court
forthwith transmit to the Chsef .Aagtratesof the States
of Missourz and Iowa coptes of ths decree, duly authenticated under the seal of thts court.

HUSSMAN v. DURHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Wo. 68. ,4rgied and submitted January 5,1891.-Decided January 18, 1897.

In 1858,
. located a bounty land warrant issued to L. under the act of
March 3, 1855, c. 207, taking a certificate of location, which was recorded
in the office of the recorder in the county in which the land was situated.
No patent was issued. In 1864, under authority of the act of June 23,
1860, c. 203, but without notice to C., the Secretary of the Interior cancelled that warrant. It was admitted that the assignment upon it, purporting to be that of L., was a forgery. On the records of 'the land
department up to 1886 it appeared that a full and equitable title to the
land had passed to C., and in that year D. having obtained conveyances
from C., applied to the land department for leave to purchase on payment
of the regular price and his application was granted. Meanwhile the
lind had been sold for non-payment of state taxes, and-the tax title had
ptassed into H. D. commenced suit against H. to quiet title, and the
Sdareme Court of Iowa sustained the decree of the trial court In his
fa'or. Held,

