PIM

. ST. LOUIS.

273

Opihion of the Court.

not acquire a maritime lieu if the circumstances attending the
transaction put him on inquiry as to.the existence and terms
of such charter party, but 'he failed to make inquiry, and
chose to act on a mere belief that the vessel would be liable
for his claim.
For the reasons stated 'the question certtfled to this court is
aftswered zn the negative.

PIM v. ST. LOUIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF mISSOURI.
No. 180. Argued January 27, 1897. -Decided

February 1, 1897.

No Federal right was set up in this case until after the final decision of
the case by the Supreme Court of Missouri- and then by a petition for
rehearing. Bitd, that the claim of a Federal right came too late, so far
as the revisory power of this court is concerned.

THE case is stated

in the opinion.

Mr Leverett Bell (with whom was Mr -enry
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

.. Davis

.Mr IV C. NJ[arslall appeared for defendant in error, but
the court declined to hear further argument.
MR. JUSTICE IIMRLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action for the recovery of certain real estate in
the city of St. Louis of the possession of which the plaintiff
in error, who was the plaintiff below, alleged that she was
illegally and wrongfully deprived by the defendants. The
city denied the plaintiff's claim, and relied upon continuous
ad.erse possession for ten years prior to the accruing of the
plaintiff's cause of action.
We held at the present term in Chieago & NVortl western
VOL. CLXV-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinon of the Court.

Railway v Chtcago, 164 U. S. 454, 457, as had frequently
-before been adjudged, that this court could not review the
final judgment of the highest court of the State, alleged
to have denied a right protected by the Constitution of
the United States, unless such right was specially set up or
claimed in the state court by the party against whom the
judgment was rendered. Rev Stat. ยง 709.
It is contended on this writ of error that the judgment
below deprived the plaintiff in error of her property without
due process of law, and that this result was accomplished by
applying to the case a certain statute of limitations of Missouri as construed and enforced by the, highest court of that
State.
Upon inspecting the record, we find that no Federal right
was set up or claimed, in any form, until after the final decision of the case by the Supreme Court of Missouri, and then
by a petition for rehearing. That petition was overruled by
that court without any determination of the alleged Federal
question, indeed without any allusion to it. The claim of a
Federal right came too late, so far as the revisory power of this
court is concerned. Loeber v Schroeder, 149 U. S. 580, 585,
Sayward v. Denny, 158 U S. 180, 183.
It is contended that the cases of Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U S. 657, .Marchantv Penneylvansa Railroad,153 U. S. 380,
and Scott v foNeal, 154 U. S. 34, recognized some exceptions to this general rule. But an examination of the first
and last named of those cases, as reported, will show that a
Federal right was specially claimed in and was passed upon
by the state court. In Marchant v. Penn8ylvania Railroad
it does not distinctly appear from the opinion of the court
that the Federal right alleged to have been violated was
specially claimed in the state court. But the record of that
case shows not only that such was the fact, but that the jurisdiction of.this court in that case was beyond question.
The iwrit of error must be dimissed for want of urzdic-

tion.

