OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

the railroad company has no notice by any fact subsequent
to and independent of thp certification or patent of any
defect in title. Such a purchaser cannot claim to be one
in good faith if he has notice of facts outside the records
of the land department disclosing a prior right. The protection goes only t6 matters anterior to the certification and
patent. The statute was not intended to cut off the rights
of parties continuing after the certification, and of which
at the time of his purchase the purchaser had notice. Only
the purely technical claims of the government were waived.
Here the claimant Marshall was in possession, had- been
in possession for twenty years, .the land was not wild and
vacant land. His. possession was- under a reporded claim
of title, and under such a claim as forbade the issue. of a
patent. In other words, the land was erroneously certified.
There was, and continued-to be, an individual claimant for
the land. There was no cancellation on the .records -of the
land department of hs claim. He continued in possession,
and was m possession not only when the certification was
made but when the land company purchased. Its purchase,
therefore, was not one made in good faith, and there is nothing disclosed to stay the mandate of the statute for the adjustment of the land grant, and a suit to set aside the
certificate erroneously issued. The decree of the Court of
.Appeals is
_________A~jrmned.

'DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UtITED STATES FOR THB
NOiRTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLITOIS.,
No.472.

Argued December 21, iS96-.-Deided February 15, 1897.

There was io error in1 overrulibg the motion of the .defendant, made prior
tb the trial, to require the District Attorney to file the printed matter
allegedai'the indictment to be obscene, lewd, lascivious and indecent.
There was no error in the admission of the advertisements of proprietorship
ot the" Dispatch as it is difficult to see hoiw the identity of the pape,

DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
which the indictment averred that the defendant deposited in the post
office for mailing, could have been more conclusively proved than by the
production of a newspaper called the Dispatch, and purporting to be the
official paper of the city of Chicago.
There was no error in permitting government officers in the Post Office
Department to testify as to the course of business in the respective offices with whichthey were connected, with a view of proving the customs
of the post offilce, the course of business therein, and the duties of the
employ~s connected with it.
Where a question is made whether a certain paper or other document has
reached the hand of the person for whom it is intended, proof of a usage
to deliver such papers at the house, or of the duty of a certain messenger
to deliver such papers, creates a presumption that the paper in question
was actually so delivered.
There was no error in permitting the government to prove that during the
three years preceding the trial, and also during the period covered by
the dates of the papers, admitted in evidence, namely, July 6 to October
19, 1895, a newspaper, purporting to be the Chicago Dispatch, was regularly on each day, except Sunday, received in great quantities at the
Chicago post office for mailing and delivery.
Whether the matter is too obscene to be set forth in the record is a matter
primarily to be considered by the District Attorney in preparing the indictment; and, in any event, it is within the discretion of the court to
say whether it is lit tb be spread upon the records or not, and error will
not lie to the action of the court in this particular.
There Is no merit in the assignment of error taken to the action of the
court, in refusing to direct a verdict of not guilty at the close of the
testimony.
In his argument to the jury the District Attorney said. "I do not believe
that there are twelve men that could be gathered by the venire of this
court within the confines of the State of Illinois, except where they were
bought and perjured in advance, whose verdict I would not be willing to
take upon the question of the indecency, lewdness, lasciviousness, licentiousness and wrong of these publications." To this language counsel
for the defendant excepted. The court held that it was improper, and
the District Attorney immediately withdrew it. Held, that the action
of the court was commendable in this particular, and that this ruling, and
the immediate withdrawal of the remark by the District Attorney, condoned his error in making it, if his remark could be deemed a prejudicial
error.
There was no error in the remarks of the District Attorney as to massage
treatment.
There was no error in instructing the jury that: "It is your duty to come
to a conclusion upon all those facts, and the effect of all those facts, the
same as you would conscientiously come to a conclusion upon any other
set of facts that would come before you in life." "There is no.technical
rule; there is no limitation in courts of justice, that prevents you from

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
applying to them (the facts and circumstances in evidence) just the same
rules or good, comuon sense, subject always, of course, to a conscientious exercise of that common sense, that you would apply to any other
subject that came under your consideration and that demanded your
judgment."
There was no error in the following instructions as to obscene publications
"Now, what is (are) obscene, lascivious, lewd or indecent publications
is largely a question of your own conscience and your own opinion; but
it must come-before it can be said of such literature or publicationit must come up to this point, that it must be calculated with the ordinary reader to deprave hun, deprave his morals, or lead to impure purposes.
It is your duty to ascertain in the first place if they are
calculated to deprave the morals, if they are calculated to lower that
standard which we regard as essential to civilization, if they are calculated to excite those feelings which, in their proper field, are all right,
but which, transcending the limits of that proper field, play most of the
mischief in the world."
In view of the previous instructions of the court, there was no error in refusing to instruct the jury that the presumption of innocence was stronger
than the presumption that the government employds who delivered the
newspapers to Mr. Montgomery in the Chicago post office building obtained such papers from the mails; or that the presumption that the
person who deposited them inthe box in the St. Louis post office building from which box the witness McAfee took the papers obtained them
from the mails.

THIS was a writ of error to review the conviction of the
plaintiff in error for unlawfully depositing and causing to be
deposited, upon the days set out in the various counts, in the
post office at Chicago, for mailing, and delivery, a newspaper
called the Chicago Dispatch, containing -obscene, lewd, lascivious and indecent matter. There were thirty-two counts
in the indictment. The District Attorney, under order of the
'court, elected to proceed upon the first, sixth, twelfth, sixteenth, twenty-sixth and thirty-second counts. The other
counts were quashed, and no evidence was offered to sustain
the first count.
The sixth count was as follows
"And the grand jurors aforesaid under their oath aforesaid do further present that the said Joseph R. Dunlop, on
the sixth day of July, in the year aforesaid, at Chicago
aforesaid, in the division and district aforesaid, unlawfully
did knowingly deposit and cause to be deposited in the

DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

post office of the said United States there, for mailing and
delivery, a large number of copies, to wit, one hundred copies
of a certain paper, print and publication entitled The Ohicago Dispatch, one of which said copies was then and there
directed to Mr. Montgomery, at Chicago aforesaid, another
to R. M. Williams, box 801, at St. Louis, Missouri, and the
rest to divers persons, respectivelv, t& the said grand jurors
unknown, and each of which last-mentioned copies was then
and there a copy of the five-o'clock edition of the day in this
count aforesaid and number 840 of the said paper, print and
publication, and contained (amongst other things) on the
eleventh page thereof and under the headings of Personal
and Baths, certain obscene, lewd, lascivious and indecent
matters in print, of too great length and of too indecent
character to be here set forth in full, against the peace and
dignity of the said United States and contrary to the form of
the statute of the same in such case made and provided."
The other counts differed from this only in the dates of the
newspapers alleged to have been mailed, and the days upon
which they were deposited in the post office.
The testimony introduced by the government tended to
show that there was published in the city of Chicago, during
the year 1895, and the three years immediately prior thereto,
a daily and weekly newspaper entitled The Chicago Dispatch, that the plaintiff in error, Joseph R. Dunlop, was the
publisher of said newspaper during those years, that copies..
of the Chicago Dispatch in large numbers were deposited in
the Chicago post office for mailing and delivery during said.
years, daily except Sunday, that the copies of the Chicago
Dispatch described in the indictment as directed to Mr.
Montgomery at Chicago, and the copies of the Chicago
Dispatch described in the indictment as directed to R. M.
Williams, box 801, at St. Louis, Missouri, were deposited for
mailing and delivery at the post office in Chicago on the
dates of said- several copies, that all the copies of said Chicago Dispatch, so directed to said R. M. Williams and Mr.
Montgomery, contained therein, under the headings of Personal and Baths, certain advertisements that were obscene,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

lewd, lascivious and indecent, and that the plaintiff ir
error, by reason of being the publisher of said Ohicago Dispatch; was liable for the alleged depositing in said post office
of said newspapers, so directed to said R. M. Williams and
Mifr. Montgomery
Defendant was found guilty, and after motions for a new
trial and in arrest of judgment had been overruled, was sentenced to imprisonment to hard labor in the penitentiary for
two years, and to pay a fine of $2000 and costs.
Thereupon he sued out this writ, assigning sixty-one errors
as grounds for reversal. These errors related to the refusal
of the court, prior to the trial, to order the District Attorney
to file the printed matter, alleged to be obscene, or copies of
the same, to the admission of improper testimony, including
all the newspapers, introduced, to the refusal of the court at
the close of the testimony of the government to direct a verdict of not guilty, to prejudicial remarks made by the District Attorney in his argument to the jury, to the giving
of improper instructions, and to the refusal to give proper
instructions requested on behalf of the plaintiff in error.
Mr William S. Forre t and Mr A. H. GaRland for plaintiff in error.
MXr Attorney Oene;ar and Mr Asszstant Attorney General
Dzeki.nson for defendants in error.
M . JusaTic BRowx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

In passing upon this case we shall notice -only such errors
as were pressed upon our attention in the argument or briefs
of counseL
1. The first assignment is to the alleged error of the court
in.overruling the motion of the defendant, made prior to the
trial, to require the District Attorney to file the printed matter alleged in the indictment to be obscene, lewd, lascivious
and indecent, for the purpose of enabling the defendant to
demur to the indictment. Defendant's petition for this

DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.

491'

Opinion of the Court.

order stated as the reason for it that, if the advertisements
complained of were not filed, his counsel "must investigate
and critically examine" over three thousand advertisements
and notices, and that he would "necessarily be confused and
embarrassed," and unable "to make suitable preparations to
sustain his defence." It is nowhere stated that he desired it
fpr the purpose of demurring to the indictment, and if it had
been furnished it would not have been the subject of demurrer,
since it is no part of the record. Commonwealth v Dams,
11 Pick. 432. If the indictment be not demurrable upon its
face, it would not become so by the addition of a bill of
particulars.
Beyond this, however, the application is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, and its action thereon is not subject to review Rosen v United States, 161 U. S. 29, 35,
Commonwealth v. Giles, 1 Gray, 466, Commonwealth v. Mood,
4 Gray, 11, State v. Bacon, 41 Vermont, 526. While such
applications are ordinarily, and should be, granted, wherever
the accused is liable to be surprised by evidence for which he
is unprepared, it is difftiult to see how the defendant in this
case was prejudiced by its refusal. The alleged obscene matter was contained in a published newspaper to which his own
name was attached as proprietor, and of which he had in fact
been the proprietor for several years, the. days and editions
of which were set forth fn the several counts. He was duly
informed upon the trial of what particular advertisements the
government complained, and requested the court to charge
the jury they were. not obscene, within the meaning of thelaw He thus gained every advantage that he could possibly
have-had by the production of the advertisements prior to
the trial.
2. The second and five other assignments of error are taken
to the admission of the following advertisements of proprietorship, appearing in the several editions set forth in the indictment, upon the ground that there was no proof' that the
newspapers, from which they were taken, were copies of the
Chicago Dispatch, and that they did not tend to show who.
was the publisher

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the Mizpatcb.
By JOSEPH R. DUNLOP

AN INDEPENDENT AFTERNOON DAILY PAPER
THREE EDITIONS DAILY-12, 3 AND5 O'CLOCK.

Official Paper of the City of Chicago
Official Paper of Cook County
It is difficult to see how the identity of the paper, called
the Chicago Dispatch, which the indictment averred that the
-defendant deposited in the post office for mailing, could have
been more conclusively proved than by the production of a
newspaper called the Dispatch, and purporting to be the
.official paper of the city of Chicago. In that. particular the
paper proved itself.
While the addition of the words "by Joseph R. Dunlop,"
might not havebeen, standing alone, sufficient evidence of his
,being the proprietor of the paper, and the cause of its being
mailed, yet, in vieW of-the fact that the name of the publisher
usually follows the name of the paper in that connection, it
-certainly had a tendency in'that direction, and was, therefore,
.admissible, particularly when it was shown by other testimony
that defendant had stated that he was the proprietor and publisher of this paper, that a paper of this name had been for
;a long time printed and circulated by him, that it had for a
longtime and in large numbers passed through the post office,
'that he had negotiated for the xenting of a building for the
purpose of publishing a paper called the Dispatch, that lie
had conversations with witnesses in regard to the publication
.of a paper of that name, that, as proprietor, he had caused
papers, similar to these, to be sent through the post office, and
-that the accounts for postage had been rendered to him.
3. The eighth assignment was taken to an alleged error in
permitting the witness McAfee to testify that it was the duty
-of a certain messenger of the post office inspector, whose

DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

office was in the post office building at St. Louis, Missouri, to
take the mail from the post office, and distribute it in the
private boxes of persons who had desk room in the inspector's
office.
The thirteenth assignment was taken to a similar alleged.
error in permitting the witness Montgomery to testify that
it was among the duties of a government employe, not a
mail carrier, to take from a table called the round table, in
the mailing department of the Chicago post office, a copy of
the Dispatch, and deliver it to hun in the office occupied by
hin as superintendent of mails in the government building at
Chicago, and that it was in this way that the newspapeS
identified by Montgomery were received by him.
Each count in the indictment, upon which the trial was
had, charged a mailing of the Dispatch to Montgomery at
Chicago, as well as one to Williams, box 801, at St. Louis.
Montgomery's testimony tended to show that he had been
superintendent of the mails at the Chicago post office for six
years past, had charge of the receipt and dispatch of all mails
in and out of that office, and knew that there was a publication passing through the office known as the Chicago Dispatch,
that he received the papers, put in evidence, in the Chicago
post office from what is known as the round table, the place
at which the mail comes into the office from a platform, where
it is received direct from the publication office, that it was
delivered to him by a messenger through the regular channels
of the mail in the same manner that all other papers of this
kind were delivered, and subsequently turned over to MrMcAfee. ie was then asked the question, "What are the
duties of that messenger? " - that is, the one who brought to

his office from the round table in the post office building
the papers he had identified. To this question objectmon was
made.
The witness McAfee testified that he was a post office
inspector, commissioned but not paid by the Government, and
was also a commission agent of the Western Society for the
Prevention of Vice, that on June 12, 1895, he addressed a
letter to the Dispateh of Chicago, enclosing therein the sum

-494

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

-of $1.25, requesting the Dispatch to be sent to R. M. Williams,
box 801, St. Louis, Missouri, for three months from date,
-slgning the letter "R. M. Williams ", that he received the
papers, identified by him, from his box in the inspector's office
-in St. Louis, that he did not take them from his box in the
.post office, that his mail was put in the box by a messenger
from the inspector's office, whose office was in the post office
-building, that the only way that he knew that the paper came
in the mail was that he found it in his private box in the
-inspector's office, that he had.received his mail in that way for
-ten years, that it was not a post office box in the same sense
.as 801, but was simply a box where his mail was deposited.
He was then asked "Who was this messenger who delivered
-these papers 2" to which objection was made, and he answered
;that he was a messenger for gatheiing the mail for inspectors,
-and distributing it in boxes provided in the post office.
The testimony of both of these witnesses was objected to
iupon the ground that they testified nothing as to the delivery of
-these papers of their own personal knowledge. It is claimed
that the error consisted in assuming that the papers, purporting to be the Dispatch, which McAfee testified that he found
in his private box in the inspector's office, were deposited in
that box by the clerk or messenger, and then in permitting
McAfee to testify that it was the duty of the clerk or messenger to take the mail from the post office, and distribute
the same in certain private boxes in the inspector's office. A
,similar objection was made to the testimony of Montgomery
It-is unnecessary to dwell upon these assignments at any
-length. While the witnesses were not personally cognizant
of the fact that thege very papers were placed in their private
boxes, it was perfectly competent for them to prove the customs of the post office, the course of business therein and the
-duties of the employes connected with it. If it were the duty
-of this mesenger to take these papers from the office and deliver them in the private boxes. of these witnesses, and the
papers identified were there found, it would be proper for the
jury to infer that they had been delivered in the usual way,
-after having been mailed at the post office in the city of pub-

DUNLOP v.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

lication. Both of these witnesses were government officers,
and testified as to the course of business in the respective offices
with which they were connected. There was no error in permitting them to do so.
This question was elaborately considered by Mr. Justice
Bradley in the nwkerbocker LTfe ].n8. Go. v Pendleton, 115
U. S. 339, in which evidence, of the custom and usage of a
bank, offered in support of the evidence of the cashier of his
-conviction and belief that a draft had been presented for
paymefit, came within the rule -which allowed the course of
business to be shown for the-purpose of raising a presumption of fact in aid of collateral testimony
Indeed, the
authorities are abundant to the proposition .that, where a
-question is made whether a certain paper, or other document,
has reached the hand of the person for whom it is intended,
proof of a usage to deliver such papers at the house, or of
the duty of a certain messenger to deliver such papers,
creates a presumption that the paper in question was actually
so delivered. Business could hardly be carried on without
indulging in the presumption that employes, who have certarn duties to perform and -are known generally to ferform.
such duties, -will actually perforij them in connection with
a particular case. Thus, if it be shown that a fetter, properly
stamped, has been mailed, -there is a presumption that it
reached the person addressed, or, if letters properly directed
to a gentleman be left with his servant, it is reasonable to
presume that they reached his hands. .Macgregorv JKeiy, 3
Exch. 794, Skilbecek v. Garbett, 7 Q. B. 816, Jlethenngton.v.
Kemp, 4 Campbell, 193, Dana v Kemble, 19 Pick. 112, Goet.
v Bank of 'lansasCity, 119 U. S. 551, 1 Greenl. on Ev. ยง.40.
4. Thirteen assignments of error were taken to the ruling
of the court in permitting the government to prove that, during the three years preceding the trial, and also during the
period covered by the dates of the papers, admitted m evi.dence, namely, July 6 to October 19, 1895, a.newspaper, purporting to be the Chicago Dispatch, was -regularly on each
-day, except Sunday, received in great quantities at-the Chicago
.post office for mailing and delivery
t

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The object of the government in offering this testimony
was to show that, upon the days stated in the several counts,
large numbers of copies of this paper were actually received
at the Chicago post office for mailing, and that though said
copies were not identified as the papers described in the
indictment, the packages may be presumed to have contained
them. As every copy of the same edition of a paper is almost
necessarily an exact duplicate of every other copy of the
same edition, proof that a certain edition was mailed in large
quantities every day at a certain post office was certainly
competent evidence that papers received by the two persons
mentioned in the indictment, purporting to be of that edition,
were in fact among the number that were mailed upon that
date. Unless the paper were marked before delivery to the
post office at Chicago, it would be impossible to say whether
that identical paper was mailed, but if large numbers of that
edition were mailed every day, it would be practically safe
for the jury to assume that the papers identified were among
the number. This testimony, taken in connection with that
of the two witnesses McAfee and Montgomery, showed with
-reasonable, if not absolute, certainty that the papers which
they received. and identified were among those which had
been actually mailed. It is true that this testimony did not
atirimatively show that the papers thus received belonged to
the- five o'clock edition of the Dispatch, but, while this may
have detracted from the force of the testimony, it did not
render it incompetent. As the evidence showed that large
quantities of this paper were mailed- every day, and that
McAfee and Montgomery received, as part of their mail matter copies of the five o'clock edition of that paper, it was for
-the jury to say whether these copies were not a part of the
papers that were-so mailed.
5. The twenty-bfth and six following assignments were
taken to the admission of the copies of the Dispatch set forth
in the indictment. These exhibits were substantially dopies
of each other. Such of the advertisements as were relied
upon were marked, by order of the court, in blue pencil during the argument to the jury They were objected to upon

DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the ground that the evidence failed to show that they were
deposited in the post office by the defendant, or that theij
were copies of the Chicago Dispatch, both of which objections have been already disposed of. Also that it did not
appear that they contained matter that was too long, or too
obscene, to be set out in the indictment, or to be spread upon
the records of the court. Whether the matter was too obscene to be set forth in the record was a matter primarily to
be considered by the District Attorney in preparing the indictment, and, in any event, it was within the discretion of the
court to say whether it was fit to be spread upon the records
or not. We do not think that error will lie to the action of
the court in this particular.
6. The thirty-second assignment of error was taken to the
action of the court in refusing to direct a verdict of not guilty
at the close of the testimony This assignment is based partly
upon the ground that tlere was no sufficient evidence of the
mailing of the papers. in question, which has already been
disposed of, and partly because-the evidence faiied to show
that the defendant knew that any of the- advertisements
complained of were contained in the copies of the Chicago
Dispatch put in evidence, or that these papers contained
anythingD which was obscene
l or indecent. We think, however, that the- evidence was amply sufficient to lay before the
jury It was shown that Mr. McAfee had repeatedly talked
with the defendant about his paper, of which he admitted
himself to be the responsible head, that defendant was told
there had been complaints made about its character, and that
in the opinion of the District Attorney the advertisements,
under the heads of Personal and Baths, were improper
and illegal, that Mr. Dunlop replied that he scarcely ever
saw the advertisements.until after they had been published,
that he had instructed his agent to scrutinize them with more
care. lIe said that all of the newspapers had carried such
advertisements in times past. until they became wealthy, and
then complained about others that did the same. He did not
deny a general knowledge of the contents of his paper, and it
was scarcely possible that he could have been the responsible
VOL. CLXV-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court

head of the establishment for a number of years, as the testimony tended to show, without personal knowledge of the
character of the advertisements.
7. The thirtv-fifth and thirty-ixth assignments of errors
were taken to certain remarks made by the District Attorney
in his argument to the jury, one of which is as follows "I
do not believe that there are twelve men that could be
gathered by the venire of this court within the confines of
the State of Illinois, except where they were bought and perjured in advance, whose verdict I would not be willing to take
upon the question of the indecency, lewdness, lasciviousness,
licentiousness and wrong of these publications." To this language counsel for the defendant excepted. The court held
that it was improper, and the District Attorney immediately
withdrew it. The action of the court was commendable in
*this particular, and we think this ruling, and the immediate
withdrawal of the remark by the District Attorney, condoned
his error in making it, if his remark could be deemed a
prejudicial error. There is no doubt that, in the heat of argument, counsel do occasionally make remarks that are not justified by the testimony, and which are, or may be, prejudicial
to the accused. In such cases, however, if the court interfere,
and counsel promptly withdraw the remark, the error will
generally be deemed to be cured. If every remark made by
counsel outside of the testimony were ground for a reversal,
comparatively few verdicts would stand, since in the ardor
of advocacy, and in the excitement of trial, even the most
experienced counsel are occasionally carried away by this
temptation.
Complaint is also made of the remark of the District Attorney to the following effect "Now, gentlemen, it is not necessary for me to tell you what the massage .treatment is, how
a man is stripped naked, from the sole of his fet to the crown
of his head, and is rubbed with the hands." If the counsel
gave a wholly erroneous definition of the word "massage," or
misled the jury by giving them a false impression of the
operation, the remark might be prejudicial, and possible
ground for error. But as the word is defined as "a rubbing

DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

or kneading of the body," an operation which could hardly
be carried on unless the person were divested of his clothing,
we see no error in the remark of the District Attorney in this
case. A s the massage treatment is comparatively a recent
device, it is quite possible -that it may not have been understood by all the members of the jury, but if the District
Attorney fairly explained to them what it is ordinarily understood to be, and gave an explanation which was not radically
wrong, there was no impropriety in his doing so.
A large number of exceptions were taken to various portions of the charge to the jury, and to the refusal of the court
to give certain instructions requested by the defendant. Some
of these have already been passed upon in connection with the
testimony, some are too obviously frivolous to justify discussion,.but two or three of them demand an independent consideration.
8. The forty-second and forty-third assignments were taken
to the following instructions.
." It is your duty to come to a conclusion upon all those
facts, and the effect of all those Tacts, .the same as you would
conscientiously come to a conclusion upon any other set of
facts that would come before you in life." "There is no
technical rule, there is no limitation, in courts of justice, that
prevents you.from applying to them (the ficts and circumstances in evidence) .just the same rules of good, common.
s use, subject always, .of course, to a conscientious exercise
of- that common sense, that you would apply to any otber subject that came under your consideration and that demanded
your judgment."
There was no error in these instructions. One of the main
objects of a jury trial is to secure to parties the judgment of
twelve men of average intelligence, who will bring to bear
upon the consideration of the case the sound common sense
which is supposed to characterize their ordinary daily transactions. If cases were to be decided alone by the application
of technical rules of law and evidence, itcould better be done
by men who are learned in the law and who have made it the
study of their lives, and while it is entirely true that the jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinon of the Court.

are bound to receive the law from the court, and to be guided
by its instructions, it by no means follows that they are to
abdicate their common sense, or to adopt any different processes of reasoning from those which guide them.in the most
important matters which concern themselves. Their sound
common sense brought to bear upon the consideration of testiniony, and in obedience to the rules laid down by the court,
is the most valuable feature of the jury system and has done
more to preserve its popularity than any apprehension that
a bench of judges will wilfully misuse their power. To construe these instructions as authorizing the jury to depart from
the rules of evidence and to decide the case upon abstract
notions of their own, or from facts gathered outside of the
testimony, is hypercritical. They were simply told to come
to a conclusion upon the facts that had been proven, and to
apply to those facts the same rules of good sense that they
would apply to any other subject that came under their consideration and demanded their judgment. In these remarks
the court gave a just and accurate definition of their functions.
It certainly would have been error to have told them to apply
to the facts proven any other rules than those which their
good common sense dictated, or to set up any other standard
of judgment than that which influenced them in the ordinary
business of life.
9. Error is also assigned to the following instruction of the
court, upon the subject of obscene publications
"Now, what is (are) obscene, lascivious, lewd or indecent
publications is largely a question of your own conscience and
your own opinion, but it must come - before it can be said
of such literature or publication -it
must come up to this
point that it must be calculated with the ordinary reader to
deprave him, deprave his morals, or lead to impure purposes.
It is your duty to ascertain in the first place if they
are calculated to deprave the morals; if they are calculated to
lower that standard which we regard as essential to civilization,
if they are calculated to excite those feelings which, in their
proper field, are all right, but which, transcending the limits of
that proper field, play most of the mischief in the world."

DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The construction placed by counsel upon this is, that it
-practically directed the jury that obscene literature was such
as tended to deprave the morals of the public 2n any way
whatever, whereas the true test of what constitutes obscene
literature is that which tends to deprave the morals in one
way only, namely, by exciting sensual desires and lascivious
thoughts. It is not, however, the charge given by the court
that was too broad, but the construction put upon it by counsel. The alleged obscene and indecent matter consisted of
advertisements by women, soliciting or offering inducements
for the visits of men, usually "refined gentlemen," to their
rooms, sometimes under the disguise of "Baths" and "Massage," and oftener for the mere purpose of acquaintance. It
was in this connection that the court charged the jury that,
if the publications were such as were calculated to deprave
the morals, they were within the statute. There could have
been no possible misapprehension on their part as to what was
meant. There was no question as to depraving the morals
in any other direction than that of impure, sexual relations.
The words were used by the court in their ordinary signification, and were made more definite by the context, and by the
character of the publications which had been put in evidence.
The court left to the jury to say whether it -was within the
statute, and whether persons of ordinary intelligence would
have any difficulty in divining the intention of the advertiser.
We have no doubt that the finding of the jury was correct
upon this point.
10. Error is also assigned to the action of the court in refusing to instruct the j.urv that the presumption of innocence was
stronger than the presumption that the government employes
who delivered the newspapers to 'Mr. Mlontgomery in the Chicago post office building obtained such papers from the mails,
or than the presumption that the person who deposited them
in the box in the St. Louis post office building from which boxthe witness McAfee took the papers obtained them from the
mails. The court had alreadv charged the jury --that until
the government proves beyond a reasonable doubt that he
knowingly caused to be deposited such a pul)ication in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

mails, the presumption of innocence stands between any penalty that the court might inflict, or any verdict that you
might pronounce, and the defendant. That presumption of
innocence is only overcome when these -facts I have named
as the gist of the offence are, in.yoir judgment, established
beyond a reasonable doubt." The court further instructed
the jury that "the presumption of innocence means that it is
a presumption of the law that the defendant did not deposit,
or cause to be deposited, in the post office for mailing, any of
the newspapers admitted in evidence, and this presumption
should continue and prevail in the -minds of the jury in such
a way as to cause them to find the defendant not guilty,
unless, from all the evidence in the case, beyond a reasonabledoubt, the jury are convinced that the newspapers, or some
of the newspapers, admitted in evidence, were deposited or
caused to be deposited in the post office for mailing by the
defendant." The court, made a similar charge with reference
-to the knowledge of the defendant that the publications contained indecent matters.
The position of the defendant in this connection is that the
presumption of the defendant's innocence in a criminal case is
stronger than any presumption, except the presumption of the
defendant's sanity, and the presumption of knowledge of the
law, and that--he was entitled to a direct charge that the presuniption of the defendant's innocence was stronger than the
presumption that the messengers, who deposited these papers
in their proper boxes, took them from the mails. If it were
broadly true that the presumption of innocence overrides every
other presumption, except those of sanity and knowledge of
.the law, it wouild be impossible to convict in any case upon
circumstantial evidence, since the gist of such evidence is that
certain facts may be inferred or. presumed from proof of other
facts. Thus, if property recently stolen be found in the possession of a certain person, it may be presumed that he stole
it, and such presumption is sufficient to authorize the jury to
convict, notwithstanding the presumption of .his innocence.
So, if a person be stabbed to death, and another, wflu was
last seen in his company, were arrested near the spot with a

DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

bloody dagger in his possession, it would raise, in the absence
of explanatory evidence, a presumption of fact that he had
killed him. So, if it were shown that the shoes of an accused person were of peculiar size or shape, and fo6tmarks
were found in the mud or snow of corresponding size or shape,
it would raise a presumption, more or less strong according to
the circumstances, that those marks had been made by the
feet of the accused person. It is, true that it is stated in some
of the authorities that where there are conflicting presumptions, the presumption of innocence will prevail against the
presumption of the continuance of life, the presumption of the
continuance of things generally, the presumption of marriage
and the pilesumption of chastity But this is said with reference to a class of presumptions which prevail independently
of proof to rebut the presumption of innocence, or what may
be termed abstract presumptions. Thus, in prosecutions for
seduction, or for enticing an unmarried female to a house of
ill-fame, it is necessary to -aver and prove affirmatively the
chastity of the female, notwithstanding the general presumptibn in favor of her chastity, since this general presumption
is overridden by the presumption of the innocence of the
defendant. People v Roderzgas, 49 California, 9, Commonweqlth v Wittaker, 131 Mass. 221:, West v. State, 1 Wisconsin,
209, Zabriskte v State, 43 N. J Law, 640, 1 Greenl. Ev ยง 35.
This rule, however, is confined to cases where proof of the facts
raising the presumption has no tendency to establish the guilt
of the defendant, and has no application where suchproof constitutes a link in the chain of evidence against him.
In such cases as the one under consideration, it is not so
much a question of comparative presumptions, one against the
other, as one of the weight of evidence to prove a certain fact,
namely, that these papers were taken from the mails. It was a
question for the jury to say whether the facts proven in this connection satisfied them beyond a reasonable doubt, and notwith-standing the presumption of innocence, that these papers were
taken from the mails, and 'the abstract instruction requested
would only have tended to confuse them, since, if literally
followed, it would have compelled a verdict of acquittal.

OCTOBER TERMN,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

Upon a careful consideration of the record in this case, we
are of opinion that there was no error of which the defendant was justly entitled to complain, and the judgment of the
court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. McMILLAN.
APPEAL FRO-M THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAIT.
No. 164.

-De,'iled Februarv 15, ISOT.
Argued January 2. 1S7. -I

The clerk of a district court of a Territory is bound to account to the
United States for fees received by him fron private parties in civil
actions, and from the Territory, on account of territorial business.
The clerk of a district court of a 'Territory is not bound to account to
the United States'for sums received for Ins services in naturalization
proceedings.

THIs was an action brought December 31, 1892, in the Third
Judicial District Court of the Territory of Utah, by the United
States against Henry G. McMillan, clerk of that court, and
the sureties on his official bond, to recover the amount of
certain fees received by hin and not accounted for.
The complaint contained two counts, the first of which
alleged that "between January 8 and'December 31, 1889,
inclusive, the said- Ienry G. McMillan, while clerk as aforesaid, and as such, earned, collected and received from different sources, as the fees and emoluments of his said office,
$7458.70, of which sum $988.90 was earned and received in
United States business, $3776.00 for declarations of intention and naturalizations, and 1;2693.80 from private persons
in civil litigation, and from the Territory of Utah, on account
of territorial business", that he was entitled to retain, of the
moneys aforesaid, the sum of $19811)3 as his personal compensation, and the further sum of $174-.05 as the reasonable
and necessary expenses of -ni office, as allowed by the Attor-

