OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

to arise by operation of law, from any specified state of facts,
is, in every sense, by the effect of the Fourteenth Amendment, removed from the jurisdiction of the local authorities.
The statute being general in its application, embracing all
persons under substantially like circumstances, and not being
an arbitrary exercise of power, does not deny to the defendant
the equal protection of the laws. Lowe v Hansas, 163 U. S.
81, 88, 1Dunean v. .Mis.oum, 152 U S. 377. So, also, as the
statute clearly specifies the condition under which the presumption of neglect arises and provides for the ascertainment
of liability by judicial proceedings, there isno foundation for
the assertion that the enforcement of such ascertained liability
constitutes a taking of property without due process of law
Judgment afinmed.

ADDINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO

TuE CIRCUIT COURT OF
EASTEIRN

THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

ISTrRICTl OF TEXAS.

No. 519. Submitted December 15,1S96. -Decided

Februarv i, M59T.

The refusal of the trial court to grant a new trial cannot be assigned for
error in this court.
In the trial of a person for murder the court in substance instructed the
jury that while manslaughter was the intentional taking of human life,
the distingnishing trait between it and murder was the absence of malice;
that manslaughter sprang frot a gross provocation, which rendered the
party temporarily incapable of the cool reflection wich would otheryise
make the act murder, and that while the law did not wholly excuse the
offence in such case, it reduced it from murder to manslaughter. Held,
that this,.being for the benefit of the accused, was not error of which
he could complain.
An instruction in such case that if the circumstances were such as to produce upon'the minid of the accused, as a reasonably prudent man, the
impression that lie tould save his own life or protect himself from serious bodily harm only by taking the life of his assaaint, lie was justified by
the law ii resorting to such means, unless lie went to wyhere .thu deceased
was for the purpose of provoking a difficulty ii order that he might slay
his adversary, is not error.

AIDDLNGTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opiion of the Court.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr (7. L. Addington, plaintiff in error, in person.
Mr Solicitor General for defendants m error.
MR.

JUSTICE HARL.&i

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, C. L. Addington, and one T. D.
Buchannon, "late of the Choctaw Nation, Red River County,
Indian Territory," were charged by indictment in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas
with the crime of having, on the 28th day of June, 1895, in
said county, killed and murdered one Oscar Hodges, "a white
person, and not an Indian, nor a citizen of the Indian Territory, nor a citizen of any Indian nation or tribe."
The defendants pleaded separately not guilty Buchannon
was found not guilty, and Addington was found guilty of
murder as charged in the indictment. A motion by Addington for a new trial having been made and overruled, the
accused was sentenced to suffer death by hanging.
Addington subsequently moved in arrest of judgment upon
various grounds, and that motion was overruled.
1. The first ten assignments of error are based upon a bill
of exceptions setting out simply the grounds upon which the
accused asked that a new trial be granted to him. It is only
necessary to say that the refusal of the court to grant a new
trial cannot be assigned for error in this court. Blitz v,
United States, 153 U. S. 308, 312.
2. The eleventh assignment of error relates to the instruction given upon the subject of manslaughter. That instruction
was in these words- " anslaughter, as applied to a case of
this character, is the intentional taking of human life, but the
distinguishing trait between manslaughter and murder is the
absence of malice, it must spring from a gross provocation,
and of such character as to temporarily render the party incapable of that cool reflection that otherwise makes it murder.
Of course, the defendant intends to do what he does, but he

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

must be laboring at the time he performs the act under intense
mental excitement such as would render any ordinarily pident person for the time being incapable of that cool reflection
that otherwise makes it murder. In that state of case the law
does not wholly excuse the offence, but the law, in its charityfor the imperfections and weakness of human nature, reduces
it from murder to manslaughter."
The statutes of the United States provide that any person
who, within any of the places or upon any of the waters described in section fifty-three hundred and thirty-nine, "unlawfully and wilfully, but without malice, strikes, stabs, wounds
or shoots at, or otherwise injures another, of which striking,
stabbing, wounding, shooting or other injury such other person dies, either on land or sea, within or without the United
States, is guilty of the crime of manslaughter." Rev. Stat.

ยง5341.

The accused contends that, under this statute,,the taking of
human life without malice, even though it be intentional, is
not manslaughter unless the act be done "unlawfully and wilfully", and that thte instruction given was erroneous in that
it did not instruct the jury that before they could convict of
manslaughter it must appear from the evidence that the killing was not only intentional, but was unlawful and wilful.
The only purpose of the court in this part of its charge
was to bring out the distinction between murder and manslaughter, and to inform the jury that they could not find
-the accused guilty of murder if the killing, although intentional, was without malice. This was for the benefit and
not to the prejudice of the accused.
But it is said that the accused may have killed his adversary in self-defence. The court did not overlook this part
of the case. It further instructed the jury "The homicide
becomes justifiable when the party that is charged with taking human life has been unlawfully assaulted himself by his
adversary, and is placed in a position of peril where his life
is about to be taken, or serious bodily harm is about to be
done him, or, from the acts of his adversary, it reasonably
indicates to the defendant, or would reasonably indicate to

ADDINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the mind of any other person situated as the defendant was,
an intention, coupled with the ability, upon the part of his
adversary, to take his life or do him serious bodily harm, in
that state of the case it is his duty to avoid the threatened
danger if he can, but he is authorized to use all reasonable
means at his command to avert the threatened danger, and,
if necessary, he is authorized to go to the extent of taking
human life in his own proper self-defenc.e."
If this instruction stood alone, there might be some ground
to contend that it was inconsistent with the right of selfdefence, as defined in Beard's case, 158 U" S. 550. But the
court further said "If you believe from the testimony that
the said Addington was attacked by said Hodges without
having produced the occasion for the assault, and that the
acts of Hodges then showed to the mind of Mr. Addington,
situated as he was, a present intention upon the part of
Hodges either to take his life or do him serious bodily harm,
or that it would have Produced that impression upon the
mind of any reasonably "prudent person situated as Addington was that Hodges was then about to kill him or do him
serious bodily harm, and you further believe that the means
he used were the only reasonable means at his command to
avert the threatened danger, and that he only fired in his
own actual self-defence, not actuated by malice, and did not
go there for the purpose of provoking this difficulty for the
purpose of killing Hodges, you will find the defendant not
guilty as charged in this indictment." This instruction is
not liable to the objection that it recognized Addington's
right to take the life of his adversary only upon its appearing that he was in fact in actual danger of losing his own
life or of receiving serious bodily harm. On the contrary,
the court said, m substance, that if the circumstances were
such as to produce upon the mind of Addington, as a reasonably prudent man, the impression that he could save his own
life, or protect himself from serious bodily harm, only by
taking the life of his assailant, he was justified by the law
in resorting to such means, unless he went to where the
deceased was for the purpose of provoking a difficulty in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In so instructing
order that he might slay his adversary
the jury no error was committed.
We find no error of law in the record to the prejudice
of the accused, and the judgment must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

EGAN v. HART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIAINA.
Io. 63. Submitted October 2-,1896. -Decided

February 1, 1.39T.

On error to a state court in a chancery case (as also in a case at law), when
the facts are foundby the court below this court is concluded by such
findings.
On error to a state court the opinion of that court is to be treated as part
of the record, and it may be examined in order to ascertain the questions
presented, as may also be the entire record, if necessary to throw light
on the findings.
'The finding by the trial court, sustained by the Supreme Court of the State
that the stream across which the dam complained of was erected, was a
non-navigable stream, was a finding of fact which is conclusive here,
and affords ground broad enough on which to maintain the judgment
below, independent of any Federal question, and this court is consequently without jurisdiction.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr J C. Egan, Mr Fred Thatcher and Mr CJ. J Boatner
for plaintiffs in error.
.MrA. H. Leonard for defendants in error.
MR. JTUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error, by original and supplemental petitions, sued in order to perpetually enjoin the building, by the
board of state engineers of the State of Louisiana, of a dam
across an alleged stream, designated as Bayou Pierre. It was
averred that the construction would permanently impair the

