OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

the appellate court in reversing the interlocutory decree, were
not open to reconsideration at a later stage of the same case,
either in that court or in the court below Sanford. Fork &¢
Tool Co., ,petitzoner, 160 U. S. 247, and cases there cited,
Great Western Tel. Co. v. Burnham, 162 U S. 339. Had the
case been heard anew in each gourt after the first mandate,
the only difference in the result would have been an affirmance, instead of a dismissal, upon the second appeal. That
difference, not affecting the essential rights of the parties, is
no ground upon which thii court should exercise its discretionary power of issuing a writ of certiorari.
It follows that, in the first case, in accordance with the
stipulation of the parties, the writ of certiorari heretofore
granted is dismissed, and, in the second case, the writ of certiorari is denied.
C
Judgmentsaccordingly.

n re KOLLOCK, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 9. Original. Argued January 25, 189T. -Decided

March 1,189T.

The act of August- 2, 1886, c. 840, imposing a tax upon, and regulating the
manufacture, sale, etc. of oleomargarine, required packages thereof to be
marked and branded, prohibited the sale of packages that were not, and
prescribed the punishment of sales in violation of its provisions. It
authorized the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to make regulations
describing the marks, stamps and brands to be used. Ued, that such
leaving the matter of designating the marks, brands and stamps to the
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary, involved no unconstitutional delegation of power.

KOLLOOK was indicted in the Supreme Court of. the District
of Columbia for the violation of the sixth section of the act
of Congress approved August 2, 1886, 24 Stat. 209, c. 840,
entitled "An act defining butter, also imposing a tax upon'
and regulating the manufacture, sale, importation and exportation of oleomargarine", and also for carrying on in the
District the business of a retail dealer in oleomargarine without having paid the special tax thereon. He was arraigned,

IN RE KOLLOCK, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

tried and convicted on each indictment and was sentenced to
fine and imprisonment on the first, and to fine on the second,
'With costs on both, and to stand committed further in default
of payment.
December 14, 1896, he was committed to the custody of the
United States marshal of the District of Columbia, and on the
same day filed his petition in this court alleging that he was
deprived of his liberty unlawfully, in that the law under which
lie was convicted is in violation of the Constitution and laws
of the United States, for the reason that "it is not within the
power of the Congress of the United States under the Constitution of the United States to delegate to the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue or the Secretary of thq Treasury of the
United States, or any other person, authority or power to determine what acts shall be criminal, and the said act of Congress aforesaid does not sufficiently define, or define at all,
what acts done or omitted to be done within the supposed
purview of the said act shall constitute an offence or offences
against the Unled States", and praying for a writ of habeas
Corpus.
Leave was given to file the petition and a rule to show
cause was entered thereon, petitioner being admitted to bail,
to which the marshal made return that he held petitioner
pursuant to the judgment and sentence of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, until he was released from
custody on giving bail in compliance with the ,order of this
court.
It appeared that Kollock had appealed to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, which affirmed the
judgments below, 25 Wash. Law Rep. 41, in accordance with
the decision of that court in Prathierv Unt4ed States, 24 Wash.
Law Rep. 395.
The act of Oongress in question consists of twenty-one sections Sections 1 and 2 define butter and oleomargarine,
section 3 imposes special taxes on manufacturers, wholesale
dealers and retail dealers in oleomargarine, section 4 prescribes penalties for carrying on business as manufacturer.
wholesale dealer and retail dealer without payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

taxes, and section 5, the duty of the manufacturer as to
notice, etc., keeping books, etc., and conduct of business.
Section 6 is as follows
"That all oleomargarine shall be packed 'by the manufacturer thereof in firkins, tubs or other wooden packages not
before used for that purpose, each containing not less than
ten pounds, and marked, stamped and branded as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall prescribe, and all sales made
by manufacturers of oleomargarine, and wholesale dealers in
oleomargarine shall be in original stamped packages. Retail
dealers in oleomargarine must sell only from original stamped
packages, in quantities not exceeding ten pounds, and shall
pack the oleomargarine sold by them in suitable wooden or
paper packages, which shall be marked and branded as the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the
Secretary of the Treasury, shall prescribe. Every person
who knowingly sells or offers for -sale, or delivers or offers
to deliver, any oleomargarine in any other form than in
new wooden or paper packages as above described, or who
packs in any package any oleomargarine in any manner contrary to law, or who falsely brands any package or affixes
a stamp on any package denoting a less amount of tax than
that required by law, shall be fined for each offence not more
than one thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not more than
two years."
Section 7 provides that every manufacturer shall affix a
label on each 'package manufactured under penalty, section
8, for a tax on the manufacture to be represented by coupon
stamps, the requirements of law as to stamps relating to tobacco and snuff bding made applicable-, section 9, for the assessment of taxes on oleomargarine sold without using stamps,
section 10, for an additional tax on imported oleomargarine,;
section 11, a penalty .for purchasing or receiving for sale any
oleomargarine not branded or stamped according to law, section 12, a penalty for purchasing or receiving for sale any
oleomargarine from any manufacturer who has not paid the
special tax, section .13, for the destruction of stamps on

IN RE KOLLOCK, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

stamped packages when empty, and section 14, for a chemist and microscopist in the office of the Commissioner, etc.,
and the Commissioner is authorized to decide what s-bstances,
etc., submitted to inspection in contested cases shall be taxed
under the act.
Section 15 is as follows
"That all packages of oleomargarine subject to tax under
this act, that shall be found without stamps or marks as herein
provided, and all oleomargarine intended for human consumption which contains ingredients adjudged, as hereinbefore provided, to be deleterious to the public health, shall be forfeited'
to the United States.
"Any person who shall wilfully remove or deface the
stamps, marks or brands on packages containing oleomargarine taxed as provided herein shall be guilty of a msdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars nor more than two thousand dollars, and by
imprisonment for not less than thirty days nor more than six
months."
Section 16 provides for the exportation of oleomargarine,
and section 17 imposes a penalty for fraud by the manufacturer in relation to the tax.
Section 18 is as follows
"That if any manufacturer of oleomargarine, any dealer
therein or any importer or exporter thereof shall knowingly
or wilfully omit, neglect or refuse to do, or cause to be done,
any of the things required by law in the carrying on or conducting of his business, or shall do anything by this act prohibited, if there be no specific penalty or punishment imposed
by any other section of this act for the neglecting, omitting
or refusing to do, or for the doing or causing to be done, the
thing required or prohibited, he shall pay a penalty of one
thousand dollars, and if the person- so offending be the manufacturer of or a wholesale dealer in oleomargarine, all the oleomargarine owned by him, or in which he has any interest as
owner, shall be forfeited to the United, States."
Section 19 provides for the recovery of fines, etc.
Sections 20 and 21 read
VOL. cr.xv-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

SEC. 20. That the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with
the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, may make all
needful -egulations for the carrying into effect of this act.
"Sx.c. 21. That this act shall go into effect on the ninetieth
(lay after its passage, and all wooden packages containing ten
or more pounds of oleomargarine found on the premises of any
dealer on or after the ninetieth day succeeding the date of the
passage of this act shall be deemed to be taxable under section eight of this act, and shall be taxed, and shall have
affixed thereto the stamps, marks and brands required by
this act or by regulations made pursuant to this act, and for
the purposes of securing the affixing of the stamps, marks and
brands required by this act, the oleomargarine shall be regarded as having been manufactured and sold, or removed
from the manufactory for consumption or use, on or after the
day this act takes effect, and such stock on hand at the time
of the taking effect of this act may be stamped, marked and
branded under special regulations of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, approved ,by the Secretary of the Treasury,
and the Commissionerlf Internal Revenue may authorize the
holder of such packages to mark and brand the same and to
affix thereto the proper tax-paid stamps."
The first indictment against Kollock set forth that pursuant
to the authority conferred on the Commissioner of International Revenue by the sixth section of the act of August 2,
1886, "the said Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, did, on the twelfth day of March, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-one,
prescribe certain regulations, in substance .and to the effect,
among other things, that the wooden or paper packages in
which retail dealers in. oleomargarine were required by said
act of Congress to pack the oleomargarine sold by them, such
retail dealers, should have printed or branded upon them in
the case of each sale the name and address of the retail dealer
making the same, likeviise the words ' pound ' and Ioleomar.garine' in letters not less than one quarter of an inch square,
and likewise a figure or figures of the same size indicating (in
cohnection with said words 'pound' and 'oleomargarine') the

IN RE KOLLOCK, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

quantity of oleomargarine so sold, written, printed or branded
on such wooden or paper packages and placed before the said
word 'pound.' and that the said words 'oleomargarine' and
' pound so required to be printed or branded on such packages
as aforesaid in the case of each sale as aforesaid and-the said
figure or figures so indicative of quantity as aforesaid in the
ease of each sale as aforesaid and so required to be written,
printed or branded on such packages as aforesaid should be so
plalced thereon as to be plainly visible to the purchaser at the
time of the delivery to hun. such purchaser, by such retail
dealers of the oleomargarine sold to such purchaser, by hem.
such retail dealers."
And thus continued
"That on the fourteenth day of January, in the ,ear of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-six, and at the
1),strict aforesaid, one Israel C. Kollock, late of the District
aforesaid, being then and there engaged in business as a retail
dealer in oleomargarine at a store of him, the said Israel 0.
IKollock. situated on Fourth street southeast, in the city of
Washington, in the said District, did then and there and at
said store knowingly sell and deliver to a certain Florence
l)avis one half of one pound of oleomargarine as and for
butter, which said one half of one pound of oleomargarine
was not then- and there and at the time of such sale and
delivery thereof packed in a new wooden or paper package
having then and there printed or branded thereon the name
and address of him, the said Israel C. Kollock, i letters one
quarter of an inch square and the words 'pound' and 'olcomargarine' in letters of like size and a figure or figures of like
size written, printed or branded thereon indicative (in connection with said words 'pound' and 'oleomargarine') of the
quantity of oleomargarine so sold and delivered to her, the
said Florence Davis, as aforesaid, and which said one half of
one pound of oleomargarine at the time it was so knowingly
sold and delivered to her, the said Florence Davis, as aforesaid, by him, the said Israel C. Kollock, as aforesaid, was then
and there and at the time of the sale and delivery thereof as
aforesaid packed in a paper package npon which there had not

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

been printed, branded or written any or either of the marks
and characters aforesaid so required by the said regulations
to be placed thereon as aforesaid, as he, the said Israel C.
Kollook, then and there well knew, against the form of the
statute, etc."
M" Jeremah .M.Wilson and Mr Henry E. Daws for petitioner.
_Mr Solicitor General opposing.
MR.C IEF JusTrxc

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the terms of the act, manufacturers of oleomargarine are
required to pack it in wooden packages "marked, stamped and
branded as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall prescribe", and
all sales by manufacturers and wholesale dealers must be in
"original stamped packages."
Retail dealers are required to "pack the oleomargarine sold
by them in suitable wooden or paper packages, which shall be
marked and branded as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall
prescribe."
And fine and imprisonment are denounced on "every person who knowingly sells or offers for sale, or delivers or offers
to deliver, any oleomargarine in any other forpn than in new
wooden or paper packages as above described, or who packs
imany package any oleomargarine in any manner contrary to
law, or who falsely brands any package or affixes a stamp on
any package denoting a less amount of tax than that required
by law"
Kollock was convicted as a retail dealer in oleomargarine
of knowingly selling and delivering one half pound of that
commodity, which was not packed in a wooden or paper package bearing thereon any or either of the marks or characters
provided for by the regulations atid set forth -in the indict-

IN RE KOLLOCK, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

ment. It is conceded that the stamps, marks and brands
were prescribed by the regulations, and it is not denied that
Kollock had the knowledge, or the means of knowledge, of
such stamps, marks and brands. But it is argued that the
statute is invalid because it "does not define what act done
or omitted to be done shall constitute a criminal offence," and
delegates the power "to determine what acts shall be criminal" by leaving the stamps, marks and brands to be defined
by the Commissioner.
We agree that the courts of the United States, in determining what constitutes an offence against the United States,
Must resort to the statutes of the United States, enacted in
pursuance of the Constitution. But here the law required the
packages to be marked and branded prohibited the sale of
packages that were not, and prescribed the punishment for
sales in violation of its provisions, while the regulations
simply described the particular marks, stamps and brands to
be used. The criminal offence is fully and completely defined
by the act and the designation by the Commissioner of the
particular marks and brands to be used was a mere matter
of detail. The regulation was in execution of, or supplementary to, but not in conflict with, the law itself, and was specifically authorized thereby in effectuation of the legislation which
created the offence. We think the act not open to the objection urged, and that it is disposed of by previous decisions.
United IStates v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, Unzted States v Eaton,
144 U. S. 677, Oaha v United States, 152 U. S. 211.
In the last case Caha had been convicted of perjury, under
section 5392 of the Revised Statutes, in a contest in a local
land office in respect of the validity of a homestead entry, the
oath having been administered by one of the land officers
before whom the contest had been carried on. It was contended that the indictment alleged no offence, because the
statute made no provision for such a contest before those officers, and, therefore, it could not be said that the oath was
taken in a "case in which a law of the United States authorized an oath to be administered."
But it was held by this court, in view of the general grant

OCTOBER TERTM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of authority to the land department to prescribe appropriate
regulations for the disposition of the public landof-the rules
and regulations prescribed by that department -for contests in
all cases of such disposition, including'homestead entries, and
the frequent recognition by acts of Congress of contests in
respect to that class of entries, that the local land officers in
hearing and deciding upon a contest as to a homestead entry
constituted a competent tribunal, and the contest so pending
before them was a case in which the laws of the United States
authorized an oath to be administered.
As bearing on the case in hand, we cannot do better than
to quote at length from Mr. Justice Brewer, delivering the
opinion, (p. 218) as follows
"This is not a case in which the violation of a mere regulation of a department is adjudged a crime. United States v.
Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, is in point. There was an act of Congress making false testimony in support of a claim against the
United States perjury, and the defendant in that case was indicted for making a false affidavit before a justice of the peace
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky in support of a claim
against the United States. It was contended that the justice
of the peace, an officer of the State, had no authority under
the acts of Congress to administer oaths, and that, therefore, perjury could not be laid in respect to a false affidavit
before such officer. It appeared, however, that the Secretary
of the Treasury had established, as a regulatioft for the government of his department and its officers in their action upon
claims, that affidavits taken before any justice of the peace of
any of the States should be received and considered in support of such claims. And upon this the conviction of perjury was sustained, Mr. Justice McLean alone dissenting. It
was held that the Secretary had power to establish the regulation, and that the effect of it was to make the false affidavit
before the justice of the peace perjury within the scope of the
statute, and this notwithstanding the fact that such justice of
the peace was not an officer of the United States. Much
stronger is the case at bar, for the tribunal was composed of
officers of the government of the United States; it was created

N RE KOLLOCK, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

by the land department la pursuance of express authority
from the acts of Congress. This perjury was not merely a
wrong'against that tribunal or a violation of its rules or requirements, the tribunal and the contest only furnished the
oppcirtunity and the occasion for the crime, which was a crime
defined in and denounced by the statute.
"Nor is there anything in the case of Unsted States v Eaton,
144 U. S. 677, 688, conflicting with the views herein expressed.
In that case the wrong was in- the violation of a duty imposed
only by a regulation of the Treasury Department. There was
an act entitled 'An act defining butter, also imposing a tax
upon and regulating the, manufacture, sale, importation and
exportation of oleomargarine,' which contained several sec"tions forbidding particular acts, and imposing penalties for
violation thereof. Aikd in addition there was a general provision in section 18 that I if a party shall knowingly, or wilfully, omit, neglect, or refuse to do, or cause to be done, any of
the things required by law in the carrying on or conducting
of his business, or shall do anything by *this act prohibited,
he shall pay a penalty,' etc. There was author
ity given to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to make all
needful regulations for carryingihto effect the act. In pursuance of that authority the Commissioner required the keeping
of a book in a certain form, and the making of a monthly return- matters which were in no way referred to in the various
sections of the statute prescribing the duties resting upon the
manufacturer or dealer in oleomargarine, although subsequently to this statute, and subsequently to the offence complained of, and on October 1, 1890, Congress passed an act,
by section 41 of which wholesale dealers in oleomargarine
were required to keep such books and render such returns
in relation thereto as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
should require. It was held by this court that the regulation
prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, under
that general grant of authority, was not sufficient to subject
one violating it to punishment under section 18. It was said
by Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking for the court ' It is nec
essary that a sufficient statutory authority should exist for,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
"Opinion of the Court.

declaring any act or omission a criminal offence, and we
do not think that the statutory authority in the present
case is sufficient. If Congress intended to make it an offence for wholesale dealers in oleomargarine to omit to keep
books and render returns as required by regulations to be
made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, it would
have done so distinctly, in connection with an enactment such
as that above recited, made in section 41 of the act of October
1, 1890.
"'R1egulations prescribed by the President and by the heads
of departments, under authority granted by Congress, may be
regulations prescribed by law, so as lawfully to support acts
done under them and in accordance with them, and may thus
have, in a proper sense, tne force of law, but it does not follow
that a thing required by them is a. thing so required by law
as to make the neglect to do the thing a criminal offence in
a citizen, where a statute does not distinctly make the neglect
in question a criminal offence.'
"This, it will be observed, is very different from the case
at bar, where no violation is charged of any regulation made
by the department. All that can be said is that a place
and an occasion and an opportunity were provided by the
regulations of the department, at which the defendant committed the crime of perjury in violation of section 5392. We
have no doubt that false swearing i a land contest before the
local land office in respect to a homestead entry is perjury
within the scope of said section."
The act before us is on its face an act for levying taxes,
and although it may operate in so doing to prevent deception in the sale of oleomargarine as and for butter, its primary
object must be assumed to be the raising of revenue. And,
considered as a revenue act, the designation of the stamps,
marks and brands is merely in the discharge of an administrative function and falls within the numerous instances of
regulations, needful to the operation of the machinery of particular laws, authority to make which has always been recognized as within the competency of the legislative power to
confer. United States v Symonds, 120 U S. 46, Exs parte

IN RE KOLLOCK, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

Re.ed, 100 U. S. 13, Smit& v Wik.tney, 116 U. S. 167, Wayman v Southard, 10 Wheat. 1.
We concur with the Court of Appeals that this provision
does not differ in principle from those of the Internal Revenue
laws, which direct the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to
prepare suitable stamps to be used on packages of cigars,
tobacco and spirits, to change such stamps when deemed
expedient, and to devise and regulate the means for affixing
them. Rev. Stat. %§3312, 3395, 3445, 3446, etc.
By section 3446, the Secretary and the Commissioner were
empowered to alter or renew or change the form, style and
device "of any stamp, mark or label used under any provision of the laws relating to distilled spirits, tobacco, snuff
and cigars, when in their judgment necessary for the collection of revenue taxes and the prevention or detection of
frauds thereon, and may make and publish such regulations
for the use of such mark, stamp or label as they find requisite", and by the act of March 1, 1879, 20 Stat. 327, 351,
c. 125, § 18, the section was amended so as to provide that the
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary, might
"establish and, from time to time, alter or change the form,
style, character, material and device of any stamp, mark or
label used under any provision of the laws relating to internal revenue." The oleomargarine legislation does not
differ in character from this, and the object is the same in
both, namely, to secure revenue by internal taxation and to
prevent fraud in the collection of such revenue. Protection
to purchasers in respect of getting the real and not a spurious article cannot be held to be the primary object in either
instance, and the identification of dealer, substance, quantity, etc., by marking and branding must be regarded as
means to effectuate the objects of the act in respect of
revenue.
And we are of opinion that leaving the matter of designating the marks, brands and stamps to the Commissioner,
with the approval of the Secretary, involved no unconstitutional delegation of power.
Wt d

OCTOBER TERMA,

1896.

Syllabus.

ritre MCCA U LLY, Petitioner, 8 original. I re LusBY, Petitioner,
10 original. Argued January 25, 1897 Decided Mlarch 1,1897
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: These are petitions for habeas corpus to
discharge petitioners from confinement on convictions under the
oleomargarine law on the ground of .the unconstitutionality of that
enactment. SO far as that question is concerned, it is conceded
that the records are substantially the same as the record in Kollock's case just decided, and the applications must be disposed of
in the same way
Writs denied.
31r Jeremiah if.

Vilson and Mr Henry E."Davis for petitioners.

MLr ,.Solicitor Gen er(d oposing.

McCORMICK )' MARKET BANK.
ERROR

'TO "ViIE
No..54.

SUPREME COURT OF TiE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Nbmiitted December 7, 1S98.-

Decided March 1, 1897.

In an action against a national bank upon a contract, each party relied on
section 5136 of the Revised Statutes, by which a national bank, upon flling its articles of association and organization certificate with the Comptroller of the Currency, becomes a corporation, with power "to make
contracts" and other corporate powers, but is prohibited to "transact
any business, except such as is incidental and necessarily preliminary to
its organization, until it has been authorized by the Comptroller of the
Currency to commence the business of banking." The defendant relied
on the prohibition. The plaintiff relied on the exception to the prohibition, and also contended that, under the general power to make contracts,
the contract sued on was valid as between the parties, even if contrary
to the prohibition. Meld, that a 3udgment for the defendant in the highest court of the State might be reviewed by this court on writ of error.
By section 5136 of the Revised Statutes, a contract of lease, at a large rent.
of an office to be occupied "as a banking office, and for no other purpose," for the term of five years, determinable at the end of any year by
either party, executed by a iational bank as lessee, after having duly filed
its articles of associatio and orgaization certificate with the Comptroller of the Currency, but not having been authorized by mn to corn-

