OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

BURLINGTON GAS LIGHT COMPANY v.BURLING-

TON, CEDAR RAPIDS AND NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME .COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
.No. 17.

Argued January 26,1897.- Decided February 15, 1897.

The use of the land, the subject of this controversy, being a public use, and
within the authority granted by the original reservation, the extent of
that use is a matter for determination by the public authorities of Burlington, and cannot be restrained by an adjoining lot owner, without
reference to his right to compensation for the injury to his lots.

Ox July 2, 1836, Congress passed an act, o. 263, 5 Stat. 70,
directing the survey and platting of certain tracts of land in
Iowa into towns, among others the town (now city) of Burlington, the work to be done under the direction of the
surveyor general of the public lands, with a proviso "that a
quantity of land-of proper width, on the river banls,
and running with the said river the whole length of said
towns, shall be reserved, from sale (as shall also the public
squares), for public use, and remain forever for public use,
as public highways, and for other public uses." This act was
amended on March 3, 1837, c. 36, 5 Stat. 178, by transferring
the duty of surveying, etc., from the surveyor general to a
board of commissioners. Both the 6rigmal act and its amendment provided for a public sale of the lotsas surveyed and
platted. In pursuance of these statutes the town of Burlington was platted, a strip of land two hundred feet in width,
called "Front Street," being left between the eastern row
of lots and- the Mississippi River. February 14, 1853, Congress passed an act, c. 67, 10 Stat. 157, granting to the cities
of Burlington -and Dubuque "the land bordering on the Missispippi River, in front of said cities, reserved by the act of
second July, eighteen hundred and thirty-six, for a public
highway, *nd for other public uses, together with the accretions which may have formed thereto or in front thereof, to

BURLINGTON GAS CO. v. BURLINGTON &c. RIY.

371

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

be disposed of in such manner as the corporate authoritia of
said cities may direct."
The third section provided
"That the grant made by this act shall operate as a relinquishment only of the right of' the United States in and to
said premises, and shall in no manner affect the rights of
third persons therein, or to the use thereof, but shall be subject to the same."
The plaintiff is the owner of five lots facing on Front
Street, holding them by a regular chain of title from the
original purchasers at the government sale, and occupying
them for its gas manufacturing plant. For many years the
defendant, under authority from the city, and appaiently
without objection, had been using a portion of this open
ground between the lots and the river. It had constructed aretaining wall thirty-six feet east of the line of plaintiff's lots,
and had graded and used all east of that for tracks, switches
and a freight house. Practically, therefore, the plaintiff Was
left a roadway in front of its lots of thirty-six feet in width.
In 1892 the city council passed a resolution authorizing the
railroad company to set this retaining vall back fifteen feet,
"the space said wall was set back to be used solely for the
purpose of a wagon road." The effect of this was to narrow,
the roadway in front of plaintiff's lots to about twenty feet,
the wagon road east of the retaining wall being for-approach
to a new freight house the defendant was proposing to construct between'that space and the river. In pursuance of this
authority the railway companycommenced to make the excavation and erect the wall. Upon this plaintiff filed its petition in equity in the Des Moines County District Court to
enjoin the work. A decree in its favor in the District Court
was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State, and one
entered dismissing the suit, 91 Iowa, 470, to reverse which
decree of dismissal plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
_-U& P Ilenry Smytie for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JusTi.E

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

The act of 1853 operated to transfer to the city of Burlington the fee to this strip along the river front, together with
full control over it, subject only to the laws of the State and
individual rights theretofore vested. Indeed, independent of
the act it would seem that the Uiiited States has no control
over the question of the uses to which the strip shall be put.
Undted States v llinom Central, 154: U. S. 225.
The use to which this land was reserved was not that of a
highway alone, but "other public uses."
This does not
mean other public uses similar-in character. The rule nlO8itu2"
a sociis does -not apply-; for under the act of 1836 the reservation is not simply of this strip but of public squares whose us&,
'is obviously not of the same character as that of the highway
Indeed, as well said by the Supreme Court of the Stqte, "the
fact that the land reserved was two hundred feet ide precludes the idea that it was intended for public travel alone."
The further fact that the reservation was of a strip along the
Mississippi River - a great navigable waterway - implies
that the public uses ta which this strip might be put included
all public ,useswhich would tend to facilitate commerce on
such highway, mcl.uding therein wharves,, storetouses, etc.
Laild -devoted to the use of ;i railroad js devoted to publio
use, and under the settled'law of Iowa a common highway
may be used by a railroad without further compensation to
adjbmng landowners. Ba~gney v. Yeouk, 94 U. S. 324, 341,
and -cases from the ,Supreme Court of Iowa cited in the
opinion. The public having control over a highway may determine
the manner in which it shalUjbe improved, and, as a general.rule, sudli improvement cannot be enjoined by an abutping lot
or lannlowner, whatever may be his Aght to compensation
growing out of the Injury which such manner of.improvement
may briiig to his property This being. true of ordinary highways, a.fortorn is it- true in Tespect to -this property which
was. not reserved for, a highway alone, but for other public
t-ses.

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

It does not appear that the plaintiff was pecuniarily
damaged. The Supreme Court of Iowa said in its opinion
that "there is not one word in the evidence showing that the
plaintiff would be damaged in any sum of money by the proposed change." Whether there be any damage or nQt, or
whether it be true that the plaintiff, having suffered pecuniary
injury, is entitled to compensation therefor, its right, if any,
is limited to the matter of compensation, and does not in the
absence of constitutional provisions -like those, for instance,
found in the constitution of Illinois -entitle it to an injianction to restrain the proposed change.
The use of this strip for railroad purposes being a public
use and within the autfiority granted by the original reservation, the extent of that use is a matter for determination by
the public authorities and cannot be restrained by the plaintiff, an adjoining lot owner, Whatever may be its rights to
compensation for the injury to its lots. We see no error in
the decision of the Supreme Court of the State, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIOE

PEoKHAm dissented.

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 57T.Submitted January 19, IS97.-Decided February 15, 189T.

Although there is no appearance for the plaintif in error, yet, as this is a
criminal case, involving the punishment of death, the court has carefully

examined the record, to see that no in3ustice has been done the accused.
After a witness, qualified as an expert, has given his professional opinion
in reference to that which he has seen or heard, or upon hypothetical
questions, it Is ordinarily opening the door to too wide an inquiry to
interrogate him as to what other scientific men have said upon such
matters, or in respect to the general teachings of science thereon, or to
permit books of science to be offered in evidence.
An expert on behalf of the defence in cross examination was asked ,You

