DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

It does not appear that the plaintiff was pecuniarily
damaged. The Supreme Court of Iowa said in its opinion
that "there is not one word in the evidence showing that the
plaintiff would be damaged in any sum of money by the proposed change." Whether there be any damage or nQt, or
whether it be true that the plaintiff, having suffered pecuniary
injury, is entitled to compensation therefor, its right, if any,
is limited to the matter of compensation, and does not in the
absence of constitutional provisions -like those, for instance,
found in the constitution of Illinois -entitle it to an injianction to restrain the proposed change.
The use of this strip for railroad purposes being a public
use and within the autfiority granted by the original reservation, the extent of that use is a matter for determination by
the public authorities and cannot be restrained by the plaintiff, an adjoining lot owner, Whatever may be its rights to
compensation for the injury to its lots. We see no error in
the decision of the Supreme Court of the State, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIOE

PEoKHAm dissented.

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 57T.Submitted January 19, IS97.-Decided February 15, 189T.

Although there is no appearance for the plaintif in error, yet, as this is a
criminal case, involving the punishment of death, the court has carefully

examined the record, to see that no in3ustice has been done the accused.
After a witness, qualified as an expert, has given his professional opinion
in reference to that which he has seen or heard, or upon hypothetical
questions, it Is ordinarily opening the door to too wide an inquiry to
interrogate him as to what other scientific men have said upon such
matters, or in respect to the general teachings of science thereon, or to
permit books of science to be offered in evidence.
An expert on behalf of the defence in cross examination was asked ,You

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
think from your experience with him, from your conversation with him,
that he killed the man because he threatened his life?" An objection to
the question being overruled he answered "Well, in part; and because
he thought his own life was in danger, and because he thought he had the
right to destroy this menace to his own life." Hfeld, that the objection
was properly overruled.
The trial court charged "The term insanity' as used in this defence
means such a perverted and deranged condition of the mental and moral
faculties as to render a person incapable of distinguishing-between right.
and wrong, or unconscious at the time of the nature of the act he is
committing, or where, though conscious of it and able to distinguish
between right and wrong and know that'the act is wrong, yet his will,
by which I mean the governing power of his mind, has been otherwise
than voluntarily so completely destroyed-that his actions are not subject
to it, but are beyond his control." Held, that this was not prejudicial to
the defendant.
Under the circumstances the court did right to refuse the instruction asked
for with reference to manslaughter.

ON October 13, 1894, defendant was indicted in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Arkansas for the crime of murder. A trial being had he was found
guilty and sentenced to be hanged. This judgment was
reversed by this court on the ground of error in the instructions of the court in respect to the matter of insanity Davis
v.. United States, 160 U. S. 469. A second trial was had,
which resulted in a similar sentence, to review which this writ
of error has been sued out.
The circumstances of the homicide were briefly these, and
in respect to them there was no dispute The deceased and
defendant had a misunderstanding in regard to the making
of a sugar cane crop which the defendant was making for the
deceased on land rented from him. About a week thereafter,
and on September 18, 1894, the defendant took a gun and
slipped up to near where the deceased was at work picking cotton, shot and killed him while so at work, and while unarmed
and doing nothing towards harming defendant. He then ran
away from the place where the shot was fired to the nearest
tovn and surrendered himself to the officers, telling them he
had killed the deceased, and detailing the circumstances.

No-appearance for plaintiff in error.

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr A88"stant Attorney General Dtc7znson for defendants
m error.
MR. JusTicE BREwin, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The principal defence presented on this trial, as on the
former, was insanity Indeed, the circumstances of the homicide were such as to preclude any other. The deceased, peacefully at work, unarmed and making no demonstrations against
the defendant, was shot and killed by the latter, and this in
consequence of a dispute more than a week old. The act thus
done, if done by a man fully responsible for his actions, was
unquestionably murder in the first degree. Counsel for cdefendant have filed no brief and made no argument. With the
trial in the Circuit Court, suing out a writ of error and filing
assignments of error, their connection with the case ceased.
If this were a civil case, undoubtedly, under Rule 16 of this
court, the writ of error would be dismissed, or the record
opened and an affirmance ordered without examination. And
if it were a criminal case of small importance it is probable
that the same disposition would be made, but as the offence
charged, and of which the defendant was convicted, is murder,
and the punishment death, we have felt it to be our duty to
carefully examine the record, with all the assignments of error,
in order to see that no injustice has been done the defendant.
In this examination we have had the assistance of a brief
prepared by the Assistant Attorney General, in which the
views of the government are fully presented.
The first nine assignments of error refer to matters transpiring in the introduction of testimony Some of the questions
presented by those assignments have been already determined
by this cour4 in prior cases and need not, therefore, be noticed
in this opluion. The others are as follows Several lay witnesses were called who testified as to their acquaintance with
the defendant and their opinion as to his sanity He also
called two medical witnesses, Dr. 3. C. Amis and Dr. T. J.
Wright, each of whom had seen him after his arrest and dur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ing his confinement in jail, and had observed his conduct,
actions and demeanor. While the record does not contain a
recital of all the testimony of these witnesses enough is disclosed to -show that the court permitted full inquiry of each
as to what he had seen or heard of the actions and sayings of
defendant, permitted each also to give fully.his opinion as to
the mental condition of defendant, and his belief as to the
latter's knowledge of right and wrong and his ability to
distinguish between them. Hypothetical questions were also
put, involving all the circumstances of the homicide and the
prior and subsequent conduct and appearance of defendant,
and their answers received to such questions.
In the course of his testimony Dr. Ams stated that defendant "would sit down on his spittoon and gaze down on the
floor as if looking at some object, when none was there, manifesting no interest in anything that was going on, that
although violently ill he was indifferent and unconcerned
during his illness, was never worried about his condition, never
saw any change in his expression, but he would sit and gaze
in a dreamy, melancholy way, with his mouth open and under
jaw hanging down, having a vacant, meaningless stare, his
face expressionless -just a blank." In reference to this matter he was subsequently iisked this question "What does
medical science say as to that meaningless, vacant stare,
and the lower jaw hanging down in a listless way? What
does medical-science teach as to that?" which was objected
to and the objection sustained and exception taken. No'
ground of objection was stated and no reason given for sustaining the objection. It would seem probable that, inasmuch as the witness had shown himself qualified to testify as
a medical expert, as he had stated all that he had seen and
heard, and given his own expert opinion thereof, the court
deemed it improper or unnecessary to enter into any examination as to what the witness thought medical science would
say of defendant's conduct and appearance. It may have
been because the matter had been sufficiently brought out in
the prior testimony of the witness, but probably the reason
we have suggested is the correct one, and in that view we are

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of opinion that tWe ruling furnishes no ground for disturbing
the judgment. After a witness has once qualified himself as
an expert and given his own professional opinion in reference
to that which he has seen or- heard, or upon hypothetical
questions, then it is ordinarily opening the door to too wide
an inquiry to interrogate him as to what other scientific menhave said upon such matters, or in respect to the general
teachings of science thereon, or to permit books of science to
be offered in eviddnce. Collier v. Simpson, 5 Carr. & Payne,
-43. At any rate, the trial court must have some discretion as
to the -limit to be placed in any given case upon the extent to
which the expert testimony may be carried, and when upon
direct examination the opinion of the witness is fully disclosed, we -think it cannot be said that the court erred in
declining to permit on the same direct examination an inquiry
into what is in some aspects both collateral and hearsay
Again, when Dr. Wright was on the stand and had finished
his direct examination, he was asked by the district attorney
the following question "You think, from your experience
with him, from your conversation with him, that he killed
the man because 'he threatened his life, your idea is that he
killed the man because he threatened his life?" which question was objected to, the objection overruled, and the witness
permitted to answer. The answer which. he gave was "Well,
'in part., and because he thought his own life was in danger,
and because he thought he had the right to destroy this
menace to his own life." We think this was clearly within
the proper limi4 of cross-examination, and, therefore, the
objection was properly overruled.
The remaining fifty-one assignments run to the charge of
the court and to the refusal to give a series of special instructions asked by defendant. It would be a waste of time to
.httempt; to notice each assignment separately, although we
have examined all. On the first trial the court had charged
the jury that every man was presumed to be sane, that insanity was a special defence, and that to make out such defence
it must be established to the reasonable satisfaction of the
jury, and that the burden of proof thereof rests with de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the CourL

fendant. This court was of opinion that this was not. the
correct rule of law, that while it was true that every man is
presumed to be sane, yet whenever by the testimony the question of insanity is raised then the fact of sanity, as any other
essential fact in the case, must be established to the satisfaction of the jury beyond a reasonable doubt. On the second
trial (the record of which is now before us for consideration)
the court charged the law in accordance -with the rule laid
down by this court- quoting the very language of our opinion -and also defined what was meant by insanity in language which, under the circumstances of this case, was in no
degree prejudicial to the rights of the defendant, as follows ".
"The term 'insanity' as used in this defence means such a
perverted and deranged condition of th6 mental and moral
faculties as to render a person incapable of distinguishing
between right and wrong, or unconscious at the time of the
nature of the act he is committing, or where, though conscious of it and able to distinguish between rght-and wrong
and know that the act is wrong, yet his will, by which I mean
the governing power of his mind, has been otherwise than
voluntarily so completely destroyed that his actions are not
subject to it, .but are beyond his control."
Although the court in addition to this specific language enlarged upon the question, its charge in reference to the matter
of insanity covering several pages of the record and containing quotations from many adjudged cases, we find nothing
which qualifies or restricts the definition as above quoted.
Seventeen special instructions were asked by defendant, all
of which except the last were in respect to the presumption of
innocence, reasonable doubt and insanity, matters which the
court had fully treated of in the general charge, and of course
repetition or restatement in the language of counsel was unnecessary
The last instruction asked was in reference to manslaughter.
But under the evidence there was no occasion for any statement of the law on this. There was no testimony to reduce
the offence, iftany there was, below the grade of murder. If
the defendant was sane and responsible for his actions there

GERMANIA IRON CONPANY v; UNITED STATES.

379

Statement of the Case.

was nothing upon Which any suggestion Of any inferior degree
of homicide could be made, and therefore the court was under
no obligation (indeed it would simply have been-confusing the
minds of the jury) to give any instruction upon amatter
which was not really open for their consideration. Sacrf v
United State8, 156 U. S. 51, 63, Stvenon v United State8,
162 LT. S. 313, 315.
These are all the matters presented by the assignments of
error, and all the questions of any importance disclosed by the
record. We find no error in the rulings of the court, and its.
judgment is, therefore,
Affrmed.

GERMANIA IRON COMPANY v. UNITED
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

STATES.

FOR THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.
No: 52. Argued October 20, 1896. -Decided

February 15, 189.

When, while disputed matters of fact concerning a tract of public land, or
the priority of right of claimants thereto, are pending unsettled in the
land department, a patent wrongfully issues for the tract through madvertence or mistake, by which the jurisdiction conferred by law upon the
land department over these disputed questions of. fact is lost, a court of
equity may rightfully interfere, and restore such lost jurisdiction by cancplling the patent.

Oi November 20, 1889, a patent was issued by the United
States to Thomas Reed for the southwest quarter of .the northeast quarter and lots 1 and 2 of section 30, township 63, north
of range 11 west, containing one hundred and twelve acres, in
the Duluth land'district of the State of Minnesota. On October 13, 1891, the United States filed in the Circuit Court of
the District of Minnesota a bill in equity to set aside such
patent, making Thomas Reed the. patentee and the appellants
in this case parties defendant. These appellants claimed title
by conveyances from Reed. Reed made default in the suit,
but the appellants appeared and answered, and to their answer

