OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

And it is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the boundary
line between said States of Missouri and Iowa in controversy
herein be, and it is hereby, .established and declared to be, as
delineated and set forth in said report. '
It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the compensation and expenses of the commissioners and the expenditures attendant upon the discharge of their duties be, and they
are hereby, allowed at the sum of five thousand two hundred
and seventy-three dollars and fifty-six cents ($5,273.56), in
accordance with their report as -confirmed as aforesaid, and
that said charges and expenses with the costs of this suit to
be taxed be equally divided between the parties hereto.
And it is further
Ordered, adjudged and decreed that the clerk of tAt court
forthwith transmit to the Chsef .Aagtratesof the States
of Missourz and Iowa coptes of ths decree, duly authenticated under the seal of thts court.

HUSSMAN v. DURHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Wo. 68. ,4rgied and submitted January 5,1891.-Decided January 18, 1897.

In 1858,
. located a bounty land warrant issued to L. under the act of
March 3, 1855, c. 207, taking a certificate of location, which was recorded
in the office of the recorder in the county in which the land was situated.
No patent was issued. In 1864, under authority of the act of June 23,
1860, c. 203, but without notice to C., the Secretary of the Interior cancelled that warrant. It was admitted that the assignment upon it, purporting to be that of L., was a forgery. On the records of 'the land
department up to 1886 it appeared that a full and equitable title to the
land had passed to C., and in that year D. having obtained conveyances
from C., applied to the land department for leave to purchase on payment
of the regular price and his application was granted. Meanwhile the
lind had been sold for non-payment of state taxes, and-the tax title had
ptassed into H. D. commenced suit against H. to quiet title, and the
Sdareme Court of Iowa sustained the decree of the trial court In his
fa'or. Held,

HUSSMAN v. DURHAM.
Statement of the Case,
(1) That as the Supreme Court of the State held that the equitable
title apparently conveyed by the proceedings in the United States
Land Office in 1858 was of no effect, and the tax titles based
thereon of no validity, it was apparent that a right claimed under
the authority of the United States was denied, and, therefore, this
court had jurisdiction;
(2) That, though a formal certificate of location was issued in 1858,
there was then in fact no payment for the land and the government received nothing until 1888, that during these intervening
years whatever might have appeared upon the face of the record
the legal and the equitable title both remained in the government;
that the land was, therefore, not subject to state taxation; that
tax sales and tax deeds issued during that time were void; that
the defendant took nothing by such deeds; that no estoppel can
be invoked against the plaintiff, that his title dates from the time
of payment in 1888, that the defendant does not hold under him
and has no tax title arising subsequently thereto; and that there
was no error in the decision of the Supreme Court of the State.

Tins case comes up on error to the Supreme Court of the
State of Iowa. The facts are these On May 19, 1858,
Robert Craig located bounty land warrant No. 27,911, issued
to William Long under the act of Congress of March 3, 1855,
c. 207, 10 Stat. 701, upon the land in controversy, and obtained
from the proper land officer a certificate of location. This certificate was recorded in the office of the recorder of Carroll
County, the county in which the land is situated. N1o patent
was issued thereon. On February 1, 1864, the Secretary of
the Interior cancelled the land warrant under authority of
an act of Congress, of date June 23, 1860, c. 203, 12 Stat. 90.
This act provided that whenever it should appear that any
land warrant was lost or destroyed, whether the same had
been sold or assigned by the warrantee or not, the Secretary
of the Interior should cause a new warrant-to be issued, which
new warrant should have all the force and effect of the original,
and upon such action the original warrant was to be deemed
and held to be null and void, and any assignment thereof
fraudulent, and further, that "no patent shall ever issue forany land located therewith, unless such presumption of fraud
in the assignment be removed by due proof that the same was
executed by the warrantee in good faith and for a valuable
consideration." The second section authorized the Secretary
VOT. CIXv-IO

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

to prescribe such rules and regulations as might be appropriate for carrying the act into effect. It was alleged in the
petition filed in this case that the assignment on the warrant
purporting to be that of Long, the warrantee, was a forgery,
and this allegation was admitted by the defendant. The
action of the Secretary was taken without, so far as appears,
any notice to Robert Craig. Nothing was done either in the
local land office or in the land department at Washington to
formally cancel the certificate of location. Up to the year
1886 the records of the land department showed on their face
a full equitable title passing to Robert Craigby virtue of his
certificate of location and payment therefor in a land warrant.
During these years the land was subjected to taxation by the
officers of Carroll County, Iowa, and was sold for non-payment of taxes, and the titles under such, tax sales passed to
Bernhard Hussman, defendant below
In 1886 William H. Durham, plaintiff below, having obtained conveyances from Craig, applied to the land departinent for leave to purchase the land upon payment of the
regular price. This application was granted under authority
of Rule 41 of the Department of the Interior, published on
-July 20, 1875, which reads as follows
"When a valid entry is withheld from patent on account
of the objectionable character of the warrant located thereon,
the parties in interest may procure the issuance of a patent
by filing in the office for the district in which the land is
situated an acceptable substitute for the said warrant. The
substitution must be made in the name of the original locator,
and may consist of a warrant, cash or any kind of scrip legally
applicable to the class of lands embraced in the entry"
The money, $150, was paid by Durham in 1888, and a patent
issued of date October 3, 1889, to Robert Craig, his heirs and
assigns. It recited a payment by "F M. -Hunter, trustee for
Robert Craig," and was delivered to said trustee, to be held
until the rights of these parties could be judicially determined.
Thereupon Durham commenced this suit in the District Court
of Carroll County, Iowa, to quiet his title as against the defendant, holding the. tax titles. The District Court entered

HUSSMAN v. DURHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

a decree m his favor, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court. Durham v Hussman, 88 Iowa, 29.
Mir C. C Cole for plaintiff in error.
_tr C. C. ZVourse, for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
AIR.

JusTioE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
A motion to dismiss was submitted by the defendant in
error, but -as the Supreme Court of the State held that the
equitable title apparently conveyed by the proceedings in the
United States Land Office in 1858 was of no effect, and
the tax titles based thereon of no validity, it is apparent that
a right claimed under the authority of the United States was
denied, and, therefore, this court has jurisdiction.
On the merits of the case we remark that while it is undoubtedly true that when the full equitable title has passed
from the government, even prior to the issue of a patent conveying the legal title, the land is subject to state taxation,
Carroll v Safford, 3 How. 441, Witherspoon v Duncan,
4 Wall. 210, yet until such equitable title has passed and
while the land is still subject to the control of the government it is beyond the reach of the State's power to tax. Railway C'omyany v. Prescott,16 Wall. 603, Railway Company
v. McShane, 22 Wall. 444, Tucker v Ferguson, 22 -Wall. 527,
572, Colorado Company v Commsszoners, 95 U S. 259.
Therefore the validity of the tax titles held by plaintiff in
error depends upon the question whether the equitable title
to the land had passed from the government to Craig.
We remark, in the second place, that under such a tax law
as exists in Iowa there is no privity between the holder of the
fee and one who claims a tax title upon the land. The latter
title is not derived from but is antagonistic to the former. The
holder of the latter is not a privv in estate with the holder
of the former. Neither owes any duty to the other, nor is

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

estopped from making any claim as against the other. iefner
v. _Northwestern .surance Co., 123 U. S. 747, 751, Turner v.
Smith, 14 Wall. 553, Crum v Cotting, 22 Iowa, 411, Burroughs on Taxation, 346.
Neither can it be said that on the issue of a patent the title
by relation always dates as of the time when the certificate
of location was issued. A title by relation extends no further
backwards than to the inception of the equitable right. If
no equitable right passed by the surrender of the land warrant
and the certificate of location in 1858, but only by the payment of the money in 1888, the legal title created by the
issue of the patent has no relation back of this later day In
other words, the United States does not part with its rights
until it has actually received payment, and if by mistake, inadvertence or fraud a certificate of location (which is equivalent to a receipt) is issued when in fact no consideration has
been received, no equitable title is passed thereby, and a conveyance of the legal title does not operate by relation back of
the time when the actual consideration is paid. These views
have been recognized in Iowa, as elsewhere. Thus in Reynold&
v Plymouth County, 55 Iowa, 90, it appeared that certain
forged and counterfeit agricultural college scrip was located
upon a tract of land, and that, after the issue of the certificate
of location and before any patent, state taxes were assessed
-and levied thereon. Thereafter the forgery was discovered,
the locator substituted genuine scrip or money, and a patent
was issued. The court held that the taxes thus assessed and
levied during the interval between the original illegal entry
and location and the subsequent substitution of genuine scrip
or money were invalid, saying "In order to protect a title,
or'to attain the ends of justice, the courts will, under the doctrine of relation, which is a fiction of law, hold that a title
began at the date of an entry or location upon the public
lands. But this doctrine cannot be invoked to burden the
hojder of. a title, and require him, in violation of justice, to
pay taxes when he held neither the equity nor title of the
lands." A similar doctrine was announced in Calder v. Keegan,
30 Wisconsin, 126. See' also Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92,

HUSSKAN v. DURHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

in which this court, on page 101, said "The error of the
learned court consisted in overlooking the fact that the
doctrine of relation is a fiction of law adopted by the courts
solely for the purposes of justice, and is only applied for the
security and protection of peasons who stand in some privity
with the party that initiated proceedings for the land, and
acquired the equitable claim or right to the title. The defendants in this case were strangers to that party and to his
equitable claim, or equitable title, as it is termed, not connecting themselves with it by any valid transfer from the
original or any subsequent holder."
It is, however, said by counsel for plaintiff in error that, as
it does "not appear that any notice was given to 'Craig, the
finding of the Secretary of the Interior that the assignment
was a forgery, and the order directing the cancellation cannot be regarded as binding upon Craig or affecting the rights
vested in him by the surrender of the lana warrant and the
issue of the location certificate. In other words, as in this
respect the Secretary of the Interior is a. tribunal with limited
and special jurisdiction, proof of notice to the parties interested
is essential to sustain the validity of any adjudication. Not
questioning the proposition of law, as thus stated, there are
two sufficient answers to its applicability to the present case
First, as Craig and those claiming under him thereafter dealt
with the government upon the assumption that the adjudica.
tion was binding, one who is not in privity with them cannot
challenge their acceptance of that adjudication, and, secondly,
on the record the parties hereto have admitted that the
assignment of the warrant by Long to Craig was a forgery
Craig, therefore, had no title to the warrant, and this formal
surrender by him of the instrument was an invalid act, neither
defeating the title of Long, nor releasing the government from
its promise to convey to Long, or his genuine assigniee, the
specified number of acres.
The case, therefore, stands in this way Confessedly, though
a formal certificate of location was issued in 1858, there was
then in fact no payment for the land and the government
received nothing until 1S88. During these intervening years

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Nhatever might have appeared upon the face of the record thelegal and the equitable title both remained in the government.
The. land was, therefore, not subject to state taxation.

Tax

sales and tax deeds issued-during that time were void.

The

defendant took nothing by such deeds. No estoppel ct t be
invoked against the plaintiff. His title dates from the time of
payment in 1888. The defendant does not hold under him and
has no tax title arising subsequently thereto.
With respect to the suggestion of counsel that it is a
hardship that one who has changed wild land into a farm and
greatly improved 4t should, after the lapse of many'years, be
deprived of the benefit of those improvements by reason of
an undisclosed defectin the record title, it is sufficient to say
that there is nothing in this record to indicate that the
defendant ever made any improvements or expended a dollar
otherwise than in paying for the tax title. We cannot, of
course, take the intimation of. counsel in the brief as evidence
of a fact not appearing on the record. Further, so far as the
money paid for taxes is eoncerned, it is familiar law that a
purchaser of a .tax title takes all the chances. There is no
warranty on the part of the State. Beyond this, the statutes
of Iowa contemplate a return of taxes when it is disclosed
that the land was not subject to taxation. 1 McClain's Rev.
Stat. 1888, ยง 1381, p. 353. We see no error in the decision
of the Supreme Court of Iowa, and it is, therefore,

Affi med.

GULF,

COLORADO AND SANTA FE
COMPANY v. ELLIS.

RAILWAY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TRE STATE OF- TEXAS.
No. 133.

Submitted November 3, 1896. -D ecided January 18,1891.

The act of the legislature of Texas of April 5, 1889, which provides that
"any person in this State having a valid bona fide claim for personal
services rendered or labor done, or for damages, or for overcharges on
freight, or claims for stock killed or injured by the train of any railway

