OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

fall, or it may be that their purpose was simply to affirm that
this water coming down the arroyos did run over the land of
the plaintiff. Considering the uncertainty as to the import of
this question and answer, and in view of the clear and positive
answers to other direct questions, and also in view of the
averments in the original declaration, we think it would be
going too far to hold that this is to be taken as a finding that
there was a natural watercourse whose waters, increased by
the rainfall and cloudburst, overflowed their banks and injured
the plaintiff's property These are all the questions in the
.ease, and, finding no error in the record, the judgment is

-Affirmed.

FAULY v. STATE LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 201. Argued January 29, 189. -Decided

March 1, 1897.

A creditor who receives from his debtor a transfer of shares in a national
bank as security for his debt, and who surrenders the certificates to the
bank, and takes out new ones in his own name, in which he is described
as pledgee, and holds them afterwards in good faith as such pledgee and
as collateral security for the payment of his debt, is not a shareholder,
subject to the personal liability imposed upon shareholders by Rev.
Stat. ยง 5151.
The previous cases relating to the liability of such shareholders examined
and held to establish.
(1) That the real owner of the shares of the capital stock of a national
banking association may, in every case, be treated as a shareholder
within the meaning of section 5151,
(2) That if the owner transfers his shares to another person as collateral security for a debt due to the latter from such owner, and if,
by the direction or with the knowledge of the pledgee, the shares
are placed on the books of the ass.ociation in such way as to imply
that the pledgee is the real owner, then the pledgee may be treated
as a shareholder within the meaning of section, 5151 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and therefore liable upon the basis
prescribed by that section for the contracts, debts and engagements of the association;

PAULY v. STATE LOAN AND TRUST CONIPANfY. 607
Opinion of the Court.
(3) That if the real owner of the shares transfers them to another person, or causes them to be placed on the books of the association
in the name of another person, with the intent simply to evade the
responsibility imposed by section 5151 on shareholders of national
banking associations, such owner may be treated, for the purposes
of that section, as a shareholder, and liable as therein prescribed;
(45 That if one receives shares of the stock of a national banking association as collateral security to him for a debt due from the owner,
with power of attorney authorizing him to transfer the same on
the books of the association, and being unwilling to incur the
responsibilities of a shareholder as prescribed by the statute,
causes the shares to be transferred on such books to another,
under an agreement that they are to be held as security for the
debt due from the real owner to his creditor- the latter acting in
good faith and for the purpose only of securing the payment of
that debt without incurring the responsibility of a shareholder he, the creditor, will not, although the real owner may, be treated
as a shareholder within the meaning of section 5151, and,
(5) That the pledgee of personal property occupies towards the pledgor
somewhat of a fiduciary relation, by virtue oftwhich, he being a
trustee to sell, it becomes his duty to exercise his right of sale for
the benefit of the pledgor.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr E'dward Winelow Paige for plaintiff in error.
Wade -McDonald filed a brief for same.

.Mr J

Mr .Bdward W Hutchc n and Mr Henry Wheeler, by
leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of Thomas P Beal,
receiver.

Mr W P Gardiner for defendant in error.
Earrz8 was on his brief.

M'

T A.

MR. JUsTICE HARLAT delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action to recover the amount of an assessment
made on the shareholders of a national banking association in
the hands of a receiver.
Is the defendant in error, the State Loan and Trust Company, a "shareholder "1of the California National Bank of San
Diego within the meaning of the statute relating to national

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

banking associations? That is the sole question presented bT
the pleadings.
By the Revised Statutes of the United States it is provided "SEc. 5139. The capital stock of each association shall
be divided into shares of one hundred dollars each, and be.
deemed personal property, and transferable on the books of'
the association in such manner as may be prescribed in theby-laws or articles of association. Every person becominga shareholder by such transfer shall, in, proportion to his.
shares, succeed to all tbe rights and liabilities of the prior
holder of such shares, and, no change shall be made in the
articles of association by which the rights, remedies or security of the existing creditors of the assoeiation shall beimpaired."
"SEC. 5151. The shareholders of every national banking

association shall be held individually responsible, equally and
ratably, and not one for- another, for all contracts, debts and.
engagements of such association, to-the extent of the amount
of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to.
the amount invested in such shares.
"SEC. 5152. Persons holding stock as executors, administra-

tors, guardians or trustees shall not be personally subject to,
any liabilities as stockholders, but the estates and funds in
their hands shall be liable in like manner and to the same
extent as the testator, intestate, ward or person interested
in such funds would be, if living and competent to act and
hold- the stock in his own name."
"SEc. 5210. The president and cashier of every national

banking association shall cause to be kept at all times a full
and correct list of the names and residences of all the shareholders in the association, and the number of shares held
by each, in the office where its business is transacted. Such
list shall be subject to the inspection of all the shareholders
and creditors of the association, and the officers authorized
to assess taxes under state authority, during business hours
of each day in which business may be legally transacted. A
copy of such list, on the first Monday of July of each year,

PA_6LY v. STATE LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.

609

Opinion of the Court.

verified by the oath of such president or cashier, shall be
transmitted to the Comptroller of the Currency"
The Comptroller of the Currency appointed the plaintiff
in error receiver of the California National Bank of San
Diego, California. Rev. Stat. ยง 5234. He gave bond as
required by law, and thereafter entered upon the discharge
of the duties of his trust.
In virtue of the authority conferred upon him by law, the
Comptroller made an assessment on the shareholders of the
bank for five hundred thousand dollars, to be paid by them
on or before the 18th day of June, 1892. The assessment was
equally and ratably upon shareholders to the amount of one
hundred per centum of the par value of the shares of the
capital stock of the bank held and owned by them respectively
at the time of its failure or suspension, and the receiver was
required by an order.of the Comptroller to institute suits to
enforce against each shareholder his personal liability to that
extent.
The receiver gave due notice of the assessment, in writing,
to the State Loan and Trust Company-which is a corporation of California, having its principal place of business at
the city of Los Angeles in that State- and made demand
upon it therefor, but the company did not pay the same or
any part thereof.
Thd facts upon which the claim against the defendant company is based are these S. G. Havermale and J W Collins,
owners and holders respectively of certificates numbered 286
and 297 issued to them for one hundred shares, each, of the
capital stock of the California National Bank of San Diego,
were indebted to the State Loan and Trust Company upon
their promissory note for $12,500, besides interest. These
certificates having been endorsed by the respective holders by
writing their names across the back thereof, were transferred
and delivered to the State Loan and Trust Company as collateral security for the payment of the above note, and, so
endorsed, were, in ordinary course of mail, transmitted and
surrendered to the California National Bank of San Diego.
New certificates, numbered 308 and 309, respectively, were
VOL. cLXV-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

thereupon issued to the State Loan and Trust Company of
Los Angeles, as "pledgee," in lieu of certificates 286 and 297.
Each of the new certificates showed upon its face that it
was issued to the "State Loan, and Trust Company of Los
Angeles, pledgee," and each purp61qId to be for.qpe hundred
shares of the capital stock of the California National Bank
of San Diego.
The defendant, after receiving certificates 308 and 309, held
them "as pledgee, and as collateral securiy for the payment
of said note, and for the unpaid balance of the debt thereby
represented."
Otherwise than as just stated, the State Loan and Trust
Company of Los Angeles never had owned or held any shares
of the capital stock of the California National Bank of San
Diego, and never was entitled to hold the usual stock certificate as such shareholder to the amount of two hundred shares
or to any other amount.
Except as pledgee of the stock represented by,' certificates
308 and 309, respectively, the name of the State Loan and
Trust Company never appeared upon or in the stock or other
corporate books of the California National Bank of San Diego
as a shareholder. The-entries in the books of the bank showed
that the new certificates were issued to the State Loan and
Trust Company as pledgee, and not otherwise.
A jury having been waived by the parties in writing, the
case was tried in the Circuit Court, and judgment was rendered for the defendant. 56 Fed. Rep. 430. Upon appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals that- judgment was affirmed.
15 U S. App. 259.
Is one who does not appear upon the official list of the
names and residences of the shareholders of a national banklug association otherwise than as "pledgee" of a given number of shares of the capital stock of such association - nothing
else appearing- liable as a "shareholder" of such association under section 5151 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States declaring that "the shareholders of every national banking association shall be held individually responsible, equally
and ratably, and not one for another, for all contracts, debts

PAULY v. STATE LOAN AID TRUST COMPANY.

611

Opinion of the Court.

and engagements of such association, to the amount of their
stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the
amount invested in such shares"?
As both sides contend that their respective positions are in
harmony with decisions heretofore rendered in this court, it
will be necessary to refer to some of the cases cited by counsel.
In Pullman v. Upton, 96 U. S. 328, 330, which was an
action by the assignee in bankruptcy of an-insurance company
to compel a holder of shares of its stodk to pay the balance
due thereon, the court said "The only question remaining is,
whether an assignee of corporate stock, who has caused it to
be transferred to himself on the books of the company, and
holds it as collateral security for a debt due from his assignor,
is liable for unpaid balances thereon to the company, or to the
creditots of the company, after it has become bankrupt. That
the original holders and the trainsferees of the stock are thus
liable we held in Upton v Tribilcock, 91 U. S. 45, Sanger v
Upton, 91 U. S. 56, and TFebster v. Upton., 91 U. S. 65, and
the reasons that controlled our judgment in those cases are of
equal force in the present. The creditors of the bankrupt
company are entitled to the whole capital of the bankrupt, as
a fund for the payment of the debts due them. This they cannot have, if the transferee of the shares is not responsible for
whatever remains unpaid upon his shares, for by the transfer
on the books of the corporation the former owner is discharged. It makes no difference that the legal owner -that
3s, the one in whose name the stock stands on the books of
the corporation - is in fact only, as between himself and his
debtor, a holder for security of the debt, or even that he has
no beneficial interest therein."
In National Bank v Case, 99 U. S. 628, 631, 632-which
was an action to make the Germania National Bank of New
Orleans liable as a shareholder of another national bank that
had become, insolvent -it
appeared that Phelps, McCullough
& Co. borrowed money from the defendant bank, and to
secure the payment of the loan, evidenced by note, pledged
one hundred shares of the stock of the Crescent City National
Bank, with power on non-payment of the :sm borrowed to

OCTOBER TERMiI, 1896.
Opinion of. the Court.

dispose of the stock for cash without recourse to legal proceedings, and to that end to make *transfers on the books of
the latter corporation. The note not having been paid, the
stock was transferred on the books of the Crescent City
National Bank to the Germania INational Bank. The latter
subsequently caused the stock to be transferred, on the books
of -the former, to one of its clerks, who acquired no beneficial
interest in it, and between whom and the officers of his bank
it was understood that he would retransfer the stock at their
request. This court, observing that notwithstanding the
transfer to the clerk the stock remained subject to the bank's
control, and that the transfer to him was made to evade the
liability of the true owners, said "It is thorpugbly established that one to whom stock has been transferred in pledge
or as collateral security for money loaned, and who appears
on the books of the corporation as the owner of the stock, is
liable as a stockholder for the benefit of creditors. We so
held in Pullman v Upton, 96 U. S. 328, and like decisions
abound in the English courts, and in numerous American
cases, to some of which we refer" Addrly v AStorm, 6 Hill,
624, Roosevelt v Brozon, 11 N. Y 148, -Holyolce Bank v.
Burnham, 11 Gush. 183, -Magruderv Colton, 44 Maryland,
349, Cieasev Babcock, 10 Met. (Mass.) 525, Wlieelock v. Eost,
77 Illinois, 296, Empire City Bank, 18 N. Y 199, Hale v.
Malker, 31 Iowa, 34-4. For this several reasons are given.
One is, that he is estopped from denying his liability by voluntarily holding himself out to the public as the owner of
the stock, and his denial of ownership is inconsistent with the
representations lie has made, another is, that by taking the
legdl title he has released the former owner; and a third is,
that after having taken the apparent ownership and thus
become entitled to receive dividends, vote at elections, and
enjoy all the privileges of ownership, it would be inequitable
to allow him to refuse the responsibilities of a stockWhen, therefore, the stock was transferred
holder.
to the Germania Bank, though it continued to be held merely
as a collateral security,.the bank became subject to the liabilities of a stockholder, and the liability accrued the instant the

PAULY v. STA.TE LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.

613

Opinion of the Court.

transfer was made." After referring to some of the English
cases, the court proceeds "The American doctrine is even
more stringent. Mr. Thompson states it thus, and he is supported by the adjudicated cases 'A transfer of shares in a
failing corporation, made by the transferrer with the purpose
of escaping his liability as a shareholder, to a person who,
from any cause, is incapable of responding in respect of such
liability, is void as to the creditors of the company and as to
other shareholders, although as between the transferrer and the
transferee it was out and out.' 2Vathan v. Tlitlock, 9 Paige,
152, ZJcClarea v. .Franczscus, 4.3 Missouri, 452, .Marcy v
Clark, 17 Mass. 329, Johnson.v Zaqfin, by Dillon, J., 6 Cent.
Law Jour. 131, 5 Dillon, 65. The case in hand does not need
the application of so rigorous a doctrine. While the evidence
establishes that the Crescent City was in a failing condition
when the transfer to, Waldo wvas made, and leaves no reasonable doubt that the Germania Bank knew it and made the
transfer to escape -responsibility, it establishes much more.
The transfer was not an out and out transfer. The stock
remained the property of the transferrer. Waldo was bound
to retransfer it when requested, and all the privileges and
possible benefits of ownership continued to belong to the bank.
No case holds that such a transfer relieves the-transferrer from
his liability as a stockholder."
It may be here observed- that in Pullman v Upton the
person who sought to escape liability as a shareholder appeared on the books of the insolvent insurance company as
the owner of the stock, and that in Vational Bank v Case
the Germania National Bank, after the original transfer
under the power of attorney executed by its debtor, appeared on the books of the other bank as the owner of the
stock, and that the liability arising therefrom 'ould not be
defeated or avoided by a transfer, however regular in.form,
to another who acquired no beneficial interest in it, and was
to hold the stock simply for its benefit. Nothing appeared
upon the stock list, in either case, to indicate that the persoin
or corporation who appeared on such list as a shareholder
was not, in fact, the actual owner.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In Bowdem v Johnson, 107 U S. 251, 261, which involved
the liability as a shareholder of a national bank of one who
became the purchaser and owner of some of its shares, and
who, in apprehension of the bank's failure, and in order to
escape liability, transferred his stock to an irresponsible person, the court said "The answer sets forth that Johnson
became the purchaser and owner of the one hundred and
thirty shares in 1869. As such shareholder, he ecame
subject to the individual liability prescribed by the statute.
This liability attached to him until, without fraud as against
the creditors of the bank, for whose protection the liability
was imposed, he should relieve himself from it. He could
do so by a bona Jide transfer of the stock. But where the
transferrer, possessed of information showing that there is
good ground to apprehend the failure of the bank, colludes
and combines, as in this case, with an irresponsible transferee,
with the design of substituting the latter in his place, and of
thus leaving no one with any liability to respond for the
individual liability imposed by the statute, in respect of the
shares of stock transferred, the transaction will be decreed
to be a fraud on the creditors, and he will be held to the
same liability to the creditors as before the transfer. He
will be still regarded as a shareholder quoad the creditors,
although he may be able to show that there was a full or
partial consideration for the transfer, as between him and the
transferee. The appellees contend that the statute does not
admit of such a rule, because it declares that every person
becoming a shareholder by transfer succeeds to all the liabilities of the prior holder, and that, therefore, the liabilities of
the prior holder, as a stockholder, are extinguished by the
transfer. But it was held by this court in .Yatwznal Bank
v Case, 99 U. S. 628, that a transfer on the books of the bank
is not in all cases enough to extinguish liability The court,
in that case, defined as one limit of the right to transfer, that
the transfer must be out and out, or one really transferring
the ownership as between the parties to it. But there is noth.ano in the statute excluding, as another limit, that the transfer must not be to a person known to be irresponsible, and

PAULY v. STATE LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.

615

Opinion of the Court.

collusively made, with the intent of escaping liability, and
defeating the rights given by statute to creditors."
But the case to which our attention has been particularlv
called is Anderson v Pheiladelpha.lVarehoztse Company, 111
U S. 479, 483-485, in which the question was as to the liability
of the Philadelphia Warehouse Company as a shareholder of
a national bank that had become insolvent. The facts in that
case were these Bluiner & Co. (the senior member of that
firn being president of the bank) arranged with the Warehouse Company for a loan or banker's credit, to be secured
by collaterals. Kern, a member of the firm, transferred 450
shares of the stock of the bank, standing in his name on the
books of the bank, and caused a new certificate to be issued
in the name of Henry, as president of the Warehouse Company, and it was taken or sent to that company as further
security for the credit extended to Blunter & Co. The fact
of this transfer of stock to the name of Henry, as president,
having come to the knowledge of the directors and executive
committee of the Warehouse Company, they caused a transfer
to be made on the books of the bank to one McCloskey, an
irresponsible person and a porter in its employment, and a
new certificate to be issued in his name, because they deemed
it inadvisable to have the stock stand in the name of the company's president, and thus incur the liability imposed upon
shareholders of national banks. lMcCloskey never had possession of the certificate, and gave to the Warehouse Company
an irrevocible power of attorney for the sale and transfer of
stock. Upon McCloskey's death the stock was transferred on
the books of the bank to Ferris, also an irresponsible person
and an employe of the Warehouse Company A new certificate was issued to him, and delivered to the company, Ferris
endorsing thereon an irrevocable power of attorney for its
transfer. When the bank failed, the stock stood in the name
of Ferris, the Warehouse Company holding the certificate.
That company never received any dividends on the stock, and
never acted as a shareholder, but held the.stock as security
for the debt due it.
This court in that case recognized it to be well settled that

OCTOBER TERRM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

one who allows himself to appear on the books-of a national
bank as an "owner" of its stock is liable to creditors as a
shareholder, whether he- be, in fact. the absolute owner or
only a pledgee, and that, if a registered owner, acting in bad
faith, transfers his stock in-a failing bank to an irresponsible
person, for the purpose of escaping liability, or if his transfer
is colorable only, the transaction is void as to creditors-citing National Bank v. Case, 99 U 'S. 628, Bowden v Johnson,
107 U. S. 251. It was farther said to be beyond question
that the beneficial owner of stock registered in the name of
an irresponsible person may, under some circumstances, be
liable to-creditors as the real shareholder, "but," the court
observed, "it has never; to our knowledge, been held that a
mere pledgee of stock is chargeable where lie is not registered
as ownel""
It appeared, according to-the opinion in that case, that there
was no evidence of actual fraud or bad faith, thAt the Warehouse Company never was the owner of the stock in question,
and never held itself out as such, that the transfer of Kern
and Blumer & Co. was only by way of pledge, and the company was bound to return the stock whenever the debt, for
which it was held, was paid, that the company never consented to a transfer of the stock to its name on the books, or
to thtt of its president, and that for seven years before the
failure of the bank, and at least five years before its embarrassments were known to the company or the public, the stock,
with the assent of Kern, Blumer & Co. and the officers of the
bank, stood in the namp of McCloskey or Ferris, that during
all that time neither the registered holders nor. the Warehouse
Company claimed dividends or in any way acted as shareholders, that either Kern or Blamer & Co. took the dividends
as they were paid, and to all intents and purposes controlled
the stock, that there was no concealment on the part of tie
Warehouse Company, and no effort to deceive, that it had
possession of the certificates representing the stock, with full
power to control them for all the purposes of its security, but
never was or pretended to be anything else than a mere
tpledgee, that those who examined the list of shareholders

PAULY v. STATE LOAN AND.TRUST COIMPANY.

617

Opinion of the Court.

would have found the name of MeCloskey or of Ferris as the
registered holder of four hundred'and fifty shares, there was
nothing on the books of the bank to connect them, or-either
of them, with the Warehouse Company, and, therefore, no
credit could have been given on account of the apparent liability of the company as a shareholder.
"If," the court said, "inquiries had been made and all the
facts ascertained, it would have been f6und that either Kern
or Blumer & Co. were always the real owners of the stock,
and that it had been placed in the name of the persons'who
appeared on the registry, not to shield any owner from liability, but to protect the title of the company as pledgee.
Blumer & Co. and the bank were fully advised who McCloskey
was, and of his probable responsibility, when they allowed the
transfer to be made to him, and they udoubtedly knew who
Ferris was when the stock was put in his name after Mc
Closkey's death. The avowed purpose of both transfers was
to give the company the control of the stock for the purposes
of its security, without making it liable as a registered shareholder. To our minds there was neither fraud nor illegality
in this. The company perfected its security as.pledgee, without making itself liable as an apparent owner. Kern or
Blumer & Co. still remained the owners of the stock, though
registered in the name of others, and pledged as collateral
security for their debt. They consented to the transfer, not
to escape liability as shareholders, but to save the company
from a liability it was unwilling to assume, and at the same
time to perfect the security it required for the credit to be
given. As between Blumer & Co. and the Warehouse Company, Blumer & Co. or Kern were the owners of the stock
and the company the pledgee. As between the company and
the bank, or its creditors, the company was a pledgee of the
stock and liable only as such. The creditors were put in no
worse position by the transfers that were made than they
would have been if the stocli had remained in the name of
Kern or Blumer & Co., who were always the real owners.
To our minds the fact that the stock stood registered 'in the
name of Henry, President, frQm December 27th to January

OCTOBER TERNK, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

10th, is, under the circumstances of this case, of no importance.

The Warehouse Company promptly declined to allow itself to
stand as a registered shareholder, because it was unwilling
to incur the liability such a registry would impose. It asked
that the tGransfer might be made to McCloskey To this the
owners of the stock and the bank assented, and from that
time the case stood precisely as it would if the transfer had
originally been made to McCloskey instead of Henry, President, or if Henry had retransferred .to Kern or Blumer & Co.,
and they had at the request ot the company made another
.transfer to McCloskey Tile security of the Warehouse Company was perfected without imposing on the company a-shareholder's liability All this was done in good faith, when the
bank was in good credit-and paying large dividends, and years
before its failure or even its embarrassment. So far as the
company was concerned, the transfer was not made to escape
an impending calamity, but to avoid incurring a liability it was
unwilling to assume, and which it was at perfect liberty to
shun."
Another of the cases referred to, although it did not relate
to the liability of the shareholders of national banking assoston-v. German-Amerzcan Bank, 127 U. S. 532,
ciations, is
536-537, in which it was said "Where personal property is
pledged, the pledgee acquires the legal title and the possession. In some cases, it is true, it may remain in the apparent
possession of the pledgor, but, if so, it can be only where the
pledgor holds as agent of the pledgee. By virtue of the pledge,
the pledgee has the right by law, on default, of the pledgor,
to. sell the property pledged in satisfaction of the pledgor's
obligation. As in that transaction the pledgee is the vendor,
lie cannot also be the vendee. In reference to the pledge and
to the pledgor, he occupies a fiduciary relation, by virtue of
which it becomes his duty to exercise his right of sale for the
in the position of a trustee to
benefit of the pledgor. H
sell, an'd is by a familiar maxim. of equity forbidden to purchase for his own use at his own sale. The same principle
applies with a like result where real estate is conveyed by a
debtor directly to a creditor as security for the payment of

PAULY v. STATE LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY. 619
Opinion of the Court.

an obligation, with a power to sell in case of default. Theve
the creditor is also a trustee to sell, and cannot purchase the
property at his own sale for his own use."
It is apparent that the precise question before us was not
involved in any of the above cases, although the principles
announced in them bear upon the issue here presented.
From those cases the following rules relating to the liability of shareholders of national banking associations may be
deduced
That the real owner of the shares of the capital stock of a
national banking association may, ii every case, be treated as
a shareholder within the meaning of section 5151
That if the owner transfers his shares to another person
as collateral security for a debt due to the latter from such
owner, and if, by the direction or with the knowledge of the
pledgee, the shares are placed on the books of the association
in such way as to imply that the pledgee is the real owner,
then the-ledgee may be treated as a shareholder within the
meaning of section 5151 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, and therefore liable upon the basis prescribed by
that section for the contracts, debts and engagements of the
association,
That if the real owner of the shares transfers them to
another person, or causes them to be placed on the books of
the association in the name of another person, with the intent
simply to evade the responsibility imposed by section 5151 on
shareholders of national banking associations, such owner mav
be treated, for the purposes of that section, as a shareholder.
and liable as therein prescribed,
That if one receives shares ot the stock of a national banking association as collateral security to him for a debt due
from the owner, with power of attorney authorizing him to
transfer the same on the books of the associatiop, and being
unwilling to incur the responsibilities of a shareholder as prescribed by the statute, causes the shares to be transferred on
such books to another, under an agreement that they are to
be held as security for the debt due from the real owner to
his creditor- the latter acting in good faith and for the pur

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

pose only of securing, the payment of that debt without incurring the resp.pnsibility of a shareholder- he, the creditor,
will not,.although the real owner may, be treated as a shareholder %,ithmthe meaning of section 5151, and,
That the pledgee of personal property occupies towards the
pledgor somewhat of a fiduciary relation, by virtue of which,
lie- being a trustee to sell it becomes his duty to exercise his
right of sale for the benefit of the pledgor.
The present cage differs from those cited in the important
particular that the stock list of the bank gave information to
all who examined it that the State Loan" and Trust Company
was not the real or absolute owner of the shares in question,
but held them only as "pledgee", that there was no "out
and out" transfer of the stock. whereby the transferrer, as
between him and the transferee, parted with his interest, and
that the real ownership remained with the pledgor, the pledgee
acquiring only a lien upon the stock to secure its debt.
In the case of Finn v Brown, 142 U. S. 56, 71, the question was as to the liability as a shareholder of a.director of a
bank who appeared upon its books to be the owner of a given
number of shares of stock. The court said "It appears by
the evidence that the bank had a stock register and a book of
certificates- of shares, and that a list of stockholders and of
transfers was kept in one of its books, although it had no regular stock book. The jury would not have been justified in
holding the defendant rnot liable for the assessment on the 50
shares or for the $1750 dividend. The dividend was undoubtedly fraudulent, and the records of the bank were falsified in
showing that the defendant was present at the meeting at
which the dividend was declared. It was declared, probably,
by De Walt himself alone, for the purpose of showing a fictitious prosperity and of -concealing from the public and the
directors the real condition of the affairs.of the bank. The
defendant liad had no previous connection with a banking
business, and wds deceived by De Walt. But all this cannot
relieve him from liability The statutes of the United States
are explicit as. to. the necessary ownership of stock in a
national bank by a director thereof, and as to his taking

PAULY v. STATE LOAN AND TRUST COMANY. 621
Opinion of the Court.

an oath to that effect, and as to the keeping by the cashier of
a correct list of the shareholders and of the number of shares
each of them holds, and it cannot be held, with any safety
to the interests of the public and those who deal with national
banks, that a director, who also is vice president and acts as
cashier, can shield himself from liability by alleging ignorance
of what appears by the books of which he has charge."
Does the statute, in letter or spirit, require that the word
"pledgee," appended to the name of the party to whom certificates 308 and 309 were issued, should be entirely ignored 2
Is the holder of such certificates in no better. condition, in
respect of liability as a shareholder, than if such list had imported absolute ownership in the transferee2 The statute
requires that there shall be kept, at all times, in the office
where the business of a national banking association is transacted, and subject, during business hours, to the inspection of
shareholders and creditors of the association, as well as of
officers authorized to assess taxes under state authority, a full
and correct list of the names and residences of all the shareholders of the association, and of the nunber of shares held
by each. Section 5210. Manifestly, one, if not the principal,
object of this requirement, was to give creditors of the association, as well as state authorities, information as to the shareholders upon whom, if the association becomes insolvent, will
rest the individual liability for its contracts, debts and engagements. Referring to this provision this court said, in Waite v.
-Dowley, 94 U S. 527, 53-, that the act of Congress "was
merely designed to furnish to the public dealing with the bank
a knowledge of the names of its corporators, and to what
extent they might be relied on as giving safety to dealing
with the bank." And, let iA be observed, the liability upon
shareholders is to the extent of the amount of their stock at
the par value thereof, "in addition to the amount tnveted zn,
such shares." The word "invested " plainly has reference
to those who originally or by subsequent purchase become
the real owners of the stock, and cannot refer to those who
never invested money in the shares, but only received the
certificates of stock, or it may be the legal title thereto, as

OCTOBER TERI,

1,896.

Opinion of the .Court..

collateral security for debts or obligations already or to be
-contracted.
It is true that one who does not in fact invest his money in
-such shares, but who, although receiving them simply-as collat-eral security for debts or obligations, h~1ds himself out on the
books of the association as true owner, may be treated as the
owner, and therefore liable to assessment, when the association
becomes insolvent and goes ipto the hands of a receiver. But
this is upon the ground that by allowing his name to appear
upon the stock list as owner he represents that he is such
owner; and he will not be permitted, after the bank fails and
when an assessment ismade, to assume any other position as
against creditors. If, as between creditors and the person
assessed, -the latter is not held bound by that representation,
the list of shareholders required to be kept for the inspection
of creditors and others would lose most of its value.
But this rule can have -no just application when, as in this
case, the creditors were irformed- by that list that the party
to. whom certificates were issued was not in fact, and did not
assume to be, the owner of the shares represented by themi
but was and assumed to be only a pledgee having no general
property in the thing pledged, but only a right, upon default,
to sell in satisfaction of the pledgor's obligation. Upon inspecting the stock registry or .any list of shareholders or of
transfers kept by the bank, creditors will know that they cannot regard a pledgee as the actual owner. If the certificates
in question had been extended so as to give the name of the
pledgor, it would not be supposed that, upon any principle of
justice, or upon grounds of public policy, the pledgee could
have been held to the liability imposed by section 5151 upon
shareholders. But the liability being purely statutory, the
result ought not to be different because of the circumstance
that the name of the, pledgor was omitted from the certificates, since that which did appear in them was sufficient to
inform creditors that the State Loan and Trust- Company was
only a pledgee, and by slight-diligence they-could have ascertained the name of the pledgor.
It may be suggested that if the pledgee is not held liable

PAULY v. STATE LOAN AND TRUST COM:PANY.

623-

Opinion of the Court.

a a shareholder, in respect of the shares of stock standing i
its name as pledgee, then no one is liable tQ assessment as t~he
owner of such stock. But it is a mistake to suppose that
Havermale and Collins ceased to be shareholders for the purposes of the liability imposed by section 5151. They remained.
notwithstanding the pledge, the actual owners of the stobk,
a right which they would have promptly asserted if the
pledgee had assumed to be the owner and had sold the stbck,
appropriating to itself all the proceeds of sale. The object of
the statute is not to be defeated by the mere forms of transactions between shareholders and their creditors. The courts
will look at the relations of parties as they actually are, or as,
by reason of their conduct, they must be assumed .to be for
the protecfon of creditors. Congress did not say. that those
only should be regarded as shareholders, liable for the contracts, debts and engagements of the banking association,
whose names appear on the stock list distinctly as shareholders. A mistake or error in keeping the official list of
shareholders would not prevent creditors from holding liable
all who were, in fact, the real owners of the stock, and as
such had invested money- in the shares of the association.
As already indicated, those may be treated as shareholders,
within the meaning of section 5151,1 who are the real owners
of the stock, or who hold themselves out, or allow themselves
to be held out, as owners in such way and under such circumstances as, upon principles of fair dealing, will estop them,
as against creditors, from claimng that they were not, in fact,
owners.
It was under this construction of the statute that one was
held liable as a shareholder who, in the belief that the bank
was about to fail, and whose liability as a shareholder had
equitably attached, collusively transferred his stock to an
irresponsible person, in order to escape responsibility as a
shareholder. This was held to be a fraud upon the statute,
and the transferrer was held, as between bin and the creditors, as the real owner of the stock, and, therefore, liabley
although the transferee appeared on the stock registry as the
shareholder. Bowden v. Jhnso, above cited. Under the

624:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

same interpretation a corporation was treated as a shareholder who held shaes of stock only as collateral security,
but who allowed its name'to appear and remain on the stock
registry of the insolvent national bank association a8 owner,
without anything indicating that it held such stock as collateral security
5fational Bank v. Case, above cited. So, in
another case., it was held that the transferrers "remained the
owners of the stock, though-registered in the name of others,
and pledged as collateral security for their debt." Anderson,
v PhiladelIhaWarehouse Co., above cited.
Our conclusion is that the defendant in error cannot be
regarded otherwise than as a pledgee of the stock in question,
is not a shareholder within the meaning of section 5151 of the
Revised Statutes, and is not, therefore, subject to the liability
imposed upon- the shareholders of national banking associations by that section.
This view of the case makes it unnecessary to consider
whither the State Loan and Trust Company, being a pledgee
of the stock, was a "trustee" within the meaning of section
5152, providing that "persons holding stock as executors,
administrators, guardians or trustees shall not be personally
subject to any liabilities as stookholders."
The judgment is
A,fflrmed.
WADE v. LAWDER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATB OF MISSOURI.
No: 172. Argued January 26, i01'.-Decided March 1, 189.

Where a suit is brought on a contract of which a patent is the subject-matter, either to enforce such Contract, or to annul it, the case arises on the
contract, or out of the contract, and not under the patent laws; and, if
brought in a state court, this court Is without appellate jurlsdiction to
review the judgment unless it appears that a right urider the laws of the
United States was properly set up and claimed which was denied by the
state court.

THIs was a bill in equity brought by Charles Wade against

