OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

of the upper mouth of Bayou Pierre. Indeed, the finding
amounts to saying, that the stream formed by the junction
of Bayou Pierre and Tone's Bayou is a new and in reality
a distinct and different stream (although called by the same
name) from the stream above the junction, and in which it
is proposed to erect the dam. From these considerations it
obviously results that the expression of opinion arguendo by
the state court as to the power of the State of Louisiana to
control a navigable stream wholly within its borders, even
if erroneous, was unnecessary to the decision of the cause,
and that the decree by that court rendered is adequately
sustained by the conclusion of fact as to the non-navigability
of the stream. This being the case, it is unnecessary to consider whether the finding that the work of building the dam
was concurrently carried on by the State and the United
States is not also sufficient to sustain the decree below, since
it practically determines that the dam was being constructed
in conformity to the act of Congress.
Ikwmw~8edfor want ofju~rm.&iction.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO STATE
AUDITOR.1
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
MTo.
3.

Argued December 10, 11, 1896. -Decided

February 1, 1691.

The decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio entertaining jurisdiction of this
case, and delivering a considered opinion, State v, Jones, 51 Ohio St.
I The docket title of this case is "Henry Sanford, President of the Adams
Express Company, Appellant; v. Ebenezer W Poe, Auditor of the State of
Ohio, et al." The opinion of the court is entitled in this case and In No. 338,
Henry Sanford, President of the Adams Express Company, Appellant, V.
Ebenezer W Poe, Auditor of the State of Ohio, et al., No. 339, James C.
Fargo, President of the American Express Company, Appellant, v. Ebenezer
W Poe, Auditor, etc., et al., No. 340, Thomas C. Platt, President of the
United States Express Company Appellant, v. Ebenezer W, Poe, Auditor,

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Syllabus.
492, adjudging the Nichols law to be valid under the constitution of
that State, will not be reviewed by this court.
Although the transportation of the subjects of interstate commerce, or the
receipts received therefrom, or the occupation or business of carrying it
on, cannot be directly subjected to state taxation, yet property belonging to corporations or companies engaged in such commerce may be,
and whatever the particular form of the exaction, if it is essentially only
property taxation, it will not be considered as falling within the inhibition of the Constitution.
The property of corporations engaged in interstate commerce, situated in
the several States through which their lines or business extends, may
be valued as a unit for the purposes of taxation, taking into consideration the uses to which it is put and all the elements making up aggregate value; and a proportion of the whole fairly and properly asuertained
may be taxed by the particular State, without violating any Federal
restriction.
While there Is an undoubted distinction between the property of railroad
and telegraph companies and that of express companies, there is the
same unity in the use of the entire property for the specific purposes,
and there are the same elements of value, arising from such use.
The classification of express companies with railroad and telegraph companies, as subject to'the unit rule, does not deny the equal protection
of the laws; as that provision in the Fourteeith Amendment was not
Intended to prevent a State from adjusting its system of taxation in- all
proper and reasonable ways, and was not intended to compel .a State to
idopt an iron rule-of equal taxation.
The statute of the State of Ohio of April 27, 1893, 90 Laws Ohio, 330,
(amended May 10, 1894, 91 Laws Ohio, 220,) created d board of appraisers and assessors, and required each telegraph, telephone and
express company doing business within the State to makpe returns of
the number of shares of its capital, the par value and market value
thereof, its entire real and personal property, and where located and
the value thereof as assessed for taxation, its gross receipts for the
year of business wherever done and of the business done in the State
of Ohio, giving the receipts of each office in the State, and the whole
length of the line of rail and water routes over which it did business
within and without the State. It required the board of assessors to
-etc., et at., Appeals from the -United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit, and in No. 398, Clarence A. Seward, Vice-President of
the Adams Express Company, Appellant, v. Ebenezer W Poe, Auditor of the
State of Ohio; No. 399, James C. Fargo, President of the American Express Company, Appellant, v. Ebenezer W Poe, Auditor of the State of
Ohlo; and No. 400, Thomas C. Platt, President of the United States Express Company, Appellant, v. Ebenezer W Poe, Auditor of the State of
Ohio, Appeals from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
.District of Ohio.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
"proceed to ascertain and assess the value of the property of said
express, telegraph and telephone companies in Ohio, and in determining the value of the property of said companies in this State, to be taxed
within the State and assessed as herein provided, said board shall be
guided by the value of said property as determined by the value of
the entire capital stock of said companies, and such other evidence and
rules as will enable said board to arrive at the true value In money of
the entire property of said companies within the State of Ohio, in the
proportion which the same bears to the entire property of said companies, as determined by the value of the capital stock thereof; and the
other evidence and rules as aforesaid." Held,
(1) That, assuming that the proportion of capital employed in each of the
several States through which such a company conducts its operations has been fairly ascertained, while taxation thereon, or determined with reference thereto, may be said in some sense to fall on
the business of the conmpanv, it does so only indirectly; and that
the taxation is essentially a property taw and, as such, not an
interference with interstate commerce;
(2) That the property so taxed has its actual situs in the State and is,
therefore, subject to its jurisdiction; and that the distribution
among the several counties is a matter of regulation by the state
legislature;
(3) That this was not taking of property without due process of law,.
either by reason of its assessment as within the jurisdiction of the
taxing authorities, or of its classification as subject to the unit
rule.
(4) That the valuation by the assessors cannot be overthrown simply
by showing that it was otherwise than as determined by them.

T sE
E are cases involving the constitutionality of certain
laws of the State of Ohio providing for the taxation of telegraph, telephone and express- companies, and the validity of
assessments of express companies thereunder.
The general assembly of Ohio passed, April 27, 1893, 90
Ohio Laws, 330, an act, to amend and supplement §§ 2777,
2778, 2779 and 2780 of the Revised *Statutes of that State
(commonly styled "The Nichols Law "), which was amended
May 10,. 1894. The law created a state board of appraisers
and assessors, consisting of the auditor of State, treasurer of
State and attorney general, which was charged with the duty
of assessing the property in Ohio of telegraph, telephone and
express companies. By the act as amended, between the
first and thirty-first days of May annually each telegraph,
telephone and express company, doing business in Ohio, was

ADAMNS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Statement of the Case.

required to file a return with the auditor of State, setting
forth among other things the number of shares of its capital
stock, the par value and market value (or, if there be no
market value, then the actual value) of its shares at the date
of the return, a statement in detail of the entire real and personal property of said companies and where located, and the
value thereof as assessed for taxation. Telegraph and telephone companies were required to return, also, the whole
length of their lines, and the length of so much of their lines
as is without and is within the. State of Ohio, including the
lines controlled and used, under lease or otherwise. Express
companies were required to include in the return a statement of
their entire gross receipts, from whatever source derived, for
the year ending the -first day of May, of business wherever
done, and of the business done in the State of Ohio, giving
the receipts of each office in the State, also the whole length
of the lines of rail and water routes over which the-companies
did business, Nvithin and without the State. Provision was
made in the law for the organization of the board, for tbe
appointing of one of its members as secretary and the keeping
of full minutes of its proceedings. The board was required to
meet in the month of June and assess the value of the property of these companies in Ohio. The rule to be followed by
the board in making the assessment was that "in determining
the value of the property of said companies in this State, to be
taxed withilk the State and assessed as herein provided, said
board shall be guided by the value 6f said property as determined by the value of the entire capital stock of said companies, and such other evidence and rules as will enable said board
to arrive at the true value in money of the entire property of
said companies within the State of Ohio, in the proportion
which the same bears to the entire property of said companies, as determlined by the value of the capital stock thereof,
and the other evidence and rules as aforesaid."
As to telegraph and telephone companies, the board was
required to apportion the valuation among the several counties through. which the lines ran. in the proportion that the
length of the lines in the respective counties bore to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

entire length in the State, in the case of express companies,
the apportionment was to be made among the several counties
in which they did business, in the proportion that the gross
receipts in each county bore to the gross receipts in the State.
The amount thus apportioned was to be certified to the
county auditor, and placed by him on the duplicate "to be
assessed, and the taxes thereon collected the same as taxes
assessed and collected on other personal property," the rate
of' taxation to be the same as that on other property in the
local taxing district.
The valuation of all the real estate of the companies, situated in Ohio, was required to be deducted from the total valuation, as fixed by the board.
Provisions were made for hearings and for the correction of
erroneous and excessive valuations, as follows
"At any time, after the meeting of the board on the first
iM:onday in June, and before the assessment of the property
of any company is determined, any company or person interested shall have the right, on written application, to appear
before the board and be heard in the matter of the valuation
of the property of any company for taxation. After the
assessment of the property of any company for taxation by
the board, and before the certification by the auditor of State
of the apportioned valuation to the several counties) as provided in section 2780, the board may, on the application of
any interested person or company, or on its own motion,
correct the assessment or valuation of the property of any
company, in such manner as will, in its judgment, make the
valuation thereof just and equal. The provisions of section
167 of the Revised Statutes shall apply to the correction
of any error or over-valuation in the assessment of property
for taxation by the state board of appraisers and assessors,
and to the remission of taxes and penalties illegally assessed
thereon."
Section 167 of the Revised Statutes, referred to, reads thus.
"SEarioN 167. He [the auditor of State] may remit such
taxes and; penalties thereon as he ascertains to have been
illegally assessed, and such penalties as have accrued or -may

ADAMS EXPRESS COMLPANY v. OHIO.
Statement of the Case.

accrue in consequence of the negligence or error of any officer
required to do any duty relating to the assessment of property
for taxation, or the levy or collection of taxes, and he may,
from time to time, correct any error in any assessment of
property for taxation or in the duplicate of taxes in any
county, provided that when the amount to be remitted in
any one case shall exceed one hundred dollars, he shall proceed to the office of the governor and take to his assistance
the governor and attorney general, and in all such cases may
remit no more than shall be agreed upon by a majority of the
officers named."
Instead of distrmouting the valuation as under the act of
1893, the state board by the act of 1894 was to certify it to
the auditor of State, whose duty it was made to apportion
and certify the valuation among the counties.
In No. 337 the taxes for 1893 were involved, and in Nos.
338, 339 and .340, the taxes for 1894. These are appeals from
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. In Nos.
398, 399 and 400 the taxes for 1895 were involved. These
are appeals from decrees of the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of Ohio.
The original suits were brought in the Circuit Court to
enjoin the certification of the apportioned valuations to the
county auditors, as to 1893, against the state board, as to
1894 and 1895, against the auditor of State.
The Circuit Court, Taft, J., on April 23, 1894, after a preliminary opinion, filed opinions in the case of the Western
Uniwn Telegraphi/ Company against the State Board, 61 Fed.
Rep. 449, and in No. 337, Adams Bepress Co. v. Poe, 61 Fed.
Rep. 470, holding the Nichols law to be invalid under the
constitution of Ohio. On the first of May following the
Supreme Court of Ohio decided that the Nichols law was constitutional and valid. State , Jones, 51 Ohio St. 492.
Thereupon the Circuit Court reversed its ruling, and accepted
the decision of the Supreme Court of the State, and Judge Taft
filed a further opinion holding that the assessments were valid.
64 Fed. Rep. 9.
In all the cases the final decrees of the Circuit Court dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

solved the temporary injunctions which had been granted,
sustained demurrers and dismissed the bills.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the cases taken-to it
on appeal. 37 U S. App. 378, 399, 69 Fed. Rep. 546, 557.
The proceedings of the state board in making the assessments for 1895 and certain correspondence are set forth in the
records as if exhibits to the bills. The action of the board,
relative to express companies, is thus given
"The" board having given each express company doing business in Ohio, whose property in Ohio is hereinafter assessed,
opportunity to appear and be heard personally by the board,
and having heard all companies which desiied to be heard
through their officers, agents or counsel, and having carefully
considered the facts set out in the returns, schedules -and
supplementary statements of such companies and all evidences
of value and all matters bearing upon the question of the value
of the property of the companies which, in the judgment of
the board, would assist it in arriving at the true value, in
money, of the entire property of each of said companies
within the State of Ohio, on motion, the state board of
appraisers and assessors unanimously fix and determine the
values of the property of express companies hereinafter named
in Ohio to be taxed therein at the amounts set out in the following table
The Adams Express Company
The American Express Company
The United States Express Company

$533,095.80
499,373.60
488,264.70"

This valuation was made July 24, 1895. On the second of
August, counsel for the companies wrote the auditor requesting to be advised of the assessments when made, in order that
they might apply for a correction. On the seventh of August
the secretary of the board informed counsel of the assessments.
On August 10, counsel wrote asking "upon what calculatvn,
if any, the apparently precise amounts of the assessments,
especially in the case of express companies, are based and how
the figures are arrived-at."
The auditor replied.for the board that "the method pursued

-

ADAMS EXPRESS COMIPANY v. OHIO.
Statement of the Case.

by the state board of appraisers and assessors this year in assessing the property in Ohio of the Western Union Telegraph
Company and the express companies you represent is not different from that followed in former years, which has been sustained by the courts, and is set forth in the records of the
board."
Attention was called to certain data lacking in the companies' returns, and counsel were informed that opportunity
would be afforded for a hearing on September 2 at 10 o'clock
A.. ., but the three bills involving these assessments were filed
August 14, 1895. Subsequently returns were filed as of May 1,
1895, showing As to the Adams Express Company Number of shares 120,000. Market value- $140 to $150. Taxable value of real estate owned in Ohio $25,170. Value of
personal property, including moneys and credits, owned by
company in Ohio $42,065. Total value of real estate owned
outside of Ohio $3,005,157.52. Total value of personal property owned outside of Ohio $1,117,426.05. Entire gross receipts from whatever source received within the State for the
year $282,181. Whole length of lines of rail and water
routes over which the company was doing business 29,647
miles. Length without the State 27,518 miles. Within the
State 2129 miles.
As to the United States Express Company Number of
shares 100,000. Par value. $100. Market value $40. Tax:
able value of real estate owned in Ohio $22,190. Value of personal property, including moneys and credits, owned in Ohio
$29.438. Entire gross receipts from whatever source derived
within the State $358,519. Length of lines within the-State
over which the company was doing business 3011 miles.
As to the American Express Company Number of interests 180,000. Par value $100. Market value $112. Taxable value of real estate in Ohio $58,660. Value of personal
property, including moneys and credits, in Ohio, $23,430.
Total value real estate outside of Ohio $4,891,259. Total
value of personal property outside of Ohio $1,661,759. Gross
receipts within the State $275,446. Whole length of lines.
35,295 miles. Length within the State 1731 miles.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

The companies made no return of their entire gross receipts
of business wherever done, nor of the terms of their contracts
or arrangements for transportation.
These returns stated and the bills repeated that aside from
the real estate mentioned the companies had no property'in
the State of Ohio "except certain horses, wagons,, harness,
trucks, safes and office fixtures located at different points,"
and that their actual value was given. That "the business of
the company in the State consists in carrying packages on passenger and express trains, steamboats and stages in the care
and custody of its employes who accompany the packages.
The expresA company has no ownership of nor interest in these
-means of conveyance, and simply pays to the railroad companies and the owners of the steamboats and stage coaches
for the passage of messengers and their accompanying packages. The horses, wagons and trucks are used by it in the
collection and delivery of these packages. There is no peculiarity about this property, it is of an ordinary kind, whose
tru vajue in money must be measured by the ordinary standards, and is easily ascertained and determined."
Each of the bills in Nos. 398, 399 and 400 alleged that the
scheme of taxation contemplated by the act, "while professing. to provide for- taxation of property in the State of Ohio,
does not, in fact, do so, inasmuch as it directs the state board
of appraisers, in determining the value of the property of
express companies in said State for the purpose of taxation,
to lie "guided by the value of said property as determined by
the value of the entire capital stopk of said company
in the proportion which the same (viz., the property of the
companies within the State) bears to the entire property of
said companies, as determined by the value of the capital
stock thereof"', that "the value of the capital stock or
shares of said company and. of express companies generally
is determined not so much by the value of the property and
appliances which they use ih carrying on their business, as by
the skill, diligence; fidelity and success with which they.conduct- their business. Said company employs many thousands
of men who are constantly engaged in carrying express pack-

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Mr. Maxwell's Argument for the Express Companies.

ages, many of them of great value, from one part of the
country to another, and its income and the. value of its
shares are largely the result of their efforts, fidelity and
integrity and of skilful management and supervision of the
business. Said company furthermore owns real and personal
property of great value aside from the appliances of its
express business, which is not held or taxable in the State
of Ohio, and some of which is not taxable at all, all of which,
however, together with the business connections of the company and the reputation and good will which it has earned
in the course of more than fifty years of public service, enter
largely into the value of its capital shares", that the market
price of the company's shares does not "afford any fair, reasonable or just method of estimating the value of its property or fixing the basis of value for the purpose of taxation,
because the market price is speculative and variable, depending upon financial conditions not at all connected with this
company, its business, or its property, and your orator insists
that said scheme of taxation is unfair, illegal, unjust and
unequal and is a regulation of and a tax upon interstate commerce and a taking of its property without due process of
law", that the act and the assessments made thereunder
are in contravention of the Constitution of the United States
because the act provides for the assessment of, and the assessments embrace, property not situated within the jurisdiction
of the State of Ohio, and the property of the companies is,
therefore, taken without due process of law, and that the
scheme as a special one imposes an illegal burden on interstate commerce, and denies the equal protection of the laws.
.Mr Lawrence .Maxwell, Jr., for the express companies.
(Mr Clarence A. Seward for the Adams Express Company, Mr James C. Carter for the American Express Company, and Xir Frank H. Platt for the United States Express
Company were on his brief.)
It has been decided by this court that express companies
"have no tangible property, of any consequence, subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Maxwell's Argument for the Express Companies.

taxation under the general laws." Pacipcl Expres8 Co. v.
Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, 35-4.
Plaintiffs assign for error that the Circuit Court erred in
sustaining the demurrers to the bills and in dismissing the
bills, insisting especially that the assessments complained of
are not in fact assessments against the plaintiffs in respect of
their property held or owned by them in the State of Ohio,
or within the taxing jurisdiction' of that State, but that the
assessments are really an attempt, under the guise of taxing
the plaintiffs' property within the State, to enforce against
them the payment of a tax upon their business, which is
largely interstate commerce, or for the privilege of doing
such business in the State of Ohio, by placing a fictitious
and artificial value upon their property, and that the assessments, and the statute of Ohio purporting to authorize them,
are therefore in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States, especially the interstate commerce clause of
Art. 1, Sec. 8, of Art. 4, Sec. 2 and of Art. 14, Sec. 1.
We do. not concede that the. assessments complained of in
the bills are authorized by the Nichols law, or that the
Supreme Court of Ohio would justify them; if they were
before that court. But the Circuit Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals held that the assessments complained of had
been made in pursuance of a definite rule or principle of appraisement, recognized and-established by the Nichols law, as
construed by the Supreme Court of Ohio. Our argument,
therefore, is addressed to the question whether that rule is
valid under the Federal Constitution.
I. The cases raise a Federal question, viz., whether the rule
of-assessment prescribed by the Ohio statute, and adopted by
-the state board, for the taxationpf express companies contravenes the Federal Constitution.
Taking the allegations of the bills in connection with the
returns made by the express -companies to the state board,
and the transcript of the proceedings of the state board upon
,those returns, it i§ manifest that what the board did, and
what the demurrers.to the bills admit that they -did, was not
to assess the defendants on the basis-of the market value of

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Mr. Maxwell's Argument for the Express Companies.

such of their tangible property as was found within the State
of Ohio, and on their moneys and credits in the State, but to
treat the companies as owning dividend producing plants,
whose value is represented by the market value of their shares,
and to assign a portion of that value to the State of Ohio, as
being property subject to taxation in that State. The basis
of the apportionment made by the board to Ohio is nct disclosed, it was evidently hap-hazard and arbitrary, but that is
not material now The point is that the state board deliberately and intentionally followed a certain rule and principle
of assessment, being the rule prescribed by the statute of the
State, as construed by its supreme court, and the validity of
that rule is therefore raised by the record, and presents a Federal question.
II. If the :Nichols law justifies the assessments complained
of, it contravenes the interstate commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, because the assessments, while purporting
to be upon the property of the plaintiffs within the State, are,
in fact, levied upon the plaintiffs' business (which is largely
interstate commerce), by placing a fictitious and artificial
value upon their property
Under the interstate commerce clause of the Federal Constitution it is not competent for a State to tax a non-resident person or corporation engaged in interstate commerce, upon their
occupation or business. The State's power. of taxation, in
such cases, is limited to a tax upon.such of the property of
the person or corporation, as is found within the taxing jurisdiction of the State, and that property must be taxed without
discrimination. It is just as much a violation of this rule of
the Federal Constitution to levy a tax ostensibly on property,
but really on business, by ascribing an artificial or fictitious
value to the property, as to make the levy directly and in
terms upon business.
III. The rule for the assessment of express companies, prescribed by the Nichols law, discriminates against the property
of express, telegraph and telephone companies, on account of
its mere ownership, as compared with all other property in
the State, and therefore denies to those oomnanies the equal

206 1

OCTOBER TERMr, 1896.
Mr. Maxwell's Argument for the Express Compaies.

protection of the law, in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
I do not deny the power of the legislature to classify property But the power to classify is not arbitrary It must be
classification in fact, and not discrinmination. Property cannot
be classified m respect to mere ownership. The same kind
and character of property devoted to the same uses,. within,
the same taxing districts,. cannot be taxed by one rule against
one class of persons and by a different rule against another
class. But that is precisely what the Nichols law attempts
to do.
The classification of railroad and telegraph property as unit
property is not a classification according to ownership, but
according to intrinsic differences in the character, use and
situation of such property, and the difficulty attending the
ascertainment of its value otherwise than as a unit. These
considerations make the separate classification of such property not- merely convenient, but necessary, as well as natural
and reasonable. But the property o3vned by express companies within the State of OhD is- no different in its character,
uses or situations from other similar property within the State,
nor is there any greater difficulty in ascertaining its value for
purposes of taxation.
IV The Nichols law is in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment, for the further reason that it taxes property not
within the taxing juris(iction of the State of Ohio.
It has been held more than once in this court that the power
of .a State to tax the property of nonresidents is limited to
tsu6h -of their property as is found within the State, in other
words, that a Statecannot tax lands lying beyond its borders,
nor per'onal property dfomiciled in another State. ]Tayg v
Pgaf.Lr Steamship- Co., 17 How 596, 599, Railroad Co. v
Jackson, 7 Wall. 262, 267, 248, St. Loums v -Ferry Co., 11
Wall. 423, 430, 432, Railroad Co. v Penvsylvanza, 15 Wall.
300, Gloucester Ferry Co. v Pennsylvania, 114 U S. 196,
206, 110:
%
The ground upon which this immunity is'
secured, under the
Federal Constitution,. has not been cTearly stated in all. the

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Mr. McDougall's Argument for Appellees.

cases. The earlier ones arose prior to the adoption of the Fo'r'rteenth Amendment, but we submit, that it is depriving a person of property without due process of law, in contravention
of the Fourteenth Amendment, for a State to tax property not
within its jurisdiction.
V There is no necessary or proper relation between the
value of the property of an express company and the value of
its capital shares.
VI. If the rule of assessment, applied by the state board
against the plaintiffs, contravenes the Federal Constitution, it
is unmaterial whether that rule is prescribed by the statute, or
whether it is adopted, independent of the statute, by the
board itself.
.Jr Thomas .JirDougallfor appellees. .MrF S. -Monnett,
Attorney General of the State of Ohio, was on his brief.
I. The constitutionality of this law under the Ohio constitufion is settled by the decision of the Ohio Supreme Court.
,S'aie ex rel. v. Jones, Anditor, 51 Ohio St. 492.
II.The only question raised by appellants which is before
this court is whether the law violates the Federal Constitution.
If the law violates the Federal Constitution, then the demurrers were erroneouslv sustained. If the law does not
violate the Federal Constitution, then the only other question
raised hv the appellants is the difference of opinion between
them anl the board ot appraisers as to the value of their
property
The appelltniss art- not entitled to have this court.
consider any (piesticn of dliiterence of opinion as to the. value
of then property as assessed hv the board for taxation merely
by asserting that such action violates the Federal Constitution, unless it appears that the law under which the valuation
was made does viotate that Constitution. These cases are to
be heard on demurrer, and if this court decides -that the action complained of does not violate the Federal Constitution,
it will thierol)r deoide that the .bills-do not sufficientiv allege
s-ach violation, that the facts set up in the bills do not' show

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. MecDougall's Argument for Appellees.

-

such -violation, in other words, that facts which would raise a
Federal question are not alleged, and that there is no such
Federal question in the cases.
III. The act does not deny to the appellants due process of
law, nor equal protection of the laws.
The pleadings, together with the law itself, show the following facts with reference to this subject
1. The law itself states the times of -the sessions of the
board. The returns made by the companies' are the statements of their cases' to the boards, and they may appear if
they so desire to make oral statement. Upon application,
any of the companies affected has the right to appear before
the board prior to the determination of the assessment, to be
heard on the question of the valuation of its property for taxation. It appears from the pleadings, as a matter of fa~t,.that
the companies were present, and-were heard in the matter of
the valuation of their proper.y for taxation.
2. After the valuation of the property of any company for
taxation, and before the certification by the auditor of State
of the apportioned valuations to the several counties, the
board may, upon the applicatioa of any interested person, or
on its own motion, correct the assessment.
3; If the board iefuses to correct the assessment regarded
by the company as -erroneous, it -nay appeal, under section
167, Revised Statutes of O'hio, to a board composed of the
governor of the State, the auditor of State, and the attorney
general.
4,-By.section 5848, Revised Statutes of Ohio, the illegal
levy and collection of taxes may be enjoined, and further,-.if
compelled to.pay the tax, complainants may sue to recover it
back.
It cannot be questioned that.these provisions and remedies,
under the decisions of this ,court, and of the Ohio Supreme
Court, constitute due process and equal protection of the laws.
-State v. Jone8, 51-Ohio -St. 492, -Dav-zdson v New Orleans,
96 U.S..97, Stak RailroadTax cases, 92 U. S575, McMillen
v. Anderson, 95 -U. S.37, ffentucky RailroadTax cases, 115
U. S. 321., Pittsburgh, Cincinnati.&c. Railway v. Backug,

ADAMS EXPRESS C0OMPANY v. OHIO.
Mr, McDougaU's Argument for Appellees.

154 U. S. 421, Pacjfc Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339,
Hismourz Railway Co. v. -Mackey, 127 U. S. 205.
IV The law does not violate the Constitution of the United
States by interfering with interstate commerce.
The law simply provides a method for the valuation of
property for taxation, and the tax laid upon the valuatton
made is a tax on the property of the companies in Ohio, and
isnot a tax upon interstate commerce. The details of that
method are all directed toward ascertaining the value in
money of the property in Ohio. The tax imposed is not a
license tax, nor a tax on a business or occupation, nor on
transportation through the State, nor upon. receipts from
business done outside of Ohio, nor upon property outside of
Ohio. The tax imposed upon the valuation made under the
law is simply a tax on the property of the companies within
the State of Ohio. Such a tax is not an interference with
interstate commerce in the sense in which -such an interference is prohibited by the Federal Constitution.
State
Tax on Railway Gros Recezpt8, 15 Wall. 284, Cleveland,
Cihczinnati &c. Railway v. Backuw, 154 U. S. 439, and eases
cited.
(a) The property of a corporation -may-be fairly valued as
a unit for purposes of taxation.
This has been decided so often, and so definitely, that it
would hardly seem -to need additional argument. It is contended by counsel for appellants that the property of the dompanies inc.uded-under this law should be valued item by item,
and that the aggregate of value of the different items, taken
separdtely, is the value of the property of the companies for
taxation. The State of Ohio claims, on the contrary, that the
real value of the property of the corporations under discussion cannot be ascertained by simply valuing the items of
real and personal property taken separately, and finding the
total. The entire property of any one of these corporations
as a unit, and used for a specific purpose, and in a certain
place, has a value to the corporation, by reason of its unity
and the use to which it is put, which is much greater than
the value of the mere items of property taken separately
voL. CLxv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. McDougall's Argument for Appellees.

Taken together, it constitutes a plant, a machine, which has
*a value by reason of the assembling of its parts, the place
where it is located, and the use to which it is put. This is
the basis of its selling value. This fixes the selling value of
its. stock. This evidences the actual money invested, and
which if not so invested would be taxed as money
(b)How shall the amount of property in Ohio be apportioned 2
In the case of a telegraph company, the proportion which
the mileage in Ohio bears to the mileage of the whole company, represents a fair proportion of the capital used in Ohio,
and in the case of an express company, the proportionate
length of the routes traversed by the company in Ohio to
the entire routes traversed by the company, represents the fair
proportion of the corporate capital or property used in Ohio.
There may be exceptional circumstances, such as the existence
of a large amount of real estate or some other specified propertv at the home office, which increases the proportion of the
entire property to' be found in that State, and decreases the
proportion to be found in all other States. But this fact or
facts should be brought to the attention of the board, and
they are authorized to make due allowance for it, and it will
be presumed that they did make full allowance for it.
It is thus seen that there is no tax laid on the property
outside of the State, but such property is merely brought to
the attention of Lhe board for the purpose of aiding it in arriving at the value of the property as a whole in order to reach
the value of the portion of the property used in the State. It
is clear, also, that it is not the profits of the business that are
being taxed, the profits of the business are not a subject of
inquiry
The profitableness of the use of the property may
contribute to the value of the property for taxation, but the
profits' themselves are not taxed, they are not even known to
the board.
Jt has been decided by the courts over and over again, that
this method of valuing property is a fair one, that it constitutes a bonafide valuation of property for taxation, that it
s, in effect as well as in name, a property tax, that it is not

ADAMS EXPRESS COIPANY v. OHIO.,
Mr. Richards' Argument for Appellees.

a tax on the business, or the earnings or the profits of the
companies, but on their property, that the property of these
corporations may be valued as a unit upon the basis of the
value of their capital stock, and other evidence, and that the
-proportion of the entire valuation thus made, belonging to
any one State, may be estimated on the mileage basis as above
described. State v Jones, 51 Ohib St. 492, State Railroad
Tax cases, 92 U. S. 575, Western Un. Tel. Co. v Masa8huetts, 125 U. S. 530, Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Penneyl'van ta, 141 U. Sr 18, .Iaryev Baltimore &: Oko Railroad,
127 U. S. 117, Cleveland, Cincznnat &ce. Railway v. Backus,
154 U. S. 439, W'estern Un. Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1.
.Mr Joln K. Richards for appellees. Hr F S. M.onnett,
Attorney General of the State of Ohio, and XAr John L. Lott,
Assistant Attorney General of that State, were on his brief.
I. Where the constitutionality of a law is involved, every
possible presumption is in favor of its validity, and this continues until the contrary is shown beyond a reasonable doubt.
II. The Nichols law is based upon the essential difference
existing between the property of telegraph, telephone and express companies, and other property The property of thesecompanies is in nature and use a unit, and to be justly valued,
so that the companies may bear their fair share of the public
burdens, must be treated for assessment purposes as a unit.
An express company owns horses, wagons, pouches, office
furniture, safes and other implements for carrying on the
transportation business, but it also owns leases of transportation facilities and capital and money to operate lines extending throughout the country A part of this property has a
situs in the towns where there are offices, a part is carried to
and fro throughout the State on the lines over which the express company operates. The property is used together in
one business, that of transportation, and is valuable because it
is so used. An express company is akin to a railroad company It operates over a large territory, or its property would
not have the value it does. To operate lines extending over a

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Richards'-Argument for Appellees.

large territory requires a considerable capital, and this capital
i - of such a character that it can only be ascertained and
valued as a unit and cannot be reached and assessed by local
officers.
III. Because of these inherent- differences, it is not only
proper, but wise for the State to classify the property of these
companies for taxation. Such classification does not violate
the constitution of Ohio and is in accord with the legislative
policy of the State. There are separate provisions for the valuation of the property of individuals, of merchants, of manufacturers, of unincorporated banks, of incorporated banks, of
corporations in general, of railroads, of insurance companies.
The end of the law is equality of burdens, which can only be
reached through classification.
IV The property of an express company constitutes a plant
The assessment of the Ohio
for transportation purpose
property did not exceed a fair proportion of the value of this
plant, taking into consideration the value of the capital stock
and other facts, whatever basis of apportionment may be
taken. In fact, no rule of appraisement aside from that laid
down in the Nichols law was adopted, the result presents the
best judgment of the board, in the light of the law and all
the facts before it. If the assessment be erroneous, it is in
consequence of a mistake of judgment, which the court will
neither review nor correct.
V There is no denial of the equal protection of the law
The Federal cases recognize the right of a State to classify
property for taxation, and use such methods of valuation as,
in the judgment of the legislature, will result m an equality
of burdens. Barbzer v Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, Bell's Gap
Railroad v Pennsylvanta, 134 U. S. 232, Eome Ins. Co. v.
New York, 134 U. S. 594, Paczftc "Express Co. v. Seibert, 142
U S. 339, Charlotte, Columnbta &c. Railroad v. Gibbes, 142
U S. 386, Missourz PacJfic Railway v. .Mackey, 127 U. S.
205, State Railroad Tax zases, 92 U. S. 575, Kentucky
fRailroad Tax cases, 115 U. S. .321.
rI. Due process of law is provided by the Nicholh act,
both in itself and when taken in connection "with other stat

ADAM1S EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Mr. Carter's Argument for the American Express Companv.

utes. There are provisions 'for notice, for statements, for
hearings, for review and correction of erroneous and excessive
valuations, and for contesting assessments. Davwdson v. New
Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, Hagar v. Reclamation .Dtstrwct, 111
U. S. 701, State Railroad Tax case8, 11U sup., MMillen v
Anderson, 95 U. S. 37, Kentucky Railroad Tax cases, ubz
szp., S.pencer v. .ferckant, 125 U. S. 345, Palmerv. -McMahon, 133 U. S. 660.
VII. In the absence of an allegation of fraud, the action of
the board in fixing, the valuation is conclusive, and the court
will not review its judgment to determine whether its valuation is or is not excessive. Courts do.not constitute themselves taxing lauthorities to determine on evidence the value
of property for taxation.
Mr James C. Carter for the American Express Company,
appellant.
Inasmuch as the State of Ohio had the rightful power to
impose a tax upon the property of the express companies
actually situated within its territory, if there is any invalidity
in the assessments under notice it must be found.in the manner in which they were laid.
What the State of Ohio assumed to do was to tax property,
not because of its ownership by citizens of the State, but irrespective of citizenship and on account of its situs within the
State. Nor did it assume to impose a specific tax, but a tax
determinable by value. This property of the express companies was ordinary movable personal property, the actual
value of whicl in money was easily determinable in the ordinary way The method actually employed was this The
board required from the companies, and received (at least from
the American Express. Company) statements showing the
value of its whole property, of that part actually situated in
Ohio, the nominal amount of its capital stock, and its actual
value as determined by the selling price of its shares. If the
board had taken the actual value of the property in Ohio, it
would have assessed it, the personalty (for the year 1895, and

OCTOBER TERTf, 1896.
Arr. Carter's Argument for the American Express Company.

the difference between that and the other yeatrs is not material) at $23,430. The omissions to return some small items
might slightly swell the amount. It utterly dismissed the
actual value thus ascertained by the ordinary method, and
proceeded with an attempt to ascertain what the value of it
would be if it were treated as a certain fractional part of a
supposed "unit profit-producing plant", and to this end it
assumed that the real value of the whole of this plant was
determined by the value of the whole capital stock according
to its selling price. Having thus ascertained the value of the
whole unit plant, the problem remained to ascertain how
much of that unit plant was in Ohio, and this was solved by
the assumption that, as the actual value in Ohio of the specific
personal property theren situated, valued according to the
ordinary method, was to the value of the whole property of
the company valued in like manner, so was the value of the
part of the unit plant in Ohio to the whole value of the unit
plant as determined by the whole value of the capital stock.
In this way property really of the value of $23,400 was
valued and assessed for taxation for the year 1895 at $499,
377.60'
The case, as thus stated, hardlv leaves room for argument, for
argument would assume that the error is not obvious and flagrant, whereas it is so obvious and flagrant that it scarcely
seems worth while to inquire into the nature of the error. The
valuations declared by the board of assessors are - must be either purely capricious and arbitrary, in which case the error
isplain, or the result of applying some test of valuation whica
has no just or reasonable relation to value, in which case the
error is equally plain.
I. The laws under which the assessments ivere made required this mode of valuation, and we.are entitled - indeed
bound in the absence of evidence to the contrary - to assume
that the officers followed the law But, whatever the Supremne Court of Ohio or the Circuit Court of Appeals may
have thought as to whetner the board was bound to regard
the value of the entire capital stock as alone deterlnnir, the
value of the entire property, neither pretends that it was not

ADAMNS EXPRESS COMPANY v. 0HI0.
Mr. Carter's Argument for the Americau Express Company.

the principal test prescribed by the statute, and a law which
makes a wholly erroneous test in the valuation of property
the principal one, is just as invalid as if it made it the only
one.
I. These proceedings were in conflict with those provisions
of the Federal Constitution which forbid the taking of property without due process of law The property to be assessed
was wholly, or chiefly, personal chattels, such as horses,
wagons, etc. They were specific things belonging to the
company having an actual situs in Ohio and taxable by that
State. The State proposed to value them, not as specific
things, but as a part of a distinct whole, embracing these and
many other things with them. Their value was easily ascer
tamable, in the ordinary method, by finding their market
value, or the cost at which they could be produced and reproduced. The law required this ordinary mode to be ignored
and a value to be placed upon them which should'be deter
mined by the value of the capital stock, a thing which had no
relation whatever to their value, for nothing is more certain
than that the value of this property would be precisely the
same - could be bought for the same price - be sold for the
same price -be
produced and reproduced for the same
price -whether the capital stock of the company was 50 per
cent below, or 100 per cent above par.
Under tins method of valuation, whether the horses were
lame or sound, or old or young, whether the wagons and harness were old or new was of little consequence, but any valuable franchises which the company might possess which
increased the profits of its business in other States, however
remote, every favorable contract with railroad companies
which increased the profits of its business, immediately added
to the value of every horse, wagon and harness in Ohio. And
it a debt due to the company from a debtor in Ohio of $1000
was included in its property there it became subject to valuation for the parposes of taxation at more than $15,000 1
Is tins "a taking of piopertv" without due process of law 9
_'eetanl it is, unless the requniement ot "due process of law"
,i, II I1l istances bo satsfied by , mere statutory enactment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Mr. Carter's Argument for the American Express Company.

We are not called upon at the present stage of constitutional
jurisprudence to go into argument to show that this cannot
be done. The safeguard which forbids the taking of property
without due process of law is a protection against legislation.
It cannot be met and overcome by a mere exercise of the
power which it was erected to control.
Exact equality and justice is not possible in any system of
taxation and no one expects it. There are many methods
which may be employed and opinions differ concerning which
isthe best, and among these the legislature has an uncontrolled
discretion, But one thing is essential to any method, and this
is that it should have an eye to equality and uniformity Without this, statutory enactments to compel the payment by the
citizen of money in the name of taxes are mere arbitrary exactions, indeed their proper name is robbery, and they are none
the less robbery because clothed with the exterior form of law
The opinion seems to have been entertained in the Circuit
Court of Appeal, and in the Supreme Court of Ohio, that the
question whether the safeguard of due process of law was
satisfied. amounted simply to the question whether the property owner had under the law opportunity to appear before
the assessing board and be heard. No greater error could be
committed. Opportunity to appear and be heard is useful
only when it affords a means of correcting injustice. It is
valuable only when the party can appeal effectively to truth
and justice. But of .what use is it when the so-called law
itself commands the injustice to be done? An appeal to the
legal enactment is to no purpose in such a case.
Where the legislative power is arbitrary and unlimited, there
is, of course, no protection against it to be found in the constitutional safeguard of the Fourteenth Amendment that -no
person shall be deprived of life, liberty and .property without
due process of law But it has been more than once declared,
with the approval of this court, that under our Ameridan
systems there is no room for the exercise of arbitrary power.
The objection that men differ as to what these fundamental
principles are cannot be listened to. It questions the existence
of the principles, and thus utterly destroys constitutional gov-

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANTY v. OHIO.
Mr. Carter's Argument for the American Express Company.

eminent. We have no other ground for saying that a judicial
proceeding, which denies to the defendant an opportunity to
be heard, is unconstitutional, except that it violates the fundamental principles of reason and justice. But it is not true that
civilized and enlightened men differ as to these principles.
Upon all material points they are agreed. Were they not
thus agreed constitutional government would be impossible.
They are agreed, in the main, upon all the dictates of right
reason, and so far as they are not agreed, so far our constitutional systems are imperfect, as all human institutions are.
In the application, indeed, of fundamental principles of
reason and justice to legal enactments there are wide differences of opinion, and the difficulty thus occasioned is surmounted, so far as it can be, by the rule that laws are not to
be pronounced unconstitutional except when they are clearly
violative of such principles.
III. The laws in question are very clearly in violation of
the constitution of the State of Ohio, and for this reason
invalid.
IV The laws in question impose taxes on property beyond
the territorial jurisdiction of Ohio and are invalid for this
reason.
V The laws authorizing the assessments are invalid as an
invasion of the constitutional guaranty of the equal protection
of the laws.
VI. The laws under which these assessments were made
are invalid also for the reason -that they impose a burden upon
interstate commerce.
There is no constitutional provision in terms forbidding the
States to impose burdens by way of taxation upon interstate
commerce. The prohibition is a necessary implication arising
from the fact that the subject-matter is one placed exclusively
under the sovereign control of Congress, and the imposition
of burdens upon it by the States, whether by taxation or otherwise. would be a denial of that sovereignty and a false assumption by the States of a power over it, which, if it existed,
might be so exercised as to destroy it.
There is one necessary exception to the rule that the States

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

cannot tax interstate commerce.

Inasmuch as the existence

of the States is necessary to the existence of interstate commerce, that ordinary system of taxation which is necessary
to the existence of the States, namely, taxation upon all the
property within them, must be permitted, and the property
employed in interstate commerce is not to be exempted.
This exception is, indeed, rather apparent than real, for
where no burden can be put upon property employed in
interstate commerce without being at the same time put upon
all other property, interstate commerce is not really burdened.
Were it not subject to taxation in this form the effect would
be to confer upon it an affirmative advantage equivalent to a
pecuniary bounty equal to the amount of the tax from. which
it was exempted.
But a tax in any other form cannot be thus equalized over
all private interests, and, if allowed, would be, or might easily
be made to be, an especial burden.
The taxes levied by these Ohio laws are taxes directly
depending upon the market value of the shares of the stockholders. That market value depends directly upon the present profits of the business and the fair expectation concerning
its permanency It is, very precisely, a capitalization of all
the property and every advantage whether by way of franchise, contract privilege or skill possessed by the company
Among these advantages is the fact that the privilege of
carrying it on is derived from and controlled by another
sovereign government. A tax, therefore, upon a capitalization of all these elements is a tax upon the occupation itself,
which it is certain thatthe States have no right to impose.
The practical test is conclusive. Thequestion is whether
the taxes are a burden. Every one can see that if all the
States should impose taxes similar to those we are dealing
with (and if one State can do it all may), the business would
be immediately destroyed. No express company could stand
such an aggregate of taxation.
AIR. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER,

the opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Opiion of the Court.

No difference material to the determination of the controversy exists between the cases, and as matter of convenience the statement refers to the amended act and the records
in Nos. 398, 399 and 400.
The contention that the act in question is invalid because
repugnant to the constitution of the State of Ohio has been
disposed of by the decision of the highest tribunal of that
State sustaining its validity State v Jones, 51 Ohio St. 492.
These cases fall within no recognized exception to the general rule that the construction by the state courts of last
resort of state constitutions and statutes will ordinarily be
accepted by this court as controlling.
It is suggested that the decision of the Supreme Court of
Ohio should not be followed because the case in which it was
announced did not involve a genuine controversy but was prepared for the purpose of obtaining an adjudication, and, under
the circumstances, ought not to have been considered by that
court. But it was for that tribunal to pass on this question,
and, as it entertained jurisdiction and delivered a considered
opinion which appears in the official reports of the court as its
judgment of the validity of the Nichols law under the constitution of the State of Ohio, it is not within our province to
review its determination in that regard.
This brings us to the only inquiry which it concerns us to
examine.
The legislation in question is claimed to be repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States because in violation of
the commerce clause of that instrument, and because operating
to deprive appellants of their property without due process of
law, and of the equal protection of the laws.
We assume that the assessments complained of were made
in pursuance of the definite rule or principle of appraisement
recognized and established by the Nichols law, as construed
by the Supreme Court of Ohio, and the question is whether
the law prescribing that rule is valid under the Federal
Constitution.
The principal contention is that the rule contravenes the
commerce clause because the assessments, while purporting to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

be on the property of complainants within the State, are
in fact levied on their business, which is largely interstate
commerce.
Although the transportation of the subjects of interstate
commerce, or the receipts received therefrom, or the occupation or business of carrying it on, cannot be directly subjected
to state taxation, yet property belonging to corporations or
companies engaged in such commerce may be, and whatever
the particular form..of the exaction, if it is essentially only
property taxation, it will not be considered as falling within
the inhibition of the Constitution. Corporations and companies engaged in interstate commerce should bear their
proper proportion of the burdens of the governments under
whose protection they conduct their operations, and taxation
on property, collectible by the ordinary means, does not affect
interstate commerce otherwise than incidentally, as all business
is affected by the necessity of contributing to the support of
government. .Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155
U S. 688.
As to railroad, ^telegraph and sleeping car companies,
engaged in interstate commerce, it has often been held by
this court that their property, in the several States through
which'their lines or business extended, might be valued as a
unit for.the purposes of taxation, taking into consideration
the ues to 'whic it was put and all the elements making up
agggate value, and that a proportion of the whole fairly and
properly ascertained might be taxed by the particular State,
without violating any Federal restriction. TFeetern Un2on
Telegraph Co. v. Massa'chusetts, 125 U. S.530, Massaechusetts
v WMestern Unwin Telegraph Co., 141 U. S. 40, Jfaine v. GranQ
Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217, Pittsburgh, Cincinnati &c.
Railway 'v Backus, 154 U. S.421, Cleveland, Cincinnati&c.
Railway v Backus, 154 U. S.439, Mestern Union Telegraph
Co. v Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, Pullman'8 Palace Car Co. -v
Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.18. The valuation was, thus, not
confined to the wires, poles and instruments of the telegraph
company, or the roadbed, ties, rails and spikes of the railroad company, or the cars of the sleeping car company, but

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

included. the proportionate part of the value resulting from
the combination of the means by which the business was
carried on, a value existing to an appreciable extent throughout the entire domain of operation. And it has been decided
that a proper mode of ascertaining the assessable value of so
mucjh of the Whole property as is situated in a particular State,
is in the case of railroads, to take that parttf the'value of the
entire road which is measured by the propwtion of its length
therein to the length of the whole, Pittsburgh&c.Railway v
Backus, 154 U. S.421, or taking-as the basis of assessment such
proportion of the capital stock of a sleeping car company as the
number of miles of railroad over which its cars are run in a
particular State bears to the whole number of miles traversed
by them in that and other States, Pulban'sPalace Car Co. v.
Pennsylvanza,141 U. S.18, or such a proportion of the whole
value of the capital stock of a telegraph company as the
length of its lines within a State bears to the length of all its
lines everywhere, deducting a sum equal to the value of its real
estate and machinery subject to local taxation within the
State, Westernr Un. Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S.1.
Doubtless there is a distinction between the property of
railroad and telegraph companies and that of express companies. The physical unity existing in the former is lacking
in the latter; but there is the same unity in the use of the
entire property for the specific purpose, and there are the
same elements of value arising from such use.
The cars of the Pullman Company did not constitute a
physical unity, and their value as separate cars did not bear adirect relation to the valuation which was sustained in that
case. The cars were moved by railway carriers under contract,
and the taxation of the corporation in Pennsylvania was sustained on the theory that the whole property of the company
might be regarded as a unit plant, with a unit value, a proportionate part of which value might be reached by the state
authorities on the basis indicated.
No more reason is perceived for limiting the valuation of
the property of express companies to horses, wagons and
furniture, than that of railroad, telegraph and sleeping car

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

companies, to roadbed, rails and ties, poles and wires, or
cars. The unit is a unit of use and management, and the
horses, wagons, safes, pouches and furniture, the contracts for
transvortation facilities, the capital necessary to carry on the
business, whether represented in tangible or intangible property, in Ohio, possessed a value in combination and from use
in connection with the property and capital elsewhere, which
could as rightfully be recognized in the assessment for taxation in the instance of these companies as the others.
We repeat that while the unity which exists may not be
a physical unity, it is something more than a mere unity of
ownerslip. It is a unity of use, not simply for the convenience
or pecuniary profit of the owner, but existing in the very
necessities of the case - resulting from the very nature of the
business.
The same party may own a manufacturing establishment in
one State and a store in another, and may make profit by
operating the two, but the work of each is separate. The
value of the factor in itself is not conditioned on that of the
store or vice versa, nor is the value of the goods manufactured
and sold affected thereby The connection between the two
is merely accidental and growing out of the unity of ownership. But the property of an express company distributed
through different States is as an essential condition of the
business united in a single specific use. It constitutes but a
single plant, made so by the very character and necessities of
the business.
It is this which enabled the companies represented here to
charge and receive witlin the State of Ohio for the vear-ending May 1, 1895, $2282,181, $358,519 and $,275,446, respeetivelv, on. the basis, according to theii'respectwe returns, of
$42,065, &28.438 and $23,430, of personal property owned in
that State, returns which confessedly do not, however, take
into account contracts for transportation and accompanying
facilities.
Considered as distinct subjects of taxation, a horse is, indeed,
a norse, a wagon, a wagon, a safe, a safe, a uouch. a pouch
but how is it that $23,430 worth of horses, wagons, safes

ADA'MS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

and pouches produces $275,446 in a single year? Or $28,438
worth, $358,519 9 The answer is obvious.
Reliance seems to be placed by counsel on the observation
of Mr. Justice Lamar, in Jlacf.c Bepress Company v Seibert,
142 U. S. 339, 354, that "express companies, sueh as are
defined by this act, have no tangible property, of any consequence, subject to taxation under the general laws. There is,
therefore, no way by which they can be taxed at all unless by
a tax upon their receipts for business transacted." But the
reference was to the legislation of the State of Missouri, and
the scheme of taxation under consideration here was not
involved in any manner.
The method of as'ssment provided by the Nichols law was
as follows "The said board shall proceed to ascertain and
assess the value of the property of said express, telegraph and
telephone companies in Ohio, and in determining the value of
the property of said companies in this State, to be taxed within
the State and assessed as herein provided, said board shall be
guided Iry the value of said property as determined bv the
value of the entire capital stock of said companies, and such
other evidence and rules as wvill enable said board to arrive
at the true value in money of the enti'e property of said companies within the State of Ohio, in the proportion which the
same bears to the entire property of said companies, as deter
mined by the value of the capital stock thereof, and the other
evidence and rules as aforesaid."
And this provision was thus construed by the Supreme
Court of Ohio in State v. Jones
"The board, in determining the value of the company s
property in this State for taxation, is not required to fix
the value of such property upon the principle that the
value of the entire property of the company shall be deemed
the same as the value of its entire capital stock, thus niaking the respective values equivalents of each other. But,
taking the market value of the entire capital stock as a datum, the board is to be only guided. thereby in ascertaining
the true *value in money of the company's property ii this
State. The statute does not bind the board- to find the value

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the entire property of the company equal .to that of the
entire capital stock."
The court further said
"But the property of a corporation may. be regarded in
the aggregate, as a unit, an entirety, as a plant designed
for a specific object, and its value may be estimated not
in parts, but taken as a whole. If the market value- perhaps the closest approximation to the true value in money
-of the corporate property as a whole, were inquired into,
the market value of the capital stock would become a controlling factor in fixing the value of the property Should
all the stockholders unite to sell the corporate plant as
an entirety, they would not be inclined to sell it for less
than the market value of the aggregate shares of the capital
stock. Besides, while the amount of the capital stock may
be limited by the charter and the laws governing it, the
real and personal property of the corporation may be constantly augmented, and may keep pace with any increase in
the value of the capital stock. The market value of the capital stock, it is urged, has no necessary relation to the value of
the tangible property of the corporation. But such is the
well understood relation between the two that not only is the
value of the capital stock an essential factor in fixing the market value of the corporate plant, but the corporate capital
or property has a reflex action on the value of the capital
stock.
"If by reason of the good will of the concern, or the skill,
experience and energy with which its business is conducted,
the market value of the capital stock is largely increased,
whereby the value of the tangible property of the corporation,
considered as an entire plant, acquires a greater market value
than it otherwise would have had, it cannot properly be said
not to be its true value in money within the meaning of the
Constitution, because good will and other elements indirectly
entered into its value. The market value of property is what
it will bring when sold as such property is ordinarily sold in
the community where it is situated, and the fact that it is its
market value cannot be questioned because attributed some-

ADAMS EXPRJISS COMPA_NY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

what to good will, franchise, skilful management of the
property or any other legitimate agency
"It will, we think, be conceded that the earning capacity
of real estate owned by the individuals may be considered in
fixing its value for taxation. Take an office building on a
prominent street in one of our large cities. It will not be
doubted, that by care in the selection of tenants, and in the
preservation of the reputation of the building, by superior
elevator service, by vigilance in guarding and protecting the
property, by the exercise of skill and knowledge in the general
management of the premises, a good will of the establishment
will be promoted, which will tend to an extra increase in the
earning capacity and value of the building. For the purpose
of taxation, it would be none the less the true value in money
of the building, because contributed to by the operative causes
that gave rise to the good will. We discover no satisfactory
reason why the same rule should not apply to the valuation
of corporate property -why the selling value of the capital
stock, as affected by the good will of the business, should be
excluded from the consideration of the board of appraisers
and assessors under the Nichols law, charged with the valuation of corporate property in this -State, especially as the
capital stock, when paid up, practically represents at least an
equal value of the corporate property"
Similar views were expressed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, Sanford v Poe, 37 U. S. App. 378, 395, Judge Lurton, delivering the opinion, saying
"The tax imposed is not a license tax, nor a tax on the
business or occupation, nor on the transportation of property
through the State, nor from points within the State to points
irt other States, nor from points in other States to points
within the State. It purports to provide for a tax upon property within the State of Ohio. Though this property is employed very largely in the business of interstate commerce, yet
that does not exempt it from the same liability to taxation as
all other property within the jurisdiction of Ohio. This
proposition is too well settled to need argument.
"Neither does the fact that the property of the express comVoL CLXV-i5

OCTOBER TERV, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

panies was valued as a unit profit-producing plant violate any
Federal restriction upon the taxing power of a State within
which a part of that plant is found. The value of property
depends in a large degree upon the use to which it is put. If
a railroad may be valued as a unit, rather than as a given
number of acres of land, plus so many tons of rails and so
many thousand ties and a certain number of depots, shops,
etc., there is no sufficient reason why the property of an express
company should not be treated as a unit plant. If the State
of Ohio had a right to tax the property within the State, and
to assess it at its true cash value, there is no Federal restriction
which will prevent such property from being I assessed at the
value which it has, as used, and by reason of its use.'
"That an express company owns no line of railway and
operates no railroad does not prevent the value of its property
from being affected by the relation of each part to every other
part, aqd the use to which a part is put as a factor in a unit
business."
The line of reasoning thus pursued is in accordance with
the decisions of this court already cited. Assuming the proportion of capital employed in each of several States through
which such a company conaucts its operations has been fairly
ascertained, while taxation thereon, or determined with reference thereto, may be said in some sense to fall on the business of the company, it is only indirectly The taxation is
essentially a property tax, and, as such, not an interference
with interstate commerce.
Nor, in this view, is the assessment on property not within
the jurisdiction of the taxing authorities of the State and for
that reason amounting to a taking of property without due
process of law The property taxed has its actual situs in the
State and is, therefore, subject to the jurisdiction, and the distribution among the several counties is a matter of regulation
by the state legislature. Pullman's Palace Car Co. v Pennsylvanza, 141 U S. 18, 22, State Railroad Tax eases, 92 U. S.
575, DelawareRailroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, he Railroadv.
Pennsylvansa, 21 Wall. 492, Columbus Southern Railway v
Wmrght, 151 U S.470.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPAN'Y v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

In Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, the rule is
considered that personal property may be separated from its
owner and he may be-taxed, on its account, at the place where
it is, although not the place of his own domicil, and even if
he is not a citizen or a resident of the State which imposes
the tax, and the distinction between ships and vessels and
other personal property is poainted out. The authorities are
largely examined and need not be gone over again.
There is here no attempt to tax property having a situs
outside of the State, but only to plade a just value on that
within. Presumptively all the property of the corporation
or company is held and used for the purposes of its business,
and the value of its capital stock and bonds is the value of
only that property so held and used.
Special circumstances might exist, as indicated in Pittsburgh, Cinctnnati&c. Railway v. Backus.I 154: U. S. 421, 443,
which would require the value of a portion of the property
of an express company to be deducted from the value of its
plant as expressed by the sum total of its stock and bonds
before any valuation by mileage could be properly arrived
at, but the difficulty in the cases at bar is that there is no
showing of any such separate and distinct property which
should be deducted, and its existence is not to be assumed.
It is for the companies to present any special circumstances
which may exist, and, failing their doing so, the presumption
is that all their property is directly devoted to their business, which being so, a fair distribution of -its aggregate value
would be upon the mileage basis.
The States through which the companies operate ought not to
-be compelled to content themselves with a valuation of separate
pieces of property disconnected from the plant as an entirety,
to the proportionate part of which they extend protection, and
to the ditidends of whose owners their citizens contribute.
It is not contended that notice of the time and place of
the meetings of the board was not afforded or that the companies were denied the opportunity to appear and submit such
proofs, explanations, suggestions and arguments with reference to the assessment as they desired.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

We are also, unable to conclude that the classification of
express companies with railroad and telegraph. companies as
subject to the unit rule, denies the equal protection of the
laws. That provision in the Fourteenth Amendment "was
not intended to prevent a State from adjusting its system of
taxation in all proper and reasonable ways," nor was that
amendment "intended to compel a State to adopt an iron
rule of equal taxation." Bell's Gap Railroad v. Pennsylvanta, 134 U S. 232.
In Pao?,fc -Express Co. v Seibert, 142 U S. 339, 351, in
which a tax on gross receipts of express companies in the
State of Missouri was sustained, Mr. Justice Lamar, speaking
for the court, well says
"This court has repeatedly laid down the doctrine that
diversity of taxation, both with respect to the amount imposed and the various species of property selected either for
bearing its burdens or for being exempt from them, is not
inconsistent with a perfect uniformity and equality of taxation in the proper sense of those terms, and that a system
which imposes the same tax upon every species of property,
irrespective of its nature or condition or class, will be destructive of the principle of uniformity and equality in taxation
and of a just adaptation of property to its burdens."
And see Kentucky Railroad Tax cases, 115 U. S. 321,
Rome .nsurance'Oo.v Rew York, 134 U S. 594.
The policy pursued in Ohio is to classify property for taxation, when the nature of the property, or its use, or the nature
of the business engaged in, requires classification, in the judgment of the legislature, in order to secure equality of burden,
and property of different sorts is classified under various statutory provisions for the purposes of assessment and taxation.
The state constitution requires all property to be taxed by a
uniform rule and according to its true value in money, and it
-was held by the Supreme Court of Ohio in State v Jones that
the Nichols law did not violate that requirement.
In Wagoner v Loomts, 37 Ohio St. 571, it was ruled that
"Statutory provisions, whereby different classes of property
are listed and valued for taxation in and by different modes

ADAMNS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, Ji.

and agencies, are not necessarily in conflict with the provisions of the constitution which require all property to be
taxed by a uniform rule and according to its true value in
money" And the court said "A faithful execution of the
different provisions of the statutes would place upon the duplicate for taxation all the taxable property of the State, whether
bank stocks or other personal property or real estate, accordiflO to its true value in money, and the equality required by
the constitution has no other test."
The constitutional test was held to be complied with, whatever the mode, if the result of the assessment was that the
property was assessed at its true value in money
Considering, as we do, that the unit rule may be applied to
express companies without disregarding any other Federal
restriction, we think it necessarily follows that this law is not
open to the objection of denying the equal protection of the
laws.
We have said nothing in relation to the contention that
these valuations were excessive. The method of appraisement prescribed by the law was pursued and there were no
specific charges of fraud. The general rule is well settled
that "whenever a question of fact is thus submitted to the
determination of a special tribunal, its decision creates something more than a mere presumption of fact, and if such
determination comes into inquiry before the courts it cannot
be overthrown by evidence going only to show that the fact
was otherwise than as so found and determined." Pzttburgh,
(7hIC2n2ati dc. Railway v. Backus, 154 U S. 434, lVestern
Union Telegral)h Co. v. Taggart, 163 U S. 1.
Decrees ajfirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concurred MR.JUSTICE FILD,
tARLAN and MR.JUSTICE BROWN, dissenting.

MR.JUSTICE

Not being able to concur in the opinion and judgment of
the court in the foregoing cases, I am impelled, by what 1
conceive to be the serious nature of the questions involved, to
state the reasons for my dissent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion

White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

It is elementary that the taxing power of one government
cannot be lawfully exerted over property not within its jurisdiction or territory and within the territory and jurisdiction
of another. The attempted exercise of such power would be
a clear usurpation of authority, and involve a denial of the
most obvious conceptions of government. This rule, common
to all jurisdictions, is peculiarly applicable to the several States
of the Union, as they are by the Constitution confined within
the orbit of their lawful authority, which they cannot transcend without destroying the legitimate powers of each other,
and, therefore, without yiolating the Constitution of the United
States.
This limitation upon the taxing power was. early declared
by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v .Afaryland, 4
Wheat. 316, where it was said (p. 429)
"All subjects over which the sovereign power of a State
extends are objects of taxation, but those over which it does
nor extend are, upon the soundest principles, exempt from
taxation. This proposition may almost be pronounced selfevident."
In Ilys v Pca,9c -MailSleamslup Co., 17 How 596, a tax
imposed upon twelve steamships belonging to the company,
which, while engaged in lawful trade and commerce between
the port of San Francisco and ports and territories without
the State, were temporarily within the jurisdiction of California, was held illegal. This court, by Mr. Justice Nelson,
declared that the vessels were not properly abiding within the
limits of California, so as to become incorporated with the
other personal property of that State, that their situs was
at the home port where the vessels belonged and vhere the
owners were liable to be taxed for the capital invested and
where the tax had been paid.
In St. 1eus v Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, the validity of a
tax assessed by the city of St. Louis upon the boats of'a ferry
company, an Illinois corporation, as property- within the city
of St. Louis, was considered. This court held that Illinois was
the home port of the boats, that they were beyond the jurisdiction of the authorities by which the taxes were assessed,

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

and that the validity of the taxes could not be maintained.
It was observed (p. 430)
"Where there is jurisdiction neither as to person nor prop=
erty, the imposition of a tax would be ultra 'zoie and void.
If the legislature of a State should enact that the citizens or
property of another State or country should be taxed in. the
same manner as the persons and property within its own
limits and subject to its authority, or in any manner whatsoever, such a law would be as much a nullity as if in conflict
with the most explicit constitutional inhibition. Jurisdiction is as necessary to valid legislative as to valid judicial
action."
In State Tax on. -Foreign-heldBonds, 15 Wall. 300, a tax
laid by the State of Pennsylvania on the interest paid by
the railroad company on its bonds, was held to be a tax
upon the bonds, the property not of the debtor company but
of its creditors, and that so far as such bonds were held by
non-residents of the State, they were property beyond its
jurisdiction. It was declared that no adjudication should
be necessary to establish so obvious a- proposition as that
property lying beyond the jurisdiction of a State is not a
subject upon which the taxing, power can be legitimately
exercised, and that "the power of taxation, however vast in
its character and searching in its extent, is necessarily limited
to subjects within the jurisdiction of the State." Of the act
there under consideration, the court said (p. 321)..
"It is only one of many cases where, under the name of
taxation, an oppressive exaction is made without constitutional warrant, amounting to little less than an arbitrary
seizure of private property It is, in fact, a forced contribution levied upon property held in other States, where it is
subjected or may be subjected to taxation upon an estimate
of its full value."
In Morgan v Parham, 16 Wall. 471, it was adjudged,
upon the authority of the Hays case, supra, that the State
of Alabama could not lawfully tax a vessel registered in -ew
York, but employed in commerce between 'Mobile in that
State and New Orleans in Louisiana. The situs of the yes-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion- White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

sel was held to be at the home port in New York, where its
owner was liable to be taxed for its value.
The circumstance that the steamer might not actually have
been taxed in New York during the years for which the taxes
in controversy were levied was held. to be unimportant. , The
court said (p. 478)
"Whether the steamer Frances was actually taxed in New
York during the years 1866 and 1867 is not shown by the
case. It is not important. She was liable to taxation there.
That State alone had dominion over her for that purpose."
In The Delaware Razilroad Tax case, 18 Wall. 206, this
court, in considering an objection interposed to a taxing act,
that it imposed taxes upon property beyond the jurisdiction of
the State, observed (p. 229) "If such be the fact, the tax to
that extent is invalid, for the power of taxation of every State
is necessarily confined'to subjects within its juri8diction."
In Gloucester Ferry Co. v Pennylvansq, 114 U S. 196, at
pages 206-209, Mr. Justice.Field reviews the cases just cited.
The Gloucester Ferry Company was a New Jersey corporation, and operated a ferry between Gloucester, New Jersey,
and Philadelphia. The State of Pennisylvania laid a tax on
the appraised value of the capital stock of the ferry company,
which owned-no' property in Pennsylvama except the lease of
a ,slip or dock, where its ferryboats put up in plying across the
river, between- the two States.
In this court it. was sought in argument to support .the tax
nr question by advancing the theory of "a homogeneous. unit."
The counsel said:.(p. 201)
"The tax is upon.the capital stock of the corporation, 'not
in separate parcels, as representing distinct properties, but as
a homogeneous udit partaking of the nature -of personalty,'
and taxable where its corporate functions.are exercised or its
business done. The franchise itself may constitute the material part of all.itsproperty,.gince not only its wharves and slips,
but also its boats, might be leased, and, in that case, the tax'
would be measured by the value of the franchise represented
by the extent of its exercise within the State, and not by its
tangible' .property situated there. The extent of its property

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. 01110.
Dissenting Opinion

White, Field, Iarlan, Brown, JJ.

subject to the taxing power is immaterial. Its franchise would
be worthless without the leasehold interest owned by it in the
city of Philadelphia. The value of its franchise depends upon
that leasehold, and it will, therefore, not do to say that it has
no property within the jurisdk ition of the taxing power. 'It
does not seem necessary to inquire further as to an ownership
of property within the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania."
But this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Field, completely answered the argument, as follows (p. 205)
"If by reason of landing or receiving passengers and freight
at wharves, or other places in a State, they can be taxed by
the State on their capital stock on the ground that they are
thereby doing-business within her limits, the taxes which may
be imposed may embarrass, impede and even destroy such
commerce with the citizens of the State. If such a tax can be
levied at all, its amount will rest in the discretion of the State.
It is idle to say that the interests of the State would prevent
oppressive taxation. Those engaged in foreign and interstate
commerce are not bound to trust to its moderation in that
respect, they require security"
Of the Gloucester Ferry case, it was observed by this court
in PAliladel~khaSteamsltp Co. v Pennsylvania,122 U S. 326,
344, that "It is hardly necessary to add that the tax on the capital stock of the New Jersey-company, in that case, was decided
to be unconstitutional, because, as the corporation was a foreign
one, the tax could only be construed as v, tax for the privilege
or franchise of carrying on its business, and that business was
interstate commerce."
In .Erie Railroad v. Pennsylvansa, 153 U. S.628, 646, this
court denied the power of the State of Pennsylvania to require
a foreign railroad company doing business within its borders
to deduct therefrom when paying interest upon its obligations
in New York the amount of a tax assessed by the State upon
the bonds and moneyed capital owned by the residents of
Pennsylvania. The money in the hands of the company irr
New York was held to be property beyond the jurisdiction
of Pennsylvania. The court said that "No principle is better
settled than that the power of a State, even its power of taxa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

tion, in respect to property, is limited to such as is within, its
jurisdiction."
This inherent want of power in every government to transcend its jurisdiction is subject, as already stated,, to an additional limitation as to the several States of the Union,
resulting from those provisions of the Constitution of the
United States which, in so far as they restrict tWe power of
the States, necessarily create limitations to which they are all
subject and from which they cannot depart wvithou a violation of the Constitution. It will not be necessary to allude
to every special restricion.on the power of the States resulting from the Constitution, but it will suffice for my present
purpose to refer to one only, the necessary existence of which
has often been recognized to have been one of the most cogent
mot'ves leading to the adoption of the Constitution, and upon
the enforcement of which it has often been declared the perpetuity of our institutions depends, to wit, the inhibition resulting from the provision of the Constitution of the United
States conferring on Congress power to regulate interstate
commerce.
Under the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution,
as\held by this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley,
in Leloup v. Mobile, 127 'U. S. 640, 648, "No State has the
right to lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form, whether
by way. of duties laid on the transportation of, the subjects of
that commerce, or on the receipts derived from that transportation, or on the occupation or business of carrying it on,
and the reason is that such taxation is a burden on that commerce, and amounts to a regulation of it, which belongs solely
to Congress." The following cases were referred to as supporting the proposition thus enunciated Case of State Frezght
Tax, 15 Wall. 232, Pensacola Telegraph Co. v Ifestern Unson
-- elegra6h Co., 96 U S. 1, Mobile v .Kimnball, 102 U. S. 691,
IWestern Union Telegraph Co. v Texas, 105 U S. 460, .Moran
v. New "Orleqns,112 U. S. 69, Gloucester Ferry Co. v Pennsylvanza, 114 U. S. 196, Brown v Houston, 114 U. S. 622-Wfralling v. .Michtgan, 116 U. S. 446, Picard.v Pullman
Southern Car Co., 117 U. S.34, Wabash c&o. Railway Co. v. 1li-

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

noz8, 118 U. S. 557, ]obbzns v. Shelby County Taxing Dz8trzet, 120 U. S. 489, Philadelphza& Soutkern Steamshsp 0o.
" Penn8ylvan2a,122 U. S. 326, We8term Unzon Telegraph Co.,
" Pendleton, 122 U. S. 317, 1?atterman v. Weste-n Union
Telegraph Co.., 127 U. S. 411.
The following cases, since decided, enforced the same principle Asher v Texa8, 128 U. S. 129, Stoutenburgh v. llennwk,
129 U S. 141, Lyng v .Xwhgan, 135 U. S. 161, -lcCall v
California, 136 U. S. 104, and Crutcher v. .Kentucky, 141
U S. 47.
These authorities were reviewed by this court in Brennan
v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, where, speaking through Mr.
Justice Brewer, it was held that a municipal corporation could
not lawfully tax a non-resident manufacturer of goods for the
privilege of endeavoring to sell his goods by means of an
agent sent into the State to solicit orders therefo*r. This
court there said (p. 303) "This tax is a direct charge and
burden upon the business, and if a State may lawfully exact
it, it may increase the amount of this exaction until all interstate commerce in this mode ceases to be possible. And
notwithstanding the fact that the regulation of interstate
commerce is committed by the Constitution to the United
States, the State is enabled to say that it shall not be carried
on in this way, and to that extent to regulate it."
The question then arises, does the tax imposed by the State
of Ohio upon express companies violate either of-the two elementary propositions to which I have just referred?
Under the law of Ohio express companies are taxed in three
forms First, their real estate is assessed for state, county
and municipal purposes in the same manner as is real estate
within the State belonging to other companies and persons,
second, such companies are also taxed upon their gross receipts
derived from business done within the State, 91 Ohio Laws,
23T, and, third, they are additionally assessed by a state
board. 90 Ohio Laws, 330, as amended by 91 Ohio Laws,
220. It is the assessment resulting from the last, of these
provisions which is involved in the cases now under consideratton.

OCTOBER TER-NJ, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion

White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

In compliance with the law th companies returned to the
state board a statement for the year 1893, showing, first, the
amount of.capital stock and its par and market value, second,
a detailed account of the entire real and personal property bf
the companies and its assessed value, and, third, their entire
gross receipts during the taxing year for business done within
the State of Ohio. For the years 1894 and 1895 the statements, under the requirements of the amendatory statute of
May 10, 1894, 91 Ohio Laws, 220, exhibited, first, the number of shares of capital stock aid its par and market value,
second, a detailed statement of the real estate owned in Ohio
and its-assessed value, third, a full and correct inventory of
the personal property, including moneys and credits owned in
O-hio and the value thereof, fourth, the total value of the real
and personal property owned and situate outside of Ohio,
fifth, the entire gross receipts df the company, from whatever
source derived, of business, wherever done for the taxing year;and, sixth5 the gross receipts of each company in Ohio, from
whatever source.derived.
It is proper here to notice that while the gross receipts in
Ohio of express companies was required to be stated, there
was no direction that mention should be made of the sum
of the payments properly chargeable against such gross receipts, to wit, disbursements to railroad companies or mdividuals for transportation facilities, wages of its army of
employes, care and maintenance of its horses, and other operating expenses.
Although the assessment on the real estate and on the gross
receipts may be relevant to some aspects of -the contrbversy
now examined, I eliminate them from consideration, as the
direct issue here presented c~ncerns the taxation asserted to
be only upon the personal property
The value of the personal property within the State of Ohio
returned by the express companies was averred in each bill,
and was conceded by the demurrer to have been correct.
The valuation thus returned and the amount of the assessment
levied on such personal property by the state board is shown
in the following table

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

A888ment for 1893.
Value s returned, and
as alleged in the bills,

Value assessed
by state board.

$53,080 74

$4:60,033 08

27,300 00
26,318 00

400,576 45
397,300 00

A88ernent for 1894.
$41,102 60
Adams Express Co.
21,795 00
American Express Co..
26,333 00
United States Express Co

$543,569 00
446,142 00
481,348 00

A8es8ment for 1895.
$42,065 00
Adams Express Co
3,430 00
American Express Co..
28,438 00
United States Express Co

$533,095 80
499,373 60
488,264 T0

Adams Express OQ
American Express Co..
United States Express Co

It thus appears that for the year 1893, property possessing
an actual value of but $106,698.74 was assessed as being-worth
$1,257,909.53, in 1894 property valued at $89,230.60 was
assessed at $1,471,059.00, and for 1895 property worth but
$93,933.00 was assessed at $1,520,734.10, a total valuation
during three years of property worth only $289,862.34 at
$4,249,702.63.
In addition to this enormous taxation, the real estate and
the gross receipts of the companies have also been taxed for
all state, county and municipal purposes. It cannot, I submit, be asserted with reason that the nearly four millions of
excess on the assessuient of the tangible property laid by the
state board resulted from assessing only the actual intrinsic
value of such property, since to so contend would be not only
beyond all reason, but would also be destructive of the admission by the demurrer that the companies possessed no other personal property within the State of Ohio but that returned by
them, and that its actual and intrinsic value was correctly set
forth. The assessment, therefore, must necessarily have taken
into consideration some other property, or some element of
value other than the real intrinsic worth of the property
assessed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

The fact of the vast excess of the valuation over and above
the admitted value of the property is not, however, the only
,mode by which it is conclusively.demonstrated that the assessment resulted from the consideration and. estimate by the
state board of sources of value extrinsic to the property
assessed. One of the assessments in controversy was made
under the Ohio law of April 27, 1893 and the others under
the law of May 10, 1894, and although there is some difference between the two statutes, they both, as I -have alreadysaid, substantially require express companies to make return
of their real and personal property within the State, the yalue
tfiereof, the number of shares of their capital stock, their
market value, and a statement of the gross receipts for business done within the State of Ohio during the taxing year
from whatever source derived. Considering the obligation
thus -imposed to report the total *value of the stock of the
companies and all their gross earnings, as also the total routes
over which their agents travelled, etc., and puttingthese things
in connection with the extraordinary amount by which the
valuation .exceeds the actual value of the property assessed, it
leaves no reasonable doubt that the sources of reported. value,
which were entirely outside of the territory and -beyond the
jurisdiction of the State of:Ohto, .were by some process of calculation added to the intrinsic vfilue -of the property within
the State,.thereby assessing not only the.property within the
Sta., but a- proportion also of all ,the property situated without its territorial boundaries.
The fact that- it was by this method, that the sum of the
.opersonl property liable for taxation .was fixed by the board,
result& clearly and unmistakably frQm the. opinion of. the Supreme bourt of the State of. Ohio n State v. Jone8, 51 Ohio
-St. 492, in which case the court sustained thevalidity of the
'taxes here questioned. The Supreme Court of Ohio therein
declared- that the state board, whose duty it was to assess
express companies, wag" not requtred1,tQ fik the value of such
property upon the principle that the value of the enti~eproperty of the company shall be deemed the same as-the value of
'The italics here and elsewhere in this quotation are mine.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

its entire capital stock, thus making the respective values
equivalents of each other. But, taking the market value of the
entire capital stock as a datum, the board is only to-be guided
thereby in ascertaining the true value in money of the company's property in ths &ate. The statute does not biifthe
board to find the value of the entire property of the company
equal to that of the entire capital stock." Although the requirement in so many words, to assess property outside the,
State, is thus said not to be found in the statute, yet that it
in substance so provides is acknowledged, for, adds the Ohio
court, "the property of a corporation may be regarded in the
aggregate as a unit, an entirety, as a plant designed for"a
specific o1yect , and its value may be estimated, not en parts,
but taken as a whole. If the market value- perhaps. the
closest approximation to the true value in money - of the
corporate property as a whole were inquired into, the market
value of the capital stock would become a controlling factor
in fixing the value of the property
The market
value of the capital stock, it-is urged, has no necessary relation
to the value of the tangible property ofthe corporation. But
such is the well-understood relation between the two, that not
only is the value of the capital stock an essential factor in fixing the market value of the corporate plant, but the corporate
capital or property has a reflex action on the value of the
capital stock.
If, by reason of the good vifII of the
concern, or the skill, experience and energy with which its
business is conducted, the market value of the capital stock is
largely increased, whereby the value of the tangible property
of the corporation, considered as an entire plant, acquires a
greater market value than it otherwise would have had, it
cannot properly be said not to be its true value sn money
within the meaning of the Constitution, because good will.and
other elements indirectly entered into its value.
We
discover no satisfactorv reason why the same rule should not
apply to the valuation of corporate property - why the selling value of the capital stock, as affected by the. good will of
the business, should be excluded from the consideration of
the board of appraisers and assessors under the Nichols law;

240

OCTOBER TER11 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

charged with the valuation of corporate property in this State,
especially as the capital stock when paid up practically represents, at least, an equal value of the corporate, property"
Now,this language is susceptible only of one meaning, that
is, that in assessing the actual intrinsic value of tangible property of express companies in the State of *Ohioit was the duty
of the assessing board to add to such value a proportionate
estimate of the capital stock, so as thereby to assess not only
the tangible property within the State, but also along with
such property a part of the entire capital stock of the corporation, without reference to its domicil, and- equally without
reference to the situation of the property and assets owned by
the company from which alone its capital stock derives value.
In other words, although actual property situated in States
other than Ohio may not be assessed in thit State, yet that
it may take all the value of the property in other States and
add such portion thereof, as it sees fit, to the assessment in
Ohio, and that this process of taxation of property in other
States, in violation of 'the Constitution, becomes legal provided only it is called taxation of property within the State.
I submit that great principles of government rest upon
-solid foundations of truth and justice, and are not to be set
at naught and evaded by the mere confusion of words. In
considering a question of taxation in Postal Telegraph Cable
Co.,v Adams,155 U. S.688, to which case I shall hereafter
refer, this court said (p. 698) "The substance and not the
shadow determine the validity of the exercise of the power."
It seems 10 me that to maintain the tax levied by the State
of Ohio this ruling must be reyersed, and the doctrine be
announced that the shadow is of more consequence than the
substance. Such result would appear to inevitably flow from
the holding referred to, now affirmed by the court. Nothing,
I submit, can be plainer than the fact that the value of the
capital stock of a-corporation represents all its property, franchises, good will-indeed, everything owned' by it wherever
situated.. I reiterate, therefore, that the rule which recognizes
that for the purpose of. assessing tangible property m one
State you may take its full worth and then add to the value

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, BroWn, JJ.

of such property a proportion of the total capital stock, is a
rule whereby it is announced that the sum of all the property,
or an arbitrary part thereof, situated in other States, may be
joined to the valuation of property in one State for the purpose of increasing the taxation within that State. What difference can there be between an actual assessment by Ohio of
property situated in New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts
or in any of the other States of the Union, and the taking by
Ohio of an aliquot part of the value of all the property situated in such other States and adding it, for the purpose of
assessment, to the value of property in Ohio2 The recognition of this method breaks down both of the -ell-settled and
elementary rules to which I have inthe outset adverted.
Fr.Nt, the ride whc/h forbids one State to extend its power of
taxation beyond tts y urisdiction to property sn another State.
If the express companies are domiciled in.New York, and
have millions of property there situated and subject to taxation, all of which give value to their capital stock and hence
enter into the sum of its worth, how can it be that to tax a
proportion of the value of all that property is not taxing the
property itself" This proportion of the capital stock added
to the inherent value of the property in the State of Ohio is,
thierefore, an actual taxation by the State of Ohio of property
situated in thb State of New York.
It seems to me that not only the illegality but the injustice
of this taxation by the State of Ohio on these express com_panies which is now upheld, is clear. Let me suppose that
the bonds, stocks, other investments and elements, which representing the capital of the companies, and therefore producing the resultant value of such capital stock, are situated in
the States of New York, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts.
These items thus making up the value of the calpital stock
being so situated in such States are, of course, entirely and
wholly at their full value assessable in those States. The
attribution of an aliquot share of the value of the capital
stock to the State of Ohio, and the consequent right' of that
State to tax such value, in no way deprives the States of New
York, Pennsvlvania and Massachusetts of their right to assess
VOL. CLXV-i6

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

the property within their borders for its full value. But as
attributing to the'State of Ohio a proportion of such property
gives that State the right to tax .the proportion allotted, it
follows by an inevitable deduction that the recognition of the
right here claimed practically subjects-the property in the
States of New York, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts to
double taxation, unless those States voluntarily forego the
inherent power of taxation vested in them to levy a tax upon
all the property within their respective jurisdictions. Certainly the States of New York, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania would, if they were independent sovereignties, removed
from the jurisdiction of the-Constitution of the United States,
be driven to protect, by retaliatory legislation, their citizens,
as was the case between the States prior to the adoption of
the Constitution. But having entered into the Union, these
States are bereft of all such relief, and must thus look for the
protection of their- citizens to the remedies afforded by the
Constitution itself. The rule now announced allows Ohio to
exercise an authority in violation of the Constitution, and
thereby strips not only the citizens of the other States but
those States themselves of all redress by depriving them of
,the safeguards which it was the avowed purpose of the Constitution to secure.
Second, as to the ntertate commerce clause. It is clear that
the Xecoinition of a right to take an aliquot proportion of the
value of property in one State and add it to the intrinsic value
of property in another State and. there assess it, is in substance
an absolute denial and overthrow of all the great principles
announced from the beginning, and enforced by the many
decisions of this court, on the subject of interstate commerce.
This results from the fact that the necessary consequence of
the ruling in this case is this, that'a corporation- and there
is no distinction, in principle in the particular here considered,
between a corporation and an individual- cannot go from one
State into another State of the-Union for the purpose of there
engaging in interstate commerce business without subjecting
itself to the certainty of having a proportion of all its property situated in the other States added to the sum of property,

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPA-NY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown. JJ.

however small, which it may carry into the State to which it
goes, for the purposes of taxation therein. Under this system,
not only is an appalling penalty imposed for going from one
State into another State, but the carrying on of interstate
commerce itself becomes hampered and loaded with a burden
threatening its absolute destruction.
The contradiction involved in the proposition is well illustrated by the legislatiQn and decisions of the State of Ohio.
Thus, ag I have said, in addition to the tax imposed on express
companies, which is here considered, the law of the State of
Ohio, besides assessing their real estate, also imposes a tax on
the gross receipts of such companies'for business done within
the State. In order to save the tax here -in question, the law
by which -this last tax is imposed is careful to provide that
nothing in the imposition of the tax therein provided, that is,
the tax on gross receipts, shall be construed as impairing the
right to the tax on tangible property already provided for
(the tax here in question). Now, in, passing upon the validity
of this tax on gross receipts, the Supreme Court of Ohio treats
it as not a double tax, because the previous tax is considered
as one on tangible property Adam8 Exp. Co. v. 076o, 44
Northeastern Rep. 506. We have, therefore, both the legislature and the court of last resort of the State of Ohio upholding the enormous valuation put upon the personal property
for the purposes of the tax now before us, on the theory that
such valuation includes an aliquot part of the capital -stock
and necessarily, therefore, also an equal portion of all the
property and earnings of the company, both in and out of the
State, and yet we .have the same legislature and the same
tribunal upholding the tax on gross receipts on the ground
that the tax first provided is purely a tax upon tangible property Thus the departure from the pathway of principle is
marked in this instance, as it is always marked, by confusion and injustice.
The wound which the ruling announced, if I correctly
apprehend it, inflicts on the Constitution, is equally as severe
upon the unquestioned rights of the States as it is upon the
lawful authority of the United States, because whilst submit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

ting the States and their citizens to injustice and wrong committed by another State, it at the same time greatly weakens.
or destroys the efficacy of the interstate commerce clause of
the Constitution.
But the contention is that however sound, as an original.
question, may be the reasoning upon which the tax is assailed,.
its validity is not -now open to question, because the theory
by which the State of Ohio added the value of property
outside of the State to the intrinsic amount of property
actually within the State for the purposes of taxation is
asserted to be concluded by many adjudications of this court.
The cases relied on to establish this proposition are cited in
the opinion of the court. I submit that the statement made
by this court in Paofic Exopress Cornpany v Seibert, 142 U. S.
339, is a sufficient answer to this contention as regards all the
cases relied on decided prior to that case. The Seibert ca&e
involved the question of the validity of a law of tie State of
Missouri imposing a tax upon the gross receipts of an express
company in addition to the ordinary tax upon its tangible
property The court, finding the tax to be only on the busiiess of the company within the State, held it not to be a
tax on interstate commerce, and therefore valid. The court,
through Mr. Justice Lamar, in speaking of the right of a
State to classify express companies for the purpose of taxation, resulting from the fact that such companies were normally only owners of a small amount of tangible property in
one State, said (p. 354)
"On the other hand, express companies, such as are defined
by this act, have no tangible property, of any consequence, subject to taxation under the general laws. There is, therefore,
no way by which they can be taxed at all unless by a tax upon
their receipts for business transacted. This distinction clearly
places express companies defined by this act in 'a separate class
from companies owning their own means of transportation."
The argument here advanced in favor of the tax, therefore,
simply is that what this court said could not be. done in a decision rendered in January, 1892, had theretofore been settled
to the contrary by a line of adjudications. But the answer to,

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

the contention in favor of the tax does not rest alone upon
this view All the cases relied upon and referred to in argument were considered and interpreted in Po8tal Telegraph
Cable Co. v .Adam8, 155 U. S. 688. It'becomes unnecessary,
therefore, to review the prior cases in detail and analyze their
reasoning, since this duty was effectually performed by this
-court in the opinion announced in the Postal Telegraph case.
The significance of the ruling in that case and the controlling
nature of the principles which the opinion there rendered in•culcated can better be understood by considering the controversy which.that case determined, and the aspect in which it
was necessarily presented to this court for adjudication. The
-case involved the validity of a tax imposed by the State of
Mississippi qu a telegraph company The tax in the mere
form of its imposition was undoubtedly..on the occupation and
business of the company, and, therefore, was a unlawful bur.den on interstate commerce, as the company was engaged in
:such commerce. The controversy came to this court on error
from the Supreme Court of the State of Mississippi. The
.attention of that court, in determining the issue presented to
it, Was called to all the previous decisions of this court. Con.sidering these previous adjudications, the -Mississippicourt said
that there was undoubtedly language in, opinions of this court
which seemed to support the validity of the tax there questioned, and there was also undoubtedly language in other lines
-of adjudication which seemed clearly to render the tax void
under the Constitution of the United States. In view of the
apparent conflict in the cases decided by this court, the Missis;sippi court, in its opinion, marshalled the authorities upon
both sides, and expressed its hesitancy and diffidence in reaching a conclusion. The Postal Telegraph case, therefore, point•edly called the attention of this court to all the previous cases
and accentuated the arguments on both sides of the issue pre.sented, and rendered it absolutely necessary for this court to
construe and interpret all the previous adjudications. In this
condition of things, in decidipg the case and holding the tax
valid, although in form a tax upon interstate commerce, this
.court said (p. 695)

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

"It is settled that where by way of duties laid on the transportation of the subjects of interstate commerce, or on the
receipts derived therefrom, or on the occupation or business
of carrying it on, a tax is levied by a State on interstate commerce, such taxation amounts to a regulation of such commerce
and cannot be sustained. But property in a State belonging
to a corporation, whether foreign or domestic, engaged in
foreign or interstate commerce, may be taxed, or a tax may
be imposed on the corporation on account of its property
within a State, and may take the form of a tax for the privilege of exercising its -franchises within the State, if the ascertainment of the amount is made dependent in fact on the
value of its property situated within the State (the exaction,
therefore, not being susceptible of exceeding the sum which
might be leviable directly thereon), and if payment be not
made a condition precedent to the right to carry on the business, but its enforcement left to the ordinary means devised
for the collection of taxes. The corporation is thus made to
bear its proper proportion of the burdens of the government
under whose protection it conducts its operations, while interstate commerce is not in itself subjected to restraint or
impediment."
And again (p. 696)
"Doubtless, no State could add to the taxation of property
according to the rule of ordinary property taxation, the burden
of a license or other tax on the privilege of using, constructing
or operating an instrumentality. of interstate or international
commerce, or for the carrying on of such commerce, but the
value of property results from the use to which, it is put, and
varies with the profitableness of that use, and by whatever
name the exaction may be called, if it amounts to no more than
the ordinary tax upon property or a just equivalent therefor,
ascertained by reference thereto, it is not open to attack as
inconsistent with the Constitution. Cleveand, Cincnnati&c.
Railway v. Backug, A154 U. S. 439, 445."
Referrmg to the opinion of the Supreme Court of Mississippi,
which directly involved all the issues presented by this case,
the court said (p. 697)

AIYAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

"And in the case at bar the Supreme Court, in its examination of the liability of plaintiff in error for the taxes in question, said ' It will be thus seen at once that this is a tax
imposed upon a telegraph company, in lieu of all oth6rs, as a
privilege tax, and its amount is graduated according to the
amount and value of the property measured by miles. It is to
be noticed that it is in lieu of all other taxes, state, county
and municipal. The reasonableness of the imposition appears
in the record, as shown by the second count of the declaration
and its exhibits, whereby the appellant seems to be burdened
in this way with a tax much less than that which would be
produced if its property had been subjected to a single ad
a1orem tax.' This exposition of the statute brings it within
the rule where ad valorem taxes are compounded or commuted
for a just equivalent, determined by reference to the amount
and value of the property Being thus- brought within the
rule, the tax becomes substantially a mere tax on property
and not one imposed on the privilege of doing interstate business. The substance and not the shadow determines the
validity of the exercise of the power."
And summing the whole up, the court concluded (p. 700)
"We are of opinion that it was within the power of the
State to levy a charge upon this company in the form of a
franchise tax, but arrived at with reference to the value of its
property within the State and in lieu of all other taxes, and
that the exercise of that power by this statute, as expounded
by the highest judicial tribunal of the State in the language
we have quoted, did not amount to a regulation of interstate
commerce or put an unconstitutional restraint thereon."
This construction of the previous cases decided by this court
elucidates and makes plain the fact that they proceeded upon
and were intended to enforce the rule that the validity of a
state tax would be determined by the substantial results of the
burden imposed, and not by the mere form which it assumed,
and although the form of the imposition might seem to bring
the tax within the reach of the inhibition against levying a
charge upon property beyond the jurisdiction of the State, or
within the prohibitions of the Constitution of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

forbidding the laying of burdens on interstate commerce, this
court would not interfere therewith provided the exaction in
substance amounted to no more than the sum of the taxation
which the State might lawfully impose upon the property
actually within its jurisdiction, and provided that in reality
the burden: laid by the State was not an interference with
interstate commerce. This explanation and this rule were the
answer given to the question directly presented as to the significance and interpretation of the previous decisions now cited
as authority for the proposition that it is within the power of
a State not only to tax at will property beyond its jurisdiction,
but also to substantially destroy interstate commerce by heaping direct and onerous burdens thereon. Such explanation and
ruling were 'also reiterated in the recent decision in Ve8te-rn
Tnson TeZegrap
'
Co. v Taggart, 163 U. . 1, where, at page
18, it is clearly intimated that a taxing law could not be
upheld which in its necessary operation was shown to be
oppressive and unconstitutional.
Testing the tax in controversy by the rule laid down in the
.Postal Telegrap]l case, it becomes in reason impossible to conclude otherwise than that it is both -n form and substance
taxation by the State of Ohio of property beyohd its jurisdiction, and that it also is an Imposition by that State of a burden
on interstate commerce. It cannot with fairness be argued
that the amount of the tax is only such sum as would have
resulted from a levy upon the property actually in the State,
-when the record admits that the aggregate value of such property for the taxing years of 1893, 1894 and 1895 amounted
only to two hundred and odd thousand dollars, while the assessment exceeds this amount by nearly'four millions of dollars.
It cannot be said that this vast excess does notembrace prop
erty situated outside of Ohio, when both the text of the statute
of that State and such text as expounded by the Supreme Court
of the State clearly show that the sum of the excess is arrived
at by adding to the property in the State the value of property
situated outside thereof. Nor can it be contended that the tax
here involved is not a tax on interstate commerce, in view -of
'the fact that, from the nature of the criteria of value adopted,

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPIANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

an aliquot part of the avails and receipts of the company of
every kind is added to the taxing value in the State of Ohio,
although that State had also imposed a tax upon the gross
receipts from business of a purely state nature.
But, dismissing absolutely from consideration the authoritative construction of all the pribr decisions of this court,
announced in Postal Telegraph Company v Adams, and conceding for the sake of argument that the previous adjudications now relied on are unexplained by that case, and that
they substantially hold that there is a so-called unit rule properly applicable to the assessment for taxation of the continuous lines of telegraph and railroad companies, such concession
does not in reason admit the validity of the method adopted
by the State of Ohio for assessing the tangible personal property of express companies. Before proceeding to discuss this
proposition, however, I call attention to the fact that I intentionally refrain from placing a sleeping car company in the
same category with telegraph and railroad companies, because
the decision in the case of the Pullman's Car Co. vk Pennsylvansa, 141 U. S. 18, was not founded upon the theory, nor
did it purport to assert that the .propertv or plant of a sleeping
car company was a unit, and that of necessity a part of such
property may be measured by a rule applicable to continuous
lines of road. In that decision the court merely emphasized
the holding that the tax was one laid upon one hundred cars
of the company, possessing an actual situs in Pennsylvania.
In the statement of the case (p. 20) the decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania was quoted verbatim, in which
it was declared that the tax on the capital stock of the Pull-.man company was in reality but a tax on its property, that
the coaches of the company were such property, and that the
fact that the coaches might also be operated in other States
would simply reduce the value of the- property in Pennsylvania justly subject to taxation there. This court practically
adopted the views so expressed by the state court. When,
however, it was said (p. 26) that the method of assessment, to
wit, taking a proportion of the capital stock ascertained on
the mileage basis, as the value of one hundred sleeping cars

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

was a just and equitable method, such statement was made
with reference to the facts held to exist in the case before the
court. What were those facts? The taxes demanded covered
a period of eleven years, and, excluding interest from the
time when payable and the attorney general's commission for
collecting, aggregated but $16,321.89. 107 Penn. St. 156, 158.
Surely, this court might well say that a rule of taxation which
operated to assess on one hundred sleeping cars a tax of less
than $1500 per annum was, in the absence of any showing to
the contrary, 3ust .and equitable to the company No such
showing was made. The objection advanced by counsel to
the method of taxation was, not that the results produced
were inequitable, but that (theoretically, not practically) the
method adopted was improper. Indeed, the facts of that case
caused the ruling there made to be but an example of the
principle subsequently explicitly announced in Po8tal Telegraph Company v Adam8, zbz supra.
It is, I submit, undeniable that if there be such a unit rule
applicable to the continuous lines of telegraph and railroad
companies, its-existence pushes the power of state taxation, as
to these particular kinds of property,.at least to the confines
of the Constitution, and therefore if under the rule of 8tare
decisr the cases which announce it should be followed, they
should not be extended. The mere ownership, however, by
an express company of personal property within a State presents no case for the application of a unit rule. What unity
-can there -be between the horses and wagons of an express
company in Ohio with those belonging to the same company
situated in the State of New York 2 The conception of the
unity of railroad and telegraph lines is necessari!y predicated
upon the physical connection of such property To apply a
rule based upon this condition to the isolated ownership by
an express company of movable property in many States, in
reality declares that a mere metaphysical or intellectual relation between property situated in one State and property
found in another creates as between such property a close
relation f0f-the purpose of taxation. But this theory by an
enormous stride at once advances the unit rule beyond every

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

constitutional barrier, and causes such rule or theory to embrace property between which there is and cannot in the
nature of things be any real union or relation whatever. If
mere intellectual union between property be thus adopted, as
a rule of taxation, then all the restrictions upon the power of
a State to tax property arising from the fact that the situs
of such property is beyond its 3urisdiction, as well as of the
restraints arising from the interstate commerce clause of the
Constitution, are destroyed. Certainly, the mere fact that
the same owner has movable property m one State and movable property in another State, does not from the fact of the
one ownership create a link of continuity between the property for the purpose of taxation. The fact that if the movable property situated in one State earns profits, and the
movable property in the other likewise so earns, and that
these profits go to the common owner, does not create such
unity for the purpose of taxation so as to make the property
assssable in each State. This court has effectually determined that where a corporation is engaged in interitate business, no one of the States has the power to tax the receipts of
such company derived from interstate commerce business, and
that the power of the States as to taxation on earnings is
limited to those derived from the business done within the
State. This line of concluded authority is illustrated and
-referred to in the recent opinion in Osborne v. PF'lorz,
164 U. S. 1650, decided at this term. It is, therefore, manifest that where property owned in common, belonging to the
same person and situated in different States, contributes to
earnings, and the proceeds of these earnings go into the treasury of the owner, and lie side by side therein, that the fact
that there is a common owner, that there is a common business, and that all the results of the business are in immediate
contact in the common treasury, gives no power to the State
to tax the whole, but only to levy on that which comes fromthe state business alone. How, I submit, can it now be announced that there is an imaginary unity between personal
property widely separated. because that property has a common' owner, without, at the same time, reversing the settled

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

.adjudications of this court on the subject of the power of a
State-to tax the earnings from interstate commerce?
But a few illustrations will serve at once to make clear what
I submit is the impossibility in reason of declaring.that as a
legal fact or fiction property is unified, when between such
property there is no unity or physical relation whatever.
Take, for example, the case of Brenna.n v Titusville, supra.
Of what value is the ruling in that case, that a manufacturer
-cannot be compelled to pay a license for the doing, through
his agent, of the business of interstate commerce by selling
,his goods in a State into which such agent enters for that
purpose, if the mere fact that the agent takes into the State
.athousand dollars worth of goods, creates a supposed intel.lectual union between those goods and the vast stock and capital of the manufacturer located in another State, so as to
-enable the attribution of an aliquot part of the wealth of the
manufacturer to the goods in the custody of the agent for the
,purpose of taxation? Would it not be as true in such case to
.say that the capital and wealth of. the manufacturer facilitates
and increases the capacity of the agent to transact business
.and adds value to the property the agent has for sale, as to
say that the"horses and wagons of an express company in New
York and its capital there facilitate and aid the agents of such
-company and add value to the tangible property employed by
'such agents in transacting business in Ohio 9 It certainly cannot, I submit, with reason be said that there is not the same
-unity between the operations of a manufacturer who makes
his goods in one State and sells them in another as there is
between the operations of an express company The sale
of the manufactured goods is as essentially necessary to the
profits of the manufacturer as is the manufacture of the goods
themselves. No profit can result from the one without the
other, and to attribute a supposed unity to the business of an
express company, and to deny such unity to that of a manufacturer, is, as I understand it, to declare that there is a difference when there is no possible difference.
If the rule contended for by the State of Ohio be true, why
would it not apply to a corporation, partnership or individual

ADAMS EXPRESS COIPANY v. OHIO.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

engaged in the dry goods business or any other business having branches in various States ? Would it not be as proper to,
say of such agencies, as it is of the' agencies of express companies, that there is an intellectual unity of earnings between
the main establishment and all such agencies, and therefore a
right to assess goods found in an agency with relation to the
capital and wealth of the original house and all the other
branches situated in other States 2 Take the case of a merchant carrying on a general commercial business in one State
and having connections of confidence and credit with another
merchant of great capital in another State. If this rule be
true, can it not also be said that such merchant derives advantages in his business from the sum of the capital in other States.
which may be availed of to extend his credit and his capacity
to do business, and that therefore his tangible property must.
be valued accordingly? Suppose bankers iii Boston, Philadelphia and New York of great wealth, owning stocks and bonds
of various kinds, send representatives to New Orleans with a
limited sum of money there to commence business. These,
representatives rent offices and buy office furniture. Is it not
absolutely certain that the business of those individuals would
be largely out of proportion to the actual capital possessed by
them, because of the fact that reflexly and indirectly their
business and credit is supported by the home offices? In this
situation, the assessor comes for their tax return, He finds
noted thereon only a limited sum of money and the value of
the offiqe furniture. What is to prevent that official under
the rule of supposed metaphysical or intellectual unity between property from saying- "It is true you have but a small
tangible capital, and your office furniture is only worth $250,
but the value of propertcy is in its use, and as you have various
elements of wealth situated in the cities named, I will assess
your property because of its use at a million dollars"? Such
conduct would be exactly in accord with the power-of taxation
which it is here claimed theState of Ohio possesses, and which,
as I understand it, the court now upholds. To give the illustrations, I submit, is to point to the confusion, injustice and
impossibility of such a rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opbuon. White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

Nor, in conclusion, I submit is there any force in the argument advanced at bar that we have entered a new era requiring new and progressive adjudications, and that unless
this court admits the power of the State of Ohio to tax to be
as claimed, it will enable aggregations of capital to escape just
taxation by the several States. This assertion, at best, but
suggests-that unless constitutional safeguards be overthrown,
-barm will come and wrong will be done. In its last analysis
the claim is but a protestation that our institutions are a
failure, that time has proven that the Constitution should not
have been adopted, and that this court should now recognize
that fact and shape its adjudications accordingly The claim
is as unsound as the fictitious assertion of expediency by
which it is sought to be supported. If it be true that by the
present enforcement of the Constitution and laws property
will escape taxation, the remedy must come not from violating
the Constitution but from upholding it.
Within the power lodged in Congress to regulate commerce
between the States ample authority exists to enact the necessary legislation to prevent the just relations between the
States, and the regulation of such commerce from becoming
the pretext for avoidingthe proper burdens of either State
or national taxation. As the necessity arises such apt powers
will doubtless be brought into operation. The recognition of
the right of taxation exerted by the State of Ohio in these
cases must, if followed in other States, not only reproduce the
illegality and injustice here shown, but greatly increase it,
as every new imposition will be a new levy on property
already taxed; and result in an additional burden on interstate
commerce. If the principles by which such results are brought
about be recognized as lawful under the Constitution, not only
will Congress be deprived of all power to protect the citizens
of the respective States and the States themselves from these
conditions, but it will also be rendered impotent to devise
under, the power to regulate commerce any just and fair
regulation to prevent the interstate commerce clause from
being made a shield for avoiding taxation and to cause property engaged in such commerce to be subjected to just and

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. INDIANA.

255

Opinion of the Court.

uniform taxation on the part of the several States. Thus, by
holding that the States possess the power claimed in this
case to exist, not only will a wrong be committed, but that
wrong will be permanently and without remedy engrafted
into our constitutional system.
I am authorized to say that Mm. JusTioR FIELD, MR. JUSTi
FILTmR and MR. JUSTICE BRowN concur in this dissent.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. INDIANA.
ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. INDIANA.
UNITED STATES EXPRESS COMPANY v. INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF MARION COUNTY, INDIANA.
Nos. 469, 470,,471.

Argued December 10, 11, 1596.-Decided February 1, 189T.

Adams Express Co. v. Ohzo, ante 19.4, followed, and held to govern this
case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr
.Mr Lawrence Maxwell for the express companies.
Clarence A. Seward for the Adams Express Company, and
.Mr Frank H. Platt for the United States Express Company,
were on his brief.
.Mr Attorney Generaland Mr. William A. Ketcham, Attorney General of the State of Indiana. for defendant in error.
.Mr Alonzo Greene Smith, Mr Merrill liloores and .Mr Leon
-0 Bailey were on their brief.
Mr James C. Carter for the American Express Company
MR. CmEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.

