SWAIM v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

The present case is not one of irregularity of organization,
or of abuse of a legal power, but of an attempt to exercise
a power expressly prohibited by statute.
The lease sued on having been executed by the defendant,
contrary to the express prohibition of the statute, which peremptorily forbade the corporation to transact any business,
unless to perfect its organization, and thus denied it the
capacity of entering into any contract whatever, except in
perfecting its organization, the lease is void, cannot be made
good by estoppel, and will not support an action to recover
anything beyond -the value of what the defendant has actually received and enjoyed. Central Transportation Co. v
Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 247, 54-61, Logan County Bank
v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67.
The plaintiff, who by the judgment below has recovered
rent at the rate stipulated in the lease for all the time of the
defendant's occupation, as well as all that the defendant had
agreed to pay towards the repairs, has certainly no ground
of complaint, and the defendant, not having sued out a writ
of error, is in no position to object to the amount recovered.
Judgment affirmed.

SWAIM v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAIMS.
No. 03. Argued January 7, 1897. - Decided March 1, 189.

It is within the power of the President, as commander-rn-chief, to convene
a general court-martial, even when the commander of the accused officer
to be tried is not the accuser.
A charge was made by letter against an officer in the army; the letter was
referred to a court of inquiry to investigate; on the receipt of its report
charges and suqeciflcations against him were prepared by order of the
Secretary of War; and the President thereupon appointed a court-martial
to pass upon the charges. Held, that such routine orders did not make
the President his accuser or prosecutor.
In detailing officers to compose a court-martial the presumption is that the
President acts in pursuance of law, and its sentence cannot be collater-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court
ally attacked by going into an inquiry, whether the trial by officers inferior
in rank to the accused was or was not avoidable.
When a court-martial has jurisdiction of the person accused and of the
offence charged, and acts within the scope of its lawful powers, its proceedings and sentence cannot be set aside by the civil courts.
The action of the President in twice returning the proceedings of the
court-martial, urging a more severe sentence, was authorized by law;
and a sentence made after such action, and in consequence of it, was

vLid.
When an officer in the army is suspended from duty, he is not entitled to.
emoluments or allowances.

ON February 23, 1891, David G. Swaim filed in the Court
of -Claims a petition against the United States, alleging that
he was on the 30th day of June, 1884, and still was, judge
advocate-general of the army of the United States, with the
rank, pay and allowance of a brigadier-general therein. He
complained that, by reason of the unlawful creation and
action of a certain court-martial, he had been, on February
24, 1885, suspended from rank and duty for twelve years, and
that one half of his pay had been forfeited for that period.
For reasons set forth in the petition, the claimant asked that
the proceedings, findings and sentence of the said courtmartial should be declared to be void, and that judgment
should be rendered, awarding him the amount of his pay and
allowances retained in pursuance of the said sentence.
The Court of Claims made, upon the evidence, certain findings of fact, and, on the 27th day of February, 1893, entered a
final judgment dismissing the claimant's petition. 28 C. Cl.
173. From that judgment ar appeal was taken to this court.
Mr Benjavrin Butterworth (on whose brief was _Ar Julian
. Dowell) and Mr J Ii. Gillpatreckfor appellant.
.Mr Atto.rney General for appellees.

MIR. JUSTIcE SuIRAs, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The theory of the claimant's petition was -that the sentence

SWAIM v. UNITED STATES.

555-

Opinion of the Court.

of the court-martial was void, and hence constituted no defence
to his action for his retained pay
It was said by this court in Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How 65, 82,.
that" with the sentences of courts-martial which have been convened regularly, and have proceeded regularly, and by which
punishments are directed, not forbidden by law, or which are
according to the laws and customs of the sea, civil courts have
nothing to do, nor are they in any way alterable by them. If
it were otherwise, the civil courts would virtually administerthe rules and articles of war irrespective of those to whom
that duty and obligation have been confided by the laws of
the United States, from whose decisions no appeal or jurisdiction of any kind has been given to the civil magistrate or civil.
courts."
.K'eyes v. United State8, 109 U. S. 336, was, like the present,
a suit in the Court of Claims to recover back pay alleged to.
have been wrongfully retained bv reason of an illegal judgment of a court-martial, and. the rule was laid down thus
"That the court-martial, as a general court-martial, had cognizance of the charges made, and had jurisdiction of theperson of the appellant, is not disputed. This being so,
whatever irregularities or errors are alleged to have occurred
in the proceedings, the sentence must be held valid when it is,
questioned in this collateral way," but "where there is no law
authorizing the court-martial, or where the statutory conditions as to the constitution or jurisdiction of the court are
not observed, there is no tribunal authorized by law to renderthe judgment."
In smitl v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 167, these cases were cited
with approval, and numerous other decisions, both English
and American, were cited to the same effect. We shall have
occasion to revert to this case at a subsequent portion of this
opinion when examining some of the 6bjectlons urged to the
action of the court-martial.
With these general principles in view we shall now briefly
consider the several contentions urged on behalf of the appellant.
The first of these challenges the authority of the President

OCTOBER TERN, 1896.
Opinion of the .CourL

of the United States to appoint the general court-martial in
question. The argument is based on the phraseology of the
seventy-second article of war, contained in section 1342 of the
Revised Statutes, as follows
"Any general officer, commanding the army of the United
-States, or separate army, or a separate department, shall be
competent to appoint a general court-martial, either in time
of peace.or in time of war. But when any such commander
is the accuser or prosecutor of any officer under his command,
the court shall be appointed by the President, and its proceedings and sentence shall be sent directly to the Secretary of
War, by whom they shall be laid before the President for his
approval.or orders in the case."
It is claimed to be the legal -implication of this section
that the power of the President to appoint a court-martial
is restricted to the single case where the commander of an
,officer charged with an offence is himself the accuser or prosecutor, and that, as in the present case, General Sheridan, the
immediate commander of the appellant, was not the accuser
-or prosecutor, the right of the Presideilt to make the order
convening the court-martial did not arise. In other words,
the contention is that in the seventy-seCond article of war,
just quoted, is found the only power of the President, as commander-in-chief of the armies of the United States, to appoint
>a general court-martial.
This view of the President's powersi in this particular, was
,asserted "inRunle'8 case, 19 0. C1. 396, 409, but was not
approved by the Court of Claims, which held that when
authority to appoint courts-martial was expressly granted to
military officers, the power was necessarily vested in the commander-in-chief, the President of the United -States. Chief
Justice Drake, after quoting from writers on military law in
.support of the statement that the authority of the President
to appoint general courts-martial, had, in fact, been exercised
from time to time from an early period, said
"As commander-m-chief the President is authorized to give
orders to his subordinates, and the convening of a courtmartial is simply the.giving of an. order to certain officers

SWAIM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to assemble as a court, and, when so assembled, to exercise
certain powers conferred upon them'by the articles of war.
If this power could not be exercised, it would be impracticable,
in the absence of an assignment of a general officer to command the army, to administer military justice in a considerable
class of cases of officers and soldiers not under the command
of any department commander- as, for example, a large proportion of the officers of the general staff, and the whole hody
of the retired officers."
On appeal, the judgment of the Court of Claims was
reversed by this court on the sole ground that the record
did not disclose that the sentence of the court-martial had
been approved by the President, as prescribed in express
terms by the seventy-second article of war. As this court, in
its opinion, did not think fit to notice or discuss the question
of the power of the President to appoint the court-martial,
the case must be deemed an authority for the proposition that
the court-martial had been properly convened by the order
of the President as commander-in-chief.
It may be interesting to notice, as part of the history of
this question, that the Senate of the United States, by a resolution adopted February 7, '1885, directed its Committee on
the Judiciary to report, among other things, whether, under
existing law, an officer may be tried before a cdurt-martial
appointed by the President in cases where the commander of
the accused officer to be tried is not the accuser, and that the
committee, after an examination of the question, expressed
its conclusions in the following language:
"Under the present Constitution, when, for the first time
in 1806, Congress enacted a code on the subject, it changed
the imperative language of the articles of war existing under
the confederation, and simply provided that any general officer commanding an army, etc., may appoint general courtsmartial, thus evidently intending to confer an authority, and
not to exclude the inherent power residing in the President of
the United States under the Constitution. The substance of
this provision has been in force ever since, and from the formation of the Constitution until the present time the com-

:558

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

mittee is advised that the President of the United States has,
at all times, when in his opinion it was expedient, constituted
general courts-martial.
"In this state of the history of legislation and practice, and
in consideration of the nature of the office of commander-inchief of the armies of the United States, the committee is of
opinion that the acts of Congress which have authorized the
,constitution of general courts-martial by an officer commanding an army, department, etc., are, instead of being restrictive
of the power of the commander-in-chief, separate acts of legislation, and merely provide for the constitution of general
-courts-martial by officers subordinate to the commander-inchief, and who, without such legislation, would not possess
that power, and that they do not in any manner control or
restrain the commander-in-chief of the army from exercising
the power which the committee think, in the absence of legislation expressly prohibitive, resides in him from the very
nature of his office, and which, as has been stated, has always
been exercised."
Without dwelling longer on this question, we approve the
conclusion reached by the Court of Claims, that it is within
the power of the President of the United States, as commander-m-chief, to validly convene a general court-martial
even where the commander of the accused officer to be tried
is not the accuser.
The contention that the President of the United States was,
in the present case, the accuser or prosecutor of the appellant,
within the meaning of the seventy-second article of war, is,
we think, wholly unfounded. The accusation was made by
one A. E. Bateman, in a letter addressed to the Secretary of
War, dated April 16, 1881. Thereupon, on April 22, 1881,
the President appointed a court of inquiry to examine into
the accusations made in the letter of Bateman to the Secretary of War. Upon the report of the court of inquiry, by
order of the Secretary of War, the subject was referred to
Major R. N. Scott, with directions. to prepare charges and
specifications against General Svaim, and on June 30, 1884,
the President appointed the general court-martial whicWb:,pro-

SWAIAM

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

ceeded to hear and pass upon the charges and specifications.
It is not seen how these routine orders which led to the trial
,of the appellant can be construed as making the President his
accuser or prosecutor.
It is next contended that, even if the court-martial in the
present case were validly convened by the order of the President, yet that it was constituted in violation of the seventyninth article of war, which provides that "officers shall be
.tried only of general courts-martial, and no officer shall,
when it can be avoided, be tried by officers inferior to him in
xank."
It appears that a majority of the court-martial as organized
for the trial was composed of colonels, officers inferior in rank
to the appellant, whose rank was that of brigadier-general,
.and it is argued that the record does not affirmatively disclose
that the appointment of officers inferior in rank to the accused
was unavoidable by reason of some necessity of the service.
In .3fartin v Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 34, 35, it was oontended
that, where the articles of war provided that "general courtsmartial may consist of any number of commissioned officers
from five to thirteen inclusively, but they shall not consist
of less than thirteen where that number can be convened
without manifest injury to the service", and where the courtmartial in question consisted of six officers only, the court was
not legally formed, because the government's pleading in the
case did not affirmatively show that thirteen officers could not
have been appointed - without manifest injury to the service."
Replying to this, the court, through Mr. Justice Story, said
"Supposing these claims applicable to the court-martial in
-question, it is very clear that the act is merely directory to the

officer appointing the court, and that his decision as to the
number* which can be convened without manifest injury to
the service, being a matter submitted to his sound discretion,
must be conclusive."
In 3fullan v United States, 140 U S. 240, 245, the case was
one where ]Mullan sued in the Court of Claims to recover pay
.as commander in the navy accruing after he had been dis.missed by the sentence of a court-martial, which sentence was

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged to be void, because the court was illegally formed, m
that five of its seven members were junior in rank to the
accused, the thirty-ninth article for the government of the
United States navy providing that in no case, where it can
be avoided without injury to the service, shall more than one
half, exclusive of the president, be junior to the officer to
be tried. But this court, through Mr. Justice Harlan, said
"Whether the interests of the service admitted of a postponement of the trial until a court could be organized of which
at least one half of its members, exclusive of the president,
would be his seniors in rank, or whether the interests of the
service required-a prompt trial upon the charges preferred, by
such officers as could then be assigned to that duty by the
commander-in-chief of the squadron, were matters committed
by the statute to the determination of that officer. And the
courts must assume - nothing to the contrary appearing upon
the face of the order convening the court -that the discretion conferred upon him was properly exercised, and, therefore, that the trial of the appellant by a court, the majority
of whom were his juniors in rank, could niot be avoided
'without injury to the service,'" citing .Mfartzn v Mott, 12
IYWhpat,

19.

In the present case, several considerations might have
determined the selection of the members of the court, such
as the health of the officers within convenient distance, or the
injury to the public interests by detaching officers from their
stations. The presumption must be that the President, in
detailing the officers named to compose the court-martial,
The sentence cannot be colacted in pursuance of law
laterally attacked by going into an inquiry whether the
trial by officers inferior in rank to the accused was or was
not avoidable.
Error is assigned to the Court of Claims iii overruling an
exception to the action, of the court-martial in permitting,
after objection made, an officer to sit on the trial whom the
appellant, in, the performance of his official duty, on several
occasions severely criticised m official reports, and whose
enmity and dislike had 'been thereby incurred. This error

SWAIM v. UNITED STATES.

561

Opinion of the Court.

is sufficiently disposed of by quoting the provisions of the
eighty-eighth article of war- "Members of a court-martial
may be challenged by a prisoner, but only for cause stated
to the court. The court shall determine the relevancy and
validity thereof, and shall not receive a challenge to more
than one member at a time." The decision of the courtmartial -in determining the validity of the challenge could
not be reviewed by the Court of Claims in a collateral action.
Objections were made to the action of the court-martial in
permitting a person to act as judge advocate who was not
appointed by the convening officer of the court-martial, nor
sworn to the faithful performance of his duty, in receiving
oral and secondary evidence of an account when books of
original entry were available, in receiving evidence to implicate the accused in signing false certificates relating to money
which formed no part of the subject-matter of the charges on
trial, in refusing to permit evidence as to the bad character
of a principal witness for the prosecution, in refusing to hear
the testimony of a material witness for the defence.
It was the opinion of the Court of Claims that the errors so
assigned could not be reviewed collaterally, and that they did
not affect the legality of the sentence, and in -so holding we
think that court followed the authorities. Such questions
were merely those of procedure, and the court-martial having
jurisdiction of the person accused and of the offence charged,
and having acted within the scope of its lawful powers; its
proceedings and sentence cannot be reviewed or set aside
x parte
by the civil courts. Dyne8 v. Hoover, 20 How.65,
Reed, 100 U. S. 13, Smith v. Whtney, 116 U. S. 167, John8o v. Sayre, 158 U S. 109.
It is strongly urged that no offence under "the sixty-second
article of war was shown by the facts, and that the Court of
Claims should have so found and have held the sentence void.
If this position were well taken it would throw upon the civil
courts the duty of considering all the evidence adduced-before
the courts-martial and of determining whether the accused was
guilty of conduct to the prejudice of good order and military
discipline in violation of the articles of wa.
VOL. CLXV-3(3

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

But, as the authorities heretofore cited show, this is
the very matter that falls within the province of courtsmartial, and in respect to which their conclusions cannot be
controlled or reviewed by the civil courts. As was said in
Sm?.th v. W/titney, 116 U. S. 178, "of questions not depending upon the construction of the statutes, but upon unwritten
military law or usage, within the jurisdiction of courts-martial,
military or naval officers, from their training and experience
in the service, are more competent judges than the courts of
common law
Under every system of military law
for the government of either land or naval forces, the jurisdiction of courts-martial extends to the trial and punishment of acts
of military or naval officers which tend to bring disgrace and
reproach upon the service of which they are members, whether
those acts are done in the performance of military duties, or
in a civil position, or in a social relation, or in private business."
In United States v Fletcher, 148 U. S. 84, will be found
observations to the same effect.
It is earnestly contended that upon the fourteenth finding
of the Court of Claims it was *the duty of that court to set
aside the sentence. That finding was as follows.
"The court-martial having reached a finding and having
thereupon sentenced claimant upon the charges promulgated,
in the said general court-martial orders, No. 19, and the
reviewing officer having referred to the court for trial another
set of charges alleging fraud and conduct unbecoming an
officer and a gentleman, under the sixtieth and sixty-first
articles of war, as promulgated in general court-martial
orders, No. 20, of 1885, and the court-martial having heard all
the evidetnce for the prosecution therein (except an absent
witness, but with a statement as to what such witness would
testify to), thus making a prmafacze case against claimant,
and he not having presented a defence, the reviewing authority returned the case promulgated in said court-martial orders,
No. 19, to the court for reconsideration and a more severe
sentence, with an opinion of the Attorney General hereinbefore
•Ot forth, which proceedings were with closed doors, and of
'aich claimant had no notice at the time."

SWAIALI v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In order to apprehend the legal effect of this finding we
should read a portion of the history of the case as stated in
the opinion of the Court of Claims
"The question of fraud being out of the case, and the courtmartial having properly acquitted the claimant on the charge
of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman, imposed
this sentence 'To be suspended from rank, duty and pay
for the period of three years.' The record then went to
the President and was by him referred to the Attorney
General. On the 11th of February, 1885, the President
returned the record to the court-martial 'for reconsideration
as to the findings upon the first charge only, and as to the
sentence, neither of which are believed to be 9ommensurate
with the offences as found by the court in the first and third
specifications under the first charge.' The President also
communicated to the court the opinion of the Attorney General, ' whose views,' he added, 'upon the matter submitted
for reconsideration have my concurrence.'
"The court-martial adhered to its determination that the
facts found did not constitute the offence charged, but imposed
a second sentence upon the accused, the language of which is
as followxs 'The court, upon mature reconsideration, has
not found the accused guilty of such degree of wrongful or
deceitful conduct as to justify a finding of guilty of conduct
unbecoming an officer and a gentleman, and has therefore
respectfully adhered to its findings upon the first charge.'
But the court imposed the following sentence 'To be suspeiuded from rank and duty for one year, with forfeiture of all
pay for the same period, and at the end of that period to be
reduced to the grade of judge advocate with the rank of
major in the judge advocate-general's department.' This
sentence the President likewise disapproved, because, as he
thought, that part of the sentence that provided that the
accused should be reduced in rank could not be carried into
effect by the qxecutive alone, but would require a nomination
by the President and confirmation by the Senate, and then
only in case of an existing vacancy
"The court a third time deliberated, and then imposed the

OCTOBER TERMS, 1896.
Opinion of tbe Court.

sentence which was approved by the President and carried
into effect, and which the claimant now attacks. It is 'to be
suspended from rank and duty for twelve years and forfeit
one half his monthly pay every month for the same period."'
It is claimed that the action of the President in thus twice
returning the proceedings to the court-martial, urging a more
severe sentence, was without authority of law, and that the
said last sentence having resulted from such illegal conduct
was absolutely void. This contention is based upon the
proposition that the provision in the British Mutiny Act,
which was in force in this country at the time and prior to
the American Revolution, and which regulates proceedings in
courts-martial, is applicable. This provision was as follows
"The authority having power to confirm the findings and sentence of a court-martial, may send back such findings and sentence, or either of them, for revision once, but not more than
once, and it shall not be lawful for the court on any revision
to receive any-additional evidence, and when the proceedings.
only are sent back for revision the court shall have power,
without any direction, to revise the sentence also. In no
case shallthe authority recommend .the increase of a sentence,
nor shall the court-martial, on revisal of the sentence, either
in obedience to the recommendation -of the authority or for
any other reason, have the power to increase the sentence
awarded."
Even if it be conceded that this provision of the British
Mutiny Act was at any time operative in this country, the
subject is now covered by the Army Regulations, 1881, section 923, relied upon by the Attorney General in his letter
to the President and e.ited by the Court of Claims, which is
as follows
"When a court-martial appears to have erred in any
respect, the reviewing authority may reconvene the court
'for a consideration of its action, with suggestions for its
guidance. The court may thereupon, should it concur in
the views submitted, proceed to remedy the errors pointed
out, and may modify or completely change its findings. Tle
object of reconvemng the court in such a case is to afford it

SWAIM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

an opportunity to reconsider the record for the purpose of correcting or modifying any conclusions thereupon, and to make
any amendments of the record necessary to perfect it."
This regulation would seem to warrant the course of conduct followed in the present case. In Ex parte ]Reed, 100
U. S. 13, a somewhat similar contention was made. There a
court-martial had imposed a sentence which was transmitted
with the record to Admiral Nichols, the revising officer, who
returned it with a letter stating that the finding was in ac.cordance with the evidence, but that he differed with the
court as to the adequacy of the sentence. The court revised
the sentence and substituted another and more severe sentence, which was approved. The accused filed a petition for
a writ of habeas corpus in this court, and it was claimed that.
the court had exhausted its powers in making the first sentence, and, also, that it was not competent for the courtmartial to give effect to the views of the revising officer by
imposing a second sentence of more severity The :Navy
iRegulations were cited to the effect that the authority who
ordered the court was competent to direct it to reconsider its
proceedings and sentence for the purpose of correcting any
mistake which may have been committea, but that it was not
within the power of the revising authority to compel a court
to change its sentence, where, upon being reconvened by him,
they have refused to modify it, nor directly or indirectly to
enlarge the measure of punishment imposed by sentence of
a court-martial.
This court held that such regulations have the force of law,
but that as the court-martial had jurisdiction over the person
and the case, its proceedings could not be collaterally impeached for any mere error or irregularity committed within
the sphere of its authority, that the matters complained af
were within the jurisdiction of the court-martial, that the
second sentence was not void, and, accordingly, the application for a writ of habeas corpu was denied. We agree with
the Court of Claims that thia ruling in Ex arte Reed, m
principle, decides the present question.
We think that the Court of Claims did not err in hold-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

ing that where

an officer is suspended from duty he is
not entitled to emoluments or allowances. Urnted Slate
v. Phsterer,94 U. S. 219.
We have felt constrained to, at least briefly, consider the
several propositions urged upon us with so much zeal and
ability on behalf of the appellant, though we might well
,have contented ourselves with a reference to the able and
elaborate opinion of the Court of Claims delivered by Justice
Nott. 28 C. C1. 173.
As we have reached the conclusion that the court-martial
in question was duly convened and organized, and that the
questions decided were within its lawful scope of action, it
would be out of place for us to express any opinion on the
propriety of the action of that court in its proceedings and
sentence. If, indeed, as has been strenuously urged, the
appellant v as harshly dealt with, and a sentence of undue
severity was finally imposed, the remedy must be found elsewhere than in the courts of law
The decree of the Court of Claims .is
Affirmed.
DE VAUGHN v. HUTCHINSON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No.114.

Argued October80, 1896.--:Dbdded March 1,1802'.

This court looks to the law of the State in which land is situated for the
rules which'govern its descent, alienation and transfer, and for the effect
and construction of wills and other conveyances; and in the District of
Columbia those rules are the rules whieh governed in Maryland at the
time when the District was separated fro it.
Under a will devising real estate in. the District of Columbia to M. A. M.
during her natural life, and after her death to be equally divided among
the heirs of her body begotten, share and share alike, and to their heirs
and aasgns -forever, M. A. M. takes a life estate only, and her children
takb an estate in fee.

SAMUEL De Vaughn, a resident of the District of Columbia,
died on the 5th day of July, 1867, leaving a last will and

