1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

459 U. S.

JAFFREE ET AL. v. BOARD OF SCHOOL COMMISSIONERS OF MOBILE COUNTY ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-663.

Decided February 11, 1983

An application for a stay of the District Court's judgment, pending an appeal to the Court of Appeals, is granted. That judgment dismissed applicants' complaint and dissolved a preliminary injunction in an action
challenging Alabama statutes that provided for a daily one-minute period
for meditation or voluntary prayer in the public schools and that permitted teachers to lead their classes in prayer. The District Court correctly recognized that conducting prayers as part of a public school program is unconstitutional under this Court's decisions. Unless and until
this Court reconsiders these decisions, the District Court is obligated to
follow them. Similarly, a Circuit Justice's authority is limited by controlling decisions of the full Court.

Justice.
This is an application for a stay of the judgment of the
United States District Court for the Southern District of Alabama pending an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Applicant Ishmael Jaffree is
the father of minor applicants Jamael Aakki Jaffree, Makeba
Green, and Chioke Saleem Jaffree, three students in the Mobile County, Alabama, public schools. Respondents are various school and state officials. The application was filed here
JUSTICE POWELL, Circuit

on Feburary 2. In my capacity as Circuit Justice, I entered
an order staying the judgment of the District Court until respondents were afforded an opportunity to respond. Their
responses are now in hand, and I have considered the merits
of the application for a stay.
The situation, quite briefly, is as follows: Beginning in
the fall of 1981, teachers in the minor applicants' schools
conducted prayers in their regular classes, including group
recitations of the Lord's Prayer. At the time, an Alabama
statute provided for a one-minute period of silence "for

JAFFREE v. BOARD OF SCHOOL COMMISSIONERS
1314

1315

Opinion in Chambers

meditation or voluntary prayer" at the commencement of
each day's classes in the public elementary schools. Ala.
Code ยง 16-1-20.1 (Supp. 1982). In 1982, Alabama enacted a
statute permitting public school teachers to lead their classes
in prayer. 1982 Ala. Acts 735.
Applicants, objecting to prayer in the public schools, filed
suit to enjoin the activities. They later amended their complaint to challenge the applicable state statutes. After a
hearing, the District Court granted a preliminary injunction.
Jaffree v. James, 544 F. Supp. 727 (1982). It recognized
that it was bound by the decisions of this Court, id., at 731,
and that under those decisions it was "obligated to enjoin the
enforcement" of the statutes, id., at 733.
In its subsequent decision on the merits, however, the District Court reached a different conclusion. Jaffree v. Board

of School Commissioners of Mobile County, 554 F. Supp.
1104 (1983). It again recognized that the prayers at issue,
given in public school classes and led by teachers, were violative of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment
as that Clause has been construed by this Court. The District Court nevertheless ruled "that the United States Supreme Court has erred." Id., at 1128. It therefore dismissed the complaint and dissolved the injunction.
There can be little doubt that the District Court was
correct in finding that conducting prayers as part of a school
program is unconstitutional under this Court's decisions. In
Engel v. Vitale, 370 U. S.421 (1962), the Court held that the
Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, made applicable to the States by the Fourteenth Amendment, prohibits
a State from authorizing prayer in the public schools. The
following Term, in Murray v. Curlett, decided with Abington
School District v. Schempp, 374 U. S. 203 (1963), the Court
explicitly invalidated a school district's rule providing for the
reading of the Lord's Prayer as part of a school's opening exercises, despite the fact that participation in those exercises
was voluntary.

1316

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

459 U. S.

Unless and until this Court reconsiders the foregoing decisions, they appear to control this case. In my view, the District Court was obligated to follow them. Similarly, my own
authority as Circuit Justice is limited by controlling decisions
of the full Court. Accordingly, I am compelled to grant the
requested stay.
It is so ordered.

