WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
Syllabus.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX, STATE TAX

COMMISSIONER,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF OHIO COUNTY, WEST;
VIRGINIA.

No. 663.

Argued March 9, 10, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936,.,

1. Intangible property, such as accounts receivable and bank deposits, may have a situs for taxation by a State other than that
of the owner's domicile through being part of a business localized
in the taxing State. P. 208.
2. The State in which intangible property belonging to a foreign
corporation is thus localized cannot be denied constitutional power
to tax it upon the ground that, by legal fiction, the property is so
attributable to the State by which the -corporation was chartered
as to vest in that State the sole power to tax it. P. 211.
So held where the corporation maintained in the Staite of its
incorporation an office styled its "principal" office, in which a
duplicate stock ledger and records of capital stock transactions
were kept, but actually conducted its business outside of that
State.
3. A Delaware manufacturing corporation conducted none of its
business in that State but established its commercial domicile in
West Virginia. There it maintained its general business offices
where its general accounts were kept and in which its stockholders
and directors held their meetings and from which its officers
managed and controlled its operations, including what was done
in its plants and sales offices in other States. All contracts of sale
were subject to the approval of this moin office and all invoices
were payable there. It had bank deposits outside of West Virginia, resulting from deposits by its West Virginia office of commercial paper received from customers, which deposits were
used in meeting payrolls and in paying for materials, equipment,
and maintenance and operating expenses in the course of its manufacturing activities but were drawn upon only by the West Virginia office or under its direction.
Held, that the bank deposits and accounts receivable for goods
made at the plants and sold through the sales offices were taxable
by West Virginia. P. 211.
Note: The West Virginia assessment, as amended and approved
by the state court, permitted a deduction of an amount taxed by
6,-773'-:1 6-13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellant.

298 U.S.

the State of Ohio on "accounts and notes receivable." The record, however, presents the question of the constitutionality of the
tax in West Virginia, and no question of the amount or validity
of any tax assessed elsewhere.
4. The West Virginia statutes, as construed by the state court, tax
only such part of the intangible property of a foreign corporation as upon the facts and the applicable principles of law the
State may rightfully tax. P. 215.
5. No delegation of authority, violative of the Federal Constitution,
exists in permitting the state tax officials to fix the assessment of
intangible property of a foreign corporation by applying the law
to the facts, subject to review by the state courts and ultimately
to review, as to any federal questions arising, by this Court.
P. 215.
6. The assertion that the West Virginia tax on intangible property
of foreign business corporations, in comparison with taxes on
property of natural persons, railroads and other public utilities,
denies to business corporations the equal protection of. the laws,
is not sustained by the record in this case. P. 215.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of a Circuit Court of West

Virginia in a statutory proceeding for the review of a tax
assessment. The Supreme Court of Appeals of the State
denied a writ of error, the judgment having been entered
pursuant to its decision on a previous review. In re
Wheeling Steel CorporationAssessment, 115 W. Va. 553;
177 S. E. 535.
Messrs. J. E. Bruce and Wright Hugus for appellant.
The statutory provisions, as construed, operate to tax
property over which the State has no jurisdiction.
The State creating a corporation has the sole right to
tax the intangible property of that corporation unless
such intangible property has acquired a "business situs"
elsewhere,-that is, it has been derived from, and is being. held for use in, a purely local business. And conversely, a State which is not the domicile of the taxpaying corporation, and in which the intangible proberty of

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Argument for Appellant.

such corporation has not acquired a "business situs,"
cannot, consistently with the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, impose a tax upon such property. Virginia v. Imperial Coal Sales Co., 293 U. S. 15;
Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia,280 U. S. 83; Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Board, 221 U. S. 346; Baldwin
v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586.
West Virginia is not the domicile of the appellant.
Appellant was organized and now exists under and by
virtue of the laws of Delaware. It operates in West Virginia, Ohio and Minnesota as a foreign corporation, having complied with the laws of each of those States taxing
and regulating foreign corporations doing business
therein.
The laws of West Virginia do not provide for the domestication of foreign business corporations. On the
contrary, c. 31, Art. 1, § 79 (Michie Code, 1932, § 3091)
provides that foreign corporations may do business, as
foreign corporations, within West Virginia under certain conditions. Foreign corporations doing business
within the State preserve their status as foreign corporations. Chapter .11, Art. 12, § 71 (Michie Code, 1932,
§ 939) illustrates that different methods are used in calculating license taxes imposed on foreign, as distinguished from domestic, corporations, and that the
policy of West Virginia is to maintain that distinction.
The Supreme Court of Appeals in its opinion took the
position that, [itwithstanding the facts that appellant
is a foreign co.poration, that 72.90% of its real estate
and tangible personal property is located outside of West
Virginia, and that 75.80% of its shipments in 1932 originated from its manufacturing plants located outside of
West Virginia, its entire business had been localized in
West Virginia.
This overthrows the distinction between domestic and
foreign corporations as now existing in the law, and

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellant.

298 U.S.

attempts to substitute therefor a distinction depending,
apparently, upon the place where the executive and management functions are exercised. It transfers to the
place of control at least one of the attributes of domicile-the power to tax the total intangible property of a
corporate taxpayer irrespective of the fact that its real
estate and tangible personal property may be located
elsewhere.
From the finding that all the property of the appellant
is controlled by the executive offices in West Virginia,
the state court deduces that all the intangible personal
property owned by appellant, wherever it may be said to
be located and however arising, except that portion actually taxed in other States, is taxable by West Virginia.
It may just as well be argued that all the real property
and all the tangible personal property owned by appellant is likewise controlled by the West Virginia office;
and, if the court's reasoning is correct, should also be
amenable to assessment and taxation in West Virginia.
But the court does not attempt to extend the argument
to its logical conclusion.
If taxation of real and tangible personal property located outside of the jurisdiction of the taxing authority
is deprivation of property without due process (Union
Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194), the
assessment and taxation of intangible personal property
located or arising from business done outside of the jurisdiction of the taxing authority is just as much an attempted deprivation of property without due process.
Appellant owns and operates manufacturing facilities
both within and without the State of West Virginia.
Only 27.10% of the assessed value of its real estate and
tangible personal property is located in West Virginia.
Only 24.20% of its shipments originated in West Virginia
in 1932. Its West Virginia production was 15.6% of the
total production in 1932. Only 19.45% of its employees

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Argument for Appellant.

were employed in West Virginia in 1932. Its West Virginia payrolls were only 16.22% of the total payrolls in
1932. Its West Virginia ingot capacity is only 16.6%
of its total ingot capacity, and ingot capacity is a recognized basis of determining the producing ability of a steel
company.
It is clear that the larger portion of appellant's intangibles sought to be assessed and taxed by West Virginia was derived from operations carried on outside of
West Virginia. If intangibles can have any situs for taxation other than at appellant's domicile in Delaware,
such situs cannot be determined solely by control, for
such a rule would result in taxation of property outside
of the jurisdiction of the State. The use of tangible
property, both real and personal, in business, creates intangible property; and it is submitted that the only fair
rule for the taxation of property in States other than the
State of the domicile is a rule which allocates intangibles
on the basis of tangible property owned and used in production of material for sale. Such a rule will permit each
State in which tangible property is located and operated
for profit to tax a fair proportion of the intangible property created within its borders.
It is well settled in the law that a corporation is domiciled in the State of its creation, and that it cannot migrate. It may own property and do business in other
States, but its domicile is not thereby changed. To hold
that a corporation may have a roving domicile, dependent upon the place its executive functions are exercised
from time to time, would be an anomaly. Adams Express Co. v. State Auditor, 166 U. S. 185.
The money and accounts receivable here sought to be
taxed are property derived from business done for the
most part in the State of Ohio. The management activities in West Virginia, particularly the "control" emphasized by the state court, did not create these intangibles.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellant.

298 U.S.

Appellant's business is not localized in West Virginia.
Its general offices in Wheeling did not and could not
bring into existence such intangibles without the acts of
manufacture and shipment in and from the State of
Ohio. The most important act-the manufacture of
the steel-was performed in Ohib. No money would
have been received, and no credits would have been created but for such manufacture. If intangibles arising
from appellant's Ohio manufacturing operations are taxable in any State, other than Delaware, they are taxable
in Ohio. They are not taxable in West Virginia. Hans
Rees Sons, Inc. v. North Carolina,283 U. S. 123; American Barge Line Co. v. Board, 246 Ky. 573; Looney v.
Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178; Alpha Portland Cement Co. v.
Massachusetts, 268 U. S. 203; Baldwin v. Missouri, 281
U. S. 586; Beidler v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n, 282
U. S. 1; First National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312.
The state law, as construed, results in multiple taxation. Cases hereinafter discussed involve not only property taxes, but also transfer, inheritance, license and income taxes, but the same general jurisdictional principles
govern all types of taxation. Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268
U. S. 473.
The modern view of this Court, to the effect that multiple taxation of intangible personal property is repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, apparently had its inception in the case of Safe
Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S. 83.
That intangibles consisting of negotiable bonds and
certificates of indebtedness are subject to the imposition
of an inheritance tax only by the State of the decedent's
domicile was held in Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204. This case expressly overruled
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189.
Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, involved other
types of intangible property. In that case the Court

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Argument for Appellant.

refused to apply the "business situs" doctrine.- Mr. Justice Holmes, in his dissenting opinion, recognized that
the majority opinion in effect overruled the cases upholding "business situs" as a basis for taxation of intangible property. See: Beidler v. South Carolina Tax
Comm'n, 282 U. S.1; First National Bank v. Maine, 284
U. S.312.
A franchise or license tax imposed by a State upon a
foreign corporation for the privilege of doing business
within that State, but measured in part by property
owned or business done outside, is a deprivation of property without due process of law. Lqoney v. Crane Co.,
245 U. S. 178; Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S.203.
An income tax imposed by a State upon a ioreign corporation measured in part by income received from property owned or business done outside of that State, is a
deprivation of property without due process of law.
Hans Rees Sons v. North Carolina,283 U. S.123; Newport Co. v. Wisconsin Tax Comm'n, 219 Wis. 293.
The fact that the state court's opinion permits the deduction of intangible prioperty owned by appellant and
taxed in Ohio during the same tax period does not assist
in any determination of the question of jurisdiction to
tax.
All the receivables arising from business transacted
within Ohio are taxable there and could be taxed in that
State if Ohio should at some time prohibit the deduction
of indebtedness, which is not improbable in view of the
fact that West Virginia has prohibited the deduction of
indebtedness.
The state court acknowledges that Ohio has power to
tax a portion of appellant's intangibles, apparently under
the "business situs" theory. Suppose that Ohio did not
choose to exercise that power. Would West Virginia,
because of Ohio's failure to exercise an acknowledged

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellees.

298 U.S.

power, acquire jurisdiction to tax intangibles derived
from Ohio business?
It is doubtful that the "business situs" theory of taxation, even if it would now be upheld by this Court,' is
applicable under West Virginia statutes. Those statutes
contain no provision for allocation to that State of intangible property which is within its jurisdiction, as distinguished from such property over which it has no jurisdiction.
If the legislature has not prescribed a clear and specific
manner in which taxes shall be assessed, neither the administrative officers nor the courts may supply the defect. Statutes imposing taxes are to be construed most
strongly against the Government and in favor of the taxpayer.
The statutes in question, as construed below, when
read in connection with § 15, Art. 3, c. 11 of the West
Virginia Code, which limits the assessment for taxation
of similar property owned by an individual or unincorporated firm to money derived from or belonging to and
credits arising out of business done by such individual
or unincorporated firm within the State of West Virginia,
operate to deny to appellant the equal protection of the
laws.
And, when read in connection with §§ 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7,
Art. 6, c. 11 of the Code, which limit the assessment for
taxation of similar property owned by persons, firms or
corporations operating as public utilities to property
"wholly held or used ia this State," they again operate
to deny appellant the equal protection of the laws.
Mr. Homer A. Holt, Attorney General of West Virginia, with whom Messrs. Ira J. Partlow and W. Holt
Wooddell, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the
brief, for appellees.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Argument for Appellees.

The accounts receivable and money on deposit have a
taxable situs in West Virginia.
Generally, the taxable situis of accounts receivable and
of money in bank is at the domicile of the owner. Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, 591; Beidler v. South
Carolina Tax Comm'n, 282 U. S. 1, 8. They may, however, acquire a situs for purposes of taxation at some
place other than the technical domicile of the owner. In
re Wheeling Steel Corporation Assessment (this case),
115 W. Va. 553; Miami Coal Co. v. Fox, 203 Ind. 99;
New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133; Board of Assessors v.
Comptoir National D'Escompte, 191 U. S. 388; Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395;
Liverpool & L. & G-Ins. Co. v. Assessors, 221 U. S. 346;
Virginia v. Imperial Coal Sales Co., 293 U. S. 15; Safe
Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S. 83; Commonwealth v. United Cigarette Machine Co., 119 Va. 447;
Bemis Bros. Bag Co. v. Tax Commission, 158 La. 1;
Buck v. Miller, 147 Ind. 586; Higgins v. Commonwealth,
126 Ky. 211; Finch v. York County, 19 Neb. 50.
Our position in this case is that the accounts receivable
and bank deposits have acquired a taxable situs in West
Virginia, and that they have no taxable situs in Delaware,
the technical domicile of the corporation, and that the
record does not show the acquisition of a taxable situs in
any other State by any part of said intangibles, though we
have not assigned cross error to the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia in deducting
$250,133.42 from the assessment as originally approved by
the tax commissioner, upon the mere showing that that
amount had been assessed in the State of Ohio.
Just as a part of the business of a corporation may be
localized in a State other than that of the technical domicile, so may all of such business become so localized if in
fact the corporation is not doing business and is not man-

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellees.

298 U.S.

aging and controlling its assets and operations in the State
of its technical domicile, but is, in fact, managing, keeping, and controlling its assets and business in another
State.
Here, Wheeling Steel Corporation has not merely localized a part of its business in West Virginia through the
activities of an agent, but has localized its entire fiscal
management in West Virginia through its principals.
All of the manufacturing business of appellant has
not been so localized in West Virginia, but it is believed
that it is sufficient for th6 purposes of ad valorem property taxes upon the intangibles of appellant that the
business of keeping, managing and controlling all of such
intangibles has been localized in West Virginia.
The theory that intangible personal property can be
taxed only when related to the taxation of real estate
or tangible personal property was rejected by this Court
in Virginia v. Imperial Coal Sales Co., 293 U. S. 15, 20.
We are not considering an income tax, but an ad
valorem property tax upon intangible property. The
source of the property is not determinative. That which
is determinative is the situs of the intangible property
on the assessment date. West Virginia, of course, cannot
tax the personal property, iron and steel, manufactured
by appellant and located in Ohio. Obviously, however,
if such iron and steel were removed from Ohio to West
Virginia, West Virginia could then tax them as tangible
personal property, and the source from which they were
obtained by the corporation would not be material. Likewise, if the iron and steel be not removed to West Virginia,
but be exchanged for money or accounts receivable, and
in the course of the transaction such money or accounts
receivable be transferred to West Virginia, then West
Virginia may impose an ad valorem property tax upon
such intangibles.
It is significant that in the cases of Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, 593; Farmers Loan & Trust Co.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Argument for Appellees.

v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, 213; First National Bank
v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, 330; and Beidler v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n, 282 U. S. 1; 9, in each of which cases
an inheitance tax was involved, the Court was careful
to point out that the intangible personal property involved had not acquired a business situs in the States
which sought to impose the taxes.
The rule that the taxable situs of intangibles is at the
technical domicile of the owner is but a mere fiction, and
will not be followed when the fact is clear that the intangible property has a situs elsewhere. Cf. Bristol v.
Washington County, 177 U. S. 133, 141. See also Board
of Assessors v. Comptoir National D'Escompte, 191 U. S.
388, 404; Safe Deposit & T'ust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S.
83, 92.
In Virginia v. Imperial Coal Sales Co., 293 U. S. 15,
the decision was not placed solely upon the ground that
the corporation was a Virginia corporation, but as well
upon the ground that the intangibles were managed and
controlled within Virginia.
In Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S. 83,
the opinion commented upon the fact that the actual
presence and control of the intangibles were elsewhere
than at the domicile of the beneficiaries. -Following this,
reference was made to many of the "business situs"
cases to which we have heretofore referred.
The record does not show a taxable situs in Ohio of
any of appellant's accounts receivable. We do not concede that the voluntary return of accounts receivable
by appellant to the taxing authorities of Ohio and the
payment of taxes thereon, when the record does not
show any taxable situs in Ohio, deprives West Virginia
of the right to tax all of the intangibles of appellant
which the record, we believe, shows to have a taxable
situs in West Virginia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

The statutes of West Virginia under which appellant's
intangible property was assessed, as interpreted by the
state courts, are not in violation of the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment when considered
in connection with the statutes relating to the assessment of like property of either natural persons or public
utility corporations. Appellant's error in this regard
results from a failure to consider all of the pertinent
statutes. [Citing and discussing many statutes of the
State.]
Appellant has shown no facts of discrimination with
respect to it and any other. taxpayer, either business
corporation, public utility corporation, or natural person.
It is believed that the pertinent statutes plainly show a
constant purpose and intent to tax all intangibles within
the State and to tax no intangibles which are without
the State. However, even though the statute were susceptible of an interpretation, which, If adopted, would
result in discrimination against appellant, no showing
of any administrative action which is discriminatory in
fact is presented.
M.MR. CIIIE F

JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This appeal presents the question of the validity of
an ad valorem property tax laid by West Virginia upon
accounts receivable and bank deposits of appellant,
Wheeling Steel Corporation, organized under the laws of
Delaware.
The tax statutes 1 were assailed upon the ground that,
as applied, they violated the clue process and equal pro'The statutes to which appellant refers are: Code of West Virginia, Chapter 11, Article 3, §§ 12, 13, 15, Article 5, § 1, Article 6,
§ 2, Article 12, § 71; Chapter 31, Article 1, § 79.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Opinion of the Court.

tection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. The proceeding was
a statutory one, instituted by appellant in the Circuit
Court of Ohio County, West Virginia, to review a county
assessment which was made as of January 1, 1933. The
judgment of that court, reducing the assessment, was
reversed by the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia. In re Wheeling Steel CorporationAssessment, 115
W. Va. 553; 177 S.E. 535. The Circuit Court then entered final judgment which the Supreme Court of Appeals refused to review. The case comes here on appeal.
The case was submitted upon agreed statements which
disclosed the following facts: The Corporation maintains
its principal office in Delaware through the Corporation
Service Company, as permitted by the laws of that State.
It keeps there a duplicate stock ledger and records of all
transactions with respect to its capital stock, the originals
of such ledger and. records being kept in New York City.
It files reports and pays franchise taxes as required by
Delaware.
The general business offices of the Corporation are
located in Wheeling, Ohio County, West Virginia.
There, the general books and accounting records are kept.
The chairman of the board, president, treasurer, secretary and chief counsel reside at Wheeling. There, its
stockholders' and directors' meetings, as permitted by the
laws of Delaware, are held. Dividends, when declared,
are ordered to 'be paid and distributed at meetings held
at Wheeling, although the checks are drawn and distributed by the dividend disbursing agent located in New
York City and are paid with funds there deposited.
The Corporation maintains sales offices in various cities
of the United States. Sales ontracts are negotiated and
orders are taken by these offices subject to acceptance or
rejection at Wheeling.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

The principal manufacturing plants of the Corporation
are located in the State of Ohio. The plant offices maintain original detailed accounting records showing materials received, railroad cars received and shipped, detailed
labor costs, production and shipments, and detailed stocks
of goods and payrolls. Employment offices are maintained at each plant. The Portsmouth, Ohio, plant
makes up and mails out invoices for all products shipped
from that plant, together with bills of lading and shipping notices. The other plants prepare complete invoices with exception of information relating to the price
of materials described. The latter invoices are then forwarded to Wheeling where they are completed and mailed
to the customer. Bills of lading and shipping notices
are, however, mailed to customers from the individual
plants. All invoices are payable in Wheeling. The
majority of commercial accounts are paid by check issued
at Wheeling. Payrolls are made up and payroll checks
are prepared and signed at the various plants and are
there distributed to the employees. Such checks are
paid with funds on deposit in banks in the localities
where the plants are situated.
TIc Corporation owns vessels operating on the Allegheny, Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, transporting coal
and steel. These vessels are registered at the port of
Pittsburgh.
The total assessed value of the real estate and tangible
personal property owned by the Corporation on January
1, 1933, was $31,977,600. The assessed value of its real
estate and tangible personal property in West Virginia
was $8,673,205, or 27.10 percent. of the total.
At least 80 percent. of the sums spent by the Corporation in the conduct of its business, including the purchase of materials, maintenance and repairs of plants,
building of improvements, property additions, payrolls
and other operating expenses were made in connection

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

207 ,

Opinion of the Court.

with the operation of its plants and business outside the
State of West Virginia and all such payments, aside from
moneys borrowed, were made from the proceeds of sales
of its products. The moneys thus expended in the conduct of its business in Ohio and States other than West
Virginia are expended by executive action taken at
Wheeling, and by the drawing of checks or drafts at that
place, except in connection with the payment of payrolls
at its Portsmouth, Ohio, and Steubenville, Ohio, plants,
where payroll checks or orders are drawn against moneys
sent to banks at those points for the express purpose of
meeting the payrolls and for incidental items as they
arise. All moneys are controlled and the expenditures
directed by the Wheeling office, and if the immediate expenditure be made elsewhere, it is made only under
specific or general direction and control of that office.
On January 1, 1933, the Corporation had on deposit
to its credit in various banks the sum of $2,307,773.61,
of which $849,161.99 was on deposit in West Virginia.
Of the last mentioned amount the Corporation had received $121,684.91 from sales of goods manufactured in
West Virginia and the remainder from sales of goods
manufactured in, and shipped from, points outside that
State. The money on deposit in banks outside West Virginia on January 1, 1933, had been deposited by the Corporation by sending from its Wheeling office the original
checks or drafts received from its customers. The deposits outside West Virginia are not segregated for the
purpose of keeping separately the receipts from sales of
products manufactured in, and shipped from, West Virginia plants. Ordinarily not more than 20 percent. of
the total amounts on deposit at any time within and
without West Virginia have been derived from sales of
products manufactured in that State.
The- total amount of the Corporation's accounts and
notes receivable on January 1, 1933, was $2,234,743.11.

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

Of this amount, $374,410.42 were receivables for goods
sold and manufactured in, and shipped from, West
Virginia to resident and non-resident purchasers. It
appeared that the Corporation had been assessed in Ohio,
as of January 1, 1933, on accounts and notes receivable
amounting to $250,133.42.
The Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia held
that there had been "such a localization of the corporation's business at Wheeling" that there was imparted
"to its entire intangible property a prima facie situs
for taxation at that place." But the court thought that
the "statutory limitation of the assessment to property
'liable to taxation'" indicated that the legislature "did
not propose to tax intangibles which were primarily subject to taxation in another jurisdiction." And referring
to the above mentioned taxation in Ohio, the Supreme
Court of Appeals said: "For the purposes of this opinion,
we assume that the claim of our sister state is well
founded, and should be deducted from the assessment as
corrected by the Tax Commissioner." And in remanding
the cause to the Circuit Court, the Supreme Court of
Appeals gave opportunity to have it determined
"whether or not further deductions should be made in
deference to the legal demands of other states." In the
further proceeding in the Circuit Court, it was stipulated that "no states other than Ohio and West Virginia
have assessed taxpayer upon any of its intangibles for
the year 1933."
First.-The tax is not a privilege or occupation tax.
It is not a tax on net income. See Hans Rees' Sons v.
North Carolina,283 U. S. 123, 133. It is an ad valorem
property tax. We have held that it is essential to the
validity of such a tax, under the due process clause, that
the property shall be within the territorial jurisdiction
of the taxing state. This rule receives its most familiar
illustration in the case of land. The rule has been ex-

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Opinion of the Court.

tended to tangible personal property which is thus subject to taxation exclusively in the State where it is
permanently located, regardless of the domicile of the
owner. Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199
U. S. 194, 204, 206; Frick v. Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473,
489. We have said that the application to the States of
the rule of due process arises from the fact "that their
spheres of activity are enforced and protected by the
Constitution and therefore it is impossible for one State
to reach out and tax property in another without violating
the Constitution." United States v. Bennett, 232 U. S.
299, 306. Compare Burnet v. Brooks, 288 U. S. 378, 401.
When we deal with intangible property, such as credits
and choses in action generally, we encounter the difficulty
that by reason of the absence of physical characteristics
they have no situs in the physical sense, but have the
situs attributable to them in legal conception. Accordingly we have held that a State may properly apply the
rule mobilia sequuntur personam and treat them as localized at the owner's domicile for purposes of taxation.
Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204,
211. And having thus determined "that in general intangibles may be properly taxed at the domicile of their
owner," we have found "no sufficient reason for saying
that they are not entitled to enjoy an immunity against
taxation at more than one place similar to that accorded
to tangibles." Id., p. 212. The principle thus announced
in Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota has had progressive application. Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586;
Beidler v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n, 282 U. S. 1;
First National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, 328, 329.
But despite the wide application of the principle, an important exception has been recognized.
In the case of tangible property, the ancient maxim,
which had its origin when personal property consisted in
'5773

-36-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

the main of articles appertaining to the person of the
owner, yielded in modern times to the "law of the place
where the property is kept and used." First National
Bank v. Maine, supra. It was in view "of the enormous
increase of such property since the introduction of railways and the growth of manufactures" that it came to
be regarded as "having a situs of its own for the.purpose
of taxation, and correlatively to [be] exempt at the domicile of its owner." Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra, p. 207. There has been an analogous development in connection with intangible property by reason of the creation of choses in action in the conduct by
an owner of his business in a State different from that of
his domicile. New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309;
Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133; Board of
Assessors v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388; Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. v. New Orleans,205 U. S. 395;
Liverpool & L. & G. Insurance Co. v. Board of Assessors,
221 U. S. 346.
These cases, we said in Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v.
Minnesota, supra, p. 213, "recognize the principle that
choses in action may acquire a situs for taxation other
than at the domicile of their owner if they have become
integral parts of some local business." We adverted to
this reservation in Beidler v. South Carolina Tax
Comm'n, supra, p. 8, and in First National Bank v.
Maine, supra, p. 331.
In the instant case, both parties recognize the principle
and the exception. It is appellant's contention that the
State creating a corporation has the sole right to tax its
intangible property "unless such intangible property has*
acquired a 'business situs' elsewhere." Counsel for the
State agrees with appellant on this point and in fact
asserts "that, generally, the taxable situs of accounts receivable and of money in bank is at the domicile of the
owner." But the State insists that the accounts receiv-

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Opinion of the Court.

able and bank deposits of the Wheeling Steel Corporation had acquired a taxable situs in West Virginia and
that they have no taxable situs in Delaware, where the
Corporation was chartered.
Second.-The Corporation complied with the laws of
the State of its creation in designating its "principal"
office in that State. It is manifest that this designation, while presumably sufficient for the purpose, was a
technical one and that the office is not a principal office
so far as the actual conduct of business is concerned.
While a duplicate stock ledger and records of transactions
with respect to capital stock are maintained in Delaware,
the business operations of the Corporation are conducted
outside that State. The office in Delaware is maintained
through the service of an agency organized to furnish
this convenience to corporations of that description. To
attribute to Delaware, merely as the chartering State; the
credits arising in the course of the business established in
another State, and to deny to the latter the power to
tax such credits upon the ground that it violates due
process to treat the credits as within its jurisdiction, is
to make a legal fiction dominate realities in a fashion
quite as extreme as that which would attribute to the
chartering State all the tangible possessions of the Corporation without regard to their actual location.
The constitutional authority of West Virginia to tax
the accounts receivable and bank deposits in question
cannot be denied upon the ground that they are taxable
solely in Delaware. The question is whether they should
be deemed to be localized in West Virginia.
Third.-The Corporation established in West Virginia
what has aptly been termed a "commercial domicile."
It maintains its general business offices at Wheeling and
there it keeps its books and accounting records. There
its directors hold their meetings and its officers conduct
the affairs of the Corporation. There, as appellant's

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

counsel well says, "the management functioned." The
Corporation has manufacturing plants and sales offices
in 6ther States. But what is done at those plants and
offices is determined and controlled from the center of
authority at Wheeling. The Corporation has made that
the' actual seat of its corporate government.
The question here is not of the taxation of the plants
in other States. The real estate, equipment and all tangible property there located are taxable by those States
respectively. The accounts receivable with which we are
now concerned are the ,proceeds of contracts of sale.
While these contracts are negotiated and orders are taken
at the various sales offices throughout the country, they
are subject to acceptance or rejection at the Wheeling
office. All invoices are payable at Wheeling. Thus the
contracts of sale become effective by the action taken at
the Wheeling office and there the accounts are kept and
the required payments are made. In the face of these
facts, it cannot properly be-said that the credits arise
either where the goods are manufactured or at the sales
offices where the orders are taken. The tax is not on the
manufacturing or on the privilege of maintaining sales
offices. The tax is not on the net profits of a unitary
enterprise demanding a method, not intrinsically arbitrary, of making an apportionment among different jurisdictions with respect to the processes by which the
profits are earned. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S. 113, 120, 121; Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton,
Ltd. v. State-Tax Comm'n, 266 U. S.271, 282, 283; Hans
Rees' Sons v. North Carolina,supra. Such a tax on net
gains is distinct from an ad valorem property tax on the
various items of property owned by the Corporation and
laid according to the location of the property within the
respective- tax jurisdictions. Here, the tax is a property
tax on the accounts receivable, as separate items of property, and these are not to be regarded as parts of the
manufacturing plants where the goods sold are produced.

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

.Opinion of the Court.

Hence we cannot agree with appellant's counsel that
the only fair rule in such a case is one "which allocates
intangibles on the basis of tangible property owned and
used in production of material for sale." This is to confuse two distinct subjects of ad valorem property taxation, the accounts receivable which arise from sales and
the manufacturing plants. The accounts are not necessarily localized in whole or in part where the goods are
made but are attributable as choses in action to the place
where they arise in the course of the business of making
contracts of sale. We said, in Virginia v. Imperial Coal
Sales Co., 293 U. S. 15, 20, that we were not able to perceive "any sound reason for holding that the owner must
have real estate or tangible property within the State in
order to subject its intangible property within the State
to taxation."
The tax is laid both on accounts receivable and on the
amount of deposits in banks. It appears that the Corporation has deposit accounts in several States. The deposits outside West Virginia were made by sending from
the Wheeling office to the various banks the original
checks or drafts received by the Corporation from its
customers. From these deposit accounts the Corporation,
by executive action at Wheeling, pays the amounts required for payrolls, materials, equipment, rhaintenance
and operating expenses as these amounts become payable
in the course of its operations in Ohio and other States.
Checks and drafts on these bank accounts are drawn at
Wheeling, except in connection with the payment of
payrolls at certain manufacturing plants where payroll
checks or orders are drawn against moneys sent to banks
at such points for that express purpose and for meeting
incidental items. The agreed statement shows that "All
moneys are controlled and the expenditures directed by
the Wheeling office, and if the immediate expenditure be

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court'

298 U.S.

made elsewhere, such immediate expenditure is made
only under specific or general direction and control of
the Wheeling office." The so-called "money in bank" is
not cash or physical property of the Corporation but is
an indebtedness owing by the bank to the Corporation
by virtue of the deposit account. .From the Wheeling
office proceed the items deposited and there the withdrawals are directed and controlled. In the light of this
course of business as shown by the agreed statements of
fact, we find no sufficient basis for concluding that the
bank accounts thus maintained and controlled were properly attributable to the Corporation at any place other
than at its general office at Wheeling. If there were any
special circumstances by which any of these deposits
could be deemed to have been localized elsewhere, they
do not appear upon the present record.
The state court permitted the deduction of the amount
of the intangible property of the Corporation which had
been assessed in Ohio. That assessment, according to the
agreed statement, was "on accounts and notes receiv-.
able." Counsel for the State, while insisting that the
record does not show a taxable situs in Ohio of any of'
appellant's accounts receivable, has not taken a cross appeal or sought to assign error with respect to this part
of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals. The
State is not in a position to complain of the deduction
and no question as to its propriety is before us upon this
record. Appellant urges that in Ohio "only the excess
of receivables and prepaid items over current payables"
is actually taxed, and that the deduction of "current indebtedness" accounts for the amount of the Ohio assessment. The inference is sought to be drawn that the
amount of accounts receivablea. taken into consideration
in Ohio was thus larger than the amount assessed. We
find no basis for a conclusion whether, or to what extent,
deductions were allowed in Ohio. -The stipulation states

WHEELING STEEL CORP. v. FOX.
193

Opinion of the Court.

that the appellant had been assessed "on accounts and
notes receivable" in the amount which the state court
of West Virginia has allowed. Upon this record the question before us is with regard to the constitutional validity
of the tax as assessed in West Virginia and not as to the
amount or validity of any tax assessed elsewhere.
Further, we find no ground for appellant's contention
that the statutes of West Virginia, under which the tax is
laid, are invalid in the view that they require the taxation
of all the intangibles of a foreign corporation ding business within the State, regardless of the place where such
intangibles may properly be the subject of taxation. We
think the argument is sufficiently met by the construction
placed upon these statutes by the state court. It held
that the legislature intended to limit the assessment to
property which was liable to taxation according to the
facts and the applicable principles of law. Nor would this
inquiry of the state officials into the facts involve, as contended, any delegation of authority of which complaint
could be made under the Federal Constitution. The taxing officials would apply the law to the facts of the case
subject to review by the courts of the State and ultimately
by this Court so far as any federal question might be
involved.
Our conclusion is that appellant has failed to show
that West Virginia in laying the tax has transcended the
limits of its jurisdiction and thus deprived appellant of
its property without due process of law.
Fourth. Appellant also contests the tax upon the
ground that equal protection of the laws has been denied.
The argument is that the statutes, as construed, require
that the total intangibles of appellant are to be reported
and assessed, except that portion taxed in other States,
and hence that the statutes discriminate unlawfully
against business corporations and in favor of natural
persons. Appellant also urges discrimination on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

basis of a comparison with the provisions for the taxation of the property of railroads and other public utilities.
Counsel for the State presents an analysis of the state
statutes and insists that there is no discrimination between the assessment of the intangibles of corporations,
either foreign or domestic, and of those of natural persons, or with respect to the assessment of corporations
engaged in public service.
The contention of appellant is that we should deduce
the protested discrimination from the face of the respective statutes. But we do not find that their provisions
require the asserted construction and we have not been
advised of decisions of the state court placing such a
construction upon them. The decision in the instant
case, as we have seen, is not that the statutes require
taxation in West Virginia of all of -the intangibles of
appellant, without due regard to the place where they
.may properly be deemed to be localized, but only of such
intangibles as upon the facts and the law, according to
the course of business, may be deemed to be within the
jurisdiction of the State. The record discloses no discrimination of which appellant 'is entitled to complain.
The judgment of the state court is
Affirmed.

