HARTFORD INDEMITY CO. v. ILLINOIS.
141

155

Syllabus.

Compensation Act as was done in the Ballard and Walton
cases., A definite and authoritative decision that its scope
is so limited,-and that the appropriate remedy under state
law is an action for damages, will, of course, be binding
upon federal courts. In the absence of such a pronouncement we are of opinion the Circuit Court of Appeals committed no error in construing the Workmen's Compensation Act as affording the only remedy available to the
petitioner.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO concurs in the result upon the

authority of Gilvary v. Cuyahoga Valley Ry. Co., 292
U. S. 57.
HARTFORD ACCIDENT & INDEMNITY CO. v.
ILLINOIS EX REL. McLAUGHLIN, DIRECTOR OF
AGRICULTURE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 692.

Argued March 31, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. State regulation of the business of commission merchants who
solicit consignments of farm produce from within and without the
State and sell them locally on commission, affects interstate commerce only indirectly and is within the police power, in the absence
of conflicting regulation by Congress. P. 157.
2. An Illinois statute requiring that commission merchants who
solicit for sale and sell within the State consignments of farm produce, including fresh fruit and vegetables consigned from outside
the State, shall procure a license, post a bond, keep records, and
account and pay for produce received for sale,-held not inconsistent with the Act of Congress of June 10, 1930, which requires
those who are engaged in the business of receiving in interstate or
foreign commerce fresh fruits and vegetables, for sale on commission, to procure a license from the Secretary of Agriculture, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion'of the Court.

298 U.S.

which covers in part the same ground as the Illinois law, but which
does not require a bond and expressly declares that state statutes
dealing with the same subjects as the federal Act shall remain in
effect except in so far as they are inconsistent with it. P. 158.
361 Ill. 405; 198 N. E. 356, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a judgment in favor
of the Director of Agriculture of the State of Illinois, in
consolidated actions on two bonds, given by a commission
merchant pursuant to an Illinois statute for the security
of consignors of farm produce. The surety took the
appeal, severing the principal, which had become
bankrupt.

Mr. J. F. Dammann, with whom Mr. Arthur L. Israel
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Otto Kerner, Attorney General of Illinois, and
Mr. Louis Salinger, Assistant Attorney General, were on
the brief for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
An Illinois statute' forbids persons, associations, and
corporations to receive, sell, offer, or solicit consignments
of farm produce for sale, on commission, within Illinois,
unless licensed; requires an applicant for a license to make
a showing as to character, responsibility, and good faith
in the conduct of the proposed business; and directs that
a license must be procured for each location where the
business is to be transacted, a fee paid therefor, and a
bond, in the sum of $5,000, with satisfactory surety, executed, conditioned on honest accounting and handling of
produce received and against fraudulent conduct. Provision is made for the granting and revocation of licenses
'Smith-Ilurd, c. 5, §§ 17-24; Cahill's Ill. Stat. c. 5, §§ 24-32.

HARTFORD INDEMNITY CO. v. ILLINOIS. 157
Opinion of the Court.

155

by the Director of Agriculture. A licensee is required to
follow certain business methods, to keep records, which
are to be subject to inspection, to account and to pay for
produce received for sale. The Director is empowered
to bring action upon the licensee's bond for the recovery
of sums due consignors for goods sold, if payment is not
made by the licensee, or for the recovery of damages suffered by consignors as a result of fraudulent acts or wrongful handling on the part of the licensee. Should the
penalty of the bond prove insufficient to pay all such
liabilities, the consignors are to receive payment of any
amount recovered in proportion to their several claims.
The Cross Company took licenses, and the appellant
became surety on its bonds, for the years ending July 1,
1932, and July 1, 1933. In October, 1932, the Cross Company became bankrupt and failed to account for numerous
consignments of fresh fruits and vegetables. Some were
shipped from Illinois but most were from other states.
The Director of Agriculture brought actions in a state
court on both bonds. The court consolidated the cases
and they were tried together on stipulated facts.
The appellant, in addition to defenses raising no federal
question, pleaded that the statute was beyond the state's
power because a restriction upon, and a regulation of,
interstate commerce. Judgment was entered against the
Cross Company and the appellant. Both appealed to
the Supreme Court of the State, which affirmed the judgment.2 The appellant summoned and severed the Cross
Company and prosecuted an appeal to this court.
The sole question presented is the constitutional validity of the act as it affects the appellant's liability under
its bonds. The statute is a police regulation. The business regulated is local, having its situs within the state
2People

N. E. 356.

ex rel. AcLaughlin v. G. H. Cross Co., 361 Ill. 405; 198

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

and being conducted therein. The fact that the commission merchant contracts to sell, and sells, farm produce
forwarded to him from points without, as well as points
within, the state is not enough to condemn the regulation
of a business carried on within her borders.' Such effect
as the regulation has upon interstate commerce is indirect
and incidental and does not trespass upon the power conferred on Congress by Article I, § 8, of the federal Constitution. In these circumstances, until Congress, under
the commerce power, adopts inconsistent legislation, that
of the state remains effective.4
The appellant urges, however, that Congress has
adopted an act' regulating the same business and the
Cross Company was required to take a license under that
act. This alone is not sufficient to nullify the state law,
if the federal act does not cover the same field, or is consistent with it.' But it is said the state and federal laws
are similar in their provisions and, therefore, the exercise
by Congress of its paramount power nullifies the state
statute. The federal act requires every person, partnership, association, or corporation, who is engaged in the
business of receiving in interstate or foreign commerce
perishable agricultural commodities, defined as "fresh
fruits and vegetables of every kind and character," for
sale on commission, to procure a license from the Secre'W. W. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452, 470; Ware &
Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405; The Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352, 410; South Covington & C. St. Ry. v. Covington, 235
U. S. 537; Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co., 242 U. S. 539, 557; Federal
Compress Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17; Chassaniol v. Greenwood,
291 U. S. 584.
"Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Hughes,
191 U. S. 477.
'Act of Juno'10, 1930, c. 436, 46 Stat. 531. U. S. C. Tit. 7,
§§ 499a-499r.
'Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52; Mintz v. Baldwin, 289 U. S. 346.

HARTFORD INDEMNITY CO. v. ILLINOIS. 159
155

Opinion of the Court.

tary of Agriculture. The act parallels the state statute
in respect of the requirements of proper accounting, honest dealing, and prompt remittance. While it provides
for awards of reparation by the Secretary of Agriculture
for non-compliance with its prescriptions, gives a right'
of action to consignors and shippers -for violation of its
provisions, authorizes the revocation of licenses and imposes penalties, thus covering to some extent the same
ground as the State law, it does not call- for the giving of
any bond by a licensee. Moreover,-§ 15 provides:
"This Act shall not abrogate nor nullify any other statute, whether State or Federal, dealing with the same
subjects as this Act; but it is intended that all such
statutes shall remain in full force and 'effect except in
so far only as they are inconsistent herewith or repugnant
hereto."
Thus the act of Congress not only omits the requirement of a bond, but affirmatively saves the provision of
the Illinois act as to that form of security. As respects
the bond and the protection thereby afforded to .consignors, there is no inconsistency between the two acts
and both may be given effect.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

