WALLACE v. CUTTEN.
Argument for Petitioners.

WALLACE ET AL. v. CUTTEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 747. Argued April 27, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.
Section 6 (b) of the Gxrain Futures Act, which provides that if the
Secretary of Agriculture has reason to believe that any person "is
violating" the Act or the regulations thereunder, or "is attempting" to manipulate the market price of grain in violation of the
Act, he may require such person to show cause why he should not
be suspended from trading in Contract Markets, cannot be construed as authorizing suspension for wrong-doing that occurred
more than two years before the filing of the complaint with the
Secretary. P. 236.
80 F. (2d) 140, affirmed.

297 U. S. 701, to review a decree setting
aside on appeal an order whereby the commission established by the Grain Futures Act directed all "contract
markets" (grain exchanges designated by the Secretary of
Agriculture) to refuse to the respondent Cutten all trading privileges for the period of two years.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Wendell Berge, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, and Mr. Leo F.
Tierney, were on the brief, for petitioners.
The construction given § 6 (b) by the Circuit Court
of Appeals renders that section impracticable and ineffective as a means of dealing with persons who violate the
provisions of the Grain Futures Act or attempt to manipulate the market price of grain.
The requirements of reports from individual traders
is of the utmost importance in the statutory scheme set
up by the Grain Futures Act. Full and complete knowledge as to the activities of individual traders is essential
if the regulatory authority is effectively to prevent manipulation of the market price.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

298 U.S.

Because of the nature of the reporting, it is virtually
impossible to apprehend a trader in the act of violating
the reporting requirements. A violation of those requirements occurs and falls into the class of past transactions
at one and the same moment. Apprehension cannot be
contemporaneous with commission. Under the construction for which respondent contends, there is no way in
which the Commission can proceed against one who violates the reporting requirements. If that construction is
adopted, § 6 (b), as the court below said, will be rendered
"sterile." This result cannot be escaped by contending
that § 6 (b) applies to some past offenses and not to
others. In any event, if § 6 (b) applies to any past
offenses it must apply to those committed by respondent,
because the Commission proceeded in this case as
promptly as possible consonant with a full investigation
of the secret and complicated transactions carried on by
respondent.
If the jurisdiction of the Commission to enter an order
under § 6 (b) were dependent upon final action sufficiently prompt to affect a trader before a violation was
completed, it would be utterly impossible to observe the
procedural requirements which the law establishes. There
is no merit in the argument that the Commission's power
under § 6 (b) is coincident with the existence or present
threat of wrongdoing and ceases with the termination of
such wrong-doing or threat. If the power of the Commission were so limifed, then the term of suspension
which the Commission might impose would likewise be
limited because the preventive purpose would not be furthered by prolonging suspension beyond the present existence of threat or violation. But the continuation of a
violation could not in any event last beyond the moment
at which a suspension order becomes effective. If respondent's contentions are sound, every order would become illegal the moment it became effective because the

WALLACE v. CUTTEN.
229

Argument for Petitioners.

order would then and thereafter relate to an offense which
the order itself had terminated and relegated to the past.
No construction should be adopted which thus devitalizes
the statute and makes a mockery of legislation designed
to be remedial.
The amount of time necessary to dispose of violations
is not always within the Commission's control. In this
case, investigation was begun as soon as the Grain Futures Administration had reasonable cause to suspect
the existence of respondent's illegal conduct. A cursory
survey of the documentary evidence in this case shows
that a long period of time was necessarily consumed in
uncovering involved transactions deliberately designed
and executed to avoid detection. The construction of
§ 6 (b) urged by respondent puts a premium on craftiness
by permitting successful concealment to thwart the Coinmission's authority.
In this connection it is significant that the Grain Futures Act does not provide for cease and desist orders
against those who violate the reporting requirements. If
all that Congress intended was to give the Commission
summary powers to act against violators caught in the
commission of an offense, it would appear that the Commission would have been empowered to enter cease and
desist orders which would have had the practical effect
of stopping present violations. The fact that the Grain
Futures Act does not provide for a criminal punishment
for violation of the reporting requirements, in no way
tends to prove that § 6 (b) was not intended to be effective as a means of barring from trading privileges those
who violate the Act or attempt to manipulate the market
price of grain.
The fact that § 6 (a) uses the words "has failed or
is failing" whereas § 6 (b) uses the words "is violating"
and "is attempting to manipulate" is not conclusive of
the meaning of § 6 (b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

298 U.S.

Section 6 (b), as construed by petitioners, is constitutional. Respondent's contention that § 6 (b), as construed by petitioners, is unconstitutional, rests upon the
unwarranted assumption that so construed the section
would be a criminal statute.
Messrs. FrancisX. Busch, Orville J. Taylor, and James
J. Magner were on the brief for respondent.
The theory of statutory regulation expressed in the
Grain Futures Act contemplates the self-regulation of the
licensed contract markets by the governing boards thereof,
under governmental supervision. The responsibility for
the making and filing of its reports, whether by the board
or the members, for the prevention of the manipulation
of prices and dissemination of false and misleading market information, is made a condition precedent and subsequent to the continued enjoyment by the contract
market of its designation as such.
Comparison of the provisions of § 6 (a) and (b) and
§ 9 of the Grain Futures Act, requires the conclusion that
§ 6 (b) was intended only to provide a method for purging
the contract markets of current practices seeking to manipulate the market price of grain. The section was not
intended to authorize the institution of purely punitive
proceedings long after the practices have ceased.
In each case arising under the statute, the essential
inquiry is whether or not the evidence received will justify
the conclusion that the accused person is attempting to
manipulate the market price of grain, and each case presents a new and separate inquiry.
In the case at bar, it was neither alleged, nor proved,
that the respondent was attempting to manipulate the
market price of grain at the time of the filing of the complaint. The complaint was not initiated in accordance
with either the letter or the intent of the statute.

WALLACE v. CUTTEN.
229

Argument for Respondent.

If § 6 (b) may be invoked by the Secretary of Agriculture after the passage of three years, it can be invoked
after the passage of ten years. To construe the Act as
authorizing the Secretary to proceed thereunder at any
time selected by him would be contrary to the national
policy as expressed in statutes of limitations for far more
serious offenses.
Examination of the legislative history of the Future
Trading Act (the immediate statutory predecessor of the
Grain Futures Act), indicates that the intent and purpose of the legislation was the prevention and frustration
of manipulative practices.
The scrutiny, consideration and revision to which § 6
of the original Future Trading Act was subjected when
it reached the Senate Committee on Agriculture and
Forestry, which added § 6 (b), precludes any conclusion
that the differing language employed in the respective
sections was the result of "inadvertence." It appears
from the context of the respective sections and from the
testimony of witnesses before the Committee that the
language of each section was advisedly chosen. It is
apparent that the Congress recognized that in the one
section it was dealing with the licensed contract market,
as such, and in the other section, dealing with the rights
of individuals.
It is not consistent with our theory of government to
permit the fact of guilt and the duration, extent and
nature of punishment, to be determined and adjudged by
legislative agencies.
Authorities involving the revocation of licenses by
administrative agencies are not here applicable, since
the Congress of 1922 did not undertake to require licenses
from individuals making contracts for the future delivery
of grain.
The Commission's conclusion .that respondent attempted to manipulate the market price of wheat during

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

1930 and 1931, which is predicated primarily upon the
failure to comply with reporting requirements of the
Secretary of Agriculture during 1930 and 1931, is not
supported by the weight of the evidence.
MR.JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 6 (b) of the Grain Futures Act, September 21,
1922, c. 369, 42 Stat. 998, 1001, provides that if the Secretary of Agriculture has reason to believe that any person "is vio lating" any provision of the Act, or any*rules
and regulations made pursuant thereto, or "is attempting" to manipulate the market price of grain in violation of the provisions of the Act, the Secretary may serve
upon the person a complaint stating his charge in that
respect and requiring him "to show cause why an order
should not be made directing that all contract markets
until further notice of the said commission refuse all
trading privileges thereon to such person." The commission referred to is a board "composed of' the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Attorney General," before whom the hearing on the complaint
is had. This case is here to review a decree of the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
which set aside an order entered by the commission under
that section. Certiorari was granted on account of the
novelty and importance of the question presented.
April 11, 1934, the Secretary of Agriculture caused such
a complaint to be served upon Arthur W. Cutten. It
recited that during the years 1930 and 1931 he was, and
since had been, continuously a member of the Chicago
Board of Trade; and that by its regulations made pursuant to the Grain Futures Act he was required:
"to report to the Grain Futures Administration his net
position in futures owned or controlled by him, long or
short, by grain and by future, when he had net open

WALLACE v. CUTTEN.
229

Opinion of the Court.

commitments in any one future equal to or in excess of
500,000 bushels. . . ." [and also] "daily trades made
by him on the Board of Trade, in futures in which he
owned or controlled open commitments equal to or in
excess of 500,000 bushels."
The complaint alleged further that:
"during the years 1930 and 1931 [he] conspired and colluded with various persons and grain firms of the Board
of Trade to conceal his trading and position in the market from the Grain Futures Administration. In furtherance of said conspiracy respondent made inaccurate, incorrect and false reports of his position in the market to
the Grain Futures Administration, failed and refused to
report accurately and correctly his position in the market
and trades made by him," etc.
Then followed, in 44 numbered paragraphs, specifications of Cutten's alleged violations of the regulations and
the Act on dates between March 6, 1930 and December
31, 1931.
A referee- was appointed to take the evidence. The
hearings before him began on May 14, 1934. Upon the
opening of those proceedings, Cutten moved to quash
the complaint on the ground that § 6 (b) empowered
the Commission to act only against persons who are
presently committing offences; and that consequently,
it had no authority to deny to him trading privileges
for violations committed more than two years prior to
the institution of the proceedings against him. The referee, without passing upon the motion to quash, 'proceeded to take the evidence; the hearings before him were
concluded May 24, 1934; then the commission heard
the complaint on briefs and oral argument; and before
it the motion to quash was renewed. On February 12,
1935, the commission overruled the motion; made findings of fact on the evidence; concluded that Cutten's
conduct "constitutes a violation of the Grain Futures Act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

and the Rules and Regulations made pursuant thereto";
and ordered that "all contract markets refuse all trading
privileges thereon to Arthur W. Cutten for a period of
two years from March 1, 1935."
This suit was brought to set agide that order. The
Circuit Court of Appeals held that the power conferred
by § 6 (b) is remedial, not punitive; that it is limited
to suspending a trader who "is violating any of the provisions of this Act, or is attempting to manipulate the
market price of any grain," in other words, one who is
presently committing an offence; that at the time of the
filing of the complaint there was no wrong existing to
be remedied, the latest wrongdoing complained of having
occurred more than two years before the filing of the
complaint by the Secretary of Agriculture; that, therefore, the commission was without authority to entertain
the complaint, and should have granted the motion to
quash. 80 F. (2d) 140.
The Government argues that, since violations of the
reporting requirements by their very nature cannot be
detected during the course of commission, the literal
construction thus given to § 6 (b) renders it impractical
and ineffective as a means of dealing with those persons
who violate any of the provisions of the Act or attempt to
manipulate the market price of grain. Incidents in the
history of the legislation are cited to support the Government's contention. In reply, it is argued that ample
remedy is afforded by other provisions of the Act; that
these confer broad power over boards of trade; and that
the boards of trade may control their own members. It
is urged that for the construction given to § 6 (b) by
the lower court support may be found in the different
language employed in § 6 (a). For it authorizes the commission to suspend "or to revoke the designation of a
board of trade as a 'contract market' upon a showing
that such board of trade has failed or is failing to comply"

WALLACE v. CUTTEN.
229

Opinion of the Court.

with the requirements prescribed. Attention is also
called to the penalty provisions of § 9.
It would be inappropriate for us to discuss these, and
other, arguments presented. The language of .§ 6 (b) is
clear; and on the face of the statute, there can be no
doubt concerning the intention of Congress. As was said
in Iselin v. United States, 270 U. S. 245, 250-251: "The
statute was evidently drawn with care. Its language is
plain and unambiguous. What the Government asks is
not a construction of a statute, but, in effect, an enlargement of it by the court, so that what was omitted, presumably [possibly] by inadvertence, may be included
within its scope. To supply omissions transcends the
judicial function." A fortiori, it may not be done for
the purpose of making punishable action which, on the
face of the statute, is merely to be prevented. Compare
United States v. Weitzel, 246 U. S. 533, 542-543.
Affirmed.

