38

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

298 U.S.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 497. Argued March 2, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.
1. Past conditions of the business affected, during a reasonable period,
as well as existing conditions, are properly to be considered by a
rate-making authority in fixing rates for the future. P. 46.
2. An order of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing stockyards rates,
not shown to be confiscatory by the evidence before him, and
against which no further evidence was offered by the company
affected in its suit for an injunction, held not invalid because the
Secretary had refused to grant a further hearing on adverse changes
in the company's business conditions alleged to haveooccurred after
the close of the hearing granted. P. 47.
3. Wherq the issue is whether rates fixed by the Secretary of Agriculture for stockyards services operate to confiscate property of the
company affected, a court is not bound to accept the findings of the
Secretary though supported by substantial evidence, but must
weigh the evidence and pass upon the questions of fact. P. 49.
4. In the fixing of rates-a legislative act-the legislature has a broad
discretion which it may exercise directly or through a legislative
agency authorized to act in accordance with standards prescribed
by the legislature. P. 50.
5. Courts do not sit as boards of revision to substitute their judgment
for that of the legislature or its agents as to matters within the
province of either. P. 51.
(. Where the legislature itself fixes rates, acting within the field of
legislative discretion, its determinations are conclusive. P. 51.
7. Where the legislature appoints a rate-fixing agent to act within
the limits of legislative authority, it may endow the agent with
power to make findings of fact which are conclusive, provided the
requirements of due process which are specially applicable to such
an agency are met, as in according a fair hearing and acting upon
evidence and not arbitrarily. In such cases, the judicial inquiry
into the facts goes no farther than to ascertain whether. there is
evidence to support the findings; and the question of the weight
of the evidence in determining issues of fact lies with the legislative agency acting within its statutory authority. P. 51.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

39

Syllabus.

S. The Constitution fixes limits to the rate-making power by prohibiting deprivation of property without due process of law or the
taking of private property for public use without just compensation. P. 51.
9. Acts of the legislature or of its agent in rate-making, when properly challenged as exceeding these constitutional limits, are necessarily subject to judicial review upon the facts and the law, to
the end that the Constitution, as the supreme law of the land, may
be maintained. P. 51.
10. Judicial scrutiny of legislative rates, their constitutionality being in issue, cannot be avoided by declarations or findings made
by the legislature or its agent. P. 51.
11. To say that the findings of fact of legislative agencies may be
made conclusive where constitutional rights of liberty and property
are involved, although the evidence clearly establishes that the
findings are wrong and that constitutional rights have been invaded,
is to place those rights at the mercy of administrative officials and
seriously impair the security inherent in our judicial safeguards.
P. 52.
12. The judicial duty to examine the weight of the evidence exists
for the protection of property rights as well as rights of liberty
under the Constitution. P. 52.
13. Under our system there is no warrant for the view that the
judicial power of a competent court can be circumscribed by any
legislative arrangement designed to give effect to administrative
action going beyond the limits of constitutional authority. P. 52.
14. In determining whether a legislative rate consists with due process
under the Constitution, the question is whether the legislative
action has passed beyond the lowest limit of the permitted zone of
reasonableness into the forbidden reaches of confiscation; the
judicial scrutiny must of necessity take into account the entire
legislative process, including the reasoning and findings upon which
the legislative action rests; the complaining party carries the
burden of making a convincing showing, and the court will not
interfere with the exercise of the rate-making power junless confiscation is clearly established. P. 53.
15. Primary or subordinate findings of fact made by a legislative
agency in fixing a rate will not be disturbed save as in particular
instances they are plainly shown to be overborne. P. 54.
16. Upon the question whether rates fixed by the Secretary of Agriculture for a stockyards company under the Packers & Stock:
yards Act are confiscatory, the Court in this case examines the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellant.

298 U.S.

evidence and sustains findings made by the District Court and
findings of the Secretary adopted by that court as to: (1) value
of land used and useful in the business, p. 56; (2) value of structures; existing depreciation, p. 61; (3) going concern value, p. 62;
(4) annual depreciation allowance, p. 65; and (5) income, p. 68.
17. In fixing rates under the Packers & Stockyards Act, the Secretary of Agriculture was not estopped by findings and allowances
made in an earlier proceeding which was abandoned. P. 63.
18. In fixing rates of a stockyards company, a hotel run at a loss
and not helpful to the stockyards business is properly excluded
from the rate base. P. 57.
19. Land, as part of the property valued in fixing rates, should be
allowed its fair market value for all available uses and purposes,
including value due to special adaptation to particular purposes,
but excluding increments of value due to the public use. P. 59.
20. In fixing rates, a separate allowance of going-concern value supported only by assumptions and speculations of an expert, held
properly denied. P. 62.
21. In fixing rates for stockyards service, it was open to the Secretary of Agriculture to increase a company's charges for the use of
feed lots, owned by it and included in the rate base, upon the
ground that the existing charges produced discrimination and
should be made reasonable for all customers; and it was not
necessary to permit the company an alternative in removing the
discrimination. P. 67.
22. In fixing rates under the Act, the Secretary may classify them.
P. 69.
23. If rates, reasonable when fixed under the Packers & Stockyards
Act, are shown by subsequent test to have become unreasonably
low, application may be made to the Secretary of Agriculture to
have them modified. P. 72.
11 F. Supp. 322, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three

judges, which dismissed a bill to enjoin enforcement of
rates fixed by the Secretary of Agriculture under the
Packers & Stockyards Act.
Mr. Ross Dean Rynder, with whom Mr. William N.

Strack was on the brief, for appellant.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Argiunent for the United States.

Upon the question whether the court was bound to
accept the findings of fact of the Secretary of Agriculture
if supported by substantial evidence, they cited the following cases from this Court:
Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Oklahoma Operating Co. v. Love, 252 U. S. 331; Ohio Valley
Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287; Prendergast v. New York Tel. Co., 262 U. S. 43; Bluefield Water
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 679; Northern
Pacific R. Co. v. Department of Public Works, 268 U. S.
39; Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Public Utility Comm'rs, 278
U. S. 24; United Railways v. West, 280 U. S. 234; Phillips
v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589; Chicago, R. I. & P. R.
Co. v. United States, 284 U. S. 80; Crowell v. Benson, 285
U. S. 22; Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v. United
States, 288 U. S. 294; Lindheimcr v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co.,
292 U. S. 151; Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S. 290; Columbus Gas & Fuel Co. v.
Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S. 398; West Ohio Gas
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 294 U. S. 79; United
States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 499;
Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. United States, 295 U1. S.
193; West v. Chesapeake & Potomac Tel. Co., 295 U. S.
662.
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom
Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Wendell Berge,
J. Stephen Doyle, Jr., and G. N. Daggerwere on the brief,
for the United States et al.
The following discussion of the question above mentioned is from their brief:
The District Court stated at several places in the opinion that the findings of fact made by the Secretary are
conclusive if supported by substantial evidence. Appel-lant contends that this was error.

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

298 U.S.

It should be observed that § 316 of the Packers & Stockyards Act adopts the same procedure for enjoining the
enforcement of orders of the Secretary of Agriculture
that had been provided by previous laws for enjoining
the enforcement of orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. 42 Stat. 168; 7 U. S. C. 217. The findings
of the Commission, of course, are subject to review, "but
when supported by evidence are accepted as final; not
that its decision, involving as it does so many and such
vast public interests, can be supported by a mere scintilla
of proof-but the courts will not examine the facts further than to determine whether there was substantial
evidence to sustain the order." Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Union Pacific R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547-548.
See also Illinois Central R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 206 U. S. 441, 454. This Court has held that
the decisions involving review of orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission are also applicable to the review
under § 316 of the Packers & Stockyards Act of rate orders of the Secretary of Agriculture. Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 442.
Rate making, of course, is a legislative process. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210, 226. This Court
has said that "Where the constitutional validity of a statute depends upon the existence of facts, courts must be
cautious about reaching a conclusion respecting them
contrary to that reached by the legislature; and if the
question of what the facts establish be a fairly debatable
one, it is not permissible for the judge to set up his opinion in respect of it against the opinion of the lawma-ker."
Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294.
Factual determinations made by a legislature as a basis
for the enactment of a regulatory statute, even in a suit
attacking the constitutionality of the statute, are accorded a presumption of correctness. The same presumption of correctness should be accorded findings of fact of

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Argument for the United States.

a rate-making body, even in a suit attacking the constitutionality of an order based thereon. Even though the
courts have a duty to review the evidence more critically
when confiscation is an issue and to reach their independent conclusions of constitutional fact, it would not
be feasible to require them to substitute their independent judgment as to the weight of the evidence for that
of the body exercising delegated legislative power upon
every factual question as to which conflicting evidence is
presented. It is submitted that constitutional rights are
adequately protected if the reviewing court examines the
evidence for itself and determines that it does not compel arrival at different conclusions of fact than those
reached by the rate-making authority. The proper scope
of review is that stated by this Court in Los Angeles Gas
& Electric Corp. v. Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287,
when, in upholding a rate order, it was said (pp. 315316): "our inquiry must be . . . whether the evidence
requires the conclusion that by reason of the inadequacy
of the valuation the result is confiscation."
It is quite apparent that the District Court made a
mhiute and careful analysis of the evidence. The opinion discusses in considerable detail the evidence on the various questions presented, and makes many specific findings. The court also, in addition to specific findings contained in the opinion, adopted the findings of the Secretary as its own, thereby indicating that its review of the
evidence led it to substantial agreement with the Secretary's findings of fact. It is submitted that appellant had
an adequate judicial review in the District Court.
But even if the District Court in its discussion of the
scope of judicial review adopted an erroneous position, it
would not follow that the decree should be reversed. The
issue in this case is not the reasoning adopted by the
lower court in reaching the conclusion that the maximum
rates prescribed by the Secretary are not confiscatory, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

298 U.S.

whether those rates are in fact confiscatory. This is an
equity case and it comes before this Court on appeal. All
of the material portions of the record before the Secretary
and the District Court are now before this Court.
Appellees are willing to submit the order herein challenged to the test of any degree of judicial review which
this Court deems to be required by the Constitution. If
this Court finds that the maximum rates prescribed by
the Secretary are not in fact confiscatory, the decree of the
lower court is correct and should be affirmed irrespective
of possible error in its reasoning. West v. Chesapeake &
Potomac Tel. Co., 295 U. S. 662, 680.
The Government contends that in so far as the ultimate decision of this case is concerned, it is immaterial
what scope is given to judicial review because it is believed
that a clear preponderance of the evidence shows that the
maximum rates prescribed are fair, reasonable, and
non-confiscatory.
It is clear, however, that the judgment of the Secretary
on the evidence should be given great weight and should
not be treated as nugatory. The Secretary is "a tribunal
appointed by law and informed by experience" to determine reasonable and non-discriminatory stockyard rates,
and it is patent from an examination of the order challenged herein that a vast amount of careful study in the
light of technical knowledge surrounding the operation of
stockyards has gone into. the preparation of this order.
The burden of proof rests heavily upon appellant to
prove by convincing evidence that the order is confiscatory. Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 304-305. See also Lindheimer v.
Illinois Bell Tel. Co., 292 U. S. 151,169; Dayton Power &
Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S. 290, 298.
Manifestly it is not enough for appellant to establish
that the Secretary may have erred with respect to some of
the minor factual items or that the District Court may

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

have erred in some of its reasoning. The position which
appellant must sustain in order to succeed in this appeal
is to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the total result
of the Secretary's determination as to maximum just and
reasonable rates is necessarily confiscatory. Even if error
may have been committed in some particulars, the order
should be sustained if such error is offset by liberality in
other particulars. Lincoln Gas Co. v. Lincoln, 250 U. S.
256, 266-268. It is respectfully submitted that the record
in this case demonstrates beyond doubt that appellant
has completely failed to sustain its burden of proof.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This suit was brought by St. Joseph Stock Yards Company to restrain the enforcement of an order of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing maximum rates for the Company's services. The District Court, composed of three
judges, dismissed the bill of complaint, 11 F. Supp. 322,
and appeal lies directly to this Court. 7 U. S. C. 217; 28
U. S. C. 47.
In October, 1929, the Secretary of Agriculture initiated
a general inquiry into the reasonableness of appellant's
rates. After hearing, the Secretary prescribed maximum
rates which were enjoined by the District Court. St.
Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 58 F. (2d). 290.
The Secretary reopened the proceeding and hearing was
had in 1933. While the matter was under consideration,
appellant filed irk February, 1934, a petition fora further
hearing. On May 4, 1934, the Secretary 4enied the petition and made the order how ,in question.
The validity of the provisions of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (42 Stat. 159, 7 U. S. C. 181-229) authorizing the Secretary of Agriculture to prescribe maximum
charges for the services of stock yards has been sustained.
Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Tagg Bros. & Moor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

head v. United States, 280 U. S. 420. In this suit, appellant attacked the Secretary's order as lacking the support
of essential findings, and also as confiscatory, thus violating the Fifth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
The denial of the request for a further hearing was assailed. No additional evidence was introduced in the
District Court and the case was submitted at the final
hearing upon the record made before the Secretary.
First.-The Secretary's findings.-The findings are
elaborate. They include detailed findings with respect to
the services rendered by appellant and its rates, the used
and useful character of appellant's property, the valuation of used and useful land, the value of appellant's
structures on the basis of cost of reproduction new less
depreciation, working capital, going concern value, fair
value on the basis of the facts found, fair rate of return,
reasonable operating expenses (including repairs, depreciation and taxes), necessary revenue and volume of business. The Secretary found that the existing rates produced revenues in excess of those necessary to pay

reasonable expenses and afford a fair return; that "the
schedule of rates and charges now in effect is unreasonable
and unjustly discriminatory."
As a guide to his determination of reasonable rates, the
Secretary caused an analysis to be made of the books and
records of the appellant covering the six-year period
from 1927 to 1932.

He reached his conclusion in the

light of that evidence.

Appellant contends that, as a

prerequisite to a reduction of rates, it was necessary for
the Secretary to find that the rates were unreasonable "at
the time of the hearing," and that there were no findings
to support such a conclusion with respect to the year
1932, the year immediately preceding the hearing. But
in determining whether the existing rates were unreasonable, the Secretary was not confined to evidence as to

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

their -operation at the precise time of his hearing, or in
the months, or even a year, immediately prior thereto.
He was entitled to consider the conditions which then
obtained and also to extend his examination over such
a reasonable period of past operations as would enable
him to make a fair prediction in fixing the maximum
rates to be charged in the future. The Secretary had
before him the particular conditions which prevailed in
the year 1932; and in the selection of the six-year period
including that year, and in not taking the year 1932 as a
sole criterion, we find nothing arbitrary. There are also
objections to the failure of the Secretary to make specific findings on certain points of fact, but, so far as the
requirement of findings is concerned, we think that the
extensive findings that were made adequately supported
his order.
Second.-The refusal of the Secretary to reopen the
proceeding.-The hearing was closed on February 16,
1933. In the following January, a copy of the proposed
order was transmitted to counsel for appellant and opportunity was given to file exceptions. Numerous exceptions were filed and at the same time (February, 1934)
appellant asked for a further hearing upon the ground
that there had been such a serious change in conditions
affecting the value of the Company's property, its income, and the probable receipts of live stock and expenses
of its yards, that the record no longer fairly reflected these
matters. The application pointed to the Agricultural
Adjustment Act of May 12, 1933, the National Industrial
Recovery Act of June 16, 1933, and the Gold Reserve Act
of January 30, 1934,-all as producing changes of which
account should be taken. Appellant also alleged that its
books and records were available to give the complete
results of its operations for the year 1933, which showed a
lower net operating income than that stated in the Secre-

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

tary's proposed report. The Secretary heard argument,
made an informal investigation, and denied the application. He was careful to say that, while as a result of his
investigation he found no adequate ground for reopening the proceeding, he did not use the facts thus elicited
as a part of the record upon which his determination of
rates was based. After stating what he deemed to be comparative results of operations in 1933, and in January and
February, 1934, the Secretary gave as the general grounds
for his action that it was inevitable that in such determinations considerable time must be consumed and that there
would be some economic change; that appellant had obtained one rehearing because the first hearing had been
followed by a general business depression which adversely
affected its gross revenues; that it sought another because
since the last hearing there had been a general improvement in those conditions; that in determining the values
used as a rate base, "depression or stagnation values" had
carefully been avoided and "normals" used; that the prescribed rates which the Secretary deemed to be fair at
that time would "as the economic improvement continues,
become liberal"; that the matter had been "in hearing
and litigation since the year 1929" and the time had come
for decision.
The decree of the District Court was filed on May 1,
1935. Despite the opportunity which the suit afforded,
the record shows no endeavor on the part of appellant to
prove any additional facts as to the conditions which obtained in 1933, or as to its operations in that year or at
any time down to the hearing in the District Court, or as
to any matter outside the record which had been made
before the Secretary. The court concluded that the effect of the legislation of 1933 was speculative; that the
difference between the amount which appellant claimed
would have been earned under the prescribed rates, if
applied to the business of 1933, and the amount found by

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

38

the Secretary to constitute the reasonable net return, was
"too small to be taken as a guide for a rate"; that in order
"to gauge the future," the Secretary had taken six years,
"two of which were deeply affected by the depression,"
and that the experience before the Secretary "was up to
ten days before the date of the hearing." In that view
the court decided that the proceeding should not be reopened and that the question of the effects urged by appellants in that relation should await the test of actual
experience upon which, if sufficient reasons were shown,
the Secretary's order could be challenged. 11 F. Supp.
p. 325. We find no error in that conclusion. If it be
found that the rates as prescribed were not confiscatory,
we see no reason for holding the Secretary's order to be
ineffective because of his refusal to reopen the proceeding. United States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 288
U. S.490.
Third.-The scope of judicial review upon the issue of
confiscation.-The question is not one of fixing a reasonable charge for a mere personal service subject to regulation under the commerce power, as in the case of market
agencies employing but little capital. See Tagg Bros. &
Moorhead v. United States, supra, pp. 438, 439. Here, a
large capital investment is involved and the main issue is
as to the alleged confiscation of that investment.
A preliminary question is presented by the contention
that the District Court, in the presence of this issue, failed
to exercise its independent judgment upon the facts. 11
F. Supp. pp. 326-328. See Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben
Avon Borough, 253 U. S.287, 289; Prendergast v. New
York Telephone Co., 262 U. S. 43, 50; Bluefield Water
Works Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S.679, 689;
United.Railwaysv. West, 280 U. S.234, 251; Tagg Bros. &
Moorhead v. United States, supra, pp. 443, 444; Phillips
v. Commissioner, 283 U. S.589, 600; Crowell v. Benson,
285 U. S.22, 60; State CorporationComm'n v. Wichita Gas
05773 -- 3G---4

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

Co., 290 U. S. 561, 569. The District Court thought that
the question was still an open one under the Packers and
Stockyards Act, and expressed the view that, even though
the issue is one of confiscation, the court is bound to accept the findings of the Secretary if they are supported
by substantial evidence and that it is not within the judicial province to weigh the evidence and pass upon the
issues of fact. The Government points out that, notwithstanding what was said by the court upon this point, the
court carefully analyzed the evidence, made many specific
findings of its own, and in addition adopted, with certain
exceptions, the findings of the Secretary. The Government insists that appellant thus had an adequate judicial
review and, further, that the case is in equity and comes
before the court on appeal, and that from every point of
view the clear preponderance of the evidence shows that
the prescribed rates were in fact just and reasonable.
Hence, the Government says that the decree should be
affirmed irrespective of possible error in the reasoning
of the District Court. See West v. Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co., 295 U. S. 662, 680.
In view, however, of the discussion in the court's opinion,' the preliminary question should be considered. The
fixing of rates is a legislative act. In determining the
scope of judicial review of that act, there is a distinction
between action within the sphere of legislative authority
and action which transcends the limits of legislative power.
Exercising its rate-making authority, the legislature has
a broad discretion. It may exercise that authority directly,
or through the agency it creates or appoints to act for
that purpose in accordance with appropriate standards.
See, also, Denver Union Stock Yard Co. v. United States, 57 F. (2d)
735, 739; St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 58 F. (2d)
290, 295; Union Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 9 F. Supp. 864, 875;
American Commission Co. v. United States, 11 F. Supp. 965, 969.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

The court does not sit as a board of revision to substitute
its judgment for that of th, 1--islature or its agents as to
matters within the province of either. San Diego Land &
Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 446; Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 433; Los Angeles Gas Corp. v. Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 304. When the legislature itself acts within the broad field of legislative discretion, its determinations are conclusive. When the
legislature appoints an agent to act within that sphere
of legislative authority, it may endow the agent with
power to make findings of fact which are conclusive; provided the requirements of due process which are specially
applicable to such an agency are met, as in according a
fair hearing and acting upon evidence and not arbitrarily.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & Nashville
R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91; VirginianRy. Co. v. United States,
272 U. S. 658, 663; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, supra, p. 444; Floridav. United States, 292 U. S.
1, 12. In such cases, the judicial inquiry into the facts
goes no further than to ascertain whether there is evidence to support the findings, and the question of the
weight of the evidence in determining issues of fact lies
with the legislative agency acting within its statutory
authority.
But the Constitution fixes limits to the rate-making
power by prohibiting the deprivation of property without
due process of law or the taking of private property for
public use without just compensation. When the legislature acts directly, its action is subject to judicial
scrutiny and determination in order to prevent the transgression of these limits of power. The legislature cannot
preclude that scrutiny and determination by any declaration or legislative finding. Legislative declaration or finding is necessarily subject to independent judicial iview
upon the facts and the law by courts of competent juris-

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

diction to the end that the Constitution as the supreme
law of the land may be maintained. Nor can the legislature escape the constitutional limitation by authorizing
its agent to make findings that the agent has kept within
that limitation. Legislative agencies, with varying qualifications, work in a field peculiarly exposed to political
demands. Some may be expert and impartial, others
subservient. It is not difficult for them to observe the
requirements of law in giving a hearing and receiving
evidence. But to say that their findings of fact may be
made conclusive where constitutional rights of liberty
and property are involved, although the evidence clearly
establishes that the findings are wrong and constitutional
rights have been invaded, is to place those rights at the
mercy of administrative officials and soriously to impair
the security inherent in our judicial safeguards. That
prospect, with our multiplication of administrative agencies, is not one to be lightly regarded. It is said that we
can retain judicial authority to examine the weight of
evidence when the question concerns the right of personal
liberty. But if this be so, it is not because we are privileged to perform our judicial duty in that case and for
reasons of convenience to disregard it in others. The
principle applies when rights either of person or of property are protected by constitutional restrictions. Under
our system there is no warrant for the view that the
judicial power of a competent court can be circumscribed
by any legislative arrangement designed to give effect to
administrative action going beyond the limits of constitutional authority. This is the purport of the decisions
above cited with respect to the exercise of an independent
judicial judgment upon the facts where confiscation is alleged. The question undei the Packers and Stockyards
Act is not different from that arising under any other act,
and we see no reason why those decisions should be
overruled.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

But this judicial duty to exercise an independent judgment does not require or justify disregard of the weight
which may properly attach to findings upon hearing and
evidence. On the contrary, the judicial duty is performed
in the light of the proceedings already had and may be
greatly facilitated by the assembling and analysis of the
facts in the course of the legislative determination. Judicial judgment may be none the less appropriately independent because informed and aided by the sifting procedure of an expert legislative agency. Moreover, as the
question is whether the legislative action has passed beyond the lowest limit of the permitted zone of reasonableness into the forbidden reaches of confiscation, judicial
scrutiny must of necessity take into account the entire
legislative process, including the reasoning and findings
upon which the legislative action rests. We have said
that "in a question of ratemaking there is a strong presumption in favor of the conclusions reached by an experienced administrative body after a full hearing." Darnell
v. Edwards,244 U. S. 564, 569. The established principle
which guides the court in the exercise of its judgment on
the entire case is that the complaining party carries the
burden of making a convincing showing and that the
court will not interfere with the exercise of the rate-making power unless confiscation is clearly established. Los
Angeles Gas Corp. v. RailroadCommission, 289 U. S. 287,
305; Lindheimer v. Illinois Telephone Co., 292 U. S. 151,
169; Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 292 U. S. 290, 298.
A cognate question was considered in Manufacturers
Ry. Co. v. United StaLes, 246 U. S. 457, 470, 488-490.
There, appellees insisted that the finding of the Interstate
Commerce Commission upon the subject of confiscation
was conclusive, or at least that it was not subject to be
attacked upon evidence not presented to the Commission.
We did not sustain that contention. Nevertheless, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

poixted out that correct practice required that "in ordinaty cases, and where the opportunity is open," all the
pertinent evidence should be submitted in the first instance
to the Comrrmission. The Court did not approve the course
that was pursued in that case "of withholding from the
Commission essential portions of the evidence that is
alleged to show th6 rate in question to be confiscatory."
And it was regarded as beyond debate that, where the Commission after full hearing had set aside a given rate as
unreasonably high, it would require a "clear case" to justify
a court, "upon evidence newly adduced but not in a proper
sense newly discovered," in annulling the action of the
Commission upon the ground that the same rate was
so unreasonably low as to deprive the carrier of its constitutional right of compensation. With that statement,
the Court turned to an examination of the evidence. The
principle thus recognized with 'respect to the weight to be
accorded to action by the Comnission after full hearing
applies a fortiori when the case is heard upon the record
made before the Commission or, as in this case, upon the
record made before the Secretary of Agriculture. It follows, in the application of this principle, that as the ultimate determination whether or not rates are confiscatory
ordinarily rests upon a variety of subordinate or primary
findings of fact as to particular elements, such findings
made by a legislative agency after hearing will not be
disturbed save as iii particular instances they are plainly
shown to be overborne.
As the District Court, despite its observations as to the
scope of review, apparently did pass upon the evidence,
making findings of its own and adopting findings of the
Secretary, we do not think it necessary to remand the
cause for further consideration and we turn to the other
questions presented by the appeal.
Fourth.-Valuation of property, income, expenses, and
fair return.-The Secretary found the fair value of ap-

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

pellant's property, used and useful in its stock-yards serVice, to be $2,743,000. The District Court made certain
additions of land which the Secretary had excluded from
his appraisal, arriving at a rate base of $2,752,964. The
Secretary found seven per cent. to be a reasonable rate
of return, which would mean net earnings of $192,010
on his rate base, or $192,710 on that of the court below.
The Secretary estimated that under the prescribed rates
appellant's net income available for return upon its investment would be $195,564 or 7.13 per cent. on his
valuation.
Elaborate briefs have discussed a host of details in attacking and defending these estimates. While we have
examined the evidence and appellant's contentions on
each point, it is impracticable to attempt in this opinion
to state more than our general conclusions.
1.-Property values.-For the purpose of demonstrating that its rates were not unreasonable prior to 1932,
appellant states that it adopts the findings of the Secretary in his first decision as to the total value of its property. That value was then fixed at $3,382,148, to which
appellant adds the value of certain additional land now
found to be used and useful, $329,163, giving a total value,
which appellant says is applicable to the years 1927-1031,
of $3,711,311. But the first hearing was begun and concluded in December, 1929, and while the order was not
promulgated until July 20, 1931, it was predicated, as
the District Court said in reliewing that order, upon the
value of the property as of the year 1928 and the volume
of business during that year. St. Joseph Stockyards Co.
v.United States, 58 F. (2d) p. 291. Appellant insisted in
its bill of complaint in the first suit that the Secretary's
denial of its request for reopening was arbitrary, as economic conditions had materially changed since 1928.
The District Court, applying the principle of our decision
in Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 284 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

248, held that a rehearing should have been granted, 58 F.
(2d) pp. 296, 297. The Secretary then vacated his prior
order and reopened the proceeding. There is no question
of res judicata. Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States,
supra, p. 445; compare Clark's Ferry Bridge Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 291 U. S. 227, 233. Appellant could
not obtain an examination of the changed conditions with
respect to its income and outlays in the period after 1928
and at the same time insist that the change in values due
to the depression should be ignored.
Appellant provides the physical facilities for a market
and renders various services in connection with livestock.
It supplies office buildings, docks for loading and unloading, "chute pens," "sales pens" and alleys, and the various appurtenances for the proper care of livestock that
are essential to its service in warehousing. The property
thus consists of land and various structures.
Value of land.-The Secretary found that of the land
owned by appellant there were 4,410,361 square feet used
and useful in its stockyards services. The District Court
added 122,041 square feet. 11 F. Supp. 336. Appellant
complains, on this appeal, of the exclusion of the property
known as the "Transit House" and of the value assigned
to-the property which was included in the rate base.
The "Transit House" is a commercial hotel (occupying
i5,805 square feet of land) with a limited patronage supplied by shippers and drivers of trucks. Appellant
claims that the land and building are worth $120,143.
Appellant points to the ruling of the Secretary in the first
proceeding that the hotel shoula be considered a part of
the used and useful property in the stockyards service.
In his second decision, now under review, the Secretary
found that the hotel was constructed many years ago
when transportation acilities between the stockyard area
and the "main-uptown" area were limited; that at the
time of the first hearing the hotel was leased for a rental

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

of $1200 a year, and that the business had not warranted
an increase, as provided in the lease, up to the time of the
second hearing; that the decadence of the property had
resulted principally from the development of good roads
and the use of motor vehicles and the street car system
of the city of St. Joseph, as well as from the change in
the method of marketing livestock. It did not appear
that the hotel produced enough revenue to pay taxes,
insurance and upkeep, to say nothing of a return on its
alleged value, and it is plain that if its value were to be
included in the rate base the effect would be to levy an
annual charge upon the patrons of the yards, principally
the original shippers, in order to maintain hotel facilities
on a non-compensatory basis for the special benefit of the
truck drivers and others who patronized it.
The District Court held that it would have to be shown
very clearly that the business of the yards would be materially affected by the absence of a nearby hotel before
it could be said that its maintenance was so related to the
stockyards business as to be properly included in fixing the
rate for yard services. The court said that there was no
such showing. We take the same view.
The land found to be used and useful is divided into
several zones. Appellant assigns error in valuation only
in the case of Zone A, in which, however, 70 per cent. of
the used and useful land, or 3,003,973 square feet, is included. The Secretary valued this land at 16 cents per
square foot, or at $480,635. Appellant contends that it
is worth at least $275,164 more, which would be at the
rate of about 25 cents a square foot.
Expert witnesses for both parties testified at length.
At the first hearing, in 1929, two witnesses for appellant
valued the land in Zone A at 30 cents per square foot.
The witness for the Government valued it at 35 cents,
predicated upon its particular value for stockyard use;
otherwise at 20 cents. Before the second hearing, in 1933,

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

two of these witnesse§ had died. The surviving witness
for appellant again teftified giving a value, as of August,
1932, of 26 cents per square foot, and a second witness
for appellant thought it worth 35 cents. The new witness
for the Government placed the value as of November,
1932, at $5000 an acre, or about 111/ cents per square
foot.
All the witnesses were highly qualified experts. Their
valuations were of the nlked land, without improvements.
The three witnesses at the second hearing had collaborated in examining about 147 different transactions relating to property in the general vicinity, but they
reached independent conclusions. The Government's
witness attached special weight to five sales, or groups of
sales, made at different times from 1918 to 1930 at prices
as low or lower than the Valuation he fixed. Appellant
points to other transfers at other locations at higher
prices. Manifestly these transactions involved collateral
inquiries and in the end simply afforded information of
varying significance to aid the forming of an expert judgment. Appellant recognizes the impracticability of attempting to 'analyze "the rather involved transfers and
locations in an attempt to determine the truth as between
the land appraisers." Accordingly, appellant seeks to
demonstrate that the Secretary's finding is vitiated by
what is asserted to be his reliance upon an erroneous
analysis of a sale by appellant, in 1929, of the entire
capital stock of a terminal belt railway company which
served the stockyards and the adjacent industrial area.
It is said that none of the expert witnesses based their
appraisals upon that transaction. We think that appellant overestimates the relative weight given to it by the
Secretary and fails to take proper account of the effect of
its use. The Secretary found that the valuation by the
Government's witness at 111/2 cents per square foot was
"well supported by analysis of transactions in adjacent

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

and similar lands," but the Secretary thought that the
witness had failed to give consideration to the belt railway
sale. That led the Secretary to give a higher valuation
than that of the Government's witness. And on all the
evidence the Secretary fixed the value at 16 cents per
square foot, which he said did not represent "depression
or stagnation value" but constituted "the reasonable normal value of the land giving weight to values existing
immediately preceding as well as those existing during
the present depression."
The weight to be accorded to the testimony of the ex,perts cannot be determined without understanding their
approach to the question and the criteria which governed
their estimates. The testimony of appellant's witnesses
shows quite clearly that they proceeded, in part at least,
upon an erroneous basis. The Packers and Stockyards
Act treats the various stockyards of the country "as great
national public utilities to promote the flow of commerce
from the ranges and farms of the West to the consumers
in the East." It assumes that "they conduct a business
affected by a public use of a national character and subject to national regulation." Stafford v. Wallace, supra,
p. 516. Appellant, conducting such a business, was entitled to be allowed in the fixing of its rates the fair
market value of its land for all available uses and purposes, which would include any element of value that it
might have by reason of special adaptation to particular
uses. But it was not entitled to an increase over that fair
market value by virtue of the public use. MinnesotaRate
Cases, 230 U. S.352, 451, 455; Clark's Ferry Bridge Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, supra, p. 238. We think that appellant's witnesses failed to give proper heed to this principle. Their testimony indicates that they did not consider simply the availability of the land for all uses and
purposes, including its availability for a stockyard, but
attached special weight to the actual and profitable public

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

use. They apparently included in their estimates an increment of value, by virtue of that use, which is inadmissible in a proceeding to determine the reasonable rates to
be charged for the public service.
The point is illustrated by the difference in their estimate of the value of the land in Zone B. That is a tract
of about seventeen acres adjoining Zone A. One of
appellant's witnesses described the land in Zone B as "of
the same character" as that occupied by appellant's hog
sheds and that it had equal railroad service. It was said
to adjoin that portion of appellant's land which "is actively
used in the conduct of its business." The other witness
for appellant said that "with respect to topography, rail
service and accessibility this ground is much the same as
Zone A, which lies immediately to the north." But the
first witness placed a value of 13 cents per square foot on
the land in Zone B as compared with 26 cents per square
foot on that of Zone A, and the second witness valued the
former at 15 cents per square foot and the latter at 35
cents. The first witness said that Zone B was not valued
as high as Zone A because "it is not actually in use" by
appellant "for the immediate conduct of its business but
is in waiting"; that it "had not been brought into its highest and best use," but when it had been brought into that
use, it would "be worth just as much as the land in tract
A." When we consider that the question was of the fair
market value of the bare land in the light of its availability, but without improvements (which were separately valued), the erroneous theory on which appellant's
witnesses valued Zone A is apparent. The Secretary fixed
the value of the land in Zone A and the similarly available
land in Zone B at the same amount.
Our conclusion is that the evidence falls short of that
convincing character which would justify us in disturbing
the Secretary's finding.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

Value of structures.-There appears to be no dispute
as to the method of valuation, which was on the basis of
cost of reproduction new, less depreciation. The property
was inventoried and appraised independently by two qualified engineers, one employed by appellant and the other
by the Government. Their estimates of the cost of reproduction new were not very far apart. On that evidence the
Secretary founo1 that cost, excluding non-useful property,
to be $2,637,186. This included construction overheads,
general salaries and expenses, legal expenses, compensation of architects and engineers, fire and tornado insurance, workmen's compensation and public liability insurance, and taxes during construction, making a total of
$2,494,043, on the 1927 inventory, which was increased
by $143,143 for the additions and betterments to 1932.
Appellant presents no contention as to this valuation
but contests the amount deducted by the Secretary for
existing depreciation. He took 76.04 per cent. of the cost
of reproduction new as representing the depreciated value
of the structures and thus his deduction amounted to
$597,570. That was close to the estimate of the Government's engineer. Appellant's engineer testified that the
present condition was 89 per cent.
Appellant's contention is that there was no evidence to
support the Secretary's deduction for existing depreciation and that the only legal evidence on this point was
that of appellant's witness. The precise criticism is that
the percentage used by the Government's engineer in his
testimony was based on an average of percentages given
by five of his assistants, none of whom testified. It appears, however,-that the Government's witness had personally inspected the property in preparation for the first
hearing, at which he testified as to the result of the inspection and the methods he adopted. At the second hearing he testified that he followed the principles of his first

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

appraisal in that of 1932, except that he had his five assistant engineers make separate estimates of which he took
the average. In answer to appellant's contention as to
their failure to testify, the Government produces a stipulation as to the record which shows that when the exhibits
covering the appraisal by the Government's witness and
the estimates of the assistants were offered in evidence,
the Government's counsel stated that if there was any
objection upon the ground that they had not testified, the
qovernment would produce any or all of them for crossexamination respecting the exhibits. Later, after an opportunity for an examination of the exhibits by appellant's
counsel, they were received in evidence, appellant's counsel stating that no objection was made other than the general one theretofore made, and applicable throughout the
proceeding, that the Secretary had no power to find the
value of appellant's property. Appellant did not seek
to 'avail itself of the Government's offer to produce the
assistants. In these circumstances we find no basis for
the argument that the testimony of the Government's
witness as to the existing depreciation and the accompanying exhibits should not be considered. The Secretary reviewed the method adopted by appellant's engineer
as compared with that of the Government's engineer and
reached a reasoned conclusion upon all the evidence. We
think that the evidence affords no sufficient ground for
upsetting his finding.
The remaining contention affecting the rate base is in
relation to going concern value.
Going concern value.-Appellant's witness, who testified at length at both hearings, followed an elaborate
method involving assumptions and speculations of the
sort which fail to furnish a sound basis for computing a
separate allowance for that element. Compare Galveston
Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388, 394; Los Angeles

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

Gas Corp. v. Railroad Commission, supra, pp. 314, 318,
319; Dayton Poiher & Light Co. v. Public, Utilities
Comm'n, 292 U. S. 290, 309; Columbus Gas & Fuel Co. v.
Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S. 398, 412. The witness
differentiated his method from the "past deficit" method.
Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, supra. He styled his
method as "the cost of reproduction method of evaluating the business." It compared "to the past deficit
method in just exactly the same way that reproduction
new of physical property compares to historical c6st of'
physical property." His calculations depended upon
assumptions of theoretical future deficits. They involved
elaborate guesswork, according to assumed valuations of
physical plant, the length of time required for the complete recovery of the business, and the rate of return. At
the first hearing he computed the going concern value at
$666,666. At the second hearing, by a similar method he
made various calculations dependent on assumed valuations of the property, that is, $294,000 on a total -valuation of. $5,000,000; $358,000 on a valuation of approximately $3,500,000; and about $400,000, or approximately
221/ per cent. of the physical plant value, on a valuation of
$2,000,000. That is, as he said, "Depending upon the final
value as fixed by the Secretary, the going value will range
in approximately a straight line variation" between the
limits "of 22 / per cent. for a minimum value of $2,000,000, and 6 per cent. or $294,000 for a maximum value of
$5,000,000." The Secretary treated such speculations
as "in no real sense evidence." We agree with that
conclusion.
Appellant contends, however, that the Secretary and
the District Court erred in saying that appellant's claim
is based wholly upon the testimony of this witness. Appellant strongly relies upon the fact that on the first
hearing the Secretary made an allowance of $300,000 for

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

going concern value and that in his answer in the first
suit he denied that no evidence upon that subject had.
been offered on the Secretary's behalf, but on the contrary stated that much evidence was introduced by the
Secretary tending to show the value of that element.
That answer was made to the allegation that appellant
was entitled to an allowance of at least $666,663, and
the Secretary further answered that the separate allowance he had made was more than adequate.
The Secretary was not estopped or controlled by the
ruling in the first proceeding. He was entitled, and it
was his duty, to re-examine the case on the second hearing and to reach the conclusion which the evidence justified. In that process, he in effect overruled the earlier
allowance and left it without force. The question remains one of evidence. The Secretary recognized the fact
that there is an element of value in an "established plant
doing business and earning money over one not thus advanced." But he thought that in the rate base he had
fixed there was an adequate allowance for that element
and that it was "inextricably interwoven with other values." The Government's argument in support of this
view points to the overheads allowed and emphasizes the
fact that the Secretary's method took as his basis reproduction cost "unmodified by considerations of actual or
historical cost." It is urged that the Secretary in fact
made a liberal valuation which gave a margin large
enough to cover the value inherent in a going concern.
-We think it unnecessary to review that argument in
detail. The decisive point on this appeal is that in seeking a separate allowance for going concern value, in addition to the value of the physical plant as found, and in
maintaining that the property was being confiscated because of the absence of that allowance, it was incumbent
upon appellant to furnish convincing proof. That proof
we do not find in the record.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

Operating expenses.-The point of contention is the
annual allowance for depreciation reserve. The argument
that the Secretary was without authority to prescribe the
amount of this allowance is obviously ineffectual. In
fixing reasonable rates for the stockyards service it was
necessary for the Secretary to ascertain the outlays which
that service would require and the amount which should
reasonably be reserved out of income to cover depreciation
in the property used. It was also necessary for the Secretary in estimating the latter allowance to examine the
history of the property and the amounts which in the
course of appellant's operations had been found necessary
for repairs and replacements. On the facts disclosed by
the extensive evidence, the Secretary concluded that $80,000 was an adequate amount to be included in appellant's
annual expenses "to cover repairs and provision for depreciation reserve." The Secretary had found that the
amount expended for repairs on appellant's used and useful property for the preceding ten years had averaged
about $38,500 a year. This finding does not appear to
be contested, and from it appellant concludes that the
Secretary has allowed the remainder of $80,000, or $41,500, to be carried annually to the depreciation reserve
account. Appellant insists that the yearly depreciation
allowance should be not less than $100,000.
On December 31, 1932, appellant bad accumulated a depreciation reserve of $1,771,063. This reserve had been
accumulated since 1914. In an appraisal made by the
American Appraisal Company in 1922, on the basis of
reproduction new, the then existing depreciation was estimate-d at $621,171 and a reserve of that amount was then
provided by a surplus adjustment. From that time until
1932 appellant set aside from $120,000 to $130,000 annually making a total provided for depreciation since 1914
of about $1,887,000. In that entire period, by the computition of the Government which does not seem to be
65773°-3 6-3--

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

controverted; there had been charged against the depreciation reserve for retirements only about $116,405, of
which about $103,500 were for retirements in the period
1922 to 1932, inclusive. The Government contends that
the structural property in the pen areas, embracing pens,
fences, runways and other yard structures, had been kept
in proper operating condition principally by ordinary
repairs and piecemeal replacements. The Government
argues that the cost of reproduction new of this part of
the property is approximately one-half of the reproduction cost of the entire property, and that from 1916 to
1932 the value of that portion of the,property which was
retired amounted to about $40,000. Appellant states
that in 1926 to 1930, inclusive, the amount of pen structures which were retired was $41,639. On the other hand,
it appears that the amount set up for depreciation on that
class of assets was over $600,000.
Whatever may be said of this or that detail, it is quite
clear that the amounts carried annually to the depreciation reserve were excessive. The Government's analysis
tends to show that an average of approximately $47,000
annually would have been sufficient to take care of the
repairs, maintenance and retirements during the period
for which the financial history of appellant is available,
and that the Secretary's allowance of $80,000 for both
repairs and depreciation reserve is about $33,000 in excess
of the amount shown to be actually required on the basis
of that experience.
In the light of appellant's practice in accumulating an
excessive reserve by its charges to operating expenses, a
close examination was called for and a considerable deduction in the amount of such allowances in fixing reasonable rates was necessary. We have had occasion recently to discuss the general question of depreciation
reserves at some length (Lindheimer v. Illinois Telephone

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 292 U. S. 151) and we need not repeat what was
there said. The question now presented is one of sound
judgment upon the present record. We agree with the
District Court that the Secretary endeavored to reach
a fair conclusion and that the Government's analysis is
persuasive. The argument that the Secretary employed
the sinking fund method and upon that basis made an
inadequate allowance does not find support in his findings. It is apparent that he sought to make an allowance
which according to the nature of the property and appellant's experience would be adequate to cover repairs
and replacements with a further provision to maintain
a reasonable depreciation reserve. The evidence and appellant's contentions with respect to it do not satisfy
us that the Secretary reached an unjustified result.
Income.-The Secretary allowed seven per cent. as the
rate of return, and appellant presents no complaint as
to that. Wabash Valley Electric Co. v. Young, 287 U. S.
488, 502; Los Angeles Gas Corp. v. Railroad Commission,
supra, p. 319. Applying the rates he fixed, the Secretary
estimated the annual gross income at $621,831, and operating expenses, including the contribution to depreciation
reserve as above stated, at $426,267, leaving a net balance
of $195,564, slightly over seven per cent. on the fair value
of the .property.
Appellant's revenue is derived from yardage charges,
from the sale of feed and bedding, and from special services. The Secretary made no change in the charges for
miscellaneous services, such as loading and unloading,
dipping and spraying, cleaning and disinfecting, etc. The
revenue from these services was estimated at $90,500.
The profit on sales of feed and bedding was estimated at
$82,800. The yardage revenues are derived from charges
(1) for yarding livestock arriving fresh from the country,
(2) for yarding livestock resold or reweighed for purpose

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

of sale, and (3) for the use of feed lot facilities. The
reductions directed by the Secretary were in (1) and (2)
and the revenue from the new rates for these services was
estimated at $412,775. As to (3), for livestock held in
the feed lots, the Secretary provided for an increase of
charges, fixing maximum rates estimated to produce a
revenue of $35,756.
It appears that formerly the feed lots were leased and
on the first hearing before the Secretary their value was
excluded from the rate base. After 1930 they were operated under appellant's supervision and appellant filed its
rates for their use. Accordingly, on the second hearing,
the Secretary found that the feed lots were used and useful and included them in the rate base. The principal
"feeding business" is the feeding of sheep. The increase
in rates, for which the Secretary provided, was from 15
cents and 35 cents per head for cattle (depending upon the
use of sheds and other enclosures) to 60 cents, and from 5
cents per head for hogs and sheep to 38 cents. Despite
the increase, appellant contends that the order as to feed
lot charges is void; that there were no findings to support
it and no true hearing; that the evidence did not sustain
the Secretary's conclusions, and that although the order
was based upon a finding of unjust discrimination, there
was no alternati-vc permitted in removing it.
It is manifest, however, that when the feed lots were
brought into the rate base, it was appropriate that the
reasonableness of the charges for their use should be considered. This was part of the subject before the Secretary.
In the order for reopening the proceeding, the Secretary
had stated that a general inquiry would be made "into the
reasonableness and lawfulness of. each and every rate and
charge ...

stated in any and all schedules of rates and

charges filed by respondent" (appellant here). The Secretary found that "under the existing schedule sHippers of
livestock who consign their animals to commission men"

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDSCO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court

were charged more for the use of appellant's facilities "in
handling such livestock for a shorter period of time" than
those who used the "feed lots for a much longer period of
time." The Secretary found that the existing rates were
"unreasonable and unjustly discriminatory." The feed
lots were embraced in the tracts the value of which was
estimated on a unit basis. The findings show appellant's
operating expenses. We find no merit in the contentions
that there was a lack of notice, or a lack of evidence as to
the use of the feed lots or as to the discriminatory effect
of the existing rates. We do not think that the decisions
cited as to the affording of an alternative for the removal
of discrimination are applicable to the present case. For
the Secretary's action here was to provide for a reasonable
charge for the use of the feed lots, so that those who did
not use them should not bear an unreasonable burden.
Whether appellant would be able to obtain the estimated
revenue from the increased rates should be determined by
a fair test of the permitted charges.
The reductions by the Secretary were in the charges
for yardage services. The Secretary made different reductions for rail and truck shipments, and this differentiation is challenged. For example, under the existing rates,
appellant's charge was 35 cents per head of cattle received
by rail and 40 cents per head received by truck. The Secretary reduced the charge to 27 cents as to the former
and to 35 cents as to the latter. There are differences in
the two sorts of receipts in that in the one case there is a
loading and unloading charge and, as detailed testimony
showed, cattle received by rail consumed, as a rule, more
feed than those received by truck. The evidence disclosed the services rendered in the case of cattle and other
livestock, and the question is simply as to a fair determination in the light of all the circumstances. If the rates
as prescribed were not confiscatory, the classification
of rates was clearly within the Secretary's statutory
authority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

There is a separate contention with respect to the rates
for yarding livestock which was resold or reweighed for
the purpose of sale. Appellant states that the Secretary's
charges differed from its own in only one instance, that
is, that the former are 1.5 cents per head lower on calves,
but as the number of calves resold is negligible, that
difference would not appreciably affect appellant's income. Appellant's tariff provided that on livestock resold in the commission division, there would be an additional charge of one-half the yardage charges. The Secretary found that despite this limitation, appellant in
practice had imposed the charge on other resales, if they
did not involve livestock "to go to the country," that
is, bought by farmers to be fed. The Government's contention is that the practice lacked uniformity. The
Secretary concluded that to impose the charge on
resales in the commission division, but not on those in
the traders division or elsewhere in the ,yard, was unreasonable and constituted an unjust discrimination. Appellant insists that the Secretary over-estimated the income
from this source by $20,803. The controversy is over the
number of livestock to which the charges for resales or
reweighs for the purpose of sale would apply. The Secretary made a general estimate. He also found the number of head to which the charge would have been applicable in 1931 and 1932, and his estimate for the future
was less than the average of those years. Appellant challenges the correctness of the computation and says that
it rests upon an erroneous assumption that "order buyers" would pay a resale charge. The Government insists
that the criticism is unjustified and points to evidence
which is said to demonstrate conclusively that the Secretary's figures as to resales and reweighs are correct, and
that appellant's argument is based on an application of
the prescribed rates to "the wrong volume." It is unnecessary to recite the evidence. We think the Government substantiates its point.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

Opinion of the Court.

The remaining question is with respect to the effect of
the reduction of the other yardage charges, that is, for the
yarding of livestock arriving fresh from the country; and,
then, whether upon the whole case there would be such a
deficiency in revenue as to establish confiscation. The
revenue, of course, depends upon the quantity of livestock
handled. The Secretary considered the fluctuation in
receipts for a period of twenty-four years. The Government points to the statistical analysis as showing that
cyclical fluctuations are characteristic of the business and
that years of decline have been followed normally by an
upward swing. The Secretary examined the actual receipts of each sort of livestock for the six years 1927 to
1932, inclusive. He did not attempt to make an exact
prediction. Nor did he take an average of the six years.
He took into consideration the lower yolume of business
in the later part of the period and made an estimate of the
probable receipts which cannot be considered unfair. It
was not an unsupported prophecy (compare West Ohio
Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 294 U. S. 79, 82), but
rather an endeavor to perform the essential duty of making "an honest and intelligent forecast" in view "of all the
relevant circumstances." Southwestern Bell Telephove
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 276, 278. Applying the factors thus arrived at, the Secretary found that
the prescribed rates would yield revenue sufficient to give
the return above mentioned.
Appellant criticises the Secretary's estimates and insists that the prescribed rates would have been confiscatory during the entire period which the Secretary considered, making separate calculations for the period 1927
to 1931, and for 1932. The Government in turn points
to necessary corrections in appellant's statements both of
income and expenses and with those adjustments shows
that under the prescribed rates appellant would have had
an average yearly net return, for 1927 to 1931, of approxi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

mately $266,237, or about 9.7 per cent., and for the sixyear period, 1927 to 1932, approximately $247,698, or
about 9 per cent., on the fair value of its property as found.
And while considering it to be improper to take the year
1932-the worst year of the depression period-as the
basis for estimating return, the Government urges that,
even in the abnormal conditions of that year, the prescribed rates would have produced a net return of 5.67 per
cent.
Appellant seeks to buttress its case by reference to results of operations in later years. Its brief attempts to
present the transactions of 1935. But there is no evidence properly before us save that contained in the record
before the Secretary. Upon that record appellant stood
in the District Court, and upon that record appellant must
stand here. The hearing before the Secretary, held in
1933, necessarily proceeded upon an examination of the
operations of the preceding years. The Secretary examined the course of business for a period sufficiently long to
afford a basis for a reasonable estimate with due regard
to the years preceding, and those during, the depression.
His selection, and the use he made of it, is not open to any
sound criticism. If the operations of later years show
that the rates have become unreasonably low, appellant
has its remedy. It has had, and still has, opportunity to
apply to the Secretary of Agriculture for a modification
of the prescribed charges. The only request for reopening the proceeding or for an adjustment of the rates, so far
as now appears, was made early in 1934 prior to the order
in question and before any adequate test of the rates.
We conclude that the appellant has failed to prove confiscation and the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

concurs in the result.

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

BRANDEIS,

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

concurring.

I agree that the judgment of the District Court should
be affirmed; but I do so on a different ground.
The question on which I differ was put thus by the
District Court: "If in a judicial review of an order of
the Secretary his findings supported by substantial evidence are conclusive upon the reviewing court in every
case where a constitutional issue is not involved, why
are they not conclusive when a constitutional issue is
involved? Is there anything in the Constitution which
expressly makes findings of fact by a jury of inexperienced laymen, if supported by substantial evidence, conclusive, that prohibits Congress making findings of fact
by a highly trained and especially qualified administrative agency likewise conclusive, provided they are supported by substantial evidence?" 11 F. Supp. 322, 327.
Like the lower court, I think no good reason exists for
making special exception of issues of fact bearing' upon
a constitutional right. The inexorable safeguard which
the due process clause assures is not that a court may
examine whether the findings as to value or income are
correct, but that the trier of the facts shall be an impartial tribunal; that no finding shall be made except upon
due notice and opportunity to be heard; that the procedure at the hearing 'shall be consistent with the essentials of a fair trial; and that it shall be conducted in
such a way that there will be opportunity for a court to
determine whether the applicable rules of law and
procedure were observed.
Suits to restrain or annul an order of the Secretary of
Agriculture are governed by the provision which Congress has made for reviewing orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v.
United States, 280 U. S. 420, 432-433, 442-444. That
provision does not, in my opinion, permit a district court

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

298 U.S.

to set aside an order on the ground that the Secretary
erred in making a finding of fact; and the jurisdiction of
this Court to review its judgment is necessarily subject
to the same limitation. As the District Court concluded
that no applicable rule of law was disregarded by the Secretary; that for his findings there was ample support in
the evidence; that taken together they support his conclusion that the rates are compensatory; and that the proceeding was in no respect irregular, it was in duty bound
to dismiss the bill without enquiring into the correctness
of his findings of subsidiary facts.
First. An order of the Secretary may, of course, be set
aside for violation of the due process clause by prescribing rates which, on the facts found, are confiscatory. For
the order of an administrative tribunal may be set aside
for any error of law, substantive or procedural. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Union Pacific R. Co., 222
U. S.,541, 547. Moreover, where what purports to be a
finding upon a question of fact is so involved with and
dependent upon questions of law as to be in substance and
effect a decision of the latter, the Court will, in order
to decide the legal question, examine the entire record,
including the evidence if necessary, as it does in cases
coming from the highest court of a State. Compare
Kansas City Southern Ry. v. Albers Commission Co.,
223 U. S.573, 591; Cedar Rapids Gas Light Co. v. Cedar
Rapids, 223 U. S.655, 668-669. It may set aside an order
for lack of findings necessary to support it, Florida v.
United States, 282 U. S.194, 212-215; or because findings

were made without evidence to support them, New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S.184, 203; Chicago Junction
Case, 264 U. S.258, 262-266; or because the evidence was
such "that it was impossible for a fair-minded board to
come to the result which was reached," San Diego Land
& Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S.439, 442; or because the

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

order was based on evidence not legally cognizable, United
States v. Abilene & Southern Ry., 265 U. S. 274, 286-290;
or because facts and circumstances which ought to have
been considered were excluded from consideration, Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Northern Pacific Ry., 216
U. S. 538, 544-545; Northern Pacific Ry. v. Department
of Public Works, 268 U. S. 39, 44; or because facts and
circumstances were considered which could not legally
influence the conclusion, Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 46-47; Florida East Coast Ry.
v. United States, 234 U. S. 167, 187; or because it applied
a rule thought wrong for determining the value of the
property, St. Louis & O'Fallon Ry. v. United States, 279
U. S. 461. These cases deal with errors of law or irregularities of procedure.
Second. The contention of the appellant is that the
Secretary of Agriculture erred in making findings on which
rest his conclusion that the rates prescribed are compensatory. The matters here in controversy are questions of
fact-subsidiary issues, about 63 in number, bearing upon
two main issues of fact: What is the "value" of the property used and useful in the business? What will be the
income earned on that valuation if the prescribed rates
are put into force?
By the Packe:s and Stockyards Act, the duty of investigating and determining the facts was committed by
Congress to the Secretary. It was not disputed that ordinarily his findings made upon substantial evidence'in
properly conducted proceedings are conclusive. Tagg
Brothers & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420,
444. This Court has consistently declared in cases arising under the Interstate Commerce Act, that to "consider the weight of the evidence is beyond our province,"
'Western Paper Makers' Chemical Co. v. United States,
271 U. S. 268, 271; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v. United

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J.,

concurring.

298 U.S.

States, 274 U. S. 29, 33-34; and that courts have no concern with the correctness of the Commission's reasoning,
with the soundness of its conclusions of fact, or with the
alleged inconsistency of the findings with those made in
other proceedings, Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States,
272 U. S. 658, 663, 665-666. Compare New York &
Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, 245 U. S. 345, 348; Georgia
Ry. & Power Co. v. Railroad Commission, 262 U. S. 625,
634; Silberschein v. United States, 266 U. S. 221, 225;
Ma-King Co. v. Blair, 271 U. S. 479, 483.
The cases are numerous in which the attempt was
made to induce this Court to annul an order of the
Commission for error of fact; but in every case relief
was denied. See St. Louis & O'Fallon Ry. v. United
States, 279 U. S. 461, 493, n. 8. In this case also, the
Court refuses to set aside the order. But it declares
that an exception to the rule of finality must be made,
because a constitutional issue is involved; and that the
Court, weighing the evidence, must in its independent
judgment deterine the correctness of the findings of
fact made by the Secretary. That view finds support
in Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253
U. S. 287, and in general statements made in Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 488-490,
and other cases; but it is inconsistent with a multitude
of decisions in analogous cases hereafter discussed.
Third. The Fifth Amendment, like the Fourteenth, declares that property may not be taken without due process
of law. But there is nothing in the text of the Constitution (including the Amendments) which tells the reader
whether to constitute due process it is necessary that
there be opportunity for a judicial review of the correctness of the findings of fact made by the Secretary of
Agriculture concerning the value of this property or its
net income. To learn what the procedure must be in a
particular situation, in order to constitute due process, we

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

turn necessarily to the decisions of our Court. These
tell us that due process does not require that a decision
made by an appropriate tribunal shall be reviewable by
another. Pittsburgh, C., C. & St. L. Ry. v. Backus, 154
U. S.421, 426-427; Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505, 508;
Dohany v. Rogers, 281 U. S.362, 369. They tell us that
due process is not necessarily judicial process. Murray's
Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How.
272, 280; McMillen v. Anderson, 95 U. S.37, 41; United
States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S.253, 263. And they draw distinctions which give clear indication when due process
requires judicial process and when it does not.
The first distinction is between issues of law and issues
of fact. When dealing with constitutional rights (as
distinguished from privileges accorded by the Government, United States v. Babcock, 250 U. S.328, 331) there
must be the opportunity of presenting in an appropriate
proceeding, at some time, to some court, every question
of law raised, whatever the nature of the right invoked
or the status of him who claims it. The second distinction is between the right to liberty of person and other
constitutional rights. Compare Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S.589, 596-597. A citizen who claims that
his liberty is being infringed is entitled, upon habeas corpus, to the opportunity of a judicial determination of
the facts. And, so highly is this liberty prized, that the
opportunity must be accorded to any resident of the
United States who claims to be a citizen. Compare Ng
Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S.276, 282-285, with United
States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S.253, and Tang Tun v. Edsell,
223 U. S.673, 675. But a multitude of decisions tells us
that when dealing with property a much more liberal
rule applies. They show that due process of law does not
always entitle an owner to have the correctness of findings of fact reviewed by a court; and that in deciding
whether such review is required, "respect must be had to

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

298 U.S.

the cause and object of the taking, whether under the
taxing power, the power of eminent domain, or the power
of assessment for local improvements, or none of these:
and if found suitable or admissible in the special case,
it will be adjudged to be 'due process of law.'" Mr.
Justice Bradley, in Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.
97, 107.
Our decisions tell us specifically that the final ascertainment of the facts regarding value or income may be
submitted by Congress, or state legislatures, to an administrative tribunal, even where the constitutionality of the
taking depends upon the value of the property or the
amount of the net income. Thus:
(a) No taking of property by eminent domain is constitutional unless just compensation is paid. But in condemnation proceedings the value of the property, and
hence the amount payable therefor, need not be determined by a court. "By the Constitution of the United
States, the estimate of the just compensation for property
taken for the public use, under the right of eminent
domain, is not required tr) be made by a jury; but may
be entrusted by Congress to commissioners appointed by
a court or by the executive, or to an inquest consisting of
more or fewer men than an ordinary jury." Baurnan v.
Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 593. In Long Island Water Supply
Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685, 695, it was said that
"there is no denial of due process in making findings of
fact by the triers of fact, whether commissioners or a
jury, final as to such facts, and leaving open to the courts
simply the inquiry as to whether there was any erroneous
basis adopted by the triers in their appraisal, or other
errors in their proceedings." In-Crane v. Hahlo, 258
U. S.142, 148, the Court said in applying the same rule to
a statute which allowed a judicial review of the facts only
in case of "lack of jurisdiction, or fraud, or wilful misconduct on the part of the members of the Board": "This

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U.S.
38

BRANDEIS,

79

J., concurring.

afforded ample protection for the fundamental rights of
the plaintiff in error, and the taking away of the right to
have examined mere claims of honest error in the conduct
of the proceeding by the Board did not invade any federal constitutional right." See also, United States v.
Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 519; Backus v. Fort Street Union
Depot Co., 169 U. S.557, 569.
(b) No taking of property by taxation is constitutional
unless the exaction is laid according to value, income or
other measure prescribed by law. But Congress has, with
the sanction of this Court, broadly given finality to the
determination by the Board of Tax Appeals of the facts
concerning income. By its legislation the jurisdiction of
courts is limited to deciding "whether the correct rule of
law was applied to the facts found; and whether there
was substantial evidence before the Board to support the
findings made." Helvering v. Rankin, 295 U. S.123, 131;
Old Mission Portland Cement Co. v. Helvering, 293 U. S.
289, 294. Compare Cheatham v. United States, 92 U. S.
85, 88-89. No court may pass upon the correctness in
fact of any finding of the Board.
(c) The due process clause is not violated by giving in
tariff acts finality to the valuations made by appraisers
of imported merchandise belonging to American citizens.
Hilton v. Merritt, 110 U. S. 97, 107. "It was certainly
competent for Congress," said the Court in Passavant v.
United States, 148 U. S.214, 219, "to create this board of
general appraisers, called 'legislative referees' in an eaily
case in this court, (Rankin v. Hoyt, 4 How. 327, 335,)
and not only invest them with authority to examine and
decide upon the valuation of imported goods, when that
question was properly submitted to them, but to declare
that their decision 'shall be final and conclusive as to the
dutiable value of such merchandise against all parties
interested therein.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J.,

concurring.

298 U.S.

(d) The clue process clause is not violated by legislation
which requires a fire insurance policy to provide that the
amount of the loss (and hence values) shall be determined
by a board of appraisers; and that their decision, if not
grossly excessive, or inadequate, or procured by fraud,
shall be conclusive as to the amount of the loss. Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Insurance Co. v. Glidden Co.,
284 U. S. 151.
(e) The due process clause is not violated by giving
finality to assessments of value made for the purpose of
ad valorein taxation, although in those proceedings the
opportunity for a hearing is far less ample than under
the statute here in question. Compare State Railroad
Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 610; Kentucky Railroad Tax
Cases, 115 U. S. 321; King v. Mullins, 171 U. S. 404, 429431.
As we said in San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper,189
U. S. 439, 446: "We do not sit as a general appellate board
of revision for all rates and taxes in the United States";
and in Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 196 U. S.
599, 607: "Of course, no court would venture to intervene
merely on the ground of a mistake of judgment on the part
of the officer to whom the duty of assessment was entrusted by the law."
Answering the suggestion of possible error in the final
action of a board in valuing and assessing railroad property, the Court said in Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115
U. S. 321, 335: "Such possibilities are but the necessary
imperfections of all human institutions, and do not admit
of remedy; at least no revisory power to prevent or redress them enters into the judicial system, for, by the
supposition, its administration is itself subject to the
same imperfections." In Crane v. Hahlo, 258 U. S. 142,
148, the Court intimating that even judges may err in
their determinations of fact, held that legislators might,

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

38

in proceeding for the taking of property, act on "the policy
that the greater good is sometimes served by making certain classes of decisions final and ending litigation, even
though in a particular case the individual is prevented by
review from correcting some error which has injured
him."
These cases show that in deciding when, and to what
extent, finality may be.given te an administrative finding
of fact involving the taking of property, the Court has
refused to be governed by a rigid rule. It has weighed the
relative values of constitutional rights, the essentials of
powers conferred, and the need of protecting both. It
has noted the distinction between informal, summary administrative action based on ex parte casual inspection or
unverified information, where no record is preserved of the
evidence on which the official acted, and formal, deliberate
quasi-judicial decisions of administrative tribunals based
on findings of fact expressed in writing, and made after
hearing evidence and argument under the sanctions and
the safeguards attending jidicial proceedings. It has
considered the nature of the facts in issue, the character
of the relevant evidence, the need in the business of government for prompt final decision. It has recognized that
there is a limit to the capacity of judges; and that the
magnitude of the task imposed upon them, if there be
granted judicial review of the correctness of findings of
such facts as value and income, may prevent prompt and
faithful performance. It has borne in mind that even-in
judicial proceedings the finding of facts is left, by the
Constitution, in large part to laymen. It has enquired
into the character of the administrative tribunal provided
and the incidents of its procedure. Compare Humphrey's
Executor v. United States, 295 U. S. 602, 628. And where
that prescribed for the particular class of takings appeared
"appropriate to the case, and just to the parties to be
65773°-36-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

298 U.S.

affected," and "adapted to the end to be attained," Hagar
v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701, 708, the Court has
held it constitutional to make the findings of fact of the
administrative tribunal conclusive. Thus, the Court has
followed the'rule of reason.
Fourth. Congress concluded that to give finality to the
findings of the Secretary of Agriculture of the facts as to
value and income is essential to the effective administration of the Packers and Stockyards Act. The Ben Avon
case, and the statements in Manufacturers Ry. Co. v.
United States, and casual references in other cases, should
not lead us to graft upon the rule discussed, and so widely
applied to other takings, a disabling exception applicable
to rate cases. In none of the rate cases relied upon was
there any reason given for denying to Congress that
power; nor was there mention of the many decisions in
which the power to prescribe finality was upheld. In
none was there noted the distinction between challenging
the correctness of findings of fact on which rest the conclusion as to confiscation, and challenging the conclusion
of law as to confiscation on facts found. Here, some rea-.
sons have been offered in support of making the exception; but no reason given seems to me sound.
(a) It is urged that since Congress did not, and could
not, delegate to the Secretary authority to prescribe a confiscatory rate, the facts in issue are jurisdictional and,
hence, the Court must have power to review them. But,
as was said in Oklahoma Operating Co. v. Love, 252 U. S.
331, 336: "The challenge of a prescribed rate as being confiscatory raises a question not as to the scope of the Commission's authority but of the correctness of the exercise
of its judgment." Therefore, Crowell v. Benson, 285
U. S.22; has no application here.
(b) It is said that, since regulating rates is legislation, courts must have the same power to review facts
which they possess in passing on the constitutionality of

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

statutes--otherwise the supremacy of law could be im-

paired by delegation to an administrative tribunal of a
power to make final determinations that the legislature
lacks. To that argument there are several answers. It
fails to note that a rate order may be complained of as
being confiscatory, not because of error in a finding of
value or income, but because the regulating body has,
in reaching its conclusions, ignored established principles
or incontestable facts, or been guilty of dishonesty or of
other irregularity in the proceeding. Whenever a legislative body regulates a subject within the scope of its
power, a presumption of constitutionality prevails, in the
absence of some factual foundation of record for overthrowing the regulation, O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 282 U. S. 251, 257-258; and
this rule extends to such action by an administrative
body. Pacific States Box & Basket Co. v. White, 296
U. S.176, 185-186. If there be in the record conflicting
evidence as to the facts assumed, a court may not substitute its independent judgment for that of the legislative body. Mere denial of facts relied upon as conditioning the validity of legislation does not confer upon
a court authority to decide what is called the truth; that
is, the absolute existence in reality of facts alleged.
"Where the constitutional validity of a statute depends
upon the existence of facts, courts must be cautious
about reaching a conclusion respecting them contrary to
that reached by the legislature; and if the question of
what the facts establish be a fairly debatable one, it is
not permissible for the judge to set up his opinion in
respect of it against the opinion of the lawmaker."
Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294. Here, the
Court's duty is to determine merely whether there was
evidence upon which reasonable men could have found
as the Secretary did, with regard to value and income.
Obviously the case at bar is not one in which "it was

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

298 U.S.

•impossible for a fair-minded board to come to the result
Xhich was reached." Compare Van Dyke v. Geary, 244
U. S. 39,48-49.
Moreover, argument based on the analogy of the review
of statutes fails to note the distinction between determinations of fact made in a quasi-judicial proceeding surrounded by all the safeguards which attend trials by a
court, and assumptions, or conclusions, as to facts made
by a legislature on information which lacks those safeguards. It faiIN to note also the subsidiary character
of the issue involved in a finding of value or income; and
-that it is only as to these subsidiary issues that finality
of the finding is asserted here.
The supremacy of law demands that there shall be opportunity to have some court decide whether an erroneous
rule of law was applied; and whether the proceeding in
which facts were adjudicated was conducted regularly.
To that extent, the person asserting a right, whatever its
source, should be entitled to the independent judgment
of a court on the ultimate question of*constitutionality.
*But supremacy of law does not demand that the correctness of every finding of fact to which the rule of law is
to be applied shall be subject to review by a court. If it
did, the power of courts to set aside findings of fact by an
administrative tribunal would be broader than their power
to set aside a jury's verdict. The Constitution contains
no such command.
Fifth. The history of this case illustrates that regulation
cannot be effective unless the legality of the rates prescribed may, if contested, be determined with reasonable
promptness. Six and one-half years have elapsed since
the Secretary of Agriculture concluded that the rates of
this utility were so high as fo justify enquiry into their
reasonableness, and nearly two years since entry of his
order prescribing the reduced rates. In the judgment of
the lower court and of this Court the attack upon the order

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

reducing them was unwarranted. But the rates of 1929
have remained in force; and, despite the supersedeas and
injunction bonds, there will be practically no redress for
the wrong done to the business community throughout the
long years in which excessive rates have been exacted.
Neither party is chargeable with lack of diligence in the
investigation or litigation; and there is no suggestion of
undue delay on the part of either court. The long delay
is due to other causes.
The investigation of the Company's rates was ordered
October 9, 1929. The hearing began December 2, 1929:
All the subsidiary enquiries of fact commonly incidtnt to
applying the rule of Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, were
entered upon. After the hearing had closed, the Company sought to have it reopened for the admission of
evidence showing how the changed conditions of business
since 1929 would affect plaintiff's income and the net
return on the property used. This application was refused by the Secretary; and he entered an order fixing
maximum rates, which, on his valuation of the property
and estimate of earnings, would have yielded a return
of 71/2 per cent. if in effect in 1928.' Thereupon, the
Company filed a bill in the District Court to set aside
the order on the ground that it would deprive petitioner
of its property in violation of the due process clause.
That court heard additional evidence, as well as receiving
the record of the proceedings before the Secretary. It
considered, but did not pass on, the merits. For it set
aside the order on the .ground that the Secretary should
have acceded to the request to reopen the hearings. St.
Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 58 F. (2d) 290.
The new hearing Was begun January 10, 1933 and did
not close until February 16, 1933. Thereafter, the Secretary entered the order here under review; and the second suit followed which is here on appeal.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J.,

concurring.

298 U.S.

Sixth. The abstract of record made before the Secretary and submitted to the District Court for review consisted of 1048 printed pages of evidence, besides 111
exhibits, many being extensive. Twenty-two witnesses
testified orally. The 71 exhibits certified to this Court
alone comprise 1358 pages of tabulations or like detail.
In addition they contain 18 graphs, 30 maps or photographs, and 600 pages of reading matter. Consideration
of most of the evidence presented to the Secretary was
deemed essential to a proper determination by the District
Court of the issues of fact now controverted. Consideration of most of the evidence introduced below is now
deemed by counsel necessary for a proper decision of the
case by this Court. The condensed narrative statement
of the evidence other than exhibits fills 721 pages of the
printed record in this Court. Seventy-one exhibits (although not required to be printed) were required to be
transmitted to this Court as a part of the record before us.
The number of pages of the evidence (including exhibits)
before us bearing more or less specifically upon the question of confiscation is 2717. The total number of pagesbriefs, exhibits, and evidence-before this Court is 3466.
The magnitude of the task involved in a judicial review
which requires a determination by the Court, in its independent judgment, of the correctness of the findings of
fact as to value and income which the Secretary made,
cannot be measured by looking alone at the volume of the
evidence. The multiplicity of the issues, and the character
of the evidence bearing on them respectively, impose a
peculiar burden. The findings as numbered and lettered
by the Secretary total 215. The number of determinations of fact bearing upon confiscation involved in these
findings is, roughly, 250, as gathered from the 108-page
opinion of the Secretary. To decide whether any one
of these 250 determinations of fact alleged to be errone-

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

ous is, or is not, correct, involves separate examination of
the evidence relating specifically to it; since as to each of
these determinations the reviewing court is called upon
to make a decision, in the exercise of an independent judginent. Such a decision involves, in many cases, weighing
*specific evidence and resolving conflicts.
(a) There is controversy as to the extent to which property owned by the Company is used or useful. That enquiry relates to 52 different items. The testimony and
exhibits bearing upon this issue occupy 194 pages. On
it there are approximately 50 findings. The correctness of
only one of these is controverted here.
(b) There is controversy as to the value of the land. It
consists of 60 different tracts. The testimony and exhibits
bearing upon their value occupy 596 pages (the exhibits
number 20). On this issue there are about 10 findings.
The correctness of 3 is controverted here, dealing with the
land in a single "zone."
(c) There is controversy as to the value of the structures. It deals.with reproduction costs; it requires separate consideration of materials and labor, of overheads and
depreciation. The testimony and exhibits occupy 629
pages (the exhibits number 12). On these issues there
are some 40 findings. Those dealing with depreciation
are 6ontroverted here.
(d) There is controversy as to going concern value.
The testimony and exhibits on this issue occupy 113 pages.
The Secretary decided that no separate allowance should
be made. That conclusion is controverted here.
(e) There are controversies as to the estimated income, as to the expenses, and as to charges. The testimony and exhibits bearing upon them occupy, in the
aggregate, 663 pages (the exhibits number 42). On these
issues there are approximately 140 determinations. Of
these about 50 seem to be controverted here.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J.,

concurring.

298 U.S.

The decisions by the reviewing court on the correct.ness of many of these determinations must depend upon
its judgment as to the credibility of the witnesses. For
instance, the Company insists, as to the land in one zone,
that it is worth, on the average, 25 cents per square foot.
The Secretary found it was worth 16 cents. On that
issue 5 witnesses testified.
This case, like a laboratory experiment, presents the
task of rate-regulation in its simplest form. The rates
to be regulated are but few in number. The rate base
is ordinary stockyard property small in extent as compared with some plants. The Secretary valued it at
$2,743,000; and the Company claims it is worth $1,010,406 more. The. Secretary found that, at the prescribed
rates, the' receipts would yield a net income of $195,564;
the Company claims that it would not have been more
than $81,026 in 1932 had these rates been in effect. But,
under the prevailing view, an enquiry of the scope described was necessary, although involving hearings and
lawsuits so protracted as to frustrate rate-regulation.
Seventh. The greater delay, and the cost, in rate investigations affecting the larger utilities, is illustrated
by cases which have come before this Court in reeent
years.
(a) Chicago Telephone Rates. On September 13,
1921, the Illinois Commerce Commission, the regulating
body, issued an order that the Company show cause why
*its rates should not be reduced. The hearing began Novenmber 17, 1921, and closed July 31, 1923. On August
16, 1923, the Commission entered an order reducing the
rates, to become effective October 1, 1923. Before that
date, enforcement was enjoined by the federal court, on a
bill which charged that the rates prescribed were confiscatory. On April 30, 1934, this Court sustained the validity
of the rate order entered August 16, 1923. Thus the rates
became effective twelve and a half years after the com-

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

'(9

BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

mencement (f the investigation; and nearly eleven years
after they were prescribed.
On June 11, 1934, the District Court ordered the Company to reimburse consumers who had been charged
excessive rates a sum estimated, in April, 1936, as almost
$19,000,000; and, on July 23, 1934, directed that the
lawyers who appeared for the consumers in and after
1929 should receive as fees an amount equal to 7 per
cent of the refunds. By March 31, 1936, 1,153,515 payments had been made. The task of making the refunds,
only three-quarters complete, has required a special force
of 2,000 of the Company's employees, and is said to have
cost it (to November 30, 1935) $2,575,412.89. Over
$2,100,000 remains to be disposed of or paid.
The transcript of evidence and arguments at the hearing before the Illinois Commission fills about 4500 pages;
and there were besides more than 200 elaborate exhibits.
The presentation of the evidence before the District Court
at the first hearing on the merits occupied more than two
months, resulting in a printed record of over 3000 pages
of testimony and 281 elaborate exhibits. The taking of
depositions for presentation to that court on the second
hearing on the merits, and other preparations for trial,
took over a year. The hearing itself occupied five
months, and resulted in a record of 16,168 pages. The
record on the first appeal to this Court consisted of
seven large volumes. The record of the additional evidence on the second appeal to this Court filled nine
volumes; and the appellant's brief here, with appendix,
nearly 700 pages.
The investigation of rates for Chicago continues. On
July 10, 1934, the Commission asked the Company to
show cause why its rates should not be reduced. The
latter spent over a year and a half preparing its case for
presentation to the Commission, at a cost, including a
new appraisal and inventory, of more than $1,200,000.
Hearings are now in progress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

298 U.S.

For the history of the investigation and litigation, see
in this Court: 269 U. S. 531; 282 U. S. 133; 283 U. S. 794;
283 U. S. 808; 292 U. S. 151; in the lower court: 39 F.
(2d) 157; 38 F. (2d) 77; 3 F. Supp. 595; in the Commission: 7 Opinions and Orders of Ill. P. U. Comm.
120, 888; 8 id. 1921, 372; 3 Opinions and Orders of Ill.
Commerce Comm. 1924, 75-99; 6th Administrative Report of Directors of Departments, Ill. Commerce Comm.
1923, 975; 7th id. 1924, 1166; .17th Annual Report Ill.
Commerce Comm. 1934, 3, 18, 42; 18th Annual Report
Ill. Commerce Comm. 1935, 20. See also N. Y. Times,
May 1, 1934, at 10; June 12, at 10; October 15, at 27;
Report to Stockholders of Ill. Bell Telephone Co. 1935,
7, 8, 15.
(b) New York telephone rates. In the winter of 1919
the Company increased its rates. Protests followed; and
on October 18, 1920, hearings thereon began before the
Public Service Commission. On March 3, 1922, a temporary order slightly reducing certain rates issued. Enforcement was enjoined by the federal court on a bill
which charged that the rates prescribed were confiscatory.
Since that time, the rates prescribed, and to be prescribed,
have been continuously under investigation and litigation.
Before the Commission there were, between 1920 and
1926, 189 days of hearings, 450 witnesses being examined
orally. The evidence introduced fills, in the aggregate,
26,417 pages; and there were, in addition, 1,043 elaborate
exhibits, one alone being in 22 volumes. Hearings were
also held from January 28, 1930, to April 18, 1930. The
opinions of the Commission in these proceedings fill 396
pages. In the District Court the hearings before the
master occupied 416 days and extended over a period of
four years, 610 witnesses being examined orally. They
were recalled a total of 688 times. The evidence of that
hearing fills 36,893 pages; and there were in addition
3,324 exhibits. The decree below was entered November

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U.S.
38

BRANDEIS,

91

J., concurring.

7, 1929. The Company's counsel then labored two years
in preparing a draft of the condensed narrative statement
of the evidence required for the transcript of record on
the appeal to this Court. On submitting this draft to
counsel for the Commission, the City, and the State, many
errors were discovered. On 3000 of the items, counsel
disagreed; months were devoted to composing the differences; and finally the items on which counsel could not
agree were settled by the lower court. On November 14,
1933, more than four years after entry of the decree appealed from, the Company filed here a record of 5700
pages. On February 19, 1934, that appeal was dismissed.
On May 2, 1934, the Commission instituted a new investigation into the rates of the Company. Hearings
began May 10, 1934, and are still going on. The subjects
covered are again those required by the rule of Smyth v.
Ames-reproduction cost, going value, depreciation, and
so forth. Up to April 14, 1936, 86 hearings had been had,
stretching through every month but one since the beginning of the enquiry. One hundred and forty witnesses had been heard, and 10,840 pages of testimony
taken. The exhibits already introduced total 397, one
being in 34 volumes.
For the history of the investigation and litigation, see
in this Court: 261 U. S. 312; 262 U. S. 43; 291 U. S. 645;
in the lower court: S. D. N. Y. No. 23-252, in equity, May
25, 1922 (not reported); 300 Fed. 822; 11 F. (2d) 162; 36
F. (2d) 54; in the Commission: 14th Annual Report, Pub.
Ser. Comm. (2d Dist.) 1920, 79; Report Pub. Ser. Comm.
1921, 13, 234-254, 369-389, 398-407, 447-458; 1922, 15;
1923, 13, 93-214; 1924, 13, 127-138; 1925, 13; 1926, 17,
170-273; 1927, 14; 1928, 18; 1929, 16; 1930, 42, 134-145,
213-294; 1933, 11. See also Report of Pub. Ser. Comm. to
State Senate Relative to Rates of N. Y. Telephone Co.,
Legis. Doc. No. 73, 1926 (254 pages); Report of Commission on Revision of N. Y. Pub. Ser. Comm. Law, .Legis.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

298 U.S.

Doc. No. 75, 1930, 28-31, 262-268; "Your Company and
the Rate Decision," a bulletin issued for the use of its
employees by the N. Y. Telephone Co., 1930; Nathaniel
Gold, "One More Telephone Decision," 15 Nat Mun. Rev.
419; "The New York Telephone Rate Decision," 19 id.
180; "An Example of Rate Litigation and Its Significance," 23 id. 584; John Bauer, "An Example of Futility in
Present Methods of Public Utility Regulation," 15 Am.
Econ. Rev. 586; Leland Olds, "The Public Utility Issue,"
24 Yale Review (N. s.) 704, 706-707; New York Times,
May 2, 1934, at 1; May 11, at 1; May 17, at 25; September 21, at 25; February 27, 1935, at 20; March 30, at 7.
Eighth. In deciding whether the Constitution prevents
Congress from giving finality to findings as to value or income where confiscation is alleged the Court must consider the effect of our decisions not only upon the function
of rate regulation, but also upon the administrative and
judicial tribunals themselves. Responsibility is the great
developer of men. May it not tend to emasculate or demoralize the rate-making body if ultimate responsibility
is transferred to others? To the capacity of men there is
a limit. May it not impaiit the quality of the work of
the courts if this heavy task of reviewing questions of
fact is assumed?
The obstacles encountered in the case at bar and in
the regulation of the rates of the large utilities are attributable, in the main, to the Court's adherence to the rule
'declared in Smyth v. Ames for determining the value of
the property. In Missouri ex rel. Southwestern Bell
Telephone Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S.276,
289, I stated my reasons for believing that the Constitution did not require the Court to adopt that rule which
so seriously impairs the power of rate-regulation. But
since the decision of Smyth v. Ames is adhered to, there
is the greater need of applying to cases in which rateregulation is alleged to be confiscatory the rule of reason

ST. JOSEPH STOCK YARDS CO. v. U. S.
38

STONE and

CARDOZO,

JJ., concurring.

under which the Court has sanctioned, in other cases of
taking, the legislative provision giving finality to quasijudicial findings of value and income by administrative
tribunals.
Surely, all must agree with the Secretary of Agriculture that: "If rate regulation is to be effective, there
must come at some time an end of hearings and a decisioln of the questions involved." In Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy Ry. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, 598, we said of
valuations made by the State Board of Equalization and
Assessment: "Within its jurisdiction, except as we have
said, in the case of fraud or a clearly shown adoption of
wrong principles, it is the ultimate guardian of certain
rights. The State has confided those rights to its protection and has trusted to its honor and capacity as it
confides the protection of other social relations to the
courts of law. Somewhere there must be an end." Congress concluded that a wealthy and litigious utility might
practically nullify rate regulation if the correctness of
findings by the regulating body of the facts as to value
and income were made subject to judicial review. For
that conclusion experience affords ample basis. I cannot believe that the Constitution, which confers upon
Congress the power of rate-regulation, denies to it power
to adopt measures indispensable to its effective exercise.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO concur-

ring in the result:

We think the opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis states
the law as it ought to be, though we appreciate the weight
of precedent that has now accumulated against it. If the
opinion of the Court did no more than accept those precedents and follow them, we might be moved to acquiescence. More, however, has been attempted. The opinion reexamines the foundations of the rule that it declares,
and finds them to be firm and true. We will not go so far.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioner.

298 U.S.

The doctrine of stare decisis, however appropriate and
even necessary at times, has only a limited application in
the field of constitutiorial law. See the cases collected by
Brandeis, J., dissenting, in Burnet v. CoronadoOil & Gas
Co., 285 U. S. 393, 407, 408. If the challenged doctrine
is to be reconsidered, we are unwilling to approve it.

For the reasons stated by

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

the

decree should be affirmed.
HINES, ADMINISTRATOR OF VETERANS'
AFFAIRS, v. STEIN, GUARDIAN.
CERTIOIiARI

TO

THE

SUPERIOR

COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA,

WESTERN DISTRICT.

No. 659.

Argucd April 6, 7, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

A state court which has appointed a guardian for an incompetent
veteran has authority to order payment, out of funds belonging to
the veteran and in the hands of such guardian, of a reasonable sum
for services and expenses of an attorney, who represented the
guardian in a claim before the Veterans' Administration for reinstatement of the veteran's compensation. Executive and administrative regulations (pursuant to Acts of Congress, 48 Stat. 9;
U. S. C., Title 38, §§ 111, 114, 115) limiting the fees of attorneys
In pension matters are inapplicable and do not prevent. P. 97.
118 Pa. Super. Ct. 549; 180 Atl. 577, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 297

U. S. 700, to review the affirmance by

the court below of an order of the Court of Common Pleas
of Pennsylvania granting permission to the guardian of
an .incompetent veteran to pay fees and expenses of an
attorney at law. Hines, the petitioner here, had intervened. The Supreme Court of the State refused an
appeal.
Messrs. James T. Brady and Edward E. Odom, with
whom Messrs. Y. D. Mathes and Vincent A. Baldauf were
on the brief, for petitioner.

