558

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Statement of the Case.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA

298 U. S.
ET AL.

PETITION FOR LEAVE TO FILE BILL OF COMPLAINT.

No. -,

original.

Argued April 28, 1936.-Decided May 25, 1936.

1. The United States is not subject to be sued without its consent,
even by a State. P. 568.
2. Arizona tendered to this Court her original bill against California and the other States of the Colorado River Basin, praying
for a judicial apportionment among them all of the unappro,
priated waters of that river and that she be decreed the unclouded
right to the permanent use of her share. The United States, by
the Boulder Canyon Project Act, and by acts of its officers
thereunder, had undertaken, in the asserted exercise of its authority to control navigation, to impound, and control the disposition of, the surplus water in the stream not already appro.priated; it was not denied that the natural, dependable flow was
already over-appropriated; and it did not appear that, without
the storage of the impounded water, any substantial amount of
water would be available for appropriation. Held that permission to file the bill must be denied upon the ground that the
United States would be an indispensable party. P. 570.
3. The fact that no decree rendered in its absence can bind the
United States, is not an inducement for this Court to decide the
rights of the States before it, by a decree which, because of
the absence of the United States, could have no finality. P. 572.
4. Permission to file an original bill will not be granted if the bill,
when filed, must be dismissed because of the absence of the
United States as a party. P. 572.
Petition denied.

Arizona, on November 25, 1935, asked leave to file a
bill against California and the five other States of the
Colorado River Basin, praying in effect for a partition of
the right to appropriate in the future the waters of the
stream not as yet appropriated. The defendants were
ruled to show cause, December 9, 1935, 296 U. S. 552.
Returns to the rule were made on Mprch 16, 1936. A
motion by Fred T. Colter and others for leave to intervene
was denied March 30, 1936, 297 U. S. 699. The case was

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA
558

Opinion of the Court.

argued and presented on the Arizona petition and the
returns of the other States.
Mr. James R. Moore, with whom Mr. John L. Sullivan,
Attorney General of Arizona, and Mr. Charles L. Strouss
were on the brief, for plaintiff.
Mr. William W. Ray, with whom Mr. Paul P. Prosser,
Attorney General of Colorado, Mr. Frank H. Patton,Attorney General of New Mexico, Mr. Joseph Chez, Attorney General of Utah, Mr. Ray E. Lee, Attorney General
of Wyoming, and Messrs. Charles Roach, Shrader P.
Howell, L. Ward Bannister,and Grover A. Giles were on
the brief, for the defendant States of Colorado et al.
Mr. Phil D. Swing, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of California, and Mr. Gray Mashburn,
Attorney General of Nevada, were on the brief, for the
defendant States of California et al.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case arises upon the petition of the State of Arizona for leave to file in this Court her bill of complaint
against the several states named as defendants and upon
their returns to the order of this Court, directing them
to show cause why the prayer of the petition should not
be granted. The returns raise numerous objections to the
sufficiency of the proposed bill of complaint, only two of
which we find it necessary to consider. One is that the
proposed bill fails to present any justiciable case or controversy within the jurisdiction of the Court. The other
is that the United States, which is not named as a defendant and has not consented to be sued, is an indispensable party to any decree granting the relief prayed
by the bill.
The relief sought is: (1) That the quantum of Arizona's equitable share of the water flowing in the Colo-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

rado River, subject to diversion and use, be fixed by this
Court, and that the petitioner's title thereto be quieted
against adverse claims of the defendant states. (2) That
the State of California be barred from having or claiming
any right tor divert and use more than an equitable share
of the water flowing in the river, to be determined by the
Court, and not to exceed the limitation imposed upon
California's use of such water by the Boulder Canyon
Project Act, 45 Stat. 1057, and the Act of the California
legislature of March 4, 1929, Ch. 16, Stats. of Calif., 1929,
p. 38. (3) That it be decreed that the diversion and use
by any of the defendant states of any part of the equitable share of the water decreed to Arizona pending its diversion and use by her shall not constitute a prior appropriation or confer upon the appropriating state any right
in the water superior to that of Arizona. (4) That any
right of the Republic of Mexico to an equitable share in
any increased flow of water in the Colorado River made
available by works being constructed by or for California,
shall be supplied from California's equitable share of the
water, and that neither petitioner nor the defendant
states other than California shall be required to contribute
to it from their equitable shares as adjudicated by the
Court.
The proposed bill thus, in substance, seeks a judicial
apportionment among the states in the Colorado River
Basin of the unappropriated water of the river, with the
limitation that the share of California shall not exceed
the amount to which she is limited by the Boulder
Canyon Project Act and by her statute, and with the
proviso that any increase in the flow of water to which
the Republic of Mexico may be entitled shall be supplied from the amount apportioned to California. Our
consideration of the case is restricted fo an examination
of the facts alleged in the proposed bill of complaint and
of those of which we may take judicial notice.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

558

The Colorado River, a navigable stream, see Arizona v.
California,283 U. S. 423, having a total length of 1,293
miles, rises in Colorado and flows through that state 245
miles, then through Utah 285 miles, then through Arizona 292 miles, then on the boundary between Arizona
and Nevada 145 miles, then on the boundary between
Arizona and California 235 miles, then on the boundary
between Arizona and Mexico 16 miles, and then through
the Republic of Mexico to the Gulf of California 75 miles.
For 688 miles, more than half its length, the river flows
in Arizona or upon her boundary.
Two dams have been built across the Colorado River
by the Secretary of the Interior, acting under authority
of acts of Congress. One, Boulder Dam, 378 miles below
the intersection of the river with the boundary between
Arizona and Utah, creates Boulder Reservoir, extending
along the bed of the river 115 miles above the dam. The
other, Laguna Dam, is located 18 miles above the point
where the Colorado River becomes the boundary between
Arizona and Mexico. Two other dams are projected and
in course of construction under contracts entered into by
the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to acts of Congress. Boulder Canyon Project Act, § 1; United States
Session Laws, 1935, p. 1039; see United States v. Arizona,
295 U. S. 174. Both are in that part of the river which
flows between Arizona and California. One, Parker
Dam, is approximately 150 miles south of Boulder Dam,
and the other, Imperial Dam, is 41/2 miles above Laguna

Dam.
The average annual undepleted flow of the Colorado
River in Arizona., at Imperial Dam, is approximately 16,840,000 acre feet.' Of the total undepleted flow approxi'At Lees Ferry, twenty-three miles below the point where the
river enters Arizona from Utah, the average undepleted annual flow
is 16,660,000 acre feet. At Boulder Dam it is 17,720,000 acre feet.
At the Imperial Dam it is 16,840,000. Non-diversion river losses
65773 o---36

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

mately 6,100,000 acre feet per annum have been appropriated and put to beneficial use in the United States and
the Mexican Republic.2 After deducting all existing appropriations there remains in the river subject to future
appropriation a net average annual flow of at least 9,720,000 acre feet.'
About 2,027,000 acres of land are under irrigation by
water diverted from the Colorado River and its tributaries
other than the Gila, of which 72,120 acres are in Arizona.'
There are more than 2,000,000 acres of land in Arizona
that are not irrigated, but are susceptible of economic
irrigation from the unappropriated water of the Colorado
River and its tributaries other than the Gila, and which
and evaporation below Lees Ferry aggregate 1,400,000 acre feet
annually and are about offset by the river's gains between Lees
Ferry and Boplder Dam.
'Of this amount approximately 2,500,000 acre feet are diverted
annually above Lees Ferry, and are used and consumed in Utah, New
Mexico, Colorado and Wyoming, and 3,600,000 acre feet are diverted
annually below Lees Ferry from the river and its tributaries other
than the Gila. The average annual diversions taking place below
the southern boundary of Utah, stated in acre feet are as follows:
Arizona, 585,000; California, 2,475,000; Nevada, 40,000; MLexican
Republic, 500,000.
'At Lees Ferry 10,500,000 acre feet, at Boulder Dam 11,100,000
acre feet, at Imperial Dam 9,720,000 acre feet. Allowing for estimated increase in use of the water now appropriated for irrigation
of land above Boulder Dam and for diversions by projects now under
construction in Colorado, it is estimated that the flow of the Colorado
River into and out of the Boulder Dam will, in 1938, average
15,069,000 acre feet per year.
The acreage under irrigation by water diverted from the Colorado River and its tributaries, other than the Gila, is distributed
among the Colorado River basin states as follows: Arizona 72,120;
California 464,653; Colorado 856,413; New Mexico 45,937; Nevada
12,308; Utah 347,452;. Wyoming 228,699. Approximately 525,000
acres of land in the Gila River basin are irrigated from the waters
of that river and its tributaries, of which 520,000 acres are located in
Arizona.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
558

Opinion of the Court.

cannot be irrigated from any other source. There are
5,000,000 additional acres of land in Arizona "potentially
susceptible of economic irrigation" from the waters of
the river. There are pending projects to irrigate more
than 1,000,000 acres of this unirrigated but irrigable land
of which more than 100,000 acres are owned by the State
of Arizona. The amount of water required for such irrigation is in excess of 4,000,000 acre feet annually.
By the Colorado River Compact, see Arizona v. California, supra, entered into by the defendant states and
approved by Congress, but to which Arizona is not a
party, the undepleted flow of water of the Colorado River
is apportioned between the upper basin and the lower
basin of the river valley, the point of division being Lees
Ferry, 23 miles below the southern boundary of Utah.
To each basin there is apportioned 7,500,000 acre feet per
annum and the lower basin has the additional right to
increase its "beneficial consumptive use" of the water by
1,000,000 feet per annum.
By the Boulder Canyon Project Act, the Secretary of
the Interior was authorized, subject to the terms of the
Colorado River Compact, to construct, operate and maintain a dam and incidental works at the present site of
Boulder Dam, with an appurtenant hydro-electric plant,
and to use and dispose of the water stored above the dam
for irrigation and for the development of power. The
Act also provided that no authority should be exercised
under it until six of the states in the Colorado River basin, including California, should ratify the Compact, and
unless the State of California, by act of its Legislature,
should agree with the United States, for the benefit of
all the states in the river basin, that the aggregate annual
use of water from the river by the State of California
should not exceed 4,400,000 acre feet annually, plus onehalf of any excess of surplus waters unapportioned by
the Compact. The Compact was duly ratified by the six

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

defendant states, and the limitation upon the use of the
water by California, was duly enacted into law by the
California Legislature by Act of March 4, 1929, supra.
By its provisions the use of the water by California is restricted to 5,485,500 acre feet annually.'
The Secretary of the Interior, acting under authority
of § 5 of the Boulder Canyon Project Act, has entered
into contracts with California corporations for the storage in the Boulder Dan reservoir and the delivery, for
use in California, ' of 5,362,000 acre feet of water annually, for a stipulated compensation. The proposed bill
of complaint charges that, notwithstanding the limitation upon the use of the water by California, certain
California corporations, with the aid of the United States,
propose to divert from the river and use consumptively
in California an aggregate amount of 14,330,000 acre feet
annually, including that which the Secretary of the Interior has contracted to deliver, or 8,444,500 acre feet in
excess of the amount which California is permitted to
take by the Boulder Canyon Project Act and her own
statute, and sufficient to use all but about 1,000,000 acre
feet of the unappropriated annual flow of the river.'
5 The surplus water of the river in the lower basin, unapportioned
by the Compact, is 2,171,000 acre feet, one-half of which, or 1,085,500
acre feet, California is entitled, under the Boulder Canyon Project
Act, and her own statute, to add to the 4,400,000 acre feet which
they specifically allot to her, making a total allotment of 5,485,500
acre feet annually.
Metropolitan Water District ..... 1, 100, 000 acre feet
Imperial Valley and others ...... 3, 850, 000 acre feet
City of San Diego ..............
112, 000 acre feet
300, 000 acre feet
Palo Verde .....................
Total ...................
'By way of specification of this general
such corporations have made application
Resources, Department of Public Works

5, 362, 000 acre feet
statement it is alleged that
to the Division of Water
of the State of California,

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
558

Opinion of the Court.

Arizona asserts that she is damaged by the impending
appropriations of water by California by reason of the
fact that future reclamation of land in Arizona can be
accomplished only by large scale projects, contemplating
the irrigation of large areas to be operated and administered as a single unit, and, because of the great cost of
diversion works and large expenditures required to establish such. projects, it will be impossible to finance them
"unless water for the irrigation of said land can be appropriated and unclouded, undisputed and incontestable
rights to the permanent use thereof acquired at or prior
to the time of constructing such works."
It is conceded both by the bill of complaint and the
returns that all the states in the Colorado River basin
except California, and California so .far as material to the
present case, apply the doctrine of appropriation to the
waters of flowing streams in their respective territories.
Under this doctrine, diversion and application of water to
for permits to divert and appropriate annually from the river quantities of water aggregating more than 12,670,000 acre feet, and that

the State of California will grant the permits so applied for, upon
completion by such corporations of the necessary diversion works.
In addition, it is alleged that the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant
to § 1 of the Boulder Canyon Project Act, has entered into a contract with the Imperial Irrigation District, a California corporation,
in connection with the building of the Imperial Dam for the construction of a main canal known as the "All American Canal," to
connect the dam with the Imperial and Coachella Valleys, which pro-

vides for the delivery to the United States, at the Imperial Dam,
of 1,460,000 acre feet per year, to be used for irrigation and power.
Approximately 200,000 acre feet of this amount will be used for the
irrigation of lands in the United States Yuma Reclamation Project
in Arizona. The remainder will be used for irrigation of the Yuma
Indian Reservation in California and for power. An additional
400,000 acre feet will be used for desilting the canal. The water to
be used for desilting and power will be returned to the river at a
point where it cannot be recaptured for-further use in the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

a beneficial use constitute an appropriation, and entitle
the appropriator to a continuing right to use the water, to
the extent of the appropriation, but not beyond that reasonably required and actually used. The appropriator
first in time is prior in right over others upon the same
stream, and the right, when perfected by use, is deemed
effective from the time the purpose to make the appropriation is definitely formed and actual work upon the
project is begun, or from the time statutory requirements of notice of the proposed appropriation are complied with, provided the work is carried to completion
and the water ia applied to a beneficial use with reasonable diligence. See Arizona v. California,supra; Kansas
v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Wyoming v. Colorado, 259
U. S. 419.
Arizona, by her proposed bill of complaint, asserts no
right arising from her own appropriation of the waters
of the Colorado River. No infringement of her rights
acquired by appropriation is alleged, and no relief for
their protection is prayed. While it is alleged that definite plans have been made for the irrigation of 1,000,000
acres of unirrigated land in Arizona, and a right to share
in the water for that purpose is asserted, it does not appear that any initial step toward appropriation of water
for such a project has been taken.
The right of the California corporations to withdraw
from the river a total of 5,362,000 acre feet annually
under the contracts with the Secretary of the Interior,
is challenged only insofar as the prayer for relief asks
that the unappropriated water of the river be equitably
apportioned among Arizona and the defendant states,
and that any increased amount to which the Republic of
Mexico may be entitled be directed to be supplied from
the amount to which California may otherwise be found
to be equitably entitled.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
558

Opinion of the Court.

Arizona does not assert any right to the benefit of the
undertaking of California, in conformity to the Boulder
Canyon Project Act, to restrict its own use of the water.
The brief for Arizona disclaims the assertion of any rights
under "the Boulder Canyon Project Act, the Colorado
River Compact, or the Boulder Project itself.'
The allegations and prayer of the bill are of significance
only if Arizona, in advance of any act of appropriation,
and independently of any rights which she may have acquired under the Boulder Canyon Project Act, may demand a judicial decree exempting the available water
of the river, or some of it, from appropriation by other
states until the indefinite time in the future when she
or her inhabitants may see fit to appropriate it. A justiciable controversy is presented only if Arizona, as a
sovereign state, or her citizens, whom she represents, have
present rights in the unappropriated water of the river,
or if the privilege to appropriate the water is capable
of division and when partitioned may be judicially protected from appropriations by others pending its exercise.
The defendant states deny that there is-any such right
or privilege upon which this Court can act judicially in
advance of appropriation. While California, by statement of her attorney general in brief and argument, disclaims any purpose to take more than the water to which
she is restricted by the Boulder Canyon Project Act and
by her own statute, she, and the other defendant states,
nevertheless maintain that the authority of this Court
is limited to the application of the local law of appropriation in adjudicating their rights. They deny that Arizona
and her inhabitants have or can assert any right in the
water before its appropriation, and challenge the jurisdiction of the Court to make any division of the unexercised
privilege among the states entitled to share in the unappropriated water. Pursued to its logical end, their con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

tention is that California, save as she may have renounced
the privilege, is free, subject to prior appropriations, to
appropriate to her own use the entire flow of the water
in the river, to the exclusion of any future beneficial
enjoyment of it by Arizona.
, Arizona insists that this court, in adjudicating the
rights of states in the water of interstate streams, has
declared that it will not hold itself restricted to rigid application of local rules of law governing private rights;
that independently of those rules it may have recourse to
applicable principles of international law and equity
tending to secure to sovereign states equality of right in
such water. Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125, 146;
Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 520; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 97, et seq.; Wyoming v. Colorado, supra, 465, 470; Connecticut v. Massachusetts, 282 U. S.
660, 670; New Jersey v. New York, 283 U. S. 336, 342,
343. It points out that departure from the local formula may be compelled where the contending states apply,
locally, different and irreconcilable doctrines, Kansas v.
Colorado, supra, and that the common law of private riparian rights has been modified, even in suits between
states adhering to it, by the application of principles of
equitable apportionment. Missouri v. Illinois, supra,
526; Connecticut v. Massachusetts, supra, 671; New Jersey v. New York, supra, 343. But we have no occasion to
consider the arguments urged upon us in support of the
adoption, in this case, of a different rule from that of appropriation, as applied locally, for we are of the opinion that in the circumstances disclosed by the bill of
complaint therq can be no adjudication of rights in the
unappropriated water of the Colorado River without the
presence, as a party, of the United States, which, without its consent is not subject to suit even by a state.
Kansas v. United States, 204 U. S. 331, 343.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
558,

Opinion of the Court.

The Colorado River is a navigable stream of the United
States. The privilege of the states through which it flows
and their inhabitants to appropriate and use the water is
subject to the paramount power of the United States to
control it for the purpose of improving navigation. Arizona v. California,supra. The Boulder Canyon Project
Act, § 1, authorized the Secretary of the Interior to construct, at the expense of the United States, the Boulder
Dam, with storage reservoir, and a hydro-electric plant.
It provides, §§ 5, 6, for control, management and appropriation of the water by the United States, and declares,
§§ 1, 8, (a), that this authority is conferred subject to
the terms of the Colorado River Compact "for the purpose of controlling the floods, improving navigation and
regulating the flow of the Colorado River, providing for
storage and for the delivery of the stored waters thereof
for reclamation of public lands and other beneficial uses
exclusively within the United States, and for the generating of electrical energy as a means of making the project
herein authorized a self-supporting and financially solvent undertaking."
To carry out the purpose of the Act, § 1 directs the
creation of a storage reservoir of a capacity of not less
than 20,000,000 acre feet. According to the allegations
of the proposed bill, the actual capacity of the completed
reservoir is 30,500,000 acre feet, which is nearly twice
the undepleted annual flow of the river, and four and
one-half times the amount of water remaining unappropriated after deducting that which California is to receive
under the contracts with the Secretary of the Interior.
By § 6 of the Act the dam and reservoir are directed to
be used "first, for river regulation, improvement of navigation, and flood control; second, for irrigation and
domestic uses and satisfaction of present perfected
rights . . .; and third, 'for power." Section 5 pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
298 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

vides that "no person shall have or be entitled to have the
use for any purpose of the water stored as aforesaid except by contract made as herein stated." Section 5 also
provides that the Secretary of the Interior may contract
for the storage of water and for delivery thereof upon
charges which will provide revenue, and § 5 (c) directs
that "Contracts for the use of water

.

.

.

shall be

made with responsible applicants therefor who will pay
the price fixed by the Secretary with a view to meeting
the revenue requirements herein provided for." Acting
under this authority the Secretary of the Interior has substantially 6ompleted the project and has entered into
contracts, so the bill of complaint alleges, for the delivery
of 5,362,000 acre feet of stored water to California corporations, and for the financing and construction of
Parker and Imperial Dams and the All American Canal to
facilitate the use of this water in California.
Without more detailed statement of the facts disclosed, it is evident that the United States, by Congressional legislation and by acts of its officers which that
legislation authorizes, has undertaken, in the asserted exercise of its authority to control navigation, to impound,
and control the disposition of, the surplus water in the
river not already appropriated. The defendant states
contend, and Arizona does not deny, that the natural dependable flow of the river is already over-appropriated,
and it does not appear that without the storage of the
impounded water any substantial amount of water would
be available for appropriation.
The decree sought has no relation to any present use
of the water thus impounded which infringes rights which
Arizona may assert subject to superior but unexercised
powers of the United States. Cf. Wisconsin v. Illinois,
278 U. S. 367; see Arizona v. California, supra, 464;
United States v. Arizona, supra, 183. The prayer is for
'a decre e of equitable division of the privilege of future

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
558

Opinion of the Court.

appropriation. The relief asked, and that which upon the
facts alleged would alone be of benefit to Arizona, is a
decree adjudicating to petitioners the "unclouded . . .
rights to the permanent use of" the water. Such a decree could not be framed without the adjudication of the
superior rights asserted by the United States. The
"equitable share" of Arizona in the unappropriated water
impounded above Boulder Dam could not be determined
without ascertaining the rights of the United States to
dispose of that water in aid and support of its project
to control navigation, and without challenging the dispositions already agreed to by the Secretary's contracts
with the California corporations, and the provision as
well of § 5 of the Boulder Canyon Project Act that no
person shall be entitled to the stored water except by contract with the Secretary.
It is argued that the constitutional power of the United
States to exert any control over the water stored at
Boulder Dam is subject to the rights of Arizona to an
equitable share in the unappropriated water "until such
a time as commerce is actually moving on the river,"
and that in any case Congress has subordinated that
power to Arizona's rights by the provisions of § 4 (a) of
the Boulder Canyon Project Act, which authorizes Arizona, California and Nevada to enter into an agreement
as to their relative rights in the water of the river. But
these and similar contentions, so far as they were not
answered adversely to Arizona in Arizona v. California,
supra, 456, cannot be judicially determined in a proceeding to which the United States is not a party and in
which it cannot be heard.
Every right which Arizona asserts is so subordinate to
and dependent upon the rights and the exercise of an
authority asserted by the United States that no final determination of the one can be made without a deterruination of the extent of the other. Although no decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

rendered in its absence can bind or affect the United
States, that fact is not an inducement for this Court to
decide the rights of the states which are before it by a
decree which, because of the absence of the United States,
could have no finality. Californiav. Southern Pacific Co.,
157 U. S. 229, 251, 257; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199, 235, 245-247; InternationalPostal
Supply Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601, 606; Texas v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 258 U. S. 158, 163. A bill of
complaint will not be entertained which, if filed, could
only be dismissed because of the absence of the United
States as a party. Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627.
The petition to file the proposed bill of complaint is
denied. We leave undecided the question whether an
equitable division of the unappropriated water of the
river can be decreed in a suit in which the United States
and the interested states are parties. Arizona will be free
to assert such rights as she may have acquired, whether
under the Boulder Canyon Project Act and California's
undertaking to restrict her own use of the water or otherwise, and to challenge, in any appropriate judicial proceeding, any act of the Secretary of the Interior or others,

either states or individuals, injurious to it and in excess
of their lawful authority.
Petition denied.

